 You can’t protect your child from camp bullies if you don’t know that your child is being bullied. Some children may tell you when something is going on, while others may not say anything. One of the most straightforward ways of determining if your child is being bullied at camp is to ask them.You could try something like, “I’ve noticed that you seem a little different lately. Is something or someone at camp bothering you? Are you being bullied?”
If they don’t want to talk about it or deny it, then bring up the topic again another day or look for other clues as to what is going on.
Tell your child that they are brave and should feel proud they had the courage to speak up. You might say, “I’m glad you told me what’s going on at camp. It took a lot of courage.”;
, Withdrawal from activities they usually enjoy, isolating themselves while at camp, or reluctance to go to camp, especially without a good reason, are possible indicators of bullying.You can protect your child from camp bullies by looking for warning signs early on and being aware of how engaged your child is in camp activities.


Pay attention to whether your child asks to skip camp or only go on certain days or at certain times. Pay special attention if they used to really enjoy camp.
Notice if your child takes an especially long time getting ready for camp or seems reluctant for you to leave when you are dropping them off.
Be aware of whether your child is engaged in activities or interacting with other campers when you pick them up.
Changes in mood or behavior can also indicate a problem. These might include stubbornness, irritability, tantrums, or frequent crying.
 You can protect your child from camp bullies by paying attention to the indirect clues your child is giving you that something is wrong. Sometimes, when a child is being bullied they will complain of various non-specific illnesses and pains.Your child may be having physical symptoms such as stomachaches because of the stress of being bullied.
Your child may be using illness as a way to avoid going to camp and being bullied.
If your child is being physically bullied, they may have injuries that need to be checked out by a medical professional.
 Being a victim of bullying can cause major disruptions in sleep patterns. One way to determine if there is a problem and protect your child from being bullied at camp is to be aware of changes in your child's sleep patterns. You don’t have to hover over them while they are sleeping, but you can pay attention to whether they seem to be waking up in the night or having trouble falling asleep.
If your child is at an overnight camp, you can also ask them directly, “How have you been sleeping lately?”

, Sometimes children who are bullied become bullies themselves. If you notice your child suddenly acting out at other children, you may want to talk to them about their behavior.

You can ask them why they are treating other children in this manner. You can say, "Why are you calling Sally names like that?"
You can ask them directly too if other kids are bullying them.You might ask, "Is this the way that other kids at camp treat you?"

, We usually think of someone pushing you or teasing you when we think of bullying. But, bullying can take many different forms. If you recognize the different types of bullying you’ll be better able to recognize it when it first starts happening, understand what your child is going through, and determine the best way to protect your child from camp bullies.Physical bullying is the most recognized form of bullying. It can include things like shoving, punching, kicking, pinching, and more. It can even include damaging or destroying the victim’s property.
Emotional bullying happens when a child is called names, gossiped about, threatened, or even isolated socially.Texts, emails, blogs, and social networking are used for cyberbullying. This happens when your child is harassed, threatened, teased, or has embarrassing pictures or videos posted of them.
Sometimes bullies will use several different tactics. For example, they might make fun of someone and tell everyone else to ignore that person, as well.

