 Make sure you are writing to the correct person. For example, if you are complaining about potholes in the road you use to get to work, find out whose jurisdiction it is to maintain the road. Highways are usually the federal or state/province's jurisdiction while roads within a city are the responsibility of the city maintenance department.;
,  Call the department or constituency office of the politician. Talk to the secretary / assistant and ask if you have the correct politician and how to spell his/her name.  Don't assume you know. And don't be shy. It is likely you won't be corresponding with the secretary in future anyway, and you want to get it right, right?


For example:  Is the first name Aaron or Erin?  Is the last name spelled MacKenzie or McKenzie?  What is their title?  Is it Miss, Mrs., Ms., Mr., or Dr. (some people who are not medical doctors have earned the right to use this title by completing a Ph.D. at university)?  Is there another title the politician uses, like Minister of Finance or Assistant to the Director of Community  Planning?  Use the title(s) if necessary, and make sure they are spelled correctly, too.
  He/she will be more willing to help you if you are polite.  "Dear Ms. Jones," is appropriate, rather than "Dear Sir/Madam," which shows that you didn't care enough to find out their name in the first place.
 One or two short sentences will suffice.
 Remember, he/she hasn't got time to read your letter, so make your purpose known quickly.  


For example:  "The potholes in the road from 22nd Avenue and 6th Street to Piccadilly Mall have caused damage to many vehicles.  As Provincial Minister of Transport, you would know who to contact to address this issue."

,  Here, you should explain why you're complaining.  You can use a number of sentences to back up your complaint.

 

For example:  "Road crews were unable to complete the maintenance of the road last winter because of the series of blizzards we experienced.  Consequently, the original potholes were left unattended and have now grown to the extent that at least 12 car owners from our neighborhood have dealt with their insurance companies to resolve front-end damage to their vehicles."

, Write a sentence, attached to the end of the middle paragraph, gently asking the politician for help.  


"As your department is responsible for road maintenance, we thought it was best to contact you first."  
OR  "Your help in resolving this issue would be appreciated."

,, Be courteous, but again, be direct. (Everyone who reads a complaint letter appreciates knowing exactly what your expectations are and how urgent your complaint is.) 


"Could you please send a road maintenance crew out to fix the potholes before the end of the month, August 30th. We look forward to a carefree drive to work before winter sets in."

, "We appreciate your help," is all you need to end your letter.
 You don't need to write "Sincerely" or "Yours truly" anymore because most people believe it's antiquated.
  Most signatures are designed to be hard to copy; therefore, they're likely hard to read, so it is necessary to make your name very clear.
 Then, in the space you left above your typed name, add your signature in blue or black ink.

