 Sometimes, when your Internet connection seems unusually slow, it's just because something else is using part of your connection in the background. Find your browser's download manager and ensure no files are downloading, then check to see what other programs are running, and check each one of them to be sure it isn't hogging your connection. If someone left a torrent running and neglected to tell you, that could very well be the source of your slowdown.


Check to see if system update or scan programs are running, too. Often, these programs slow your whole computer down, but the effect is only temporary. Once they finish maintaining your computer, things will go back to normal.
To check which programs are running in Windows, type Control-Shift-Escape. A list of all active programs will appear. On a Mac, go to the Applications folder, and then the Utilities folder inside that. Open the utility called Activity Monitor for detailed reports on programs, memory usage, and more.;
, One of the simplest ways to speed up modern computers is to disable some or all of the many fancy visual effects they apply to various actions. By turning these off, you give the computer more power to put towards opening web pages, and less for making files appear to spin or unfold when you open them.


In Windows, these options can normally be found in the System control panel, under Advanced System Settings. To find the right panel quickly, use the Start Menu to search for “System properties,” open the icon that appears, and click the Advanced tab. In the box titled Performance, click the Settings button to select or deselect visual options.
Macintosh computers utilize a whole host of visual effects. Some of these can be controlled easily; others require specialized software to disable. There is a lot of good information online about the specifics of these programs and what they do, but for starters, you can turn off Dock effects by going to the Apple menu and selecting System Preferences. From there, select Dock, and select “scale effect,” then deselect “Animate opening applications.”

, Over time, Internet browsers get replaced with newer iterations and become obsolete. If you continue to use an old version of a browser, you'll eventually begin to notice that your Internet seems slower, since the old browser isn't equipped to handle new content. Solve the problem by updating to a current browser. The four most popular are Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, and Google Chrome. Install the latest version of one of them and prepare to be amazed at the jump in performance you see.


To download the latest version of Internet Explorer, go here.
To download the latest version of Mozilla Firefox, go here.
To download the latest version of Google Chrome, go here.
To download the latest version of Safari, go here and follow the instructions.
 Adware and spyware are programs that are free to install, but almost impossible to uninstall once you've made the mistake of doing so. They can range from mildly irritating to seriously invasive of your privacy, and they almost invariably hog your bandwidth, slowing down your Internet connection. To get rid of them, install a program designed specifically for the task.


The best way to avoid most adware in the future is to never agree to download anything other than what you're trying to download, even if it seems like the file you want won't download without the adware attached. No reputable site will force you to install a “toolbar” or any other extra program as part of a legal file download.
 Windows users generally rely on a free program called Spybot Search & Destroy; Mac users can use MacScan, but will have to pay a small licensing fee of $39.99 if they want to use it for more than a month. Whichever you choose, download the program, install it, and run it to find, catalog, and delete the offending programs from your computer. Once you have the programs, their steps are very straightforward.
 Viruses, worms, and other more directly harmful computer problems are best handled by a powerful antivirus program. Viruses and their ilk don't often contribute directly to a slower Internet connection, but they should always be prevented whenever possible and purged as soon as they sneak onto your computer. To check for and contain viruses, download an antivirus program and install it, then run it immediately.


You don't always have to pay for quality. Some of the world's best antivirus programs are actually free for home use. Windows users can download Avast! Antivirus or AVG for free; Mac users can download Sophos, a Mac-native antivirus program. All of these programs are clean, legitimate, and widely used.
Allow your antivirus program to run continuously in the background. It will catch threats you didn't see coming – sometimes more often than you might suspect.
 Sometimes, an older or smaller computer will begin to slow down due to the sheer amount of temporary Internet data or extra programs and files it's accrued over the years. This generally isn't a problem for any computer made in the last several years, but it never hurts to do a little spring cleaning. Start by deleting your temporary Internet data. This is usually pretty simple; guides for whatever browser you use can be found with a quick Google search. Afterward, go through your programs and remove those you no longer use or want.


Mac users can simply scan through the Applications folder and drag unwanted programs to the Trash. (Be sure to empty the Trash when you're finished). Windows users should go to the Control Panel and find the Programs panel (also called Add/Remove Programs, or Programs and Features, depending on your edition of Windows), and remove programs from there by highlighting unwanted items and clicking “Uninstall.”

, If you access the Internet via a wireless network, slowdown can occur as a result of other people using your connection to surf the Internet. Stop them from doing so by setting a network password. The means of doing this vary from router to router, but are generally available by means of accessing a specific address in your web browser, usually a sequence of numbers like 192.168.1.1. You can learn more about the specific steps of this process by reading .


If you're having trouble getting your network security to take, call the manufacturer of the router and ask them for assistance. If your router is still under warranty, they should be happy to help. Otherwise, you may need to check online for answers, or call a tech-savvy friend. There are many reasons why a password might not work properly, and most of them aren't obvious at a glance.

