 Use a dark grey sweater, cut one sleeve into a short sleeve, and cut the other sleeve off.;
,,, Afterwards, sew the stitches onto the sleeves.
 Wear a pair of black pants, once the shirt is completed, to accompany it.
 Do not buy them from Milanoo.com. As other Cosplay articles explain, Milanoo offers lesser-quality items at nearly double the price. They most likely used to be good, but this isn't the case anymore.
 If you feel like this character adaptation is going to be a permanent part of your style, why not get the style tattooed onto you? You may want to wear olive green colour contacts and a pale foundation. Don't forget a silver wig with bangs to replicate his hairstyle. Don't forget to droop your eyes to being half closed or 1/4 closed. Stein does this himself.
, Maybe metal if you know people who blacksmith as a hobby/career (they do exist).
 It's recommended to watch Soul Eater at least ten times through. After this, it's simply a matter of replication and training yourself. It's theoretically possible to replicate someone else's voice. Did you know most people who sing in metal bands had to learn to make their voices deep first? Same basic principle. The trick is to talk in complete and fluent sentences while doing it in a lowly voice. Kind of like you're bored of everything regardless of how happy you are. Maybe even sounding like you're overly tired from staying up all night. When you laugh try to make it sound like an "eh-heh-heh-heh", fully pronounced and like each "eh" and "heh" is a sigh out (make sure you still smile too so people don't think you're being rude). Finally, talk about science things. Stein specializes, based from the show, in one of History, Chemistry, and Biology. Based on this, take an interest in these., He is somewhat insane. Remember when he bashed his face to the screen, rapidly flailed his pupils around, and was laughing? Yeah. Don't do that. That's not healthy. However, you can adopt his mind-frame without excessive laughing and damaging your mind.