 Texts and teacher guides for content areas often contain deeply embedded biases. For example, a science text may include only the contributions of white European men. Make sure to look for multiple forms of bias, including:


gender
socioeconomic status
sexual orientation
race
ethnicity;
, Make sure that they are inclusive of all groups listed above and can accommodate all reading levels, communication styles and intelligence. Look at case studies and readings about social issues related to science and determine how authentic they are to the students.
 Think about how you can support critical thinking, cultural discussion and celebration of differences. Engage students in the scientific inquiry process in order to allow them to use background knowledge and experiences to guide their own learning and promote meaning making.
 Use assessments that are accessible to students of all identities. You can do this by:


creating questions that are unbiased
offering support (modifications) where it is needed so each student has an opportunity to succeed
designing a format that includes multiple ways for students to demonstrate their learning, including drawing, writing, collaborating, working individually, going outside or moving around.
 Think about differences in culture and values when deciding how to best deal with the challenging behaviors of students. Don't shy away from or ignore instances of cultural conflict. Embrace them as learning opportunities for all.
, Equity takes context into account and provides the same opportunity for learning for all students. Making opportunities available has different meaning for different students based on their needs. For example, students with language barriers may need more support accessing the academic language of science than others. Students with physical disabilities may need more support navigating the lab space than others.
 Students are more susceptible to ending up in prison if they attend lower income schools or belong to minority groups who are deemed unable to succeed by the school system. Push for programs that set high standards and achievement goals for all students.
 These may include:


cultural differences in language structure
differences in cultural capital (the types of knowledge that different cultures take value in).
 Work collaboratively to come up with solutions to address them.
 Determine what attributes give them that social power and use those attributes to motivate students in the classroom. Support students in succeeding academically to enable them to be a person of power.
 Find out about what struggles diverse students face in society, what policies are in place to enforce those struggles, and what can be done to take action against those policies. For example:


be open to having conversations with G.L.B.T. people and celebrate the diversity of all students
avoid using labels and stereotypes when addressing students and their circumstances.
, Styles include:


linear (beginning, middle, end; students can explain a scientific process)
circular (context around a main point; students can create a visual that allows them to see a main point and how it is supported by the context )
direct (specific statements; students can write out the steps of an experiment that they designed)
indirect (suggestive statements; students can propose additional research or experiments that can be done with a concept)
intellectual confrontation (based on idea; students can argue their hypotheses and support them with evidence)
relational confrontation (based on relationship; students can problem solve during group work).
 Work to ensure that there is an open line of understanding, modifying communication where necessary. Send out a classroom newsletter that is easily translated. Make sure to notify parents what topics are being covered and when. Gain permission from parents for students to participate in lab activities and acknowledgement that they are aware of safety concerns (signature of a safety contract).
 An inclusive classroom environment:


focuses on learning in science
celebrates diversity of human life
allows students access into discussions where they are able to question what they are learning
lends itself to be shaped by the student's experiences and the uninhibited sharing of those experiences.
 Privilege might include:


race (white is seen as individual rather than culture group)
socioeconomic status (money is power)
higher education (may not be available to all students).

