 Although most people know that the best spot for a gig at a bar or club is Friday or Saturday night, taking any day or time slot available is a great way to start playing live. Bar and club owners want to know what kind of crowd you’ll be able to pull before giving you the headlining spot.The bar owner is only concerned with sales, so if you can fill his bar on a Tuesday night, he will be sure to ask you back.
When you get a time slot, make sure you tell all of your friends and family to come and bring their friends so you pack the place out.;
, When there are multiple bands fighting for a spot, having a personal interaction with the owner might just give you the edge over anyone else. Deliver demos to any venue you want your band to perform at.Research to find out who the owners are and how to contact them. Then, ask for five minutes of their time to personally deliver your band’s demo.
When you meet with them, give them a quick overview of your band and let them know you’d be happy to take any available openings. Be professional and genuinely nice when you talk to them.
 You need to be networking all the time to land a gig. Work your music into every conversation; you never know who may be able to give you a lead.


Carry demo CDs at all times to be able to give them to anyone you think might be able to get you a gig.
Contact other bands in your area who are already playing gigs. Ask them how they landed their first gig and see if you can use their resources. See if you can open for them one night.
Go to other bands' gigs, especially the bigger ones. Most likely there will be talent agents, industry people from labels, radio stations, and other booking agents there for you to give your demo to.
 Make a digital file of information about band members, song reviews, and samples. Share the file with your social media accounts for people to download. Compile all of your band’s info into a presentation file such as a PowerPoint.
Email your electronic press kit to bar and venue owners.
 If you've tried a few tactics and still can't seem to book a gig, it might be time to set up your own. Many bands just starting out must play for free and to a small audience.


Play in a public place like a park. Set up your band and let passersby take notice. Engage with the crowd in a friendly way, and you may get some new fans. Just keep in mind that many areas require that you register for a permit to do this.You should also pay close attention to your city's noise ordinance laws and go acoustic if necessary.
You can also start an underground venue. If your band plays music belonging to a less mainstream genre, like noise and many types of punk, it can be especially difficult to book gigs until you build up a sizable local following. Many artists go the DIY route, renting out practice spaces for performances. While a common feature of underground scenes, these venues are often illegal. Know your local laws and keep your venue a safe place for your guests. Stay away from residential areas where you're more likely to get shutdown by noise complaints.