 Crying it out is an easy and effective way to deal with sadness. Crying is a normal and healthy response to feelings of sadness or hurt.Often society portrays crying as a weakness or as something that should be hidden. You may feel embarrassed, or may try to avoid crying. Crying is actually very cathartic, helping you to process through and release that energy, and can help you move on from your sadness.


If you are embarrassed, cry somewhere private such as your apartment or your room, or even in the shower. What is important is to have a good cry and let it out.
Crying is a form of honoring your feelings. By honoring your feelings, you are allowing yourself the time you need to process through very difficult emotions.;
, Identify things or activities that make you feel better. You can use these as your coping skills to help you overcome your sad emotions. Coping skills are ways in which we can lessen stress or psychological pain such as sadness.While coping skills can include anything they should be positive or healthy. Try to avoid negative or unhealthy coping such as drinking alcohol or using drugs.


Make a list of activities that relax and calm you.When you feel sad, use these activities and keep track of how well they work or do not work to relieve your sadness.
Your "toolbox" can be a literal box where you keep pictures or items that make you happy, or it can just be a list of activities you can do.
Try activities such as writing, exercising, reading, or looking a pictures of animals or memes online. It can also be engaging in a hobby like art, music, or a sport.
 A way to help you open up to your emotions is to listen to music. It is difficult sometimes to put how you are feeling into words.Music and lyrics are a way to get in touch with and work through those feelings. Additionally, music can have a profound positive effect on your mood and mental health.Try listening to different types of music for different effects and use whatever works best for you.


Listen to sad music to let out your sad emotions or help you cry.Listen to uplifting music to get you moving.
Listen to any music that makes you feel calm or relaxed as it can be different for different people., Focusing on the positive can be extremely difficult during a sad time. It is important, however, for you to reflect on this time of sadness and to make an effort to refocus yourself on more positive aspects.Make sure you are dealing with and processing through your sadness, but take time to focus on the good in your life as well. This can take time and practice, but over time will help you process through and successfully cope with sad times.



Meditate to help you focus and reflect.Try meditating by sitting somewhere quiet and creating a place in your mind that is peaceful to you, such as a beach or a field. Think about all the details you can about that place; colors, smells, sounds, and how it would feel.
Take a moment to pause and breathe.Try focusing on your breathing by breathing in through your nose for a count of four and out through your mouth for a count of seven. Focus on how the air feels coming in and out and how it feels to fill up your lungs.

Keep a gratitude list or journal.Every day, write down at least three things you are thankful for. It can be events, feelings, places, things, or people.

