 Applying heat to the area where you feel back pain can help relax tense muscles and provide temporary relief from pain. You can use a heating pad or hot water bottle to apply heat to your upper back.Do not use a heating pad while you are napping or sleeping.
Apply heat for no more than 15-20 minutes at a time.
You may also find a hot shower or bath helpful. If you have a massaging shower head, directing the warm pulsing water at your sore areas may bring relief.
 Ice is usually reserved for acute injuries, such as an injury that has occurred within the last 48 to 72 hours. Ice may also be helpful to reduce pain and inflammation from arthritis.To make a cold pack, wet a hand towel or washcloth with water and wring it out so that it is just damp. Fold the towel and place into a zip-top plastic bag. Freeze for about 15 minutes. Apply the cold pack to the sore area for no more than 10 minutes.
There are also commercial cold packs made with gel or clay that you can purchase at most drug stores.
Never place a cold pack directly on to your skin. Use a small thin towel in between the ice pack and the skin to avoid frostbite.
You can even use a bag of frozen vegetables as an ice pack. Choose something small and uniform, like peas or corn. Don’t eat vegetables that have been thawed and refrozen — keep this bag just for pain relief.
 Try an NSAID (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug) to help relieve pain and inflammation. Common NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil), naproxen (Aleve), and aspirin.You can also take acetaminophen (Tylenol).
If these medications do not work, talk to your doctor about stronger prescription-strength pain relievers.
 If your back pain is chronic — meaning it lasts for a long time, develops gradually, or keeps coming back — you should see your physician. Chronic back pain may be related to a prior injury, for which you could need additional treatment.You should also see your doctor immediately if you experience feelings of weakness in your arms or legs, numbness or tingling in your abdomen, chest, arms, or legs, or difficulty with your bowels or bladder.