 Lavender is a fairly low-maintenance plant and will only need to be fertilized once a year, if that. Use a light top dressing of mixed compost and bone meal, sometime in early spring.An ideal time to fertilize your newly planted lavender is after the first watering. Allow the soil to dry, then apply the fertilizer.
 As mentioned before, dampness is the enemy of lavender and if the roots of the plant become excessively damp, it will kill the plant quicker than any drought or freezing temperatures. In fact, over-watering new lavender plants in spring is the main cause of growth failure. Once the lavender is planted, deeply water it every seven to 10 days.To achieve the proper level of watering, make sure that the soil dries between each watering; however the plant itself should not be allowed to become dehydrated.If you are growing lavender in a Northern climate, you will water the plant very sparingly until the summer, when temperatures can skyrocket and dry out the soil. You will then want to begin watering the plant every seven to 10 days.
If you're growing lavender in a pot, make sure the pot has excellent drainage to prevent water from pooling at the bottom.
 You can prevent weeds from growing around the base of your lavender plant by covering the soil with a thin layer of mulch. Use a light-colored mulch, such as coarse sand, gravel or oyster shells.Mulch will also help to protect the plant's roots from winter frosts.


Do not use wood mulch, which will retain moisture and can lead to root rot.
 You should prune your lavender plant about once a year, preferably in spring before the new growth begins. You should prune about 1/3 – 1/2 of the plant when it shows new spring growth. Use pruning shears or hedge trimmer to achieve a tidy, rounded shape.New growth looks like long, thin legs sprouting from the leafing branches. The plant will also begin to form blooms. This is also a good time to fertilize the plant.
Pruning your lavender will encourage new growth and stop the the plant from breaking open and sprawling.
Just make sure not to over-prune your lavender as this may kill new growth altogether.
 The best time to harvest fresh lavender is when the bottom flowers of each stem are just beginning to open. This is when the lavender is at its most vibrant and fragrant. Cut the flowers at the base of the stems, near the foliage.Prune the plant back to the new growth leaves. This may encourage your plant to bloom a second time, in the fall.
If all or most of the blooms have opened on the lavender plant, then it is too late to harvest for herbal purposes. If you plan to dry the lavender, harvest when about 3/4 of the blooms have opened.
To dry the lavender, bundle about a hundred of the flowers together, tie with a rubber band and hang indoors in a warm, dark and dry location, suspended upside down from a nail, for about 10 to 14 days.If you wish to remove the dried lavender from the woody stems, you can roll the bundle on a metal screen placed over a bucket. This is called "garbling" the lavender.
If you want to decorate your house with lavender, place the flowers in a vase, but do not put the roots in water. This just causes the flowers to fall off faster and makes the stems mushy.