 It is easiest to edit a documentary that has a lot of coverage.;
, Split footage up into folders, e.g. "b" roll, interview, etc.
 Watch all the footage, listing highlights, overall action in the scene, and anything else that you feel is important. Write down what happens and what you think is appropriate. This is a huge job, so don't underestimate how long it will take. Make sure to break the core into manageable chunks.
 This is where you capture the gust of what the interviewee says, not the entire dialog. Do this by breaking down the interview into half minute segments. Work out where these should go in the interview at the end. This will be useful when it comes to the paper edit.
 Editing a documentary can put a lot of strain on, especially if you are working in HD. Do an offline edit where you convert to standard definition. When you have locked off (finished) the edit, re-import HD footage.
 Create a two column table in word with one column for video and the other for audio. Each row is a different scene. Put all clips and interviews in order and play around until you are happy with it. You can edit after that. This is helping you create a blueprint for your edit.
 Break down interviews and other longer things into manageable segments. This can be done in final cut by marking when someone goes onto a new topic.
 On top of this start putting appropriate shots.
 Put all your footage in order on the timeline without doing any editing.


Putting on loud music can help you do this, as it drowns out your internal dialogue and doubts.
, Start cutting.

Analyze structure of similar documentaries. With editing, it's easier to get lost in the small details. By analyzing similar documentaries it can make you think creatively about it again. With longer documentaries unless you have a presenter, it is common to have a parallel narrative.
Do you find it unpleasant? If so, write down why.
Do you feel overwhelmed by the task? If so, break it down into more manageable chunks.
Are you disorganized? If so, write down why.
Are you a perfectionist? Don't go for perfect. Instead, go for what is achievable. Rough cuts are only rough, so just do it and don't try to make it perfect.
Go for a walk. A gentle stroll helps you to reflect.
Work under time restrictions.
 When you feel fairly happy with your rough cut, show it to people who are not involved and ask for their feedback. At this stage, you can still make drastic changes. However, remember that their feedback might not always be helpful, so always follow your instincts.
 Based on the feedback, go back and do more editing.
 Watching your documentary on a different screen such as a TV, mobile, or ipod could help you spot things you didn't spot.
 Colour correct your documentary to achieve continuity between different cameras and achieve a particular mood.
 It's a great tool, for this is plural eyes.
 Beware that sound editing could take longer than expected.
