 This is the most basic method of searching for someone online. Most people have some kind of online presence, whether through work, school, or social media. If you know the person’s first and last name, you can try searching on a search engine.Also type in any information you may have gathered during your conversation with this person. Did he or she mention what school they attend? Where they work? Organizations they're members of? Type these into the search engine along with the person's name to increase your chances of finding the person.;
, Social media is incredibly popular, and there is a good chance the person you're looking for has an account on one or more of the major social media sites. These accounts might show up during an internet search, but if you don't have any luck there, try searching on the social media sites themselves.Try the major social media sites, including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
 Craigslist has a section under its "Personals" section called "Missed Connections" designed for people to find others. Here, you can place an ad looking for the person you met. Also, you can search and see if that person if looking for you.
 There are websites designed to help people find each other. These work like the personal ads on Craigslist: users post a message and visitors can view these messages. You can also search the websites and see if the person you're looking for is looking for you too.You should search and post messages on several different sites to increase your chances of success.
The most popular of these websites are isawyou.com and blewmychance.com.
 Due to the speed of online data compilation, your site posts will get buried relatively quickly, so you may want to occasionally make new ones. Additionally, people make new social networking connections all the time, so just because the person doesn't have any mutual friends to help narrow the search yet, it doesn't mean he or she never will. Try not to get discouraged and renew your search from time to time.