 Each wash cycle contributes to additional fading, so the less you wash them, the better. This is especially true of denim, which fades the most easily.


To get away with washing your dark clothes infrequently, take them off and let them air out after wearing them instead of washing. Put the item on a hanger and hang it somewhere by itself for a day before putting it back in the closet.
After wearing the item and air drying 2 or 3 times, go ahead and wash it.
 Always wash your dark colors together, otherwise the colors may bleed and stain any lighter colored items being washed. Also sort your clothing by fabric type and weight.


If you wash delicate items with garments made of heavier fabric, the delicates can get damaged and the heavier fabrics probably won’t get as clean as they should., The agitation caused by your washing machine during a cycle is far too harsh for your delicates. Hand wash these items in cold water to preserve their color and to prevent the items from being damaged.


If you really want to avoid hand washing your laundry, the next best thing is to get a small mesh bag for your delicates. Put them in the mesh bag prior to putting them in the washing machine. This will cut down on damage to your delicates.
If you have any garments that you are unsure how to launder, dry clean them.
 This protects your black clothing by guarding it against the agitation caused by your washing machine. The wash cycle distresses the fibers of black clothing, which causes them to break down and then fade.
 Warm and hot water can lead to fading and using any other cycle besides gentle when washing dark colors can also lead to fading. These cycles are much rougher on your clothing and the gentle cycle will protect and preserve garments.


If your washing machine also has a soil setting, always use the light-soil setting (unless your clothes are really dirty). The light-soil setting is far gentler on dark color than the other settings., Never use regular laundry detergent with bleach or bleach alternatives. Several companies make detergents that are specifically for use with dark colored clothing, so use that if you can find it.


Use the minimum amount of detergent necessary to get your garments clean. Excess detergent can lead to fading.
 Don’t machine dry your black clothes any more, since the dryer can contribute to additional fading. Pull the items from the machine, shake them out and immediately hang the items individually on a rack so that they can dry.


Once completely dry, they are ready to be stored in your closet with the rest of your wardrobe.

