 Find a salon with a beautician who knows about dyeing eyelashes. Discuss your options with him or her and listen to any recommendations the beautician may have about color choice and other related matters.


The procedure is relatively quick and only takes about 20 minutes, but you should still call ahead and make an appointment.
Not every hair stylist at every salon will be able to perform this procedure. The salon needs to have special brow and lash dye on hand since standard hair dye is too harsh. Professional lash dyes are vegetable-based and semi-permanent.
To avoid the risks associated with eyelash dyeing, make sure that you go to a salon that only uses these FDA-approved, semi-permanent vegetable-based tints. A salon that claims to use permanent eyelash dye likely uses a product that has not be deemed safe.
 After the beautician seats you at a work station, he or she should apply petroleum jelly around the perimeter of both eyes. The beautician will also apply a protective pad on the skin below the bottom lashes.The petroleum jelly and protective pads are used to help prevent the dye from staining your skin.
 Unless you are instructed otherwise, close your eyes at the start of the procedure. The beautician will mix the dye and apply it to your lashes as your eyes remain closed.


Avoid opening your eyes as the dye is applied, unless your beautician tells you to do so. Even a trained beautician can accidentally get dye into your eyes if you open them when he or she does not expect it, and the dye will sting your eyes if it gets inside.
 The dye needs to process for seven minutes. At that point, a second coat may or may not be applied. If a second coat is applied, the dye will need to process for another seven minutes after that.
 Wait as the beautician removes the lash pad and cleans the area with wet cotton pads. During this time, the petroleum jelly and the excess wet dye should both be removed.


Typically, the beautician will also give you a saline solution for your eyes. Saline solutions mimic natural tears, and applying the solution to your eyes after this procedure ensures that no dye residue will remain stuck inside the eye.
 Even salon quality eyelash dyes are only semi-permanent. If you want to keep your new look, expect to head back to the salon after four to six weeks.

