 It sounds cheesy, but dress up in something that makes you feel confident, and reflect the character if at all possible. If you choose to do this, however, don't go overboard. If you're auditioning for the role of a farmer, it's usually better to look rather tired and a little bit messy rather than full-on overalls and a straw hat. Girls, make sure your outfit is modest and won't offend or distract the people watching your audition. Over-sexualising or dressing as you would to go to a party might not leave the best impression for people looking for a mature student for a good role. It's better to dress up than dress down, and the bare minimum you should go for is jeans and a (CLEAN) tee shirt.
 A lot of actors get dehydrated before an audition and can't sing to the best of their abilities. Also, make sure you're well-rested and study your material before you enter the audition room.
 If you disrespect the panel you're auditioning for, they might disregard your audition altogether and not assign you a role. Be kind and control your emotions until you're done with the audition. Also, this will show self-control, which directors always like in their leads.
 This goes with being respectful, but in addition to that, leaving a good impression on the directors never hurts. Of course, it's never good to kiss someone's butt (metaphorically, of course) in order to get the role you'd like, but chatting the panel up and showing them that you're easy to work with and talk to is a plus on their (also probably metaphorical) scorecard. Small talk and being friendly is an adapted skill, so if you can pull it off, you're showing that you're mature and experienced not only onstage, but also in life.
 Articulate, enunciate, read clearly and slowly, with character behind the lines. Remember, you're auditioning for a role that you'll have to portray. You have to become that person on-stage. Unless you're trying to communicate directly with the audience, you have to ignore the fact that they're there. Don't let them distract you; the theatre term for this is to "Build the Fourth Wall."

, You're probably better prepared than you think you are if you follow the above steps, and having confidence only helps your case.

