 Work together to develop the right amount of time to spend together. One of you may be busier than the other so it’s unfair to devote the same amount of time to the friendship. You may also want to establish a place to meet so one person doesn’t travel more than the other.Establish standards that are fair and acceptable to everyone involved. Make sure that you communicate openly and compromise when you can. You may also need to agree upon the frequency of when you catch up, the kind of catching up you want to do, and the type of activities you want to enjoy together.
You may need to be as detailed as establishing time limits for phone calls, what time is acceptable to be contacted, the frequency you can be contacted, and the length of contact. Some people need firm boundaries or they may overtake your time.
 Some friends may think that it’s okay to get overly involved in your life including your family decisions. They may actually think that they are part of the family and that their input matters as such. Make sure you agree upon what’s acceptable.In contrast, some friends don’t want anything to do with your family and may be disrespectful with your time. Make sure you agree with your friends about what your priorities are and what is most important to you.
 Some friends are overly physical or, in contrast, don’t want to be touched at all. Make sure you establish your personal space together so that you each know what’s appropriate.

Physical touch may also be applied to your family or other people in your social circle. Make sure friends know what is acceptable.
 Some people don’t have a filter or, in contrast, are very guarded. Make sure you each know what the appropriate topics of conversation are. You don’t want to be rude or offend your friend. You also want to speak up if you’ve been offended., Shift the focus onto yourself and describe what you are feeling about the situation. If you say “you”, it may seem accusatory and your friend may become defensive. Make sure you are accountable for yourself and empathise with your friend., Develop steps to resolve your conflict and make sure there are detailed steps each of you can take. Check in often to support each other and make sure that you both are receiving the progress that you set out to get.
 Ask yourself what a reasonable solution should be and how you feel about the entire situation. You need to be able assess the situation on your own and not feel guilty about losing your friendship., Make sure that you have established your boundaries and be able to say no whenever your friend tries to cross them. In contrast, acknowledge your mistakes and apologize for pushing past your friend’s boundaries.