 Set your child up for organizational success by purchasing the items he or she will need to get organized. Organizing schoolwork into separate folders or using a color coding system can be very beneficial for children with ADD.You’ll need a backpack, different colored folders, blank paper, labels, and different colored pens for starters.
Consider getting your child two sets of supplies (including books): one set for school and one set for at home. This will help reduce their daily stress because the consequences won’t be as intense if they forget some of their supplies at home or at school.
Let your child choose a backpack with sectioned out storage space that can be labeled to help him or her get organized at school, as well as find and put items away quickly.;
, This will allow your child to find items they need more quickly and easily. Color folders and dividers can hold worksheets and homework. Use color tape and stickers for textbooks that match. Make sure your child is clear about how the color system works., Pick a location for your child's backpack so that it never gets misplaced. Make sure your child always puts their backpack in this spot when they get home so that they learn the routine and so they don’t have to worry about losing it.Additionally, get your child with ADD into the habit of organizing the backpack when homework is complete. This will ensure that homework is placed in the backpack and that he has everything else he needs for school the next day.
 This area should be well-lit and away from distractions. Your child needs a calm place where they can focus on their work. Make sure your child has all the tools needed to get the work done.The homework location should be quiet and free of clutter and other distractions.
 Set up a time for homework and stick with it. Consider using the delayed gratification approach. Have your child do his or her homework as soon as they get home, instead of playing first. However, if it helps your child, you might want to allow for 30 minutes of playtime or relaxation before starting schoolwork.Help organize it from the most difficult to the easiest and always review the work when completed.Put up a dry erase board that lists the homework, assignments, and projects. Children with ADD often work better with visuals. Your child can refer to this list and erase what is completed.
Break the homework timeframe up by allowing for snack breaks, especially if your child is showing signs of being overwhelmed. You can take short breaks every 10-20 minutes, too.You should also be available if you are needed during homework.
 Partner with your child's teacher to create a communication system so that you are aware of all homework and assignments. You want your child to be responsible for this, but having the information will allow you to make sure he or she is on track.You may also want to ask for progress reports so you and the teacher can deal with issues as they arise and come up with solutions together.
Remaining consistent at home and at school is a necessary goal for children with ADD.
 One thing that you can do to help your child organize and complete their homework is to divide larger tasks into smaller, more manageable steps that your child will find less intimidating. Write the steps out for your child to follow along.For example, if your child has a paper that is due, try breaking up the assignment into smaller manageable parts. One step can be doing the research and another step can be brainstorming ideas for the paper. After those steps, you could write a rough draft for one step and revise the draft as a final step. That way your child will be able to focus on one step at a time instead of being overwhelmed by the entire project.
This will also help your child learn how to plan things out and follow through with their plans.
 One of the most important aspects of helping a child with ADD overcome any obstacles in accomplishing their homework is to create a consistent routine so they can learn what to expect and how to fulfill the expectations set for them on a regular basis.Have homework time at the same time every day. Work on homework in the same location every day. Creating these patterns will help your child with ADD learn how to cope with any struggles they might encounter when attempting to complete their homework.
 When you create systems and tools, explain to them what you are doing and for what reason. This way they will learn the methods that work and continue to use them independently and, hopefully, throughout their life.Help your child learn how to make checklists of tasks they need to accomplish and then to cross each item off the list as they complete each task.
 Involving your child in the process of organization will help them better understand the reasons this kind of behavior is necessary and it will help them feel more connected to the process. It’s always easier to follow rules that you view as valuable.Ask your child what specific tasks they struggle with and come up with a way to organize that aspect of their schoolwork together.
 Your efforts at getting your child organized should stop at that goal. Create the system and provide the tools, but don't do anything else for him or her. Explain how it all works and make sure he or she follows through.


Continue giving positive feedback and reinforcement when your child maintains the organizational system you’ve set up or as they complete their homework tasks.
 Have your child consider which assignments to work on first instead of just doing whatever comes to mind in the moment. It might be a good idea to teach them to work on homework based on when the assignment due dates are. That way, they are finishing the tasks that are due sooner first.


Working on the hardest or least enjoyable homework might be good for a child with ADD as well because it helps them get it out of the way earlier and move on to work that is more enjoyable.
You can also create a daily and weekly calendar with assignments that are due during the week.
 Being organized and tackling big homework projects can be a very daunting task for a child with ADD. Make sure you maintain a positive attitude and offer encouraging support for your child so that they don’t get discouraged easily.If your child gets frustrated easily, your positive attitude will help calm them and help them continue to focus on the task at hand.

