 These are listed below and it's helpful to have everything ready before you start, so that you can work quickly and efficiently.;
, Place the dab of glue on the top front where the head is to go. Also put a dab of glue on the smaller pompom, which serves as the head.
, Place two dabs glue on the head for the googly eyes, then stick them on.
 Under the two eyes, put another dab of glue in place and stick on the pink nose. If you'd like nostrils, use a thin felt-tip pen to draw them on.
 This space is situated between the medium pompom and the big pompom.
 Place two tiny pompoms at the back of the large pompom and two at the front of the large pompom. Put glue on both the small pompoms and the large pompom, for extra strength.
 Add the two medium pompoms to the top of the head for ears. Fluff them up a little to create side wisps.
 You've now made your own pet hamster. Now you can name it and take care of it––some suggestions for this are provided next.
, For example:


White (snow, snowflake, Bianca, snowball, sugar, cloud, misty, ice, blizzard, cupcake and blaze)
Brown (coco, chocolate, brownie, fudge, mocha, chocolate chip, bean, crusty, donuts)
Ginger (ginger, pizza, orange, bubbles, boo, Barney, mark, cheese)
Black (storm, smoky, thunder, pirate, checker, pitch, twilight)

, For example:


Shy (peekaboo, princess, prince, sweety, hide)
Calm (peace, Oliver, sugar, care, cheese)
Affectionate (love, hammy Valentine, pinkie, heart, sweety)
Nosy (snoopy, Mr. Wow, cool, interesting)
Mad (thunder, Mr. Evil, bite, Rex, pirate, 360, ollie).
 Start by feeding your hamster fake treats (such as doll food or cardboard made to look like food); once it’s comfortable accepting treats from your hand, you can gently and securely pick it up. Hold it for a short time at first, and then gradually increase your time with it.
 Once you’ve hand-tamed your handmade hamster, let it play outside of the cage (you can make a cage from a shoe box or similar recycled item), in a secure, enclosed area. Stay and supervise the play session.


If this were a real hamster, you'd need to be sure that you'd removed any electrical wires from the area, and anything else your curious pet could, but shouldn’t, gnaw on. If you're trying to be realistic, use pieces of yarn for cords and remove them.
 Remove droppings (these could be made from modeling clay), uneaten food and soiled bedding (use garden straw or grass) every day.


Every week, remove and replace all the bedding, and scrub the bottom of the cage with hot, soapy water.
 Talk to them about how you are cleaning its environment, taking it out to play and keeping it well fed, etc. In this way, they may come to see that you're acting responsibly and might consider getting you a real hamster.

