 Minoxidil, more commonly known as Rogaine, is the only FDA-approved female hair-loss topical medication. This is the most common treatment for female hair loss. This hair treatment has to be used once a day, and generally takes three to four months to show results, but could take over six months.The treatment comes in either a dropper or a spray pump. You apply the treatment to dry hair and scalp twice a day. The treatment is applied to where the hair is thinning, then you massage it into the scalp with your fingers. Make sure to wash your hands and any places the minoxidil has dripped, like your face. Refrain from shampooing for at least four hours after applying the treatment.
The foam treatment comes in 2% and 5% solutions.
If minoxidil works for you, you will have to continue using it to keep the results.
Minoxidil doesn’t work for all women. It also won’t make all your hair grow back like it was; however, studies have shown it replaces hair in over half the women who used it.Side effects may include scalp itching or a rash, acne on the scalp, inflammation of the scalp, redness, or burning of the scalp. It may also include facial hair growth if left on the face. In rare cases, it may lead to more hair loss., Anti-androgens are a type of medication that block androgen receptors. They might make hair grow or slow the hair loss process. Most physicians will not prescribe medicine to treat hair loss since the evidence that it helps is limited. While medication is not a common treatment, physicians do prescribe it for women who an excess of androgen. Your physician will test your levels to see if your levels are connected to hair loss and require medication.Spironolactone, also known as Aldactone, is one kind of antiandrogen your doctor may prescribe. Tagamet, also known as Cimetidine, may also be prescribed.Finasteride isn’t FDA approved for women, but some doctors may prescribe it for postmenopausal women.
Estrogen and progesterone pills or creams may work to treat hair loss in women who are in menopause.Some of the medications may be combined with an oral contraceptive if the women is at a reproductive age.
 If you suffer from alopecia areata, your doctor may suggest corticosteroids to treat it. This treatment method is generally given through a monthly injection to the scalp. Depending on your condition, your doctor may also prescribe an oral dosage.Side effects of corticosteroids vary from person to person. They range from increased appetite and acne to diabetes and high blood pressure.Talk to your doctor to discuss side effects.
 Hair transplants have been used to treat hair loss since the 1950s. In a hair transplant, a surgeon will take a narrow strip of your scalp and divide it into smaller grafts that contain a few hairs. He will then place the graft into slits in your scalp where hair is missing. The hair will then grow naturally from that spot.After six to nine months after the transplant, most patients see a 60% increase in new hair growth.
Some women experience shock loss after the transplant, which is a temporary hair loss in the transplant area.
Since each woman has a limited amount of hair, there may not be enough hair to fill in larger gaps to its original thickness.
Hair transplants are usually not covered by insurance. They can range from $4,000 to $15,000 dollars.
 Hair loss generally doesn’t indicate a more severe underlying problem; however, if your hair loss includes itching, skin irritation, or any other abnormal symptoms, contact your physician. These additional symptoms may point to an underlying condition.If you experience hair loss without symptoms, you may want to speak to your doctor anyway. Getting a checkup to make sure nothing is wrong is never a bad idea.

