 If one thing gives macho guys a bad name, it's that they treat women poorly, talking down to them, objectifying them, and being rude in general. A macho guy treats all the women in his life respectfully. Learn to talk to women one-on-one, calmly and with courtesy.


You don't have to put on a big show to attract women. It's a turn off and shows that you're just putting on an act. Remember: Be a man. Never cat-call or use pick-up lines to talk to women. You're better than that.
 Some men think it's "cool" to only eat meat, and develop a dislike of green vegetables and other foods because they think it's non-masculine. Unfortunately for them, a diet that consists mostly of red meat and avoids green vegetables leads to things like prostate, stomach, and bowel cancer. There's nothing macho about having your prostate removed and becoming sexually impotent and incontinent., Being able to "hold your liquor" isn't a sign of masculinity, it's a sign of alcohol abuse. There's nothing wrong with enjoying a couple of drinks among friends--especially a straight bourbon, dark beer, or a Manhattan--but you need to know your limits and avoid pushing them as a way of showing off to your friends. It can lead to serious problems.


This also goes for other self-destructive vices, like smoking and using other drugs. Abusing substances is a sign of insecurity, not a sign of manhood.
 There's nothing macho about speeding, cutting people off, or revving your engine at stop-lights. If you're a real man, you don't need to overcompensate by showing off in a big car.


If you've got a jacked-up ride that you're really proud of, show it off to your friends in your driveway, or on open road, but don't show it off in the middle of traffic. Strangers on their morning commute don't care about your horsepower, and it won't make you look more macho to peel out from stoplights in front of them.
 A macho guy doesn't need to be promiscuous to prove it. Practice safe sex and move at your own speed. Ignore guys who brag about sexual prowess. They're probably just watching too much porn and making stuff up anyway. You're a real man and you know it.
 This is maybe the oldest macho stereotype: Being unwilling to pull over and ask for directions. Sure, it can be embarrassing to admit that you're wrong, or to admit that you need help with something, but it's worse to get in over your head and make the situation worse. A macho guy wants to do something right first and foremost, not do it shoddily by going it alone. You can't do everything solo. Ask for help.

