 An electrical conductivity meter, or EC meter, is the only common device that can be used to measure the salinity of soil. It can also be used to measure the salinity of water, but a high-quality EC meter may be significantly more expensive than a refractometer or hydrometer.


Some aquarium hobbyists like to use both a conductivity meter and one of the other tools described on this page, in order to confirm their salinity reading.
 These devices send an electrical current through the material, and measure how much the material resists the flow of current. The more salts found in the water or soil, the higher the conductivity rating. In order to get an accurate reading for common water and soil types, select an EC meter that can measure up to at least 19.99 mS/cm (19.99 dS/m)., Mix one part soil with five parts distilled water, shaking them together thoroughly. Let the mixture settle for at least two minutes before continuing.Because distilled water has no electrolytes or salts in it, the measurement you get will reflect the quantity of these materials in the soil.


In laboratory conditions, you may be required to let the mixture settle for thirty minutes, or use a more accurate "saturated soil paste" method which can take over two hours.These are rarely done outside of a laboratory environment, however, and the method above is still reasonably accurate.
 Remove the protective cap covering the thin end of the EC meter. Immerse this end to the level indicated on the meter, or just far enough that the thin prove is submerged, if no level is indicated. Most EC meters are not waterproof above a certain point, so do not drop the meter underwater.
 This motion removes any air bubbles that are trapped inside the probe. Do not shake vigorously, as this could drive the water out of the probe instead., Some EC meters automatically correct for the temperature of the liquid, which can affect conductivity. Wait at least thirty seconds for the meter to make this adjustment, or longer if the water is unusually cold or hot. Other meters have a dial which can be manually adjusted to the correct temperature.


If your EC meter has neither of these features, it may come with a chart which you can use to manually correct the reading based on the water's temperature., The display is typically digital, and may give you a measurement in mS/cm, dS/m, or mmhos/cm. Fortunately, these three units are equal in size, so you do not need to convert between them.


Respectively, these units stand for milliSiemens per centimeter, deciSiemens per meter, or millimho per centimeter. The mho (inverse of an ohm) is an old-fashioned name for the Siemens, but is still used in some industries., Using the method described here, EC readings of 4 or higher could indicate danger. Sensitive plants such as mango or banana may be affected at an EC as low as 2, while tolerant plants such as coconut may be fine with an EC as high as 8–10.Note: Whenever looking up EC ranges for a particular plant, find out which method that source used to test the EC. If the soil is diluted with two parts water, or with just enough water to make a paste, instead of the 1:5 ratio used here, the numbers may be significantly different.
 Between each use, calibrate the EC meter by using it to measure an "electrical conductivity calibration solution," purchased for this purpose. If the measurement does not match the known conductivity of that solution, use a small screwdriver to adjust the calibration screw until the measurement is correct.Some calibration solutions may come with a "check solution" to test after calibration. If the check solution's conductivity is inaccurate, your EC meter may be broken.

