 Locate the Box app on your iOS device. It’s the app with a blue background with the word “box” on it. Tap on it to launch Box.;
, If you’re already logged in, you may skip this step. Otherwise, input your Box email address and password in the appropriate fields, and then tap the blue login button.
 The home screen displays all the folders in your Box account. Scroll through them.
 Tap on your Box folders to open them. Go to the folder that contains the file or the folder you’d like to make available offline.
 Once you’ve found the file or the folder, take a note of it. Don’t tap on it yet.
 Swipe from right to left over the file or folder. A toolbar of key actions for the file or folder will be made available. Tap on the lightning or zigzag icon to make the file or folder available offline.
 The selected file or folder will be downloaded to your local mobile device as a copy.


You won’t be able to set other files or folders offline while something’s still being downloaded.
A cloud icon will appear on the left panel menu while the download is in progress.
 On the left panel menu, tap on the lightning or zigzag icon. This will bring you to the folder view of the files and folders you’ve set to be made available offline.
 Navigating on this offline files folder works the same way as navigating the other folders within Box. Tap on a folder to open it to see the files inside.
 Tap on a file to open it. Its contents will be shown in a full-screen view.
 On the left panel menu, tap on the lightning or zigzag icon. This will bring you to the folder view of the files and folders you’ve set to be made available offline.
 Swipe from right to left over the file or folder you’d like to remove. A toolbar of key actions for the file or folder will be made available. Tap on the highlighted lightning or zigzag icon to remove the file or folder from the offline folder.

The selected file or folder will not be available for offline access anymore.
 Removing files and folders from their offline access is important. You can’t just make all your files and folders from Box available offline. This will consume your mobile device’s memory, which you need for the other apps and processes. At any given time, you should only set files and folders for offline access when necessary.