 Different people have different personalities; some people read a lot and apply a little while some people read a little and apply all of it. Effectiveness lies in the balance. Balance says 'how much I can read and apply it immediately without losing something I read', so try to find a balance remember. Again effectiveness lies in the balance.;
,


If there are exercises along the way, such as journaling or reflection, try to do them on the day when you read the chapter that talks about them, when the instructions and purpose are fresh in your mind.
 Try to find information and quotes from the book that can help you in your life. These quotes can serve as motivation as you proceed. Do not simply read; try to find the inner meanings of the information and understand its purpose.
 Get a notepad before you start and write anything you find interesting into your notepad or get a highlighter and highlight all the main facts or information you find interesting in the book.
 To make the implementation process organized, make a list consisting of things from the book to implement. For example suppose you learned about the concept of making people important genuinely, then you are more likely to succeed if you apply it right away without giving much time between getting the information and implementation of it.
 Self help books contain advice, and are therefore written for a general audience. The authors do not know you personally, or your situation. As a simple example, many excellent gardening books are written in Vermont, but the information and advice in them may be completely inappropriate for California's climate and soils. Here are some things to ask yourself as you read:


Does the author have personal experience with this subject?
Does the author have scientific or professional experience with this subject, or has he/she consulted the literature?
Is the advice and experience recommended in the book relevant to your situation?
Does the advice make sense, and does it make sense in your own life?
How is the author motivated? Are they selling anything besides books? If the book gives financial advice, does the author use it him/herself, and does he/she stand to gain from others' following the advice?
Is the book well regarded in the community? Why or why not?
How do other works in the same subject area compare? Do they take similar approaches?

, Most successful people are those who implement it as soon as they learn something. This may sound like a cliché but the quicker you apply a concept after learning it the better you would be able to the grasp of it. For example if you learn about dance move and if you tried it right away without much delay, more quickly and easily you will learn it easily as compared to when you try to practice it after a delay. #

, A car without an engine will not work. Similarly, an idea without hard work will not work. When you read self help books and develop a new idea, work hard to make that idea reality, lest it remain an idea.
 Some people do not focus, even when it is something that could change a life. Thus, read in a peaceful environment, as with any other book, and give the information your full attention. Read at a time and in an environment that encourages you to stay awake. Do not neglect important information.
 Get a meeting place for your group and each time you meet up, read a chapter of the book and discuss the information. Give a notepad and pencil, and take turns sharing your thoughts.
 What worked? What still needs work? Did you stick with the latest part of the plan? A little accountability can really help you get going.
 If something which you learn you find good, share it with your friends and relatives and people who would be interested. This is not only a good thing to do but would also help you to grasp the concept better.
 Small steps add up to big results. Remember the tortoise and the hare? The tortoise won the race because the hare became exhausted quickly. For the tortoise to win the race, there are a couple of things he needs to do.


Stick his neck out and get going.

Keep at it.
Identify and follow the correct path.
 So you started the program, and you see yourself getting stuck, or veering off course. Ask yourself why. Do you need to work harder? Do you need to work on smaller, more manageable parts? Is there information you're still missing? Do you hate what you're doing? If so, is it because you're trying to accomplish something difficult (such as quitting smoking), or because what you're trying to do isn't right for you? Your group can help you sort out these parts, also.

