 Crafting a wooden pencil holder is a quick and easy project. You’ll just need a few supplies, all easily available from a craft or hardware store:A block of wood. The size is really up to you -- just choose one that’s at least a few inches in all dimensions.
A drill and a 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) drill bit (this will be wide enough so you can use your holder for pencils and most other writing utensils as well).
(Optional) supplies for decorating your pencil holder, like paint or stain.
 Unlike an open canister-style pencil holder, the wooden block will have an individual hole for each pencil. Use a pencil, pen, or marker to mark the spots where you’d like the holes to be positioned -- you can place them in even rows, randomly, or in an arrangement like a zigzag or star shape.Whatever pattern you use, make sure to leave some space (at least 0.5 inches (1.3 cm)) between each hole.
 The holes you’ll drill should be at least a couple inches deep to hold the pencils securely in place. You don’t want them so deep that they’ll go right through the bottom, however. Take a piece of painter’s tape or other take, and wrap it around your drill bit at the depth you want the holes to be.For instance, if you want the holes to be 2 inches (5.1 cm) deep, wrap a piece of painter’s tape that far from the end of the drill bit.
 Set the drill bit on the first hole mark you made on your block, and carefully drill the hole. Keep the drill vertical so that the holes will be straight, and don’t forget to stop drilling when the tape you placed on the drill bit just touches the top of the block.Repeat this step for all of the holes you marked in your block.
Turn the block upside down when you are finished, and lightly tap it to remove all of the sawdust.
 At this point, your pencil holder is ready to use as-is. If you’d like, however, go ahead and add some flair. You could paint the block with spray paint, finish it with wood stain, apply Mod Podge to the sides and paste photos on it, or use any other method you would like to decorate it.