 The number one enemy of books? Dirt and natural oils from your hands as you handle them.When you're handling your books, make sure to wash your hands with warm, soapy water, and thoroughly dry them before picking up and thumbing through your books, or cleaning them.


Very old, leather-bound, or rare books should be handled while wearing latex gloves. Never eat or drink around old books that you want to protect.
 Books need to be cleaned regularly to keep dust from accumulating on them. Generally, unless books become very soiled, basic dusting and proper temperature and environment control should be enough to keep them clean long-term.


Start dusting by removing all the books from your shelves and cleaning the shelves thoroughly, dusting them and wiping them down before reshelving the books., The best way to clean old books is with a microfiber cloth that traps dust inside. Instead of just blowing the dust around, as with a feather duster, these types of cloths will trap the dust and remove it completely. They've commonly sold at most home retail stores.


Don't use water or other solvents to Try to clean books. If you have a very rare book that's gotten dirty, take it to a book dealer in your area and talk about restoration methods. Most books should not need to be cleaned in any way other than gentle dusting., If you're storing books upright on the shelf, most books will only be dusty or dirty at the top of the cover, and on the top binding of the book. The bottoms will usually be mostly clean. When you're cleaning then, start at the top, wiping down gently with the cling-cloth and wiping dust from the book.
 If your books are very dusty, it may be good to use a small hand-vac, or the tube function on your regular vacuum cleaner to gently suck the dust out of the hinge in the binding. Run the vacuum over the top of the books while they're still stacked to get the most dust out of there, before you go back over them individually with a cloth. This can be a good way to get the worst out of the way first.
 Most of the dust in a book room will be tracked in from the floor, actually. While dusting the shelves themselves is important, paying attention to cleaning the room regularly will help to keep your books in their prime condition. Vacuum and sweep the floors at least once a week, if your books are in a high-traffic area, to keep your books from needing more substantial cleaning.

