 Make note that the ethnicity goes from across Far East Asia (Korea, Japan, China), India and it's subcontinent (Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal), and the Pacific regions (Samoa, Micronesia).;
, A person in the United States whom is Asian Pacific American, has ancestors from both an Asian and Pacific region.


Use the Census website and look up your own city or state to find out how many Asian Pacific Americans reside there. Multi-cultural generations has grown tremendously over hundreds of decades. This may broaden your knowledge about your surroundings and give you an insight on it.
 Even if you're not religious or follow the same religious system as them, try to attend an Asian Pacific American church or temple. Ask yourself what are some qualities that follow your system or are different than yours? Research on what or who they follow in life and the different styles of praying they have.
 Explore a Chinese culture that has been established worldwide. A lot of places have revolved around America's modern culture, so discover hidden spots where Asian traditions are still maintained. Take pictures of any statutes/landmarks or try new foods that you may not see in your local supermarket.
 Listen to their stories and learn how they started their business, the obstacles they faced and local issues that affect them as business-owners.
 Come up with questions, such as if he/she ever been picked on in school because of their ethnicity or how does he/she view life as an Asian Pacific American? What roles has older generations have played in their lives? Try to interview an APA that owns a business. How has this person created a business in America and were there any obstacles they have overcome?

, Are the portrayals positive or negative? How are the women portrayed? What stereotypes are depicted? What message does this send to other readers?

, For children's books, former American Library Association President Loriene Roy recommends The Bee Tree by Stephen Buchman and Dana Cohn, A Song for Cambodia by Michelle Lord, Surfer of the Century: The Life of Dean Kahanamoku by Ellie Crowe, and Whale Rider by Witi Ihimaeru. For adults, some famous Asian Pacific American authors include Amy Tan, Ruth Ozeki and Gish Jen.
 Read books, watch documentaries and attend events local libraries, community centers and academic institutions.
 Ask how much of your ethnicity affects your daily life. Are you treated differently than others? Are you happy with who you are and your history? Talk about it with your family and share opinions & insight about them.

