 Avoid giving the child anything to drink or eat within 30-60 minutes of vomiting or if the child remains nauseous. Then, have them drink small sips of a clear, non-carbonated fluid, about a half ounce every 5-10 minutes. If the child vomits after this, start over and wait another 30-60 minutes.If they are very nauseated or have trouble swallowing, have them suck on ice chips or fruit pops to get small amounts of fluid.


Pedialyte can be used to rehydrate, too. Since it’s usually dosed by the child’s body weight, you can call your doctor if you need help understanding how much to give your child. Also consult a doctor or pharmacist for advice on how much to give to an infant.Dilute Gatorade or other sports drinks with 50% water.If the child goes 8 hours unable to keep fluids down, take them to the doctor. There’s a high risk they will get dehydrated.
Breastfeeding babies should be given breast milk.;
, Crackers, toast, and gelatin (like jell-o) are a good place to start. If they vomit these up, skip food for now and continue with fluids. Once they can keep down gelatin and toast, try more salty, high-protein, high-carbohydrate foods like rice, cereal, and fruit. Wait to give the child any solid foods until at least 6 hours after they last vomited (fluids and soft foods are okay sooner).Don’t give them fatty or spicy foods for a few days after they stop vomiting, since they can be hard to digest.
Wait 30-60 minutes after vomiting to give them any food or water, unless it’s very small sips of water. This lets their stomach recover a little., If your young child is vomiting due to an illness or simply spits up a lot, try feeding them in smaller amounts more often. Talk to your healthcare provider about how best to do this. You can probably slowly increase the amount you breastfeed at a time as symptoms subside., Your child needs rest while they are sick, and if vomiting is due to a common virus they are highly contagious while they’re vomiting. A child with either rotavirus or norovirus (the two most common causes of “stomach flu”) can be contagious for up to 2 weeks after they’re sick.You don’t have to keep them out of school for this long, but keep them home for at least 48 hours after they stop vomiting or having diarrhea.


When they do go back to school, instruct them on proper hand washing techniques. Demonstrate how to cough or sneeze into the crook of your arm, and how to properly wash hands with soap and hot water. Good hygiene can help prevent the spread of infection.

