 They'll not only tone your thighs, but also your butt and hip area. To do a squat:


Stand with your legs shoulder-width apart, keeping an even balance. Turn your toes out slightly and place your arms at your sides with your palms facing inward. Keep your shoulders down.
Keeping your back straight, squat down like you're going to sit, shoulders moving toward your hips. Shift your weight onto your heels. Stabilize yourself with your abs.
Keep your knees in line with your feet -- resist the urge to move them forward. Bring your thighs parallel to floor and hold steady. If your heels are coming up, return to starting position. Exhale, push through your feet, and stand up straight.
For a variation to the squat, do a wall-sit (squatting against a wall and holding) or use an exercise ball., There's a reason that ballerinas are so fit! We can learn from them.


Stand with your feet a bit wider than shoulder-width apart and angle your toes outward.
Bring your arms out in front of you. They'll help you balance yourself and keep your back straight. Then, go down into a squatting position. Remember to align your knees with your toes!
Return slowly to your original position, keeping your hips tucked under your spine. Repeat these movements for about a minute., Lunging on all sides is the most beneficial -- your thighs need to be worked on all planes.


Stand up straight with your feet together, all the while engaging your abdominal muscles.
While keeping your back straight, lift your right foot in the air and find your balance. Once you do, slowly bring it forward and place it on the ground, heel first.
Straighten your left leg as you lower your right, maintaining weight on your front foot. Lower yourself until your right thigh and left calf are parallel to the floor and balance.
Return to your starting position, pushing off with the front leg, and switch sides. Repeat for about thirty seconds on each side, or for as long as you can manage., These are commonly found in Pilates -- a great toning workout.


Lie on the floor on top of a comfortable surface like a yoga or Pilates mat. Bring your arms to your side with your palms face down.
Bring your right foot straight up, pointing to the ceiling. Rotate your leg outward a little.
Keep your hips on the mat at all times. Then, inhale and move your entire leg in clockwise circles. Once you've done this five times, switch to counter-clockwise circles.
Repeat this set four times, alternating legs., Alright, so you've got the thigh exercises down, but since there's no such thing as spot reducing, you'll need to work out your entire body, too. Cardio burns the most fat, but a combination of cardio and resistance training will lead to ultimate calorie burn.For intense results, take up interval training. It amplifies the benefits of cardio, burning even more calories. You do a short burst of exercise as hard as you can, rest for a bit, and repeat. And your workout is done much quicker!