 It's definitely tempting to pop pimples. You may have even heard someone say you should. However, it's best to just leave your pimples alone. If you pop them, you could end up with scars instead. Also, if you pop a pimple, you are introducing bacteria to your face, which can cause more pimples. What comes out of the pimple can cause more pimples, too., Any kind of pressure on your skin, especially on your face, can lead to an outbreak of pimples. Headphones and cellphones can cause outbreaks, as can hats. If your shirt is too tight at the neck, you may develop acne there. Similarly, a backpack can put pressure on your back, causing an acne outbreak.Try to reduce the amount of contact objects have with your skin. For instance, try using the speakerphone on your smartphone when you can, and wear looser collars. Try a rolling bag instead of a backpack.
 Touching your face introduces bacteria. In turn, that bacteria can lead to more breakouts. Therefore, to keep your skin as clear as possible, try not to touch your face throughout the day., You're already washing your face twice a day, but it can also help to wash any area that has acne twice a day. Just use your hands, water, and a gentle cleanser. Wash your hair everyday if you get acne in your hair or along the hairline., Pimples develop from clogged pores, and greasy lotions can clog your pores. When choosing products, look for ones that say "noncomedogenic" or water-based, as these products are less likely to clog your pores. Also, make sure your makeup also says "noncomedogenic," so that it will be less likely to clog pores., Salicylic acid is an over-the-counter treatment that you can get as a wash or a leave-on treatment. Look for a concentration of 0.5 percent to begin with. If you're using a leave-on treatment, apply to the areas where you have acne, and rub it in. If you're using a rinse or soap, create a lather, and rub it into the affected area.Make sure you wash the cream off any areas that aren't affected by acne, such as your hands.
 Dead skin can clog up your pores, so some over-the-counter acne treatments work by removing that dead skin. Benzoyl peroxide is one of these treatments. It also takes off extra oil. Start with concentration of 2.5 percent. Like salicylic acid, treatments come in rinses and leave-on creams.Sulfur works similarly to benzoyl peroxide, though it can have a smell. It's often combined with other ingredients.
 Like benzoyl peroxide, AHAs remove dead skin. However, they also decrease inflammation and promote new skin growth. The combination can help give you smoother skin. Some common AHAs to look for are lactic acid and glycolic acid., Some natural treatments may be as effective as more traditional medications. It's still a good idea to ask your doctor before trying one of these treatments, though, as they can interfere with other medications you're on.Apply a gel with 5% tea tree oil. Some people find this beneficial in reducing acne, though it can cause a reaction in some people.
Azelaic acid, a naturally occurring acid, may also be beneficial. Try a cream containing 20 percent of this acid.
Try a cream with 2 percent green tea extract, which may help reduce acne.

