 This is one of the best natural treatments for acne; aloe vera contains many nutrients that nourish the skin and help to speed up the healing process.


Break a leaf from an aloe vera plant and squeeze out the gel-like sap. Apply the gel all over your face (or wherever skin is affected by acne) and leave it there for 30 minutes before rinsing off.
If you don't have an aloe vera plant, you can buy aloe vera juice at a local organic market, or buy aloe vera based skincare products at a pharmacy.;
, Ginger juice is anti-inflammatory and works very well to reduce acne inflammation, redness and pain.


Put three or four slices of fresh ginger in one cup of boiling water and allow it to steep for 3 to 5 minutes.
Drink the tea once it has cooled slightly. Do this at least twice per day.
 Drinking water will eliminate toxins from your body and skin, which helps to diminish the severity of the acne.


Aim to drink three liters of water a day. You can make water more interesting by infusing it with things like mint leaves, berries, ginger and lemon. Try this recipe for sassy water.
You can also increase your water intake by drinking herbal teas and eating fruits and veg with a high water content like watermelon, celery, beets, strawberries and peaches.
 Stress can provoke nodular acne, therefore it is a good idea to minimize your stress through exercise.


Try to find a form of exercise that you enjoy - whether that's running, swimming, dancing or kickboxing. You will find it easier to motivate yourself to exercise regularly if you enjoy what you're doing.
You should also give yoga classes a try, as this helps to de-stress both the body and mind. Experiment with doing 30 minutes of yoga four times a week.
 Be careful with your diet - try to avoid all greasy and sugary food, as these can make acne worse. Instead, try to eat more fruit and steamed vegetables. #*Cooking vegetables through steaming helps to retain the nutrients better, and these nutrients are exactly what your skin needs.


Especially try to eat green leafy vegetables that are rich in vitamin A, citrus fruits like orange, grapefruit and tomato, and also carrots and red bell peppers.
 Nodular acne very often leaves scars that does not away with time, so is a good decision to see a dermatologist if the acne persists.


The home remedies above may help to lessen the severity of nodular acne, but they probably won't be able to cure it.
Medications are usually required to treat severe forms of acne and lessen the chance of scarring.

