 Some placements that are obviously hard to cover, such as a neck tattoo, may affect your future career prospects (sad, but true), especially if the design is particularly provocative or sensitive. The placement of your tattoo may convey certain stereotypes; an example being the "tramp stamp" of the lower back, which some may interpret as being an indication of low morals and immaturity. Many people favor these very public tattoos as a clear statement of themselves and their beliefs, but others may view them as tasteless and limiting. Choose wisely for yourself!

, For instance, a simple tattoo on the back, over the trapezius muscles (the muscles on either side of your spine connecting your neck to your shoulders) can be easily covered with a collared shirt, or scarf when desiring a more conservative look. However, it is just as easy to reveal this tattoo by wearing a shirt with a wider neckline, or sleeveless articles of clothing. Some other options are the upper arms, the legs, the back, the lower midriff, or the feet.
 These tattoos are placed in areas that are commonly not very visible to the casual observer, but may reveal themselves as you move. These areas include behind the ear, the inside of the lip, the tongue, the webs and inside faces of the four fingers, behind the ankle joint, over the hip bone, the collarbone, pectorals/breasts (usually the upper areas), the nape of the neck at the hairline, the inside of the upper arm, or very low on the lower back.
 The rib area can be very private, depending on how much skin you routinely show, as well as the lower abdomen, the buttocks, the thighs (especially on the inside faces), the back, or the undersides of the breasts, upper arms, or feet. The broad sides of the hips, where the thigh meets the pelvis are also favored by people desiring a sensuous tattoo that can only truly be appreciated when the person is unclothed. These types of private tattoos can be very intimate pieces of artwork that add a sense of mystique to the subject on which it is placed.

