 You and your friend may want to consider structuring your visit to minimize potential allergic reactions. You can do this by holding your visit outside, where pet dander, hair, and dust do not accumulate as easily.


If you’re visiting for a casual talk, suggest you have coffee, tea, or wine on the porch or deck.
If you’re visiting for a meal, suggest you grill your food and eat outside.
If you and your child is visiting for a play date, suggest that the kids play outside., When visiting, make sure to stay away from fabric couches or chairs that might harbor dust, dander, or pet hair. In addition, stay out of carpeted rooms, if you can. This is important, as fabric and carpet will retain hair, dander, and dust even after being vacuumed.


Sit on leather or vinyl couches or arm chairs.
If given a choice, sit on a wooden chair or other furniture.
Hang out in rooms with tile or wood flooring., A great way to manage your visit is to make sure you spend the majority of time in an area with good air flow and a minimal accumulation of dust and dander. By doing this, you’ll minimize the chance of being overcome by allergens that may set off a bad allergic reaction.


Ask your guest to open the windows in advance of you coming. Before you visit, say something like “I’m worried about my allergies. Could you maybe open the windows?”
Try to sit in rooms where there are multiple air vents and/or doors., Washing your hands and changing clothing after exposure in a home with a pet can help you to manage your symptoms. Make sure to do this after coming into contact with pets.


For example, if one of the cats rubs up against your pant leg and gets hair on your pants, then you might want to change into a fresh pair, or at least use a lint roller.
If you pet or hold any of the pets, wash your hands right after.
 You should also realize that there may be some cases in which you won’t be able to visit a friend or family member at their home.


If you absolutely must attend, try to only stay for a limited amount of time – like under an hour.
If your allergy is extreme or your reaction is life-threatening, you should not visit.
If you know that the person you are visiting does not keep a clean home and won’t take any steps to safeguard your health, don’t visit.
If you’ve visited someone’s home and had a negative reaction, don’t repeat this mistake.