 When you feel thigh pain, you can immediately use the RICE method. The RICE method is a first aid treatments that can help reduce inflammation and pain, and help with healing. It’s used with muscle strains, sprains, bruises, and other injuries. You use the RICE method for the first two days after an injury.It includes:


Rest
Ice
Compression
Elevation;
, The first thing you should do if you think you have a pulled thigh muscle is to stop whatever activity you are doing. Continuing to work out or use a pulled thigh muscle can cause more damage. You should rest your leg from any physical activity that requires the use of your thighs. You should rest the muscle for at least one or two days.Take the weight off your leg as soon as possible. Sit down or lie down in as comfortable position as possible.
 The next step is to apply an ice pack to your injured thigh. Applying cold to an injury helps reduce blood flow, which can help alleviate pain. This also reduces acute swelling and inflammation.Apply it for 10 to 15 minutes at a time every hour during the first 24 hours of the injury, except for when you’re sleeping.
After the first 24 hours, you can repeat the icing four to five times throughout the day, or every two to three hours.
You can use either commercial ice packs or bags of frozen vegetables, like frozen peas. Peas are small enough to conform to the shape of your leg easily. You can also fill an old long tube sock with rice and keep it in the freezer for when you may need it.
Never place ice directly on the skin. Always wrap it in something (like a towel or t-shirt) to protect the skin.
 Wrap the injured area with a compression bandage or use compression shorts. The compression bandage or shorts helps to reduce swelling by limiting the swelling to that area. The compression also provides support to the injured area.The bandage should be wrapped tightly enough to apply medium pressure, but not so tightly as to cause any bulging around the bandage or stop blood flow.
Start wrapping high on your leg, above the injury.
Once the swelling has gone, you don’t need to wrap anymore.
If the pain increases with a compression bandage, it is too tight and you should loosen it.
 Elevate your leg by keeping it raised above the level of your heart for as much time as you can. This helps to reduce swelling.If you can’t raise the leg above the heart, keep it parallel to the ground.
After the first or second day, you should move a little bit every hour or so. Take it easy and take it slowly. Don’t overdo it. You can make it worse by re-injuring the thigh muscles.

