 You could place it near a south-facing window.









This will be especially challenging if you brought the gardenia inside during winter, when sunlight is scarce. One option you could take would be to supplement what little sunlight the plant receives with a grow light.
The gardenia will also need to be in a room with a temperature of 55ʡF (13ʡC) during the day and 64ʡF (18ʡC) at night.Adjust your house's thermostat accordingly and monitor your Gardenias' growth.
Keep your plant free of drafts and never place a gardenia where it will receive direct force of hot hair from a furnace. The drying nature of the heat could cause your gardenia to literally fall to pieces.
 Remember to use acid fertilizer to promote healthier growth.


Also water your gardenia as needed. If you notice the top inch of the soil is dry to the touch, water until the soil is moderately moist.
Check the pH of the soil frequently to ensure it stays between 5 and 6. Use plant food specifically designed for blooming plants that prefer acidic soil. A formulation for azaleas will work well.
 This is especially crucial during the winter season.


As stated earlier, you could group your potted gardenias in a cluster around a dish of water to increase humidity. Be wary when misting your plants, however, since using direct water and a humidifier in tandem may cause fungus growth on your gardenias.
You could also place your gardenias roots directly onto a tray of pebbles and water. First, place a layer of pebbles across the tray and add water until the pebbles aren't quite covered. The pebbles will hold the plant above water so their roots don't become waterlogged. As the water evaporates, it will increase the moisture in the air around the plant., This will also encourage the flowers to bloom nicely.


It is best to prune after blooms have fallen. Cut away dead wood until you have reached your desired size.
 Now that your gardenias are indoors, they will attract many other bugs besides mealybugs and white flies.


Among the bugs to be on the lookout for are aphids, which are small, pear-shaped insects with long legs and antennae.These bugs can be treated with a solution of one-part liquid soap and one-part water. Spray both the top and bottom of the leaves. This treatment is also effective on mealybugs.Spider mites are small and often hard to see with the unaided eye. To check for spider mites, shake the gardenia gently over a white piece of paper. If you notice red, yellow, brown, or green specs, you may have spider mites.Treat these pests with neem oil, which is vegetable oil from the neem plant. It is available in most grocery or department stores.
Neem oil will also treat infestation of all the aforementioned bugs. If you find your gardenias have yellowing leaves despite these treatments, you may have root nematode infestation. Root nematodes are parasitic, microscopic worms which attack plants at the roots. Unfortunately, there is no treatment for this type of infestation.