 Do you want to make a bedspread, comforter or coverlet? The difference between these choices lies in the thickness and size.


A traditional bedspread is large enough to cover the entire bed, generally extending to the floor, and has a medium thickness.
Comforters are the thickest bedspreads and cover only the mattress, allowing you to integrate a bed skirt into the bed dressing.
Coverlets are thin bedspreads that cover only the mattress and are often used as a layer between the sheets and a thicker bedspread, or as the primary bed covering during the warmer months.;
, Using a tape measure, deduce the length and width of your intended bedspread. Keep in mind how far to the floor you want your bedspread or comforter to reach, and add space for seam allowances.
 This will determine the type of batting (padding) that you will use. Keep in mind that if you want to make a comforter, you will need twice the batting while, to make a coverlet, you will need no batting at all.
 You will need a face fabric, which will be displayed, and a backer fabric.
, This may require piecing 2 or more lengths of fabric together

, Place the face and backer pieces together, outside in, and stitch around 3 sides, leaving 1 width-wise end open.
 For large bedspreads or thick comforters, you will likely have to piece several pieces of batting together to create the size and thickness you desire, and then trim it to the appropriate size. If you are making a coverlet, skip the steps pertaining to batting.
 By hand, loosely stitch the corners of the batting square you created onto the corners of the backer fabric. Be careful not to sew the batting to both the face and the backer fabric, or you will not be able to turn the bedspread out.
 You will need to adjust the batting, face and backing in order to line them up for finishing.
,, Keep your stitching as close to the edge as possible.
 Do this by stitching around the entire outside perimeter of your bedspread, being sure to include the batting. You may want to stitch inside the bedspread to hold the batting in place using a purchasable, pre-designed pattern.

