

Size Do you want your guild to be very large with players of all different levels or do you want it to be a small guild with only friends? Or somewhere between?



 


Type The main types are PvP, PvE, RP, Leveling or laid-back. PvP focuses on the player vs. player aspect of the game, PvE is instances and raiding and leveling is a balance of the two, designed for people who aren't the highest level in the game. RP stands for roleplaying, and is most often found on RP and RPPVP servers. Laid-back is just where people goof off, maybe do an instance run here and there, but aren't focused on a particular aspect. You don't have to have a type, but it helps bring like-minded people together.





;
, Have a few variations ready because your name might be taken.
 Make sure they're reasonable or people won't want to be in the guild!

, Try to have the ranks make some relation with the name. If you're a chilled, relaxed guild then maybe make 1 or 2 rank names 'funny'. But don't overdo the funniness, you want to look organized after all.
 You need 10 signatures to form your guild. Try going to starting zones, only recruit people level 10+ that way there is more of a chance they won't leave. DO NOT, under any circumstances, offer cash for someones signature, because that person is after money, not staying in the guild, and will most likely leave after the guild is formed. After you get your 10 signatures, turn it in to the guild master.
 If you start low it will be easier to find more members, hence your guild will be bigger and people will stay. Every now and then try push the top level boundary in your guild. Or maybe have a system - Every 10 people you recruit 5 levels higher. Unless you want a small guild then just aim small. Recruit some low levels and help them level up.
 Start organizing your guild maybe make a website, webs.com, Myspace and piczo can be used unless you know html / php. You will want to start instance runs now. Find a time that fits as many people as you can in and say that you will do 'X' instance at that time.
 Now is the time you might want to start thinking about end-game. You might have a lot of new members now so arrange new raiding times to suit your newer members, but don't forget about the old members. You will either need ventrilo/teamspeak or an in-game guild voice channel for this for voice communication and you will need some people with raiding experience. Good luck!

