


Go to the FINRA website provided in the Sources section of this article, then click on the link for "FINRA BrokerCheck" on the left.
Click on the "Start Search" button, then review the terms and conditions for using the FINRA BrokerCheck feature.
Click on "Continue" after you have agreed to the terms and conditions.;
,


Select the "Broker" radio button to indicate you are checking the background of a broker.
Enter the name of the broker in the field provided, then click on "Start Search."
Enter the characters displayed on the screen to complete the authentication process, then click "Continue." You will then be provided with a list of brokers that meet the criteria you specified for the search.
 You will have the option to view a summary report or a full, detailed report on your broker's history and background.


Click on your broker's name within the "Legal Name" column to display a summary of the broker's background. The summary will provide you basic information about the broker; such as the name of their firm, their past and current employment status, broker qualifications, and whether any complaints, disputes, or disciplinary actions have been taken against the broker.
Click on the "Get Detailed Report" button on the right side of the session to access the complete details about the broker's history and background. The detailed report will expand on information provided in the summary; especially on details surrounding the nature of any negative history that includes complaints, disputes, or disciplinary actions that have been taken against the broker.
 If you do not have Internet access, you can either call FINRA, or send a letter by mail or fax to receive a background report on the broker.


Call the FINRA BrokerCheck hotline at 1-800-289-9999. You will asked to provide the broker's name to receive the background information.
Mail or fax a letter to FINRA. On the letter, provide the broker's name, the name of their broker firm, and the city, state, or province in which the broker is currently practicing. Mail the letter to: FINRA BrokerCheck, P.O. Box 9495, Gaithersburg, Maryland, 20898-9495 or fax the letter to FINRA at 1-240-386-4750.

