 When you purchase fresh seafood, it is important that it has been kept at a proper temperature. This reduces the risk of foodborne illness, which is often referred to as food poisoning. Fresh seafood should be refrigerated in a case and displayed on thick ice that is not melting., Fresh whole fish should have clear eyes that slightly bulge. The flesh should be firm and shiny, and should spring back when you press it lightly with your finger. Look for fish with bright red gills. The gills should not have milky slime in them., If you are purchasing fresh fish fillets, the flesh should be firm and it should not be discolored. You should avoid fish fillets that appear dried out or dark around the edges. Like whole fish, the flesh of fish fillets should spring back when pressed. The fish also should not smelly overly fishy., Fresh shrimp should have flesh that is translucent, or slightly clear. The flesh of fresh shrimp should also be shiny. You should avoid shrimp that have a strong odor. Instead, opt for fresh shrimp that have little or no odor., If you are buying live clams, oysters, or mussels, you should tap their shells first. They should close up when you tap them. If they do not close up after the tap test, you should avoid buying them., When purchasing fresh or live shellfish, you should not select ones that have a cracked or broken shell. If you purchase a package of fresh shellfish that contains individuals with cracked or broken shells, you should throw those clams, oysters, or mussels away immediately., If a crab or lobster is alive, it should show at least some leg movement. Crabs and lobsters spoil very quickly after they die. This means you should only purchase and prepare live crabs and lobsters., Sometimes refrigerated seafood is packaged. These packages might have time and temperature indicators on them to display whether the seafood has been stored properly. If the package has indicators on it, make sure you check them and only buy the seafood if it has been stored properly., Frozen fish and seafood can spoil easily if it thaws or is left at warm temperatures for too long while being transported. Avoid packages that are open or crushed on the edges, or torn. You should also avoid packages in the top of a freezer case or that have signs of frost or ice crystals., There are many fish products that have unhealthy additives. For example, fish sticks can contain transfats and preservatives. Make sure you read all ingredient labels carefully, and opt for fish that have minimal additional ingredients.

