 There is a type of yogurt that has helpful bacteria in it that can help combat developing yeast infections. Yogurt with lactobacillus acidophilus has been used by women, either orally or applied vaginally, to help combat developing yeast infections. Lactobacillus acidophilus is a good bacteria that can help you to fight the bacteria causing your yeast infection. You can buy this kind of yogurt at most grocery stores. Make sure to check the label to ensure that it has active and live lactobacillus acidophilus cultures in it.


Studies have shown that yogurt may be effective at decreasing symptomatic relief in some women. However, as other studies have shown, it isn't effective in all women.;
, While taking a shower or bath two times a day can throw off your daily schedule, it is important that you stay as clean as possible to combat your yeast infection. When you bathe, do not use any chemical soap or body wash. These kinds of soaps can kill good bacteria that you need to fight your infection, while doing very little to reduce your infection.Women with vaginal yeast infections should take baths rather than showers. Taking a bath can help to clear yeast from the vaginal area.
Make sure your bath isn't too hot. This can cause yeast to multiply., When you bathe, go swimming, or dry off with a towel, it is important that you dry off as thoroughly as possible. Yeast thrives in warm, damp places, so use a clean, dry towel to get rid of any lingering moisture. If you use a towel that you used before, you might transfer yeast to it, which can thrive on the dampness left behind from your previous shower. Instead, wash your towels after you have used them once., If you have a skin or vaginal yeast infection, it is important to wear loose-fitting clothes that will allow your skin to breath. This is particularly important if you have a vaginal yeast infection. Wear cotton underwear and avoid any underwear made with silk or nylon, as these two fabrics do not let any air through.


Avoid activities that cause unnecessary heat, sweat, and moisture in affected areas in order to help prevent further growth of the yeast., When you are getting a yeast infection, avoid using any products that might make the infection worse. In particular, it is important to avoid soaps that could wash away good bacteria, as well as feminine hygiene sprays or powders. You should also not use certain lotions, since they can keep your skin moist and cause the skin to retain heat and liquid.


While you may want to use sprays or powders to combat some of the side effects of yeast infections, these products can actually irritate the skin further.