 Generally the camp packing list on Camp Chrysalis' website is good enough, but keep in mind that you absolutely cannot live without these items: at least one pair of wool socks (ideally, two); good walking shoes; tidepooling shoes; a sunhat; warm clothes for mornings and evenings; and, of course, a bathing suit. Remember, you'll be there for 10 days, and will be wearing things several times.;
, This is Mendocino, people. Expect bugs in the evening, constant fog, cold nights, and even searing-hot afternoons. The weather along the coast is iffy so you want to be prepared for anything. Put on lots of sunscreen even if it's overcast; the sun still shines through. Don't get bummed if it's wet or cold, you will have a wonderful time anyway.
 Sleeping arrangements: if you bring a tent that fits more than one person, expect to have a tentmate. it's great to sleep with a friend(s) from outside of camp or who you know from a previous session but you'll make more new friends if you're with a total stranger. Trust your instincts when looking for a tent mate you'll like. Talk to your group leader to change your sleeping arrangements; the general rule is no switching tents after campfire. If you want to sleep outside, go for it! If it's clear, the stars are beautiful, but put a tarp over yourself to protect you from morning dew and rain.
 You will be given enough quarters to take one short shower at the bathrooms down the road. It's a good idea to being extra quarters if you plan on washing your hair or taking two showers. Two quarters will get you three minutes of hot water. Many people shower after the second day of tide pooling, after the sand dunes, or after canoeing. Pick a time when other people aren't showering, such as the morning, so there will be hot water and no line. Also, bring enough underwear. It's important to change them frequently because the counselors will check if they are suspicious. Deodorant, soap, shampoo, conditioner, and wet wipes are also handy.
 There are certain things that happen at Chrysalis that you might not be used to if you live in a conservative community or go to typical camps. These may include the freedom you'll have around camp, the way counselors act, the frequent political discussions between campers, the occasional drunk staff member, or the casual co-ed atmosphere. Roll with it.
 The most important thing is to not trip! You will have an awesome time if you just let go and have fun. A lot of people are homesick since the session is 10 days. If you're homesick, talk to a friend, CIT, or counselor. Everyone at Chrysalis is totally cool and accepting. You will have the time of your life.

