 Start connecting the dots about why you reacted the way you did.


When you begin to think about it, you might realize that since nobody gets along well with this particular boss, he can't afford to actually fire anyone, because the department is too short-staffed.
For example, you may have let slip something that you should not have said which angered him, but which it is too late to retract. His reaction at lunch may not be what you originally thought it was.
 Explore all the different possibilities. If nothing else, thinking about other possible interpretations will alert you to many different scenarios, and the difficulty of jumping to conclusions.


Taking this new evidence into account, you may conclude that your job is safe, regardless of your boss's petty annoyances, and you're relieved of the emotion that was troubling you. If this doesn't work, however, continue to the next step.
 Now that you know what emotion you're dealing with, think of at least two different ways you can respond. Your emotions control you when you assume there's only one way to react, but you always have a choice. For example, if someone insults you, and you experience anger, your immediate response might be to insult them back. But no matter what the emotion, there are always at least two alternatives, and you can probably think of more:



Do nothing. This approach is especially good when you know that someone is trying to egg you on or purposely frustrate you. When you maintain your cool, the person egging you on will become frustrated and eventually stop.
Relax. Easy to say, hard to do, but there are some ways to relax that do not require lots of training, experience or will power. When we are angry or upset we clench our jaws and tense up. Taking a deep breath is an easy and effective way to tamp down the emotional upset. It won’t dispel the anger but it can dial it down a notch or two, just enough to keep us from saying, or doing, something we’d regret later.
Do the opposite of what you would normally do. For example, you get bothered when your spouse regularly doesn't do the dishes. Instead of engaging them in an argument the second you notice the dirty dishes, calmly do the dishes yourself and tell your spouse — in a calm and collected way — that you'd appreciate help considering all you do in the household.
Remove yourself from the situation. Let’s say that you are on a committee at work that includes people who are unfocused, angry and unproductive. You invariably get upset when attending the meetings. One strategy for dealing with this upset, frustration and anger is to ask to be re-assigned to a different committee. Basically, you remove yourself from a situation that you know will generate these strong, negative and unnecessary feelings.
 When deciding what to do, it's important to make sure it's a conscious choice, not a reaction to another, competing emotion. For example, if someone insults you and you do nothing, is it your decision, or is it a response to your fear of confrontation? Here are some good reasons to act upon:


Principles - Who do you want to be? What are your moral principles? What do you want the outcome of this situation to be? Ultimately, which is the decision you'd be most proud of?
Logic - Which course of action is the most likely to result in the outcome you desire?

, Learning to communicate assertively can be very helpful in controlling your emotions because it can help you express them in a healthy, open way.Being assertive does not mean that you express yourself in a way that hurts others, or that you communicate with arrogance. It means recognizing and honoring your own needs and feelings as well as those of others.Some ways to communicate assertively include:


Using "I"-statements. This type of communication can help you express your emotions without making others feel as though they are being blamed or belittled. For example, instead of saying "You don't care about me" if someone has hurt your feelings, you could try: "I felt hurt when you didn't call me back when you said you would. What happened?"
Inviting others to share their experiences. No situation has only one side. Invite others to share their thoughts and experiences with you, just as you do with them. This can help you understand what's going on more clearly, and also helps people feel like you're engaging in a dialogue with them rather than going off on a monologue. For example, once you share your opinion, you can follow it up with something like: "What are your thoughts on this?"
Avoiding "shoulds" and "oughts." These statements, known as "categorical imperatives," can lead to feelings of frustration and anger. They often feel blaming or judgmental, whether you use them with others or with yourself. For example, instead of thinking "My partner should never hurt my feelings," you can try reminding yourself that we are all human and occasionally make mistakes. This will help you avoid feeling angry when your partner slips up because you will be less likely to take it personally.Expressing feelings clearly and directly. A big part of assertive communication is not "beating around the bush." It's okay to say no to things that make you uncomfortable or that you simply don't have time for. Just say what's on your mind tactfully, but clearly. For example, if a friend invites you to a huge BBQ that you don't want to attend, you could say: "Thank you for thinking of me! I really don't enjoy large crowds, though, so I would prefer to stay home. How about we meet up for coffee next week instead?"

