 The warm water will relax you, while the time in the shower will also give your mind a chance to slow down and relax before you go to sleep.Add a few drops of lavender oil to your bath. It will help you relax., During the day, our eyes are constantly making small movements in order to scan our world and search for motion around us. Rolling your eyes relaxes them, helps them to remain still, and stimulates the production of melatonin – the hormone that regulates sleep. Roll your eyes in wide circles, four times in each direction, or until you feel relaxed. While this practice alone might not help you fall asleep immediately, it is a good technique to incorporate alongside the other methods listed below., Acupressure – applying pressure with your thumb or fingers to specific spots on your body – can help to stimulate sleep. Try applying gentle pressure or massaging the following points until you feel relaxed and ready to sleep:Behind your ear – There is a depression above your jaw, just behind and below your ear, and before your neck. Apply moderate pressure with your index and middle finger for up to 20 minutes, or until you are ready to sleep.Your foot – Place two fingers horizontally across your foot at the place where your big toe and the next toe join your foot. Just above your fingers, up on the top of your foot, is a pressure point that can help relieve insomnia. Use your finger to apply deep, firm pressure for 4-5 seconds.Your leg -- Place four fingers horizontally on the inside of your calf just above your ankle bone. Apply firm, deep pressure just behind your leg bone (the tibia) for 4-5 seconds., Using some essential oils in a diffuser or placing a few drops on your pillow may help you sleep. Lavender is by far the most popular essential oil for relaxing and has been shown in clinical studies to help people sleep.There are a few others you can try too.Chamomile. Chamomile oil may help reduce anxiety.Sage. Sage oil can help relax and relieve stress.Neroli. Neroli oil helps relieve anxiety and depression.Rose. Rose oil can help relieve stress and anxiety and may make you feel more positive., Lie on your back and breathe slowly and steadily through your nose throughout the exercise. Starting with your feet, squeeze your toes tightly, then release. Next, curl your foot towards your knee and relax. Flex your calves and relax, then your thighs, buttocks, back, stomach, and chest. Squeeze your hands into fists, then relax. Curl your hands downward and relax. Flex and relax your arms, neck, and jaw. When you have finished tensing and relaxing all your muscles, you should be ready for sleep., Controlled breathing is key to the practice of yoga and has been shown to help people relax by stimulating the parasympathetic nervous system, which controls the automatic systems that help people rest.Alternate Nostril Breathing – Sit with your legs crossed or lie in bed. Place your right ring finger and thumb on either side of your nose, touching but not squeezing. After a few deep breaths to prepare, close off the right nostril and breathe deeply through the left for a count of 4. As you finish breathing in, close off both nostrils. Hold for a count of 4, then open your right nostril and exhale for a count of 4. Repeat these cycles until you feel relaxed and ready to sleep.Deep Throat Breathing – Do this exercise lying on your back. The key is to constrict your throat so as you breath through your nose, so that it feels as if you are breathing through a straw. This should also produce a noise, which has been described as similar to a baby snoring. Inhale for a count of 4, hold for 4, and breath out for a count of 4. Concentrate on relaxing, especially during the hold. Next inhale for 6, hold for 6, and breath out for a count of 6. Continue adding 2 counts until you reach your maximum capacity, then start subtracting 2 counts until you reach 4, at which point you should be relaxed and ready to sleep.Humming – Close your eyes and relax. Breathe deeply through your nose, then gently out your mouth, humming as you breathe out. Concentrate on the way your chest vibrates. Do this for 6 breaths and lie quietly. Repeat if you are still restless.