 Anti-nausea medication is a must if you get motion sickness. Even if you typically don’t experience nausea while traveling, pack some anti-nausea medication just in case. Keep in mind that many brands will make you drowsy, so check the label first. Reading or listening to music for long periods of time can cause headaches – take breaks every few hours and have headache mediation like aspirin or ibuprofen on hand.


If you’re expecting to experience motion sickness, bring a paper or plastic bag with you and keep it nearby, in case you need to vomit. It’s not pleasant to think about, but it's best to be prepared.
A basic first-aid kit is also helpful to have with you on road trips., It’s important to stop every few hours while you’re travelling to use the restroom, stretch your legs and walk around a bit, which will get your blood circulating normally.


Plan ahead to stop at rest stops, parks and gas stations along the way.
Get out of the car and walk around briefly. Do some light stretching.
 While you’re sitting in the car, remember to move around periodically and switch positions occasionally. Even adjusting the position of your seat every now and then can help to prevent aches and pains. Get the blood flowing in your legs by pumping your ankles and move your arms around to improve blood flow and circulation., Remember to sit up straight in your seat and make sure you have lower back support. Use a small travel pillow between your lower back and the seat if you need extra lumbar support. If you have your head bent down in order to read, make sure to stop periodically and stretch your neck.
 Not all cars have tinted windows, and long hours of day-travelling can lead to a lot of squinting in bright sunlight and sun exposure. If you’re travelling in areas with a lot of snow, the bright light and glare can be even worse, which can result in discomfort, headaches and even sun burns. Be sure to pack a pair of comfortable sunglasses. If you catch yourself squinting, put them on.


Bring sunscreen and apply it to your arms, face and any other areas of exposed skin while travelling., If you leave for a road trip with no water or snacks in the car, you will end up stopping for fast food, soda and other unhealthy fare along the way. Bring a small, portable cooler with you and pack it with water and healthy snacks to keep your energy up while you’re travelling.Avoid drinking alcohol while travelling, which can lead to fatigue, nausea and dehydration.
 If you are traveling with a group, share the driving duties with the other passengers. That way, one person doesn't have to shoulder the entire responsibility. Come up with a system of rotation and switch out every few hundred miles. Since you're stopping to switch drivers periodically, this also gives everyone a chance to get out and stretch their legs.

