 In mixed martial arts, "tackles" are generally called "takedowns," and are used to–you guessed it–take your opponent to the mat and fight on the ground. It's appropriate especially when you're fighting someone who is primarily strike-oriented, and you're more of a mat-wreslter, or think you have a better chance winning with your ground game.
 The most common takedown in MMA is the double-leg takedown, in which you drive your shoulders into your opponent's hips, grabbing both legs behind the knees and pulling them in close to you. Many fighters will drive the opponent up into the air slightly after being taken off their feet, to make the impact on the ground more powerful. For added bonus points, cage fighters can drive their opponents into the cage first, using it as an ally.


Wait for a flurry of punches to shoot down and take out the legs. Georges St. Pierre is particularly good at waiting until the opponent has dropped guard to strike and opened up to the double-leg.Freestyle wrestlers will also commonly use this move, but often somewhat lower than the MMA fighter. Technique-wise, a freestyle wrestler will often drop to their knees very quickly, shooting into the opponent's shins to pull them backward off their feet, whereas the MMA fighter needs to defend from strikes, which makes it more necessary to stay upright.
In Judo, the double-leg takedown is called the morote-gare, and has been a legal maneuver since the early 80s.
 Find yourself having thrown an overhand haymaker and missed wildly? The good news is you've probably worked your way in close enough that you can grab on for a body lock. In a body lock, you'll basically wrap your opponent's waist in your arms, with your head next to their head. To take it to the mat, wrap your dominant striking leg behind your opponent's and rotate your shoulders to turn and bring him off his feet, into the mat.


Be prepared to get a knee to the gut, or defend elbows. This isn't the most defensive-minded position, but if you execute it quickly enough, it can be a good way to get yourself out of a sticky situation, and cause cause a lot of damage.
 If your opponent is on his back in half-guard, the tackle pass is an excellent way of breaking it and getting back in control of the fight. To execute the maneuver, you basically want to roll your opponent over using the weight of your shoulders on his hips, using enough pressure to get one arm under his hip and butt area. Shoot that hand underneath and wrap up with your other hand, applying pressure and rolling him onto his back.
 They're not just for pro wrestling anymore. From a clinch or a double-overhook, a suplex can be an excellent and surprisingly legal way of taking your opponent to the mat. In the suplex, you'll wrap your opponent's torso, from either the front or the back, then twist them in the air and slam them to the mat. Easier said than done, and much more amenable to a weaker or smaller opponent, it's a common part of some MMA fighters offense, like Jon "Bones" Jones.Practice this in this gym before trying it. A lot. Done incorrectly, your opponent with land on your instead, and you'll end up with an angry dude sitting on your chest ready to pound your lights out.

