 Follow Jesus' (the Son of God) greatest commandments: "Love the Lord your God with your whole heart, mind, body and soul" and "Love your neighbor as yourself." Even if someone treats you wrongly or whether you know them or not, we are called to love them. Jesus said "love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you." Jesus says in John 13:15, "I have given you an example, that as I have done, so should you do." He had compassion on people and healed them In I Corinthians 11:1, Paul says, "Imitate me as I imitate Christ." Ephesians 5:1 says, "Be imitators of God as dear children." Also many Believers are "empty, swept and garnished" (Matthew 12:44) by lukewarm Christian Doctrines. If you just go to church, you will be a weak Christian and trials will make havoc of your life. But if you go to church AND read the Word every night, you will become a strong Christian. Most Christians do not read the Bible every day, so if all you do is go to Church, you will be a weak Christian. A few Christian growing passages are Proverbs 8:17-21. Psalms 1:1-3. John 14:21-27. James 1:2-8. I Thessalonians 5:16-18. II Timothy 1:6-7, Hebrews 8:6,10. Ephesians 6:10-18. Proverbs 4:20-23.;
, Realize that conversion is not simply one act but the beginning of a life-long commitment. Persistence and perseverance are continuing attitudes for engaging life with. Don't be hard on yourself if and when you fail, but admit it; pick yourself up; trust in God and move forward.
 James 1:22 - Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says." Matthew 4:4 - Jesus answered, "It is written: 'Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God.'" The bible also says that "All Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness;" - 2 Timothy 3:16.
 Ezekiel 36:26-27 - "I will give you a new heart and put a new Spirit in you ; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws." Ephesians 4:24 says "and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness". A true Christian, when converted, will immediately notice an unavoidable change in sensitivity to his daily routine. They will begin to question their taste in movies, music, clothing, even choice in friends! The Bible says "Therefore, rid yourselves of everything impure and every expression of wickedness, and with a gentle spirit welcome the word planted in you that can save your souls."(James 1:21)

, Do not allow others' attacks to weaken your faith. Have courage in your convictions and do well but don't judge others. 2 Timothy 3:12 - "In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,"

, Make intercession for people who do not pray enough for their own development, i.e.: children, cousins, friends, enemies and family, etc. In Ephesians 1:16 Paul prays for a "Spirit of Wisdom and Revelation" I recommend that you say the prayer in Ephesians 1:16-23 for yourself everyday for one year and God will open up your spirit and develop your understanding.
 Of course, an answered prayer for peace for your enemies and that they would become blessed as children of God would help both you and them.
 Work on trying to forgive those who may have hurt you. You must learn to love your enemies. God loves everyone, and we need to, also. Say farewell to selective loving. If you have a hard time loving your enemies, pray to God to provide understanding through his Holy Spirit.
 Care for people who are in need If they are sick or in pain pray for them and when they ask for help. James 2:16 "If one of you says to them, "Go in peace; keep warm and well fed," but does nothing about their physical needs, what good is it?" This is one of the things Jesus talked about in His teachings. Giving does not always having to be financial, it can be in the form of perishables or clothing.
 Even simple acts of kindness like holding a door open for someone are good deeds that can help you feel less paranoid--because then you feel that others should think well of you and of your testimony in Christ.
 1Thesolonians 4:11 - "and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life: You should mind your own business and work with your hands, just as we told you," Pride can imply that you are judging others falsely and is said to be the mother of all sins, because pride resides in each one of us. The source of all sin is ones' own selfishness (greed, lust, hate for others, murder, theft, etc.).
 Remember, living the Christian life through your actions will show others that God must be working in your life. Always stick up for your beliefs such as being conservative in good morals and liberal in giving your own goods--not being a Robin Hood or "welfare-monger" (profiting off poverty) or welfare-cheat, but planting seeds in others towards Christ by grace through faith, which always results in good deeds (which are a RESULT of salvation and NEVER a means to salvation).
 It is a wonderful thing that God wants Christians to unite in church and Bible study evenings--so do not think of others as hypocrites or hold yourself out as an example. Give the credit for any good that you may do to God and to God's blessing. You will find it a blessing to talk with Bible study members about the Christian life: but not sensationalism like argumentative opinions... This may be called being accountable--being open to share your views or any misgivings and weaknesses.
 How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there is a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.
 Volunteering is a great place to start for a Christian who is sure or unsure of what God wants them to do. For example, you could take a shift at a soup kitchen near you, or visit people staying in a nursing home.

