 Create a garden plot with vegetables, fruits, and/or herbs.


Try to implement techniques so that your garden does not require fertilizers or excessive watering. For example, adding mulch to your garden will seal in water and make the soil moister.Include plants that produce your favorite fruits and vegetables so you won’t need to buy these at the store.
Use rain barrels or other containers to gather rainwater. Use this water on plants in your garden.
 Modern developments encroach upon natural habitats and pose risks to wildlife. Take some steps to make your yard friendlier to wildlife.Plant many different types of vegetation. Various creatures will visit your yard if you provide them with reason to be there. When you have many different types of vegetation, you’ll attract different types of animals.

Create a frog pond in your back yard. Frog populations are dwindling because their breeding areas are disappearing. If you create a habitat for them in your back yard, they may breed there., Grass areas usually require more frequent maintenance with lawn mowers, weed eaters, and other gas- or electric-powered tools. Convert some of your lawn to garden or native plants, which will also attract wildlife., Pesticides kill hundreds of birds and other animals per year. If you have unwanted weeds, pull or hoe them out yourself, clip them down, or plant a ground cover in their place.


Check out permaculture, integrative pest management, poly-cropping, and other techniques to reduce or eliminate the need for chemical pesticides and fertilizer.
If you do apply chemical fertilizer, apply no more than is really necessary. Ensure that excess fertilizer is not washed into storm drains or waterways.
 Add a tree to your yard. Trees absorb carbon dioxide and emit oxygen, and they also improve area water quality and help make the ground more fertile for other plants.Deciduous trees carefully located near your home can also help keep your home warmer in winter and cooler in summer.
If you plant a fruit tree, you will have the added benefit of being able to harvest your own fruit instead of needing to buy it at a store.
 Designate an area in your yard to put your yard waste, fruit peels, and uneaten food. Find some worms who can break the waste down and produce a very rich soil that works great with your landscaping. Keep your compost heap as far from all water sources as possible.
 Ditch your noisy electric- or gas-powered leaf blower and use a rake to gather up leaves or other debris in your yard.


Similarly, use a broom instead of a hose to clean dirt from a paved area.