 A good team is 1 each of Water, Fire, Electric, Ghost or Bug, and Ice types (each will be explained when they are useful in the individual Elite Four members' details section). If you take this route, you should aim for at least level 65 just to be safe, and you can use one of your extra party slots (you will have 1-3, depending on whether you use a water/ice dual-type and include the bug/ghost) to put a lower-leveled Pokémon that you want to train up and give it the Exp Share. It will be easier if you have a full team consisting of all of the above plus a strong defender (Dragon types (of which you can only get Dratini and its evolutions before beating the Elite Four) work best since their only weaknesses are Ice and Dragon type moves, while they resist Fire, Water, Electric, and Grass).;
, Lorelei uses Ice types, but don't think about using Fire moves here, since all of them except for Jynx are water/ice dual type (meaning fire will have regular effectiveness). Instead, shock all of her Pokémon with electricity, and use Shadow Ball or Fire Punch on her Jynx.
 Bruno utilizes Fighting types, with 2 Onixes to cover his weakness to Flying types. Make sure you either use a very strong Flying type here, or use Psychic types to smash down his Pokémon. Use Surf on his Onixes, and you should be fine. The reason you should use Flying over Psychic moves is the fact that his Pokémon all have high attack stats - and Psychic Pokémon have low defense stats. Slowbro is really strong here since not only does it have higher than average defense stats (compared to other Psychic types), but its water typing gives it an edge against Bruno's 2 Onixes.
 Agatha uses Poison types (with most of them being Ghost type as well), so your Psychic Pokémon will destroy all of these with a single Psychic attack, and you can electrocute her Golbat if you want to (but it's unnecessary). Well leveled teams shouldn't have any trouble here.
 Lance is the master of Dragon types. Make sure to lead off with your Electric type to hopefully OHKO his Gyarados (dual Water/Flying type means Electric type moves will be 4x effective). Once he's down, switch to your Ice type Pokémon, and his team will have a hard time. However, his Aerodactyl and Dragonite will possibly kill your Ice type if you're not using Articuno. If this happens, switch to your defender and either try to outlast them (which will be relatively easy if said defender does decent damage) or use a Revive and whatever potion on your Ice type, and switch it back in as soon as you can.
 This is a tough battle, since he doesn't stick to one type of Pokémon. The best thing to do is just switch out to whatever kills his next Pokémon. Ice moves will take out Venusaur, Exeggutor, Pidgeot, and Rhydon, Electric is good against Charizard, Gyarados, Blastoise, and Pidgeot. Water is useful against Arcanine, Rhydon, and Charizard, Fire will take out Exeggcutor/Venusaur, and use your Bug/Ghost (if you brought one; if not, just go with whatever you have that does the best damage and isn't fighting or poison-type, and doesn't mainly use psychic-type moves) against his Alakazam.
 You've defeated the Pokémon League!

