 Meditation as part of our everyday lives has a wide range of applications - such as relaxation, creative thinking and inspiration, analytical problem solving etc - and for this reason, each has different requirements or conditions for them to be effective. By understanding what you are looking for, you can far more easily develop the meditation.;
, It is not usually easy to break away for a long period if you are busy, nor should you waste your lunch break by eating to fast to make room for meditation because eating too fast can make you feel uncomfortable in meditation. The best system is to favour quality over quantity in a busy workplace, so this may mean coming in early to the office when it is quiet, or just taking a regular five minute break every hour or so for a quiet few minutes. Even if you don't meditate, those regular short breaks give you more energy generally, so a few quiet minutes can always offer great benefits.


People in small workspaces such as offices or workshops often can't break away and find a quiet room during their work-time, so it is advantageous to make use of external spaces such as behind the buildings, rooftops, the toilet / bathroom, even in your car if it is not possible to come in early when the office is empty and quiet.
 Group sittings can build a great deal of energy and harmony in the workplace, but when you have several people interested in meditating, it can be much easier to ask for a special room or time when you can meditate and therefore your meditation feels more comfortable and stable. You can also seek permission to renovate the workspace to be more bright and friendly to be in.


If you include your team into the equation, stronger and more tolerant network connections can be built in the team dynamic.
 This is an area that is largely anecdotal, but many practitioners feel that by sending kindness to the space in which they work, they feel that space becoming almost like a battery for good energy. Other people who come into that space - even if they don't meditate - often can feel that energy and feel more comfortable to be in that space, which is very useful in an team work environment, or when dealing with customers.


This also can work in a very tense or busy office environment that by sending kindness to it, eventually it feels a less harsh environment to be in.
 You do not need a special place or single type of meditation; you can sit in an office chair, practice standing meditation in a corner or walk up and down in a free corridor. Varying your practice in this way has its advantages when you try and incorporate the relaxation into any posture; therefore you can relax in any situation - especially busy ones.
 Being aware of the subtle things around you - that everyone often forgets about - gives you a new sense of perspective and can sharpen your focus. This skill is very useful in negotiation, in planning and in conflict management.

