 There are several organizations that help needy children connect with stable adults who can guide them through school and life. These programs offer at-risk youth a vital support system. Kids who have a mentor are more likely to graduate high school and less likely to abuse drugs or alcohol.Some mentoring programs include:


Big Brothers Big Sisters of AmericaChildren’s Aid SocietyStand Up For KidsYour local department of child services may also have a mentoring program.
 Children in foster care often do not have legal guardians who can represent them. A court-appointed special advocate is a representative who looks out for the best interests of a child in court. While they are not an attorney, they do represent foster children in court instead of a parent or legal guardian. CASAs often form personal bonds with their children, thus ensuring that they are protecting the rights and needs of the child.You can locate a CASA program near you on the CASA for Children website.You will have to undergo a thirty-hour training program before you will be assigned a case.
 If you have the space and finances to take in a child, you can foster a child. Foster care is intended to provide a temporary, stable home for a child who has been removed from their parents.The process for fostering takes months, but a dedicated foster parent can change the life of a disadvantaged child by providing support, stability, and consistency during a tumultuous time in their life.


In the US, you will have to apply to be a foster parent at your state Department of Child Services or Department of Social Services. You will have to complete training and pass both a home inspection and a background check.In the UK, you can contact your local council for more information or find a nearby fostering agency. You will have to pass a Discourse and Barring Service Check as well as a health exam. You may have to go through training.In Australia, you will have to submit both an Expression of Interest Form and an application to your state Department for Child Protection and Family Support. You will have to pass a background check and a training session.In Canada, you should check with your provincial government to determine the proper procedure for fostering. You may be asked to complete a background check, medical examination, and home interview., If you are passionate and dedicated to helping disadvantaged children, you may want to consider starting your own non-profit charity. Starting a charity requires extensive work, including special tax preparation, fundraising, resource management, and organizational structure. Before deciding if this is the right move for you, you should ask yourself:


What kinds of services might this charity provide to my local area?
Is there any other charity in my area that offers the same or similar services? If there is, you may just want to volunteer for that charity instead.
How will the charity fund itself?
Who will be needed to help run the charity? Think about other managers, fundraisers, accountants, tax lawyers, and volunteers.

