 Grab a large baking tray for your cashews, but do not add any grease to the tray. If you’re concerned about the nuts sticking, however, you can line the tray with parchment paper.


If roasting a small amount of cashews, consider using a cake pan instead, which you can shake frequently during cooking to toss the oils.Cashews can be oil roasted or dry roasted. If you dry roast the cashews and wish to add salt without adding any oil, try coating or spraying your cashews with brine or salt-water solution, then letting them dry, before roasting them. This helps the salt adhere to the nuts.;
, Try to keep the cashews in a single, even layer to promote even roasting. If working with large batches, it would be preferable to use multiple trays rather than piling the cashews into one.
 Roasting cashews with a little oil is recommended, but not strictly necessary. Drizzle between 1 and 2 tsp (5 and 10 mL) of oil over the cashews. Stir and toss the cashews gently on the baking tray to coat evenly with oil.


Roasting the nuts in oil will enhance the flavor and texture, but it will increase the overall oiliness of the finished product. If you're using them for baking purposes (e.g., adding them to cookies or brownies), omit the oil and skip this step. If you're eating them on their own or using them as a garnish, however, roast the cashews in oil.Less is more in this step. You can add more oil later, as needed, after your cashews have started roasting.
You can use a nut oil, like almond oil or walnut oil, or opt for another healthy oil, like grapeseed oil, olive oil, or coconut oil.
 After five minutes, remove them from the oven and stir using a spoon or spatula. This helps apply a new layer of oil to the cashews and reduces the risk of burning.
 Return the cashews to the oven and continue roasting them in three to five minute intervals, stirring well after each interval concludes. Cashews should only need between 8 and 15 minutes of total roasting time before being ready.


When ready, the nuts should release a strong yet pleasing odor and look several shades darker. You may even hear some crackling if you cooked them in oil.
Cashews can burn quickly, so it's important that you check and stir frequently to minimize this risk.
 Remove the cashews from the oven. If desired, drizzle another 1 to 2 tsp (5 to 10 mL) of oil over the cashews, then sprinkle them with about 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of salt, adding more or less depending on personal taste.


If adding the roasted cashews to baked goods, you may wish to skip the oil and salt.
You could also use other seasonings as desired during this step. Examples of seasonings that complement the flavor of cashews include cinnamon, sugar, paprika, cayenne, cloves, and nutmeg.
If you soaked the nuts in brine or salt water before roasting them, do not add any additional seasoning here. The initial salt in the solution should be enough.
 Transfer the cashews onto a plate and let them cool for 15 minutes before serving. Transferring them prevents the hot baking tray or cake pan from scorching the nuts.


Once cooled, you can serve or use the cashews immediately. You may also store them in an airtight container at room temperature for up to two weeks.