 Keep an eye out, and see if this person is rude or seems bored with everyone they interact with. It might not be you at all, but just how they behave with everyone.
 If someone has only met you once, or doesn’t usually act like they don’t like you, it’s probably nothing. Everyone has bad days, and bad days can make people grumpy and act mean. In order to be sure someone hates you, you should pay attention to how they behave over the long run rather than focusing on one or two individual events.
 Especially if the person you’re thinking about isn’t someone who knows you well, they might not be aware that what they are doing or saying is very upsetting to you. Some people have a great deal of difficulty understanding social cues, and may not understand your negative reaction to their behavior. Similarly, many people’s mouths are sometimes ahead of their brains, and this causes them to often say things which they later regret. An indicator of either of these is that they say hurtful things to many people. This isn’t a sign of hatred for you, it’s a sign that they have a social difficulty.
 If you've heard that someone hates you from someone else, consider how accurate their information might be. Ask them why they think the person hates you, and consider the reliability of their reasons. If they are known for gossiping and spreading discord, consider whether they might be telling you this to provoke excitement or whether they are trying to make things easier for everyone.
 If the person you think hates you acts mean only when you do something specific, consider that it might be your behavior and not you that they hate. Some things that might irritate or anger people are:


Certain topics of conversation
Language or symbols they might find offensive
Humor that they might consider inappropriate
Requests that they do or change something
How you interact with others, especially their close friends or significant others
Level of physical intimacy – for example, many people hug everyone they know, and others reserve this for a select few. They may be uncomfortable with how often or little you touch them.

