 Disabled children are more vulnerable to bullies when they are alone, or when they are far away from adults or authority figures. The child can avoid bullies if they know to stick close to teachers or other adults, and limit times when they are alone.This can be difficult if the child needs or prefers to be alone, or doesn't have a lot of friends with whom they normally socialize. If the child is not particularly social, you may need to help the child develop other strategies. For example, if the child normally eats alone, arrange for them to eat in a teacher's classroom or other protected space rather than eating alone in the lunchroom.
Speak to adults and teachers who work with the child on a regular basis and explain the situation to get their help and support. For example, if the child normally rides the bus to school, you might talk to the bus driver and explain that the child needs to sit in the seat directly behind the bus driver so they will be more protected from bullies.
 Often, bullying is a matter of opportunity. A bully may not seek the disabled child out if they no longer frequent areas where the bully typically hangs out. A map of the school (or other place where the child is being bullied) can help you identify those places.Print out the map, and have the child color in areas where they feel safe and areas where they don't. You might have the child color safe areas green and unsafe areas (or areas where they've previously encountered bullies) red.
Once you've identified danger areas, you can work with the child to plan a route to places they need to go that avoids those unsafe areas.
If avoidance is not possible, talk to adults or to trusted friends and make sure that when the child is in that area, they have an escort and don't have to be alone.
 If your child has a disability, they may be eligible for special education under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). You and a team of educators will form their IEP team, which can be an extremely helpful tool to counter bullying. Strategies may include allowing the child to leave class early to avoid bullying in the halls, educating peers on bullying policies, educating peers and teachers on the disability, shadowing from school staff, and so on.Discuss the bullying during an IEP meeting and work with the team to make sure your child feels safe and is protected from the bullying.
 A network of trusted adults who support the child can help them deal with bullies. The child should have at least one person they know they can go to, but ideally there should be several.Talk to the child and find out which adults that child trusts and is comfortable talking to. For example, the child may not have developed a rapport with their current teacher, but may be very close to their second grade teacher. Talk to that teacher and find out if they are willing to be a person that child can count on if they get in a situation where they are being bullied.
It isn't enough simply to tell the child to tell their teacher, or to tell a school administrator. If the child doesn't feel comfortable with that person, they won't go to them for help. If you want to help the child deal with bullies, you need to find out who they trust. That person may not be someone who has any real authority, but they can go to someone who does and speak on the child's behalf.
 If the bullying is happening at school, get a copy of the school's anti-bullying policy and any other disciplinary codes that are related to the behavior the child is experiencing.Mark down the provisions of the handbook that apply to the child's situation. In the event that you report the bullying to the school, you will need to reference these provisions.
Understanding the policy also gives you an idea of what you will need to show authorities in order for them to take action against the bullying. As you enter incidents into your log, you can use these policies to outline the information.
The school handbook also will give you the direct contact information for the person to whom you need to report. Not reporting the bullying to the right person can result in delayed action or even no action being taken at all.
 If things get to the point that you need to contact the school to get something done to protect the child, write a letter rather than making a phone call. You need to keep a record of all interactions related to this situation.In your letter, identify yourself and the reason you are writing. Describe the incidents of bullying using as many details as possible, including dates and times. Then, list the specific sections of the school anti-bullying or disciplinary policy that you believe the behavior violates.
State specifically the result you want. You may want to talk to the child about this. For example, if the child is being bullied at lunchtime, you and the child may agree that the child should be permitted to eat their lunch in their favorite teacher's classroom.
Sign and date your letter, and make a copy for your own records before you deliver it to the appropriate person at the school. While you can deliver the letter in person, it may be better to mail it using a service that provides you with proof that the letter has been received. You may need that proof if you anticipate that the school won't do anything and that you'll have to take further action to resolve the situation.
 In many cases, the school is able to resolve the situation and protect the child. However, sometimes you will face administrators whose response is inadequate.While you should hope for the best outcome when you initially notify the school of the problem, you also should plan for the worst. If the bullying continues despite your efforts, the child may need to be transferred to another school, or (if you are the child's parent) you may have to take legal action.
If school officials dismiss your complaints, or don't take the problem seriously, talk to an attorney who specializes in disability rights law. They will be able to help you evaluate your options and decide what you want to do to protect the child.
Check out the following advocacy resources:

National Bullying Prevention Center: http://www.pacer.org/bullying/wewillgen/

Information on policies and laws against bullying: https://www.stopbullying.gov/laws/index.html

List of Safe and Supportive Schools contacts, by state: http://www.pacer.org/bullying/resources/parents/pdf/safe-and-supportive-schools-contact.pdf




