 Ideally, use an oak barrel that has a relatively flat bottom – sometimes they become warped during outdoor storage. They are probably fine but won’t sit perfectly flat on the dolly.;
, Turn the barrel upside down and cut a circle of paper to size. The aim is to produce a circle that fits well into the bottom of the barrel, inside the lip with a bit of clearance (about 1/2" or 1.25cm). That way, the bottom of the barrel will be fully supported by the dolly. It also looks better – the rough plywood is largely concealed by the lip of the barrel. A typical barrel such as the one shown here has a diameter of about 2 ft (60cm) at the top, and a bit less (about 22" or 56cm) at the bottom.
 Use a marker pen to trace the outline of the template onto the plywood – 3/4" or 1.9cm ply works well. It need not be pretty, since it is barely visible once completed.
 Fit it onto the bottom of the barrel, and trim with the jigsaw if necessary. (You may need two people for this step: exercise caution when using power tools.)

, Use screws of length appropriate for the thickness of the plywood. They will go in better if you drill small pilot holes, using the caster as a template to mark the positions of the holes with a marker pen.



Choose rotating casters rather than those that are fixed. The ones illustrated here are rated for 125 lb, for a total limit of 500lb, which should be sufficient. (The oak planter shown here is a traditional half whiskey barrel, weighing about 40 lb and with capacity of 106 quarts; estimated weight when full of waterlogged soil is about 250 lb.)






You could probably get by with three casters, but it would be slightly less stable – a consideration if you expect to move the dolly often or if you have small children.
 Avoid placing them too close to the casters.
 A clear deck sealer should be sufficient. (The oak barrel planter has a limited lifespan so there is no need for perfection there). Allow to dry.
 Seven holes (one central and 6 surrounding) with a 3/8” drill bit seems about right.
 If it wobbles a lot or does not sit flat, you can shim it with a small piece of wood.
 Wait to do this until you are satisfied with the position of the barrel, and make sure you don’t hit the casters.
