 Children with disabilities and their parents need allies who are willing to stand up for disability rights and help advocate for the disabled community in employment, school, and community contexts.Read up on disability rights in your country, as well as the resources available locally. This will help you to recognize when there's a legal solution to a problem the parents are having.
Understanding disability rights also gives you a way to support parents of special needs children by making others aware. For example, if your workplace isn't accessible, you might talk to your manager about making the necessary adjustments so it is accessible to all people. This helps not only the parents you know, but other parents and other people with disabilities.
Parents of special needs children especially need help in the education context. The parents may feel that the child's school is not adequately addressing their child's needs, or that the child needs additional assistance. You may be able to point them to programs that would better serve their child.
 You can show support to simply by acknowledging the child and expressing an interest. Parents often welcome legitimate questions in an effort to better understand their child and their child's diagnosis.You can ask questions without judging, and parents will appreciate you acknowledging and taking an interest in their child. Too often, disabled children aren't mentioned – sometimes because people don't know what to say, or are afraid to ask questions and potentially offend the parents.
Also, take an interest in their child outside of the child's disability. Know their birthday, learn their favorite things, celebrate their milestones, etc.
Parents with special needs children typically are happy to talk about their child and explain different aspects of the child's personality or behavior. Having these conversations not only shows support for the parents, but helps you better understand the child.
 Children with disabilities often face tremendous prejudice and stigma because they are different from "normal" kids. Combating discrimination when you see it is a way to advocate for the child and show your support for their parents.As you read more about disability rights, you'll start to realize that for many people, words and phrases such as "retard" or "riding the short bus" are deeply insulting and offensive. When you hear others using these words or phrases, call them out on it.
If you see someone with special needs being bullied or insulted, you have an opportunity to stand up for their rights and help them.
Stopping discrimination when you see it helps to make the world a more welcoming place for all children.
 Connect with a state or national disability rights organization, or with a nonprofit. Not only can you donate, but you can work as a volunteer to help spread the word about disability rights.You don't need to be disabled yourself, or be the parent of a special needs child, to join these organizations and work with them.
Awareness and advocacy organizations also can be a good way for you to participate in activities along with the parents and their children.
Make sure you research non-governmental organizations before joining or donating. You want to understand their goals and make sure you agree with those goals. Ideally, people with disabilities should hold prominent positions, or at least have a strong voice, within the organization. Stay away from organizations that claim to help people with a particular diagnosis or disability, but don't engage those people in their activities or their decision-making process.

