 Any solid color will work as a base coat. Choose something that works with the other colors you'd like. Some of the base coat might peek through, especially on your first try at the tie dye.;
, Brush cuticle oil or stick tape over your fingers from the nail to the first knuckle, on both sides.This will stop polish from sticking to you — so don't let it touch the nail itself.
 Use an old bowl if you don't want nail polish stains on your bowls. A small bow or cup will help you waste less nail polish.


Nail polish isn't a great thing to eat. You might want to use an old bowl you can keep as a makeup container — or just wash it thoroughly afterward.
Place it over newspaper to catch spills.
 Hold the nail polish wand over the water and let one drop fall. As soon as it spreads out a little, do the same with another color. Do this with at least three or four colors, making a series of concentric circles.









Do this quickly, as the polish can dry quickly on the surface of the water and ruin the effect.
Some nail polishes sink instead of float, and can't be used.There's no way to tell in advance, but fortunately it's not a common problem.
If you can't get any nail polish to spread out, try using slightly colder water, or filtered water.
 Lightly touch the surface with the stick, drawing lines through the polish. The stick will pull the design as it cuts through it, so you can create a tie dye pattern by drawing spirals. Keep drawing until you see a pattern you like.









It's best to touch down in the inner circles. The outer circles have already started to dry, so starting there can cause the polish to clump.
 Lower your nail over the part of the design you like most. If the nail polish is still runny, wait 10–30 seconds for it to set. Brush away the rest of the nail polish using your toothpick, then lift your finger straight up out of the water.
 The polish probably got onto your finger as well, but the oil or tape should stop it from sticking. If you used oil, wipe off your skin with a cotton swab. If you used tape, just wait until the polish dries, then peel off the tape.









Dampen the swab in acetone if the polish won't come off.
 Brush aside the rest of the floating nail polish with your stick, then start again with new drops. Once your nails are all tie dyed and dried, cover with a top coat and set forth to show them off.

