 Find the Adverts Manager located in the top left corner. If you don't see Adverts Manager, look at the bottom of your homepage and click on Create Advert. You will need to enter your credit card details here in order to activate it.;
, Once you are in Adverts Manager, click on Create an Advert. Now you will see a list of options from where you need to select your objective. Select 'Send people to your website'. Enter the URL, which will be the landing page of your website. In case your goal is to achieve an email lead, enter the page where it asks the prospective customer to enter an email.
 Now you will come to a section asking you 'Who do you want your adverts to reach?' Here you can define the filters and qualification criteria of the audience you wish to target:


Custom audiences - If you have a custom list of emails or phone numbers for people whom you want to target through Facebook advertising, add them here. You can upload this list through a simple Excel file. Note that this will work only if the target audience has used these emails/phone numbers to create their Facebook account.
Location - Select your country, state or town.
Age - Select the age range.
Gender - Select any of all, men, women.
Languages - You can use language targeting as well. In case the prospective customer has entered that language in his or her Facebook profile settings, the potential customer can see your ad. Note that not all languages are available. In most cases, it is recommended that you select English (All).
More Demographics - This is where you can select relationship status, educational level, work status, whether a parent or not, etc. Multiple choices are possible here.
Interests - Select as required or leave blank.
Behaviors - Select as required or leave blank.
Advanced connection targeting - You can use this if you are the admin of the Facebook page of the website you are advertising for. For example, you can exclude people who have already liked your Facebook page by entering the name of the page in the exclude box. Thus, you will not waste your advertising on those who have already liked your page.
 This should give you an idea about the approximate possible audience of your Facebook ad and you can adjust the filters and targeting mentioned above to arrive at an optimal reach.
 For example, 250 per day, and enter a schedule with a start and end date. Make sure you select the correct month as well. If you want your ads to begin immediately, you can also select 'Run my ad continuously starting today'. Once approved, the ad will start and be live. You may pause it later or schedule an end date later if you want.
 This is what is recommended for general use. Or, you can look at the other options of paying for impressions or setting a maximum bid per click.
 Use Advert set name, by which you can name your set as something that represents the ads. For example, Company_Location_Clicks.
 The recommended size is 1200 X 628 pixels. You can upload up to six images and these will create six Facebook ads. These ads will come under the same advert set. Thus, the budget of 250 per day will be spent over all of these ads. If you selected "Optimize for Clicks", the ad that initially generates more clicks is likely to take precedence.
 Now you come to the section - 'What text and links do you want to use?' Firstly, connect your Facebook page if you have it. Clicking on your ad will take the user to your website but it will show as coming from your Facebook page.


Put in the headline and text of your ad. Select the call to action button. For example, you can use "Learn more". Note that there are character  limits for the text used and you will have to keep your creative text within those limits. Also note that choosing a Facebook page is required in order to include a call to action button.
Now select Advanced Options and enter the news feed link description. This is limited to 200 characters and will appear only if the ad displays in the news feed.
Now in the 'Advert preview and placements' section on the right, select where you would like the ad to show. For a clicks to website campaign, the news feed placement will be more productive. Therefore, it is recommended that you generally use only that. If this was an 'Increase likes to your page' campaign, you could Select All, since the like page option appears on the Facebook ad itself and it's easy to like the page on mobiles as well.

