 Aloe vera juice stimulates mucus production in your stomach, so it might help with heartburn.Keep in mind that aloe vera juice also has a laxative effect, so try drinking a small amount at first. For example, you might try drinking about ¼ of a cup to see how it affects you.


If this amount helps with your heartburn and does not cause any diarrhea, then it might be a good remedy to use as needed. If you get diarrhea from this amount, then this treatment might not be for you.;
, Chamomile has been used to treat stomach conditions such as ulcers and ulcerative colitis, so it may help with heartburn as well.You can buy chamomile tea bags in the grocery store or use dried herbs.


If using dried herbs, place about one teaspoon of the herbs into a tea infuser in a mug and pour eight ounces of boiling water into the mug.
Let the tea steep for about five minutes, then remove the infuser.
Wait for the tea to cool down a bit and then drink.
Drink a cup of chamomile tea after every meal to help with heartburn.
 DGL tablets can provide relief for heartburn by coating and soothing the stomach. Look for DGL tablets that are specially formulated for indigestion and heartburn, such as Iberogast and STW 5.You can find DGL tablets in health food stores.


Check with your doctor before taking DGL tablets, especially if you are currently taking prescription drugs. DGL can interact with some medications, including digoxin, ace-inhibitors, corticosteroids, insulin, oral contraceptives, blood thinners, and diuretics.Some people should not take DGL tablets including those who are pregnant, or who have heart disease, kidney disease, liver disease, or erectile dysfunction.
Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.
 Slippery elm may help with heartburn by increasing mucous production in your stomach. Try taking a 500 milligram capsule of slippery elm with a full glass of water three to four times per day for up to eight weeks.Make sure that you check with your doctor before taking slippery elm, especially if you are taking a prescription medication. This herb is not known to interact with any medications, but it may slow absorption.

