 Iced coffee is great with regular ice, but it's even better with coffee cubes. Next time you let a pot of morning brew sit too long, pour it into a clean ice cube tray and let it freeze. Next time you want to have iced coffee, drop a few of those into it. Delicious.


These also go great in mixed drinks and cocktails, or as an addition to chocolate milk.
If you don't like coffee, try freezing herbal tea, lemonade, or any drink you prefer.
 Another delicious addition to a fruity cocktail or mixed drink is a fruit-juice ice cube. Freeze cranberry cocktail cubes and add it to your iced tea. Freeze pineapple-mango juice to pop into your next smoothie. This is a great way to spice up any drink.


Generally, citrus juices don't work quite as well as other fruit juices and cocktails. Anything based in apple or grape juice works really well.
 In the summer time, a good way to save money is to make popsicles in the fridge yourself. Mix up a batch of you favorite Kool-Aid flavor or other fruit drink and pop it not the ice cube tray. About halfway through, stick toothpicks into the centers, or just pop them out and let the kids eat them outside.


You can also get molds made specifically for making popsicles, which have plastic holders that you can reuse. They're a lot of fun for kids.
 One great visual treat is to add a single blueberry, raspberry, blackberry, or grape to each section of the ice cube tray and then cover them with water. Squeeze a little lemon juice or lemonade onto the fruit, then cover with water, or the fruit juice of your choice. These make great little additions to any mixed drink, or just a plain glass of water.
 If your garden goes crazy with herbs, a great way to save them for later in the season is to chop up the herbs finely, then pack them into an empty ice cube tray and cover with a small amount of water. When they freeze up, pop them out and keep them in a freezer bag.


These are great for cooking later in the season. You can toss a cube of basil into a soup pot, or toss a cube or mint into a big pitcher of fresh iced tea.
You could also do this with sage, thyme, parsley, cilantro, or any combination of herbs you regularly use.
 While it won't really add any flavor to the cubes, it can be fun to add a drop of food coloring to individual sections on the ice cube tray and let them freeze. It's a fun project for kids, and makes a plain water glass a lot more fun.

