 The single chain pattern makes it easy to incorporate as many colors as you want. Decide whether you want the whole bracelet to be the same color or if you want to make a pattern with more than one. You could alternate colors or incorporate every color of the rainbow.


You might want to count your rainbow bands to make sure you have enough of the colors you want. If your run out it will be noticeable in your finished bracelet. You will need 25 to 30 bands total for this bracelet.
Organize your bands in an organizing case, so you can separate all the different colors. If you don't have a rainbow loom organizing case, you can just as easily use a bead organizer or a jewelry box with lots of compartments.;
, That's the little clear plastic clip that's used to connect the ends of the bracelet. Pull the first rubber band into the space in the "C" so that it stays inside the clip.
 Take the same band and stretch it a little so you can slide it down to the middle of a pencil. The pencil will help you hold the pattern in place as you create it, taking the place of a loom.


Use a pencil that's narrow enough so that the band fits over it loosely. If the band is too tight, it'll be hard to slip it off the pencil, which you'll need to do as you create your pattern.
You can also use a popsicle stick or a chopstick if you don't have a pencil handy.
 Rest the pencil on the table in front of you so that the first band is sticking up. Now pinch the second band and slip it under the first band. The pinched second band should be perpendicular to the pencil., When you pull up the two ends of the second band, they'll form two loops that are separated by the first rubber band. Take these two loops and loop them around your pointer finger.
 That first band has done its job, so you can slide it right off to make way for the next part of the pattern.
 Transfer the loops that you're holding with your finger onto the pencil. Slip them down to the middle of the pencil so they won't fall off.
 Take the third color you're using, pinch the band to make it flat, and slip it under the two loops of the second band that are around the pencil. Bring up the two loops of the third band and slip them onto your pointer finger to hold them in place.
 Carefully slip the loops off so that the second band becomes part of the chain. Are you seeing the pattern start to form?

, Transfer the loops that you're holding with your finger onto the pencil. Slip them down to the middle of the pencil so they won't fall off.
 Continue the pattern of slipping a new band under the loops of the old band, putting them on your finger, sliding the old band off the pencil and slipping the pencil under the new bands. As the chain grows, you can periodically wrap it around your wrist (or your finger, if you want to make a ring) to see if it's long enough.
 Slip the last band off the pencil and hold the loops with your fingers. Take the C-clip and insert the two loops into its center. Now the two ends of the bracelet are joined together, and the bracelet is complete.


Try it on to see if you like the size. If you want it to be smaller, just pull out the last few bands until it's the right length, then rejoin the ends with the C-clip.
To make a longer bracelet, slip the 2 loops of the last band back over the pencil, then add new bands as needed.

