 People have identified many famous celebrities as ride or die chicks. Study them to master the concept. To some degree, ride or die chicks are the “bad” girl, not the good.For example, Shante Broadus, the wife of rapper Snoop Dogg, stood by him despite drug use, infidelity and divorce papers. Eudoxie stood by rapper Ludacris when he cheated on her. Gabrielle Union stood by Dwayne Wade even when he got another woman pregnant.The actress Nia Long has been dubbed a repeated cinematic ride or die chick. In the movie Boyz in the Hood, she played a loyal girlfriend helping her man, who was living a life on the streets of LA.In Soul Food, she played Bird, who was holding down the house while trying to help her criminal boyfriend find a job.
You can also find ride or die chicks in politics. Hillary Clinton famously stood by Bill Clinton after the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Sometimes ride or die chicks stand by their man to the bitter end because they get something out of the relationship: Status, money, fame. But the phenomenon doesn’t only occur with the rich and famous.
 The ride or die chick concept was popularized by hip hop music and has made appearances in other forms of pop culture.


For example, in season 1 of Empire, Andre’s wife is a ride or die chick, when she accidentally killed a man who was about to tell the police that her husband had killed someone. “I’m ride or die,” she told her husband as she helped him bury the body.
"Ride or Die, Chick” is a song that was featured on The Lox’s second album, We are the Streets. A less clean version contains an expletive in the place of the word “chick.”The concept appears in many other songs, including those by artists Jay-Z, Ice Cube, DMX, Ja Rule, Method Man, The Game, and 2Pac. Sometimes the term is accompanied with the “B” word or replaced with the phrase, a “down ass bitch.”
The characters Carmela Soprano and Adriana La Cerva are ride or die chicks who are accomplices in their partner’s criminal Mafia lifestyles. However, Adriana loses her life in the end.
Author J.M. Benjamin has written a paperback novel series that features ride or die chicks. One book, Ride or Die Chick Three, features a criminal couple in Virginia., Obviously if you're someone's ride or die chick, you're around them often. Nobody likes someone boring or who complains all the time. Stay positive.


Have confidence and have no fear of anyone. To some degree, the ride or die chicks glamorized by popular culture are fearless and courageous women.
Learn how to fight if you don't know how. Ride or die chicks are tough. They aren't just going to passively stand by.
Get some attitude. The ride or die chick will defend her partner when he is under attack by anyone and anything. She's a force to be reckoned with at all times.

