 It is important to pack your passport, personal identification, travel insurance card or phone number, prescription medicine, a first aid kit and seasickness medicine such as behind-the-ear patches. You should also make sure you have all of your toiletries, including conditioner, since these may not be stocked on budget cruises.Remember your passport. Remember to update and pack your passport, since most budget cruises will pass across nation states.
If you have to fly into your departure port, you should remember that anything you pack also has to get through airport security.
 Find out your cruise alcohol policy and bring alcohol if you desire it and the budget cruise allows. If you have a favorite wine or alcohol, find out if you can pack it yourself. Many companies allow you to bring a limited amount of your own wine or beer. This will prevent the disappointment of having to purchase poor quality wine or spending excessively at the cruise bar., If you pack your bags to the point of bursting, you may end up being disappointed upon the realization that you have no room for souvenirs. The simple solution is to leave a little space for souvenirs at the top of your bag.If you anticipate purchasing small trinkets, you can leave an extra inch or two of room at the top of your bag. However, if you anticipate purchasing larger souvenirs such as rugs or larger craft objects like masks, you may need to bring an extra bag. You can always pack an extra bag inside your check-in bag if you are an ambitious shopper.If you are an ambitious souvenir shopper and wish to avoid excess baggage fees, consider shipping your souvenirs from one of the ports. It will probably be cheaper than the excess baggage fee at the airport.Some common souvenirs that won’t make it through customs include Absinthe, meat based soups, objects made from ivory, larger souvenirs from Cuba, Iran or the Sudan, fruit and vegetable products, and many designer knockoffs. Look at the materials that your souvenir is made from and consider whether you have a good chance of getting it through customs.