 Authenticity is awesome. You have a set of qualities and quirks that make you unique. Once you make the decision to lead an authentic life, take time to identify the unique characteristics that form your identity. After discovering your true self, choose to be yourself.Don't be afraid to be you!;
, Awesome people have amazingly positive attitudes. All positive people are not Pollyannas. Rather, positive people have the ability to see the good and the bad in a situation, but choose to focus only on the best possible outcome. In an effort to become a more positive person, consider implementing the following changes:


Surround yourself with positive people. Like stress, happiness is contagious. If you have more positive influences in your life, you are more likely to become a positive person.
Journal or meditate regularly. These practices have been known to increase a person’s positive thoughts.
Practice positive self talk. Whenever you have a negative thought, counter it with positive reinforcement. For example, if you catch yourself thinking, “I can’t do ,” respond to yourself with “I know I can succeed at , Awesome individuals are dreamers; they pursue their passions relentlessly. A persistent person is often goal oriented, driven, adaptable, confident, and self-disciplined.


Identify your goals. What do you want to achieve today, next week, within your lifetime? Do you have a vision that consumes your thoughts?
Stop making excuses. Don’t put off activities you claim to be passionate about.
Be adaptable. Instead of making excuses, find a way to accomplish your goals.
Remain confident. Don’t pay the naysayers any attention. You are capable of achieving your goals.
Remain disciplined. As you strive to achieve your dreams, stay motivated and focused., Mindful individuals are acutely aware of their body and mind. Their practice of mindfulness equips them to live in the present, cope with stressors, and evaluate their emotions. Incorporating mindfulness into your daily routine can propel you towards becoming the most awesome version of your authentic self. Many achieve mindfulness through meditation.Sit in a quiet, calming environment. You goal is to enter into a state of focused relaxation. Concentrate on your breathing or a one-word mantra. Allow your thoughts to enter and exit your mind freely and without judgement. As you meditate, your thoughts may focus on the following: your body—what sensations are you experiencing from your head to your toes?; your senses—what do you hear, smell, see, feel, and taste?; your emotions—what are you feeling? When you notice yourself wandering, return your attention to your breathing or mantra. Continue to meditate until you can no longer focus.