 If you don't want to it's okay, but with friends, it is 20 times faster. The minimum needed is two to three friends.;
, If you don't want to, the world lock cost is lesser.
 Small locks, big locks, huge locks, etc.
 After you have given your trusted friends access, dig up the whole world including rocks, dirt, cave background and lava.
 After doing so, you will get a lot of gems and resources. Go to earn free gems or watch videos to earn gems. After earning free gems or watching videos to earn free gems, you will get the recycling icon (the recycling icon can be found after doing this in your inventory).
 After that, recycle all the dirt, lava and cave background (do not recycle the rocks).
 If you add the free gems earning, this would be about  2000 gems. Using the 2000 gems, buy a world lock and world lock your world. Use your wrench icon and click on the world lock. After doing this, click get world key.
 Do /broadcast in the chat menu. Then type this: Selling clear world for 2-3 wls come come come (this will cost you 200 gems). You are ready to earn your world locks easily now!

, Plant all of the dirt seeds on the rock seeds to splice it into a grass tree.
,, With the gems you have do /broadcast buying world locks for 200 grass seeds come come come(do it in the chat menu)!

,,,, Buy 200 Door Seeds(100-200 per World Lock), 100 Window Seeds (50 per World Lock), 100 Sign Seeds (50 per World Lock), 100 Rock Background Seeds (100 per World Lock), and 100 Lava Seeds (100 per World Lock), Splice 100 Door Seeds and 100 Window Seeds to get Dungeon Doors. Break every single Dungeon Doors to get seeds. Splice 100 Door Seeds and 100 Sign Seeds for Pointy Sign Trees. Break every Pointy Sign trees. Then Splice the Pointy Sign Trees with Lava to get Danger Signs. Break the Danger Signs for their seeds. Splice Danger Signs Seeds with Rock Background Seeds to get Death Spikes, and break them to get their seeds.,, You can Broadcast by /bc, if you're level 20 or Supporter. Sell them 20 per World Lock. Alternatively, use Vending Machines.