 You can divide the hair into large sections for less twists or do small random twists all over the scalp. The styles and options are almost endless, so choose the one you feel most comfortable with.;
, Give your hair a nice shampoo lather and rinse followed by a thorough conditioning. Once you have finished washing your hair begin drying by only removing excess water; It is very important to leave the hair a little damp.









Try removing excess water by blotting or squeezing the hair gently with a cotton t-shirt. Do not rub your hair!
Don't use a towel because it will dry your hair out. Also, it will make you hair frizzy and your curls can get tangled in the towel.
If your hair has drops of water dripping off the ends it is still too wet and you should continue blotting.
 Comb through the hair with a wide-tooth comb.









Start by combing the ends of the hair. Once those tangles are gone then slide up an inch or so and (still combing downwards) keep combing until all tangles (from the roots - down) are gone.
Use detangling spray (i.e. Kinky Curly Knot Today) for a smoother comb through.
 Use a rat-tail comb (a comb that has teeth on one end and a styling separator on the other) to part the hair horizontally from ear to ear.









Hold the top and bottom sections separate from each other by using hair clips for each section.
 These are the sections you will use to make your twists (Please note: This is example is only using six twists, however the procedure is the same for many).









To create three sections on the top part, part the hair running from the crown down to the horizontal part you previously made. Clip each section so they remain separated.
To create three sections on the bottom part, part the hair running from the base of your scalp up to the horizontal part you previously made. Clip each section so they remain in place.
 This will be the only section that has been unclipped/not twisted and loose.









It may be easier to work from the bottom to the top so you do not take the chance of messing up the top twists.
 Use the wide-tooth comb again to remove any tangles that might have been created in the separating and clipping process.
 Hair lotion or pomade makes the hair follicles sticky and will help to lock in the style.









Rub either the hair lotion or pomade onto your hands and smooth into the loose section of hair to be twisted.
 Use an elastic rubber band (optional) to hold the hair into place and separate the hair into two new sections.









Place the rubber band as close to the roots as possible while taking care to not pull the hair too tightly.
Make sure the two separated sections are even.
 Cross left over right until the end of the section is reached.









Allow the ends to curl on each other and apply hair gel to hold the twist in place.
 The embellishments can be added to the ends or base of the twists.









Barrettes, bows and elastics are normally snapped/tied into place.

Beads can be added by sliding them over the ends of the twists far enough up so they stick in place.
 Wear a satin scarf or sleep on a satin pillowcase to help your twist style stay intact.








