 Create several email addresses that can be linked to each other, but not to your own name or identity. Use them for day-to-day Internet use., Some search engines say they don’t track or store user or search information. This is a big change from Google, who perfected behavioral marketing based on your search history.
 It allows you to create disposable email addresses and passwords. Then you can sign up for the option to use temporary credit card numbers, so that the website can’t find out your personal information and the credit card company can’t trace your purchase to you.


This service costs $5 per month.
Go to www.abine.com/maskme.
 If you assume that employers, scammers or the government can read anything you post on social media or send via email, then it’s easier to rein in the information you give to others. People who avoid excessive posting and communication will have an easier time maintaining anonymity.


If you must use social media sites, like Facebook, adjust your privacy controls to the strictest settings, so that your information isn’t shown to a network of people who don’t already know you.
 If you use Google Chrome, only open the “Incognito Window,” which doesn’t track cookies. If you use Firefox, adjust the setting to “Do Not Track.”


MaskMe also has a Chrome ad-on.
Ensure you delete your temporary Internet files, history and cookies regularly for extra security.
Consider installing the add-on called “HTTPS Everywhere.” Created by EFF.org, it forces your browser to only use HTTPS URLs which use encryption to make them more secure. The “S” stands for “Secure.”, This is a way of connecting to a private network from a public one, with all information being encrypted between the two computers. You can add a new network and select “Virtual Private Network” as the type.


You will be asked to use the IP address of a remote computer and a key that changes frequently.
Consider signing up for a VPN service or using third-party VPN software, like Comodo. Make sure you are using an outgoing VPN, rather than signing up for an incoming VPN, which will give another computer access to your computer., If you have never searched for yourself on Google, Reputation.com or RemoveYourName.com can search for you, find instances of your name popping up and remove them if you choose.
 Mozilla Thunderbird is one service that can be set up to encrypt all emails, so that versions of your email aren’t stored on servers as they make their way to your recipient., Signing up for a paid proxy server will mean that your IP address is hidden whenever you use the Internet. Combine that with a MaskMe profile, a VPN and encrypted email and you are much less likely to be tracked online.
 If you drive an expensive car or tell people about your purchases, you are likely to attract attention., Surveys will ask how much you make, and they can sell that information to other companies. This information can be accessed by people looking to steal your identity or send you financial offers.
 If paperwork must be filed, thousands of financial institutions will find out about your mortgage and be able to reach you with offers.
 Use a service like MaskMe if you frequently make purchases online.


Consider using a Doing Business As (DBA) for all companies and an alias for financial transactions. Although this information must be advertised in a local paper, you are placing at least one smoke screen between your name and your financial information.
 If you sign up for a change of address with the US Postal Service, the government does not report your new address with the National Change of Address database. You have six months to one year to change all important address documents to a post office box, while credit card companies, catalogs and institutions will no longer be able to reach you directly.
 You can go to their websites and sign up to stop credit card companies and financial institutions from being able to access your credit score or history. You set up a PIN so that you can thaw your credit if you need to use it in the future.


Freezing your credit means that you can’t apply for any loans. It is best done when you are not looking to sign up for credit accounts.
Freezing your credit may be the best course of action against ID theft., Although this is difficult, you will be harder to track if you don’t sign up for utilities or have a physical address. Living off the grid requires a huge initial investment, often costing several hundred thousand dollars to build a house with its own energy systems.

