 It is easy to get lost in thought, daydream, or otherwise fail to see things around. In this case, you are much more prone to clumsiness. Being aware of your surroundings will help you to avoid common clumsy mistakes like bumping into things.


Look at and note the small things around you. This will help you become more aware of your surroundings and build good habits that reduce clumsiness., If you are rushed, you are much more likely to do things wrong, because you think you don't have any time. When in a rush, it is easy to stop paying attention to the things around you, and therefore easier to trip, fall, bump into someone or spill your drink.Practice doing things slowly. If you are in the habit of rushing, you will rush even if you are trying not to. Pay close attention to being slow and deliberate with your actions.
 If you suffer from “time urgency,” a constant and ever-present feeling that there is not enough time, you will likely always be focusing on the deadline, the next thing you have to do, or the next place you have to be. Focus on the present moment to help avoid making clumsy mistakes. Trying taking twelve, slow, deliberate breaths to help return your focus to the present. This will help take your mind off other things and move it to the present.
 Paying attention to detail will help you notice things around you, and also help you to pay attention to present moment. This is particularly important if you are making mistakes in the workplace.


Pay attention to detail when working, to help build good habits. It will help you avoid making avoidable mistakes in work and in other parts of life.
Don’t over-book yourself. If you are always worried about getting to the next thing, you will be unable to pay attention to details.Create to-do lists in order to stay organized and on-task. , Often your mouth says things that you don't have time to think about. Think everything through before you say it. If you have trouble stumbling over your words, applying many of the same practices that you would to stop physical clumsiness can help you speak more clearly.


If you are not sure what to say, pause for a moment, rather than trying to fill the silence. The silence may feel intimidating at first, but you will be able to speak more clearly if you practice.
 A lot of times, clumsiness comes from being insecure, and caring too much about what people think of you. Confidence builds on itself. As your confidence grows, you will become less clumsy, causing your confidence to build!


Practice doing things outside your comfort zone. This will grow your confidence by expanding the things with which you are comfortable. 