 These include both physical and behavioral signs that your cat is having problems with its jaw. The signs of a jaw fracture include:Inability to close the mouth
Pain and swelling around the jaw and face
Reluctant to eat
Other injuries especially around the head
Bleeding from the mouth and/or nose
Obvious deformity of the jaw and/or face
Broken teeth
Drooling blood-tinged saliva;
, When either the front or back leg or the pelvis is broken, a cat will show a number of signs that indicate there is a serious problem going on. There is always a chance that in addition to the broken limb or pelvis another part of the cat’s body may be injured so keep that in mind when examining the cat for injuries and exercise caution as you do so. The signs of a limb or pelvis fracture include:Limping
Unable to bear weight on the affected leg
Swelling
Pain when area is touched or move
Refusing to walk
Hiding

, Rib fractures are very serious. This is a medical emergency and your cat will need to be taken to a veterinarian or emergency clinic immediately to assess its breathing and to help it survive. This is because the ribs can puncture the lungs, causing extreme breathing difficulties. Signs of rib fractures in cats are:Shallow breathing
Difficulty breathing
Chest looks distorted
Pain
Hiding

, The bones in the tail can be fractured like any other bone. A big cause of tail fractures is being slammed in a door. A tail that is pulled can also break.


A tail fracture presents as a limp tail, a tail unable to be swished from side to side, a bent or crooked tail, and/or a tail that is painful., A broken bone, whatever bone it is, is a serious injury. At the first sign of a fracture, call your veterinarian or emergency clinic for prompt treatment and relief of pain.


Your cat deserves medical care and treatment for a broken bone, even if that treatment simply means that the cat's pain is managed.
Your veterinarian will assess the overall health of the cat, in addition to paying attention to the area of the suspected fracture.
 This will increase the veterinary bill, so prepare yourself to deal with the financial impact of the assessment and treatment. In most cases, to get a proper X-ray the cat will need to be sedated and posed in different positions. This includes on its back, on its side, from the top of the back, and, in the case of jaw fractures, at various angles with the mouth both opened and closed.


The most common way for a veterinarian to diagnose a fracture is by use of radiographs or X-rays.Many closed fractures (those beneath the skin) are easily seen once a proper X-ray is taken.
In the case of an open fracture, the broken bone will be obviously sticking out of the body, but X-rays need to be taken of these fractures, as there may be other fractured bones beneath the skin. In most cases a number of X-rays need to be taken to properly assess the fracture.
In some cases, specialized techniques are used to catch those fractures that are not a “simple” break. Bones can fracture in any direction (diagonally, spirally) or they can shatter into pieces.
 The treatment will vary depending on the type and location of the fracture. For example, many hair-line fractures will heal on their own if they are immobilized. However, open fractures and spiral fractures will likely require in-depth surgery to correct.


Many times amputation is the only solution to a broken tail. However, a fracture which only occurs at the tip can sometimes heal on its own.Severe health problems, such as a fracture, are a good reason to invest in pet insurance. If you have pet insurance and your cat gets a devastating injury, the cost will be offset and you will not have to weigh your financial situation against the health of your pet.

