 Open any browser on your computer, and visit the Facebook website.;
, Enter your registered email address, username, and password into the login fields at the top-right. Click “Log in” to continue.
 After logging into your account, you need to find the app’s Facebook page. Type the name of app into the search bar at the top of the page, and select the official app page from the results. An official Facebook app page will have a blue checkmark next to its name. Click the app from the results to go to its Facebook page.


If you want to browse apps that can be added to pages, just enter “for pages” in the search field. When the results drop down, select “See more results” at the bottom. The page will display several results. Select “Apps” from the left side options to filter the results to show only apps. You can tell the apps can be added to your page if there’s “Apps for Pages” beneath the app name.
Third-party apps cannot be added, like games, cannot be added to your fan page.
 After you’ve opened the app’s page, you will see app page’s cover photo at the top. There will also be several options below the cover photo. From these options select the one with the three-dot icon; this will open the menu.
 If you don’t see the “Add App to Page” option, this means that the app can’t be added to your page.
 A new menu will open up showing a list of all the pages you are an administrator of. Click on the fan page you would like to add the app in.
 After selecting the fan page, finish the process by clicking the “Add Page Tab” at the bottom right of the page.
 If you’re an administrator of the fan page, go to your personal Facebook account, then click the down arrow at the top left corner of the header. From the menu, under “Use Facebook as,” select the fan page you want to manage.
 This menu button can be found below the cover image at the top. Clicking it will cause a menu to drop down.
 In this mode, all the movable tabs will be outlined with dots.
 To move an app tab of your choice, click and hold that tab, and then drag and drop it to the desired location. Rearrange all the app tabs in this fashion until they’re all organized according to your preference.
 After rearranging your apps, click “Save.” The dotted outline will disappear, and you will be back in viewing mode.

