 Signs of water damage is a concern to a home inspector — not to mention your potential buyer. One that is of great concern is ceiling stains. This is because ceiling stains usually indicate that water has gotten somewhere it shouldn’t have. Even if the stain came from something insignificant, home inspectors will be concerned about a more serious issue.Keep a home inspector from suspecting faulty plumbing or a poor exterior seal by repairing water-damaged portions of the ceiling, ensuring that there is not a recurring cause of water damage.;
, Often, electrical issues arise when someone who occupied the house did their own electrical maintenance, or because of changes in the electrical code after work was done. Essentially, anything that has not been done according to code will lead to poor inspection results. Make sure all outlets and your panel boxes are up to code. Consider hiring an electrical contractor to look at anything you’re uncertain about.Make sure that all outlets in bathrooms and near the kitchen sink— or anywhere near a water source — are Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) outlets. These are designed to prevent accidents from happening if appliances being used are exposed to water.
Make sure breakers in the electrical panel only have one wire on each lug. Double-tapped breakers are safety hazards.
Check to make sure that all outlets in the home are grounded.
 Especially if the home you’re hoping to sell is older and there are any bathrooms without windows, there’s a good chance its ventilation will not meet current construction standards.Specifically, if you have an interior bathroom, insure that any bathroom exhaust fans vent to the exterior of the home.
 Even if the rotting is minimal and seemingly inconsequential, replace it. Rotting indicates a lack of maintenance, especially regular exterior painting. Check exterior trim, window casings, and areas around decks.While checking exterior wood, touch up any spots where the paint has begun to deteriorate.
 You should also know that many homes have at least one or two minor plumbing issues that should be addressed before an inspection. In particular, replace or adjust leaky faucets, loose toilets, and slow drains.Be aware that a home inspector will also inspect the valves of boilers and water heaters. If these are found to be faulty, they can likely be easily replaced by a plumber.
 Windows and chimneys often have poor seals or cracks. One common sign of a poor window seal is fogging of the glass. Chimneys, on the other hand, are especially exposed to the weather, and commonly develop cracks or loose mortar over time. If one is not present, install a metal cap to help protect the chimney.If cracks exist near the top of the chimney, they can easily be repaired by a mason — the sooner the better; however, if a large crack is present near the base of the chimney, consult a professional about whether the chimney poses a potential structural risk.
Check the roof venting to ensure that it is metal and not plastic. Plastic venting has a short life span and it can cause a lot of damage when it cracks.
Inspect the flashing around the chimney to ensure that it had been correctly installed. If not, the paint may be peeling.
 Even if you think there’s no chance you have mold in the home, double check. Mold in the attic, which can grow when moisture is trapped, is one of the most common things discovered by a home inspector, and homeowners are often unaware that it is there.Have a professional test for mold throughout the home.
Cloudy black patches on walls, ceilings, and shower curtains are signs that there is mold present; a professional can help you determine the extent of the problem.
 Using a test kit purchased at a home improvement store or online, test for the presence of radon in your home. Along with mold, radon is another significant issue that homeowners are often unaware of preceding an inspection. Radon is a naturally occurring gas beneath the surface of the Earth that sometimes enters homes through cracks in the home’s foundation.Radon is a commonly known carcinogen, and home inspectors may test for it if testing is required by law where you live or if you have paid extra for it.
Radon in the air can be remediated relatively easily, and should be addressed as quickly as possible. Radon in your home’s water supply is a much more significant issue.
The benchmark frequently used to determine the level that requires remediation in water is any presence of Radon above 4.0 pCi/L (picocuries per liter).
You can also install a radon detector.
 Ensure basement walls are free of any substantial cracks, and reseal any minor cracks that are present. Make sure below-ground crawl spaces have vapor barriers or have them installed. Further, if your basement or crawl space has windows below ground level, make sure each has a clean, intact window well and cover.Though easy to overlook, there are a few things that should never be stored in basements or crawl spaces — including paints, solvents, and other flammable liquids. Remove them if they are present in these areas.
 Address any issues with your home to the greatest extent possible. If you do not have the funds or time to fix substantial issues, fill out a seller disclosure form in detail, listing all of the defects you are aware of.Disclosure forms are required in many states, and are recommended even when not required.
Your negotiations may be detrimentally affected by defects in the home that are identified by a home inspection ordered by a potential buyer. Be upfront about any known defects.
 Consider ordering a home inspection of your own before you put your house on the market. While prospective buyers will usually be the ones hiring a home inspector for an unbiased assessment of the home, it may be worth hiring one of your own to make sure you are aware of any issues that need to be addressed.


Further, have a home inspection already completed so you can show favorable assessments to prospective buyers or share information about any issues you’ve already addressed.
Attending the inspection may help your inspector point out specific issues that need to be addressed.

