 Pneumonia is divided into two broad types that are caused by different things and are treated differently — community-acquired pneumonias (CAP) and hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), which will be discussed later. CAP consists pneumonia caused by typical bacteria, atypical bacteria, and respiratory viruses.


CAP is the kind of pneumonia most people contract in their daily lives. CAP is more dangerous in the elderly, the very young, and those with a compromised immune system, such as those with diabetes, with HIV, on chemotherapy, and taking steroid medications. CAP can range from a mild case treated at home to a case with acute respiratory failure and death., The symptoms of pneumonia can vary from mild to severe, depending on the type of germ causing the pneumonia and how badly the patient is infected. If you notice any of these symptoms, see your doctor immediately to get treated. The longer you wait, the worse you can get. Symptoms of CAP include:A productive cough
Mucus with a thick texture, which may be green, yellow, or red tinged
Severe chest pain when a deep breath is taken
Fever greater than 100.4°F (38°C), but often 101 to 102°F (38.3 to 38.9°C)
Chills or involuntary shaking
Shortness of breath, which can be mild to severe
Rapid breathing, which is more common in child cases
Drop in oxygen saturation in the lungs

, When you see your doctor, they will check for all the common symptoms. In addition to this, he or she will also take a chest radiograph, which will show how your lungs are affected. If your doctor see an area of white patchy consolidation on a lobe of the lung, which should usually be black, you likely have pneumonia. There may be a parapneumonic effusion, or collection of fluid, adjacent to the area of infection.


Blood tests are not typically needed in mild cases of pneumonia. However, if your case is more advanced, your doctor may take labs such as a complete blood count, a basic metabolic panel, a mucus specimen, and cultures. , There are certain circumstances in which you may need to see immediate medical care. Even if you have been treated, you should seek immediate medical help if your symptoms get worse. Get to a doctor or emergency room as soon as possible if:You become confused about time, people or places
Your nausea and vomiting prevent you from keeping down oral antibiotics
Your blood pressure drops
Your breathing is rapid
You need breathing assistance
Your temperature is higher than 102°F (38.9°C)
Your temperature is below normal

