 If you are feeling angry with your mom, let her know in a nice way. Tell her that she did something to upset you. Let her know how that made you feel. Although this may be easier said than done, be sure to talk to your mom in a calm manner so that you can resolve whatever conflict you are having.Do not scream and yell at you mom. This will likely only make her more upset with you.
When you talk to your mom, be clear about your emotions and say things like “I’m mad at you because…” or “I feel angry because…”
If you feel like your mom is more strict with you than your other siblings, you can say something like “I’m mad at you because you always punish me and not Steve!”
If you are upset because you feel like you do more than your fair share of chores, say something like “I’m frustrated because I feel like I am the only one who has to take out the trash and sweep the floors.”;
, If you feel like you are going to yell at your mom, try to put some space between you and her. Let your mom know that you are upset with her and that you are taking a timeout to cool down. Go outside and walk around or go to another room. Giving yourself some space will help you calm down and not lash out at your mom.This is a very mature thing to do and your mom should be proud your responsible attitude.
Say something like “I’m upset and I’m going to my room to cool down.”

, Humor can be a great way to deal with anger. If you are feeling upset with your mom, try expressing your displeasure in a funny way. Say something absurd to convey that you are upset but in a way that diffuses the tension. However, do not be harsh or sarcastic with your mom. This is rude and will likely only make the situation worse.If you are upset because your sibling gets to do something and you do not, say something like “I’m angry that Tim gets to go roller skating and I don’t. I’m not as upset as I’d be if he got to go to Mars without me, but I’m upset.”

, If you get upset with your mom, draw a picture of what she did and how that made you feel. Show her the picture and explain to her why you drew it. This will help you convey your emotions in a way that your mom can help you with., Instead of yelling at your mom, put your feelings down on paper and then share them with her. Give her your note and let her read it on her own. Once she has read it, talk with her about how you feel., The most important thing to remember when expressing your anger towards your mom is to be respectful. Do not scream and yell at her. Do not be mean and say hurtful things. Do not hit your mom or be violent with her. Although you may have these urges, try to avoid them and be nice to your mom.


If you are having a hard time calming down, try focusing on the things that your mom has done for you. That might help give you some perspective.

