 That is, if you were to draw a straight line from where the ball is on the field to where the goal is that you are defending, you should be positioned right on that line. This prevents the other team from hitting the ball straight down the field toward the goal.


Protecting the goal and the center of the field is your first priority. You want to force them to play the ball on the sides of the field, where it’s less dangerous.;
, When your team has the ball higher up the field (i.e. near the goal you are trying to score on), don’t get stuck too far back. Keep pushing up to support the midfielders and forwards.


When the other team regains possession, start backpedaling to retreat toward your own goal. Running backwards allows you to keep your eye on the ball at all times.
Make sure you also don’t push too far up in case the other team has a counterattack and you have to sprint back down the entire length of the field. You should never be much farther than the 50 yard line.
 The center back, right back, and left back should be readjusting as a unit according to where the ball is moving on the field. They should staggered on a diagonal line so as to not be caught in a flat line and risk being beat simultaneously.


For example, when an opponent is dribbling down the field on your right side, the right defender (closest to the ball) will step up to put pressure on that player. The center defender will remain in the center of the field but will be a few steps behind the line of the right defender. The left defender (furthest from the ball) will be staggered even further behind the center defender.
If the ball moves from one side to the other, the whole defensive line moves like a teeter totter. This allows for the other two defenders behind to be back-up support in case the first defender gets beat., Even if the action is far away and you feel like you have nothing to do defensively, you should always be checked into the game and adjusting your position, both laterally and vertically. That way, if something unexpected happens and the other team has a counterattack, you are already in position and ready to defend.
 You should be the closest to the goal you are defending (or the “deepest” on the field), with your left and right defenders at about 45 degree angles on either side of you.


This allows you to pass to them easily and move the ball up the field along the sidelines.
When your side defenders have the ball, you being on a slightly backwards angle helps them to safely pass back to you and away from danger in case they can’t go forward.

