 People nearing the end of life deserve the best care, wherever that may be. The care plan you (or your loved ones) decide on should take account of your physical needs, but also your wishes and desires. This requires serious discussion with your doctor and with your spouse, children, siblings, friends, or anyone else who is helping you plan.Determine with your doctor whether you now need end of life care. Usually, this means that you’re likely to die within 12 months and includes people with a terminal illness like cancer, people who are frail and in failing health, or are at risk for acute life-threatening events like a stroke.
Ask what services you will need. Someone who is frail and elderly might have a different prognosis and needs than someone, say, with terminal cancer. Your doctor may advise immediate care in hospice, for example, or you might be fine with at-home care but need to plan, eventually, for hospice.
Consider your condition and how it will change as you move toward death. Do you expect cognitive impairment or difficulty getting around? Is there a possibility you’ll be in pain? Talk with your doctor about how to make things easier, whether through caregivers, physiotherapy, or pain management.;
, It used to be that most people died at home. Today, there are many options and most Americans end life with some kind of medical care – either in a care home, a hospital, or hospice. Keep in mind that there’s no “right” place to die, only the best place for you. With your doctor and loved ones, decide on the plan and place that suits your needs.You might choose home care, either while you’re still well and mobile or at the very end. Home is familiar and friends and family can come and go freely. However, home care might be physically and mentally hard on loved ones.
For home care, you’ll also have to arrange medical services like caregivers or visiting nurses as well as get necessary equipment. This might be a hospital bed, oxygen tanks, or other supplies. Your doctor should oversee your care at home and help with services, adjust treatment, and make you as comfortable as possible.
The hospital may be an option if you’re acutely ill, and having knowledgeable doctors and staff on call can be reassuring. However, hospitals aren’t usually equipped for long-term care.
More and more people are using nursing homes for end of life care today. Staff are always present and, in long-term care, often build strong relationships with patients. Nursing care can feel less impersonal than hospital care.
Keep in mind that hospice care – making you as comfortable as possible before death – can be offered at home or in a nursing home or hospital.
 Talk to your doctor about what services are available in your area – whether hospice, hospitals, or nursing homes. This is part of the doctor’s job. She should at least be able to provide you with suggestions or with contact information for care services.If you are in the United States, contact the federal government’s Eldercare Locator for help in finding these services. They have a toll-free number: 800-677-1116. Also try your local social services agency or Agency on Aging, Aging and Disability Resource Center, and Department of Human Services.
You may have to look for a full-time caregiver, who can help with dressing, bathing, food preparation, and giving medicine. Try home care agencies, visiting nurse associations, or informal providers like friends, neighbors, or family.
There may also be community-based services in your area. Some areas have meal programs, transport programs, or care during the day.
 Nursing homes can provide long-term support, whether your prognosis is a number of weeks or months or is unclear. They also offer graded levels of care as your condition progresses. However, you’ll want to find a facility that meets your needs.Visit Medicare’s website to look for facilities in your area. It will allow you to compare the level and quality of care of every Medicare- and Medicaid certified center in the country. There are also survey findings for facilities.
You can also call your state’s health department and licensing agency to learn about past complaints or investigations of centers.
 Try to visit care centers that you’re interested in, if possible, or have a loved one visit on your behalf. There are many factors to consider and ask about before you commit, including staffing, level of care, location/accessibility, and maybe even issues of language or culture.Be sure that the center has the staff and means to enact your care plan.
Ask about the quality of life. Can you have visitors at any time? Are there activities or transport? Do you get to choose when to get up, eat, and sleep?
Will you be fully comfortable? Some people might want a place where they can attend religious services, for example, or where staff speak their native language. The latter can be very important in dementia care.
Ask who your doctors will be. Can you continue to see your normal doctor, too? You might also ask whether or not you’ll have the same caregivers every day.
Take into account the facility’s location and whether or not your friends and loved ones will be able to visit you often.
Be sure to inquire about the availability of beds. You may be able to move in right away, or you may have to be put on a waiting list.
 Hospice care centers are not for everyone. In fact, there are rules about who qualifies: usually, you have to be actively dying with hard to manage pain or other symptoms. The average stay is only a few days.Check with your doctor, the local social services agency, a social worker, or Eldercare Locator to find out about nearby facilities.
Be sure to ask whether programs are fully certified and licensed. Ask about the process of being accepted as a patient, as well.
Keep in mind that you may not qualify. Patients must normally have a prognosis of less than six months and have given up regular treatments. If you improve, you may be sent to home hospice or long-term nursing care.
 Contact your local social services, Aging Resource Center, or Department of Human Services for help in arranging home care. They can direct you toward a home health care agency. As said above, you may need to find an in-home caregiver and to arrange for medical supplies and equipment. If you’re being sent home from the hospital, a discharge planner can assist you with this, as well.Consider what your needs will be. A bed? A wheelchair? A bedside commode, stair-lift, or oxygen tanks? You or loved ones may need to arrange for these items.
Ask about home health care providers, as well. Some health agencies specialize in home end of life care, whether for dementia, cancer, or other terminal illnesses, and offer things like nurse visitation and supplies. They can work with you to make all the necessary arrangements.
 Homes aren’t usually designed for caregiving. Besides supplies and equipment, you’ll have to make sure that your home will be safe as your illness progresses. Pay special attention to the bedroom, bathroom, and hallways, with advice from your doctor and health providers.


Consider having handles installed in your bathroom shower for stability and for raising and lowering yourself. You may also consider getting a raised toilet seat and installing a grab bar on the wall near the toilet to help yourself get up and down. No-skid shower mats can also prevent falls.
Consider handrails in high traffic areas, to help you move from room to room. You might also want a stair-lift to access an upstairs bedroom. Guardrails on beds are a must, too.
Make provisions for limited mobility. Are there clear paths between rooms? Can you navigate over carpets and through door ways with a walker or wheelchair?
Do you have a direct way to communicate while caregivers are out of the room, like a medical alert button, room monitor, or bell?

, You and loved ones will need to work with hospice care if you qualify, to set up a plan that meets your needs. This will include 24-hour on-call hospice doctor and nurses, caregivers, and possibly include pain management (palliative care). The arrangements can normally be made for your home.Try contacting your state hospice organization to find services in the area. Make sure that the providers they recommend are fully accredited.
Find out how your regular doctor will work with the hospice provider’s doctor, how often the staff will discuss care with you and your family, and how many other patients the staff has.
Ask how the hospice provider responds to after-hours emergencies, as well.
 To get the best end of life care you can, start thinking about the issues early. What sort of care do you want as you face death? Where do you want to be? Who do you want to make decisions, if you can’t decide for yourself? Talk to your loved ones and tell them your wishes.Have an ongoing conversation with your loved ones – let them know if you don’t want to be resuscitated, for example, or would prefer to be at home when the end comes. You should also talk to your loved ones about your wishes regarding things like intubation, artificial feeding for nutrition, and dialysis.
 There are certain ways to ensure you get the care you want, even if you are incapacitated or not able to make decisions anymore. These should be done in advance, and include writing a legal will, drawing up a “Do not resuscitate” (DNR) order, and choosing a health care proxy.Write a living will. This document sets out what kind of treatment you want or don’t want if terminally ill, unconscious, or near death. It is a legal document – drawn up with a lawyer – and can specify if, when, or how long you can be given feeding tubes, a ventilator, dialysis, and other treatments.
A DNR order means that doctors will make no attempt to revive you if you go into cardiac arrest. No CPR, in other words. You can inform your doctor of your wishes and she will make a note of it in your file. Also, be sure to mention your desire for DNR in any living will.
You should also consider naming a close, trusted loved one as your health care proxy. A health care proxy involves giving that person – a spouse, child, sibling, friend, or other relative – “durable power of attorney for health care” if you are unable to make decisions. The person you designate as your health care proxy will have the right to act on your behalf and decide on care. You can fill out a healthy care proxy form at your doctor's office or at a hospital upon admission.
 The end of your life may involve a good deal of health care, and this health care may be costly. The type of care you receive will also affect costs, which may or may not be covered by your insurance or Medicare. Since end of life care can be so expensive, it’s important to plan ahead with your loved ones.Review your funds. To pay for care, your resources can include Social Security, savings, stocks and bonds, and pensions. Review your insurance coverage, as well. Many insurance plans offer little or no provision for end of life care – which you should try to change, if you can.
Leverage your home, if need be. If paid down, you may be able to use your home as an asset to support end of life care by securing a reverse mortgage. Unlike regular mortgages, reverse mortgages don’t have to be repaid until the homeowner dies or leaves the home.
If eligible, make sure you are enrolled in Medicare. Federal Medicare insurance usually covers some palliative care treatments. It also has a hospice benefit, provided you are certified as terminally ill and agree to use a Medicare approved hospice provider. Among other things, it covers medical visits, equipment, supplies, medications for pain relief, grief support for family. However, many people do not know about or use this benefit.Make sure that you take advantage of your hospice benefit.

