 Unexploded ordnance (UXO) is a term used to denote any kind of explosive weapons, such as bombs, grenades, and artillery shells, that have been used but have not yet exploded - "duds," in other words - and that retain the potential to detonate. Landmines are sometimes considered a type of UXO, and while mines receive the most media attention, all UXOs are dangerous. In some parts of the world, UXO other than mines present the greatest hazard.
 Anytime that you are traveling to an unfamiliar area, it's wise to learn about the history of that area to determine if there is a landmine risk. Areas that are experiencing armed conflict are clearly high-risk, but landmines and UXOs remain dangerous long after the cessation of hostilities.


In Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos, for example, millions of mines and dud bombs remain, and even in Belgium, long combat-free, crews have removed hundreds of tons of UXO, left over from WWI and WWII, in the past few years.
 While you can't always count on minefields being marked, you should definitely stay away from those that are. Internationally recognized symbols for minefields include a skull-and-crossbones and a red triangle. Signs are often, but not always, red, and they frequently say "MINES" or "DANGER."


Where signs are not present, improvised warnings are often used, such as painted rocks (red usually indicates the boundary of the minefield, and white indicates a safe path through it), piles of stones, flags in the ground, tied grass, or ribbons cordoning off an area.

Many minefields have no warning signs, so don't take the lack of a warning sign as an indication that the area is safe.
 Mine warnings often don't last long. Over time, plants, weather, animals and people dismantle or conceal signs. In some areas, metal signs are a valuable building material, and it's not uncommon to see a mine warning used, for example, to patch a metal roof. What's more, in many places, warnings are never installed. Local people, however, often know the general locations of mines and UXO, so your best bet when traveling in potentially dangerous territory is to ask the locals whether an area is safe, or better yet, get a guide.
 Except in active combat situations, if people regularly use a path, you can be sure it is not mined. Just off the path, however, danger may be lurking.

