 Social anxiety can take many forms, and a fear of being judged by others is often present in those who suffer from it. Being afraid of what others think about you can hold you back, preventing you from engaging fully with others.Ask yourself, “Do I avoid speaking up or hanging out with others because I am afraid of being judged?”;
, Consider whether you feel extremely uncomfortable or self-conscious when you are in public, professional, or personal situations. Extreme self-consciousness is common in people who suffer from social anxiety, and can prevent you from engaging in activities that you want to enjoy.Ask yourself, “Does feeling like others are constantly observing or watching me prevent me from doing the things I enjoy?”

, Meeting new people is an important part of the human experience. It opens professional doors, enhances your emotional life, and contributes to positive mental health. Avoiding meeting new people is a sign that social anxiety is holding you back in life.Ask yourself, “Do I make excuses so that I do not have to meet new people at work or in my social life?”

, Sometimes social anxiety can make it hard to talk to people at work or school, go to the grocery store, or make phone calls to schedule important appointments. If you find it difficult to do these things, it is a sign that social anxiety may be preventing you from living life to the fullest., When you constantly feel as though you are being judged or observed, it can be difficult to maintain relationships with friends, family, and romantic partners. Social anxiety can affect how we treat those closest to us, preventing the development of intimacy and trust.Ask yourself, “Am I controlling or clingy in my social relationships? Does this have negative outcomes?”
Ask yourself, “Do I ignore or argue with others because I am anxious or insecure about the relationship?”

, It is common for those suffering from social anxiety to experience problems in the workplace. Social skills like being a team player, networking, and cultivating healthy relationships with your colleagues are all instrumental parts of a successful career. Social anxiety can make it difficult to fully engage in these professional activities.Ask yourself, “Does my anxiety prevent me from effectively networking with others in my field?”
Ask yourself, “Am I afraid to present new ideas at work for fear of being judged or humiliated?”

