 Come up with a question that can be tested with a science experiment. Try to choose a topic related to the science you are learning in class, and that you're interested in. Your parents and teacher can help you choose a topic, or you can get ideas from the examples above. You could also try searching science experiment websites such as ScienceBob.


For the examples in this section, we'll start with the question "How do earthworms respond to music?"

, The most important thing to remember is that you can only change one thing during your experiment. If you change more than one thing at a time, you won't know which change was responsible for your results. Choose something that you can control, not something that will change when you don't want it to.


For example, design an experiment where you keep earthworms in a box of dirt, and play several different kinds of music to them, such as classical music, jazz music, and rock music. Keep the container type, volume of the music, and type of dirt the same each time, so you are only testing one thing.
 This prediction is called a hypothesis. Make a prediction that will be tested by the experiment, and come up with a clear answer. Include the reasons you think your prediction is accurate.


Good example hypothesis: "I think that more worms will come to the surface when rock music is played, than when classical music or jazz music is played. The rock music is louder, so more worms might try to get away from it."
Bad example hypothesis: "I think the worms will react more to the rock music." This doesn't explain what "react" means, so it will be hard to see whether the hypothesis is correct. It also doesn't explain why the experimenter thinks this is true.
 If your experiment involves dangerous liquids, fire, electricity, or sharp objects, ask an adult for help. Safety goggles and gloves are recommended for some of these experiments.


You do not need any safety equipment for the example worm experiment.
 Gather all your materials and decide exactly how each step is going to happen. Write down all the details involved, even if they don't seem important.


For example, write down or sketch the position of the music source and the box, the volume setting, how many worms are in the box, and what exact music tracks you'll be using.
 You'll need to record your experiment in detail while it happens. Draw a grid and label each column with a different measurement. Here are some example columns for the worm experiment:


Test number (this just gives you an easy way to refer to each test)
Type of music played
Number of worms at the surface before music began
Number of worms at the surface after 10 seconds
Number of worms at the surface after 20 seconds (and so on up to 60 seconds)

, If you have enough paper, you can include a "Comments" section on your chart. You can also write this on a separate page. This just gives you a chance to mention anything unusual that affected your experiment, such as "Five worms escaped the box after experiment four. I covered the hole in the box with cardboard, then put five new worms in the box."

, Start the experiment, recording all the data in your chart as it happens. It's a good idea to repeat each test at least three times, so you get a more accurate idea of what's happening. For example:


Play classical music to the worms for 60 seconds, timing it with a stopwatch and recording your data. Repeat this experiment three times, waiting for five minutes of silence in between each experiment.
Repeat using jazz music and rock music three times each.
 Most science experiments end up with data that can be turned into a bar graph or line graph. This makes it easier to read your results, and is often required for school projects.


For instance, draw a line graph with "# of Seconds Music was Played" as the x-axis, and "# of Worms at Surface" as the y-axis. Draw one graph for each type of music, using three lines on each to represent the three trials with that music.
 Write a conclusion that answers these questions: Was your hypothesis correct? What happened that didn't match your hypothesis? Why do you think it might have happened?

, Scientists include information that would help the next experimenter do a better job, or discover a new question to answer. Identifying "problems" doesn't mean you failed. It just shows that your experiment taught you more about the project, and that you could do a better one now if you decided to try. For example:


If worms escaped your box, explain what type of container could be used instead.
If someone wanted to be able to tell whether worms were burrowing downward, he could use a clear, glass container.
Experimenting with one type of music at different volumes could help find out whether that's more important than the type of music.
 If you're doing a science fair project, you'll usually make a large display on a piece of poster board. Print or write the details of your experiment in large text, and include labeled images and charts.


Your science teacher might have special requirements not listed here, so be sure to ask her for details.

