 Admission into a school of nursing requires a high school diploma or, alternately, passing the General Education Development (GED) test.If you want to be a nurse, pay attention to your performance, skill, and interest in courses like biology, physiology, and chemistry throughout high school. The knowledge from these courses will be important in your post-secondary education.


The foundation of nursing is science. If you don’t like science but are interested in nursing in high school you should talk with your school counselor about arranging a day or two to shadow a nurse.
Don't get discouraged if these subjects don't come easily to you. Consider hiring a private tutor to help you in your math and science courses in order to improve and develop effective study and learning strategies.;
, There are three ways to become a registered nurse. Whatever path you choose, the coursework involved will include physiology, biology, chemistry, nutrition, and anatomy.Bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN). This level of education is like a bachelor’s program in all other fields. It is awarded by a college or university and usually takes four years to complete. Class offerings are more diverse than other settings and include community health, pharmacology, health assessment, microbiology, human development and clinical practice. A BSN qualifies you for a higher pay grade and a wider variety of certifications and promotions on the job.This is the preferred level of education for new hires at most hospitals.Associate's degree in nursing (ADN). This is the most common way to obtain a registered nursing license and involves a two-year program at a community or junior college. Many students transition to BSN programs after having completed an ASN and holding an entry-level nursing position. In these cases, nurses are able get further education using an employer's tuition assistance program; they're also able to work and earn an income while getting the next level of education.Diploma from an accredited nursing program. You can also be eligible for licensure by completing a vocational nursing program. These accredited programs are often associated with a hospital and vary in length, though they are typically up to three years long. In this program, classroom learning, clinical practice, and on-the-job training are combined. This education path is on the decline since the National Advisory Council on Nursing Education and Practice recommends that at least 66% of the workforce hold a BSN in nursing or higher., The national accreditation agency for nursing schools is the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education. This agency ensures the quality and integrity of bachelor, graduate, and residency programs in nursing. Accreditation is voluntary but ensures that colleges and schools providing nursing education are operating at the same professional level and educating future nurses in a manner which ensures that they can provide effective and standardized care., During your nursing program, you will do a rotation in surgery for a brief time. This is an ideal time to discover whether this is an area you'd like to work in in the future.


If this is an area that interests you, speak with your clinical instructor about getting more time to observe in the operating room.
 Registered nurses in the United States must have a nursing license. Take the National Council Licensure Examination - Registered Nurse (NCLEX-RN) once you have graduated from your accredited program and thus have completed the appropriate education requirements. This test is the nationally recognized licensing exam for registered nurses.Prerequisites to and fees for the exam may differ between states. Check with the requirements for your state, or for the state you plan on practicing in.
Most states have reciprocation agreements, meaning that if you pass your exam in one state, you’ll be able to apply for and receive a license in any other state without retaking the test as long as your license is free from any encumbrances. In other words, if there isn’t anything that would disqualify the state from issuing a license, such as stealing drugs or felony conviction.
 There are more than two million nurses in the United States, making the position the largest in the healthcare field. There are a variety of settings in which a nurse can work, including hospitals, physician's offices, elderly care homes, prisons, college campuses and schools.


Nurses with a bachelor's degree (BSN) have better employment prospects than those who do not.
Most surgical units will only hire nurses who have had one year of experience in other areas of the hospital. Experience working in the recovery room or in the operating room will help you determine if you want to pursue this career path.

