 Eye contact and smiling are signals that indicate that you are interested in someone else.If she returns your glances or smiles back, then it might be a sign that she would feel comfortable talking to you.


Other signs that she may like you is if keeps looking into your direction or plays with her hair when she's looking at you.Don't stare into her direction and make her feel uncomfortable. Just look at her long enough for her to notice.;
, Keep your shoulders back and your posture straight while you maintain your smile. Doing this will show the girl that you feel confident in your actions and may make her more receptive to talking to you. Don't slouch, look scared, or look unsure.Don't rush up to the girl. Walk slowly, deliberately, and with confidence.
It's easier to approach a girl if you know who she is or have interacted with her in the past.
If she's talking to someone else, wait until their conversation is over before walking up to her.
 If you haven't interacted with the girl in the past, she may not know your name. Make sure that you introduce yourself, then ask her a question to get the conversation started.


Good questions include "Are you having a good day?" and "Don't we have the same class together?"
If you share the same hobby or interest, ask them a question about your hobby. Say something like "My favorite artist is Drake. Who do you like?"

, Once the conversation dies down, go and do something else. If she doesn't want to talk to you, she may just be nervous. In both cases, walk away and then try to talk to her again in the future.


If you aren't good at maintaining a conversation, that's okay, because chances are the girl you'll be talking to will have a lot to say.Pay attention to what she's talking about and respond to what she's saying.
The more you listen and allow her to talk, the more likely she will want to talk to you in the future.
Don't interject or try to speak over her.
Don't be overbearing with advice if she asks you for it. Suggest what you think is best, but say "It's up to you in the end."

, If you go to the same school as a girl, you may have a chance to approach them during lunch or recess. If you have the same teachers, see if you can speak to them before or after class. If none of your classes are the same, then try to catch them in the hallway between classes or at other events that your school is hosting.


If you play the same sport, see if you can talk to her before or after practice.
Take opportunities to be in the same group for classroom assignments or projects.
Don't expect it to be a long conversation when you first start talking to a girl. Start with short talks until she feels comfortable with you.
 Try to find common interests with the girl. It could be a video game, music, cartoon, show, movie, or comic book character that you both like. If you can find a shared interest, you'll have a lot more to talk about.


Try to notice things about what she owns and wears. For instance, if she has a shirt with her favorite show, then you'll know what kind of shows she's interested in.
 Fifth grade is a hard year for both girls and boys. Girls are usually undergoing changes physically and emotionally, so it's important you try to see things from their perspective.If she doesn't like you, it's not your fault. It just means that she prefers other things.


Try to find another girl to approach if the one that you like is giving you the cold shoulder.
 An excellent way to put someone at ease is to be funny. If people know that you're a funny person, it won't be as stressful for the girl if you approach her. This is particularly the case in situations that would otherwise be awkward or tense.


If you can make a girl laugh at your jokes, it will make approaching her feel much less stressful.

