 Its icon resembles a block of dirt with the word "Minecraft" displayed across it.

If you don't have Minecraft PE yet, first download it from the App Store (iPhone) or the Google Play Store (Android). It costs $6.99 USD to download.;
, This button is in the bottom-right corner of the screen; doing so will prompt you to enter your Xbox LIVE gamertag information., You'll enter this in the text field on this page.

If you don't have an Xbox LIVE gamertag, first go to the Xbox LIVE website and create a gamertag.
 It's near the bottom of the page., Enter it in the text field that's in the middle of the page., It's near the bottom of the page., This will take you to the main menu., It's near the top of the page. From here, you can join an existing server if you have the appropriate information, or you can create your own server to which you may invite friends., This tab is in the top-right corner of the screen., It's the multiple boxes icon on the far-right side of the "Add Friend" button., You'll need to type in the server's name and the server's address in the top and middle fields, respectively.

There is a third field on this page labeled "Port", but Minecraft PE will fill it in automatically for you.
If you don't have a server to user here, you can also look for public servers to join. Such servers post their names, IP addresses, and any other information needed to log into the server.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the "Add External Server" form. Doing so will save the server to a list on the "Friends" tab.

You can also tap Play in the bottom-left corner of this page to jump right into the server.
 If all of the information you added is correct and the server is online, doing so will load the server. This process may take a few minutes., This option is at the top of the "New World" tab., This option allows you to create your own world for up to four friends to join; however, all of your friends must be using the same Wi-Fi network as you., This tab is in the bottom-left corner of the screen.

You'll also see a World tab in the bottom-left side of the screen; you can customize your world's settings from here.
 This option is near the top of the screen.

If the switch is already on, you'll see two options entitled "Broadcast to Xbox Live" and "Broadcast to LAN" listed on the page in addition to the "Multiplayer Game" option.
 It's in the middle-left side of the screen. Your custom game will launch., This button is at the top of the screen., It's in the upper-right corner of the pause screen., You may invite up to four people (not including yourself).

If you don't have friends yet, you can tap Add Friend in the bottom-left corner of the screen to add people's gamertags to your profile.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Once your friends join your server, you'll be able to play online with them.

The "#" part reflects the number of friends you invite; for example, if you invite three friends, the button will say Send 3 Invites.

