 Lady Gaga shows people what she’s made of by standing out in wild clothing and makeup. Anything that includes glitter, sequins and bows are Gaga enough!;
, People who take over the world Gaga style do not care what people think about how they dress. Lady Gaga wears accessories that are not common. Try wearing that babyish headband that you haven't worn since you were four. If you can, wear old fashion accessories that nobody wears anymore and bring them back to life and back in style.
 Lady gaga’s life is also involved in partying and clubbing. Search for the clubs that are well known. Ask a group of friends to come along with you. See warnings for this step.
 Lady gaga recently keeps her hair a light honey blonde, but you are concerned about dying your hair you could buy a wig or keep your hair the way it is and just make it look awesomely crazy. Lady Gaga makes a bow in her hair, but if you are not sure how to make a bow in your hair, Buy a wig with a Lady Gaga bow in it.
 Lady Gaga shows her skin too much a lot of the time, but showing too much skin is inappropriate. So instead, make the skin that you already have beautiful so that you can get a similar 'wow' effect. Exfoliate often and take care of your skin well.
 This doesn't mean show as much skin as Lady Gaga, this just means get clothing that looks jaw-dropping amazing on you. Try wearing some red leather every so often for a 'bad girl' effect, or even wear an outfit that you designed and made yourself! Also wear loads of sparkles/glitter!

, Why not try singing one of her songs or even doing some research on her and her life?

, You become more well-known if you join social network sites. Also, send Lady Gaga a friend request.
 It could be anything from ‘savvy geek’ to ‘electro kitty.’ People often remember somebody just for a short, great nickname.
 Apply a thick layer of black or navy blue eyeliner around your eyes, and then on the eyelid add a shiny purple or silver eye shadow so that you look a bit like a robot (Lady Gaga often has this robotic look). Apply a rich gold or a red lipstick.

