 Build a medium-size campfire or bonfire in a safe location, away from any buildings or trees. If you can, use a well-maintained fire pit or a dedicated fire area. Clear away any leaves, garbage or other debris. As well as posing a safety hazard, an area littered with these things isn't befitting the dignity of the flag.


Wait for the fire to reach a strong but steady burn. The fire should be strong enough to incinerate the entire flag, but not so intense that it may blow partially burnt flag pieces out of the fire.
Avoid disposing of the flag on particularly windy days. If the flag blows away while it's burning, it can pose a serious fire hazard.
Check local burning ordinances in your area. Some jurisdictions prohibit constructing fires without first obtaining permission from the local government. Visit the Environmental Protection Agency website for more information.;
, Flags that are worn, tattered, or soiled beyond repair should be respectfully retired. If the flag is currently flying, slowly lower it with respect and remove it from its pole. Fold the flag into its traditional triangle fold. If you're unsure how to properly fold a flag, consult our guide or visit the Veterans of Foreign Wars websitefor instructions.


Always handle the flag with care and respect. Don't place it on the ground or put anything on top of it as you carry it to the fire.
 Place the flag in the center of the flames, taking care not to burn yourself. If the fire is too hot for you to be able to place the flag directly into the fire, wait for it to die down - don't toss the flag into the fire from a distance. Watch the flag - make sure that it is burned safely and completely. Incompletely burning the flag before disposing of it is considered undignified. Don't place the flag into the fire without folding it first. Besides being disrespectful, a loose, billowy flag can easy float or blow away.
 As the flag burns, observe it with reverence. You can even show your respect for the flag in your words or actions - you may salute the flag or observe a moment of silence. Whatever you choose to do, be sure to remain respectful and reverent as the flag as it is retired. Never chat, make jokes, or divert your attention (for instance, to a cell phone) as the flag burns.


Official government flag retirements are accompanied by an elaborate ceremony where the flag is formally presented, recognized, and destroyed. If you're at home, you may want to give a short speech before or after burning the flag. If you do, focus on the symbolism of the flag - what does it represent to you? Does it make you feel sad to retire it? Why are you sad to see it go?

, As the flag is destroyed, take a moment to honor it with the Pledge of Allegiance. Receiving the Pledge of Allegiance is a noble, fitting final duty for your flag. The flag is more than a piece of fabric - it represents liberty and justice and it commemorates the sacrifices made by brave men and women to uphold these ideals. Show your commitment to the flag and the ideals it represents by swearing yourself to it with the Pledge of Allegiance.


The words of the Pledge of Allegiance are: "I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."


, When no flag material remains, you may put the fire out. Alternatively, you may allow the fire to gradually and safely burn out on its own (if you do this, don't leave the fire unattended as it burns out.) Exercise proper fire safety protocols when putting a fire out. If you have built a campfire, completely douse the coals with water.


Don't bury hot coals when other people are around, especially if they're barefoot (for instance, as they may be at a public beach) - you can cause serious burns.
 The steps above detail a simplified DIY process for disposing of an American flag. They're ideal if, for instance, you want to retire a flag you've been flying at home. However, if you have access to trained members of a color guard and are comfortable leading formal ceremonies and/or issuing commands to the color guard, you may choose to conduct a formal flag retirement ceremony similar to the one performed by the Boys and Girl Scouts. See How to Retire a U.S. Flag for more information.


These formal ceremonies are also a good choice if you have a large number of flags to retire, as they use just one flag to represent all of the flags being retired that day. When retiring flags en masse, it's often very impractical to give each individual flag its own retirement ceremony.

