 Being organized will make it easier for you to be prepared, and being prepared will make it easier for you to handle your fear of the unknown.Knowing where you’re supposed to be, when you’re supposed to be there, what materials you’ll need, and where those materials are will help a lot. It will eliminate a lot of your fear because you’ll have control over some of the factors that may worry you.


For example, you may be a great basketball player and want to join a team, but may be anxious because you don’t know how it will go. Get organized and find out when tryouts are and what you skills you’ll have to demonstrate. Then prepare by practicing.
Or, for instance, if you’re afraid of asking your crush out, you might prepare by finding out more about them and giving yourself a pep talk.
 It’s said that “knowledge is power” and when dealing with fear of the unknown this can be true. The more you know about a situation, the better you can prepare yourself for it and address any fears about it.Find out everything you can about the situation so that you can get organized and prepared to address it.


Ask questions. For example, ask your mom for more information about her new partner. The more you know about the person, the more prepared you’ll be to include them in your life (or not).
Get online or go to the library and find out what you can. For example, you might do an online search about traveling abroad to help you deal with your fear of what might happen overseas.
 Your friends and family can help you address your fear of the unknown in a lot of ways. They can help you get organized and prepared, answer questions or help you find information, and encourage you. Let the people close to you know about your fear so that they can help you deal with it.


For instance, you might tell your best friend, “I’m afraid of going to the dance. I don’t know what might happen. Can you help me deal with this because I do want to go.”
Or, for example, you might ask your dad, “Would you help me with driving. I want to get my license but I’m afraid of all the different things that could happen. Can you answer some questions for me?”

