 There are some natural remedies that might work to treat your headache. As with any natural remedy, always know the side effects and allergy potential of the remedy, as well any times you should not use the remedy (such as while pregnant, if you’re already sick, etc.) Be aware that natural remedies are often not backed with scientific research or approved by the FDA or other licensing agencies.
 Look for standardized herbal supplements that contain a specified amount of the active ingredient in every dose. There are several herbal remedies that are considered to have value for getting rid of headaches.Note, however, that the scientific support for or extensive studies on the effectiveness of many of these supplements varies. As with any treatment, use with caution, and stop using them immediately if you experience unpleasant side-effects.Butterbur. Studies show that butterbur can reduce migraine frequency.Take two 25mg capsules daily for 12 weeks to reduce the occurrence of migraines by up to 60%. Do not consume butterbur plants directly, as they contain toxic elements that are removed when made into capsules.Ginger. In addition to treating headache pain, ginger can help treat nausea and vomiting, which are common side-effects of a severe headache. The American Academy of Neurology has found that concentrated ginger supplements are more effective at reducing headache pain than placebos.Coriander. Coriander seeds can be used to decrease the inflammation that causes headaches. The seeds can be chewed, used in food or tea, or taken orally in extract form.Feverfew. Feverfew can be taken in capsule or tablet form, as a tea, or even eaten in a sandwich (beware, it tastes bitter). There is mixed evidence to support the effectiveness of feverfew, but it has been relied upon for centuries, so it might be worth trying.There are no serious side effects, although you might experience a sore tongue, mouth ulcers, nausea, digestive problems and bloating. Coming from the long-term use of fever, few can disrupt sleep and actually cause headaches.
Willow. Willow is used in 300mg tablets and may reduce the frequency of migraines when taken twice daily.Tea: A cup of tea made from passion flower, rosemary, or lavender might alleviate a headache. Peppermint or chamomile tea can help to relax you., Aromatherapy preparations vary considerably, but some of the more commonly used essential oils for headache treatment include lavender, sweet marjoram, and chamomile. Use for neck massaging, in a bath, or to inhale.For the relief of aches and pains: Mix five drops rosemary oil, five drops nutmeg oil, five drops lavender oil in a carrier oil such as olive or coconut oil. Massage onto the neck and upper back area.
 Lack of food can cause a headache, so make sure you've eaten something recently. Some foods and beverages may also trigger headaches (red wine, MSG, and chocolate are common culprits).Be mindful of what you eat, and don’t eat foods that you notice routinely cause headaches. You may also be able to help treat headache pain by eating certain foods.


Eat almonds. Almonds contain magnesium, which may help relax blood vessels and relieve headache pain. Other magnesium-rich foods such as bananas, cashews, and avocados can also help.Eat hot, spicy foods. The effectiveness of spicy foods on headaches depends on the person and the type of headache. However, if you have a sinus headache, spicy foods may help decrease congestion and allow you to breathe better, which can help reduce headache pain.Try spinach. Spinach really is food with a high density of nutrients, and that offers many potential health benefits. It may help decrease blood pressure and relieve hangover-related headaches. Use fresh spinach instead of lettuce in a salad or on a sandwich.Drink a cup of a caffeine-containing beverage. Caffeine constricts the blood vessels, which can lessen head pain. Too much caffeine may trigger migraines in some people so instead of coffee, you might try tea, which tends to have less caffeine.

