 Even the closest couples forget the importance of good communication from time to time. However, a long-term lack of communication can be a sign that a relationship is "on the rocks". If you've been getting bad vibes from your girlfriend, start to keep a tally of how frequently you talk to each other (this includes non-face to face communication like talking on the phone, texting, and so on). If you notice a sudden drop or your numbers seem suspiciously low, you may have reason to worry.


This advice applies especially to you if you're in a long-distance relationship. In an LDR, you don't have the luxury of physical contact, so frequent communication is key to keeping your relationship healthy. Many relationship experts recommend trying to communicate in some minor way every day if you're in an LDR., In the words of Mark Twain, "If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything."Even the most skillful liars occasionally get their stories mixed up, so, if you're beginning to have suspicions about your girlfriend, try to look for logical holes or contradictions in the things she says. People who are lying about where they've been, what they've done, and who they've been with will almost always make mistakes in their stories eventually — you just have to be listening to be able to catch them.
 Rather than lying, some people who something to hide will avoid talking about how they are spending their time entirely. If your girlfriend was once perfectly willing to talk about her life, her friends, and her hobbies, but now she's suddenly become much less willing to volunteer this information, this may be her way of minimizing the guilt that may come from lying to you. Keep an ear out for the following vague, noncommittal phrases when you ask her about what she's been doing — if she won't give you any more information than one of these phrases, there may be something she's trying to hide.:


"Nothing."
"Why do you want to know?"
"I've just been really busy."
"I don't want to talk about it."

, Usually, making new friends is a good thing. However, if your girlfriend seems uncomfortable talking about certain new friends she's made, something's not right (especially if she's always been willing to talk about her friends before). Even if this isn't a sign that she likes someone else, it can be a sign that she's ashamed of the people she's been hanging out with or the things she's been doing with them and is afraid of how you'll react to this knowledge. Openness and trust is important in any relationship — if your girlfriend isn't being forthcoming about the people she's been hanging out with, it's a sign of some sort of problem, even if it's not infidelity.
 If one partner in a relationship knows that she's betrayed her boyfriend's trust, it can become painful for her to even bring up her relationship in casual conversation. Talking about her relationship may make her feel guilty by bringing up thoughts of her betrayal or may annoy her by reminding her that she isn't out of her current relationship yet. Try asking your girlfriend a few of the following questions to get an idea of how comfortable she is talking about your relationship. If she seems uncharacteristically cagey, annoyed, embarrassed, or reluctant to answer, this may be a sign of a problem:


"How do you think we're doing as a couple?"
"Is there anything fun you'd like to do in the next couple of months?"
"What sort of things do you think we can do to improve our relationship?"
"What's your favorite memory of us together?"
"Where do you see us in a year?"

