 This procedure involves freezing the warts off of your body. To do this, your doctor will clean the affected area with a disinfectant like providane-iodine, and then your doctor will apply cryogen, which will freeze off the warts. The whole procedure should take 15 to 20 minutes.


You may feel a stinging sensation during this procedure. If you experience this, you may be given a local anesthesia. As the cryotherapy takes effect, the wart will become white and dry; your doctor will cover it with a band aid.
The bandage should be left on for five days, as new skin develops in the area. This procedure will be repeated once a week until the warts completely heal.
 This is where the warts are burnt off and removed. The procedure involves passing an electric current with high frequency through the warts. The wart is depleted using the heat that is emitted by the electric current.


The area of the skin containing the warts is usually cleaned thoroughly and then a local anesthesia is given. This medicine helps to numb the area and prevent the sensation of pain.
The doctor’s knife is heated by holding it in an electric current. The surgeon will then remove the wart using the knife. The procedure should take approximately half an hour.
 This is where a laser beam is used to burn the warts; it is usually suggested to people who have large warts that form in a cluster. You will be given a local anesthesia to numb the area. The laser beam uses two methods to clear the warts:


The laser can target the hemoglobin that is usually found inside the cells therefore killing the wart.
The laser can be carbon dioxide that is highly concentrated and vaporized and these targets the cells inside the warts.
 This is where the doctor uses a surgical procedure to remove the warts; this can be done with local anesthesia, or with general anesthesia (when you are put to sleep while the procedure occurs). This procedure is generally recommended for people who have warts that are spread throughout their entire bodies.The area is cleaned with an antiseptic like povidone-iodine and then the warts are cut off using a sterile blade, or scraped off using a curette. The area is then stitched up, depending on how big the wart was, or it can be covered with a bandage and left to heel.
This procedure usually results in scarring of the area as new tissue takes the place of the warts.

