 The subject of energetic chemical molecules is important for several reasons, and in particular, because molecules that contain much energy are desired for the production of heat. Examples of such molecules are the group of petrochemical compounds that are called hydrocarbons. This group of molecules has high content of potential energy that can be obtained through a combustion process of these compounds in the presence of an oxidizer that is usually molecules of oxygen that are present in the free air.;
, Hydrocarbons are highly energetic due to their content of many saturated C-H bonds in its molecular structure. This fact made the petrochemical industry to expand to unlimited horizons. Hydrocarbons are only one type of compounds with high energy content. There are in the chemical literature many other types of compounds that have comparable and even more energy content that typical organic hydrocarbons. The problem here is the availability of these compounds on commercial basis in sufficient quantities. Hydrocarbons are abundant in nature and are much more available source of chemical energy than other synthetic highly energetic compounds.
 The other less conventional sources of highly energetic molecules is the synthetic procedure in the chemistry laboratory. Synthetic compounds that contain highly energetic bonds are of limited use due to their availability only in small amounts. Energetic molecules are usually thermodynamically unstable and they tend to release their energy in order to be in a state of thermodynamic stability. The driving force for the generation of the high energy molecule is kinetically driven. In chemistry one talks about kinetic versus thermodynamic control of chemical reactions.
 Thermodynamic products of chemical reactions that have more than one possible pathway are usually more favorable products energetically. Kinetic products are usually thermodynamically not stable and they can disintegrate into more stable products thermodynamically easily. This is the case with energetic molecules. They are kinetically stable but are thermodynamically unstable compounds. Therefore, any perturbation to their structure can lead them to decompose and release their energy in the form of heat or in the form of an explosion.
 Examples of energetic molecules that are encountered in organic compounds are the strained cyclic compounds that are fused together. By virtue of the strain in the molecule, it possesses extra energy that it tends to release in order to become stable thermodynamically. Again, kinetics plays a major role here. Kinetic products are usually obtained in a fast reaction that is usually not selective. This type of product is unpredictable in its chemical behavior since it can decay and decompose to more stable compounds suddenly without any possibility to predict when this will happen.


Examples of these phenomena occur with ethers that contain peroxides on its structure. This type of compound relies now on its kinetic stability due to the potential of the compound to explode and release its energy.
Peroxides are high energy bonds due to the unstable O-O bond that is highly energetic and it is a type of bond that is kept intact due to kinetic reasons.
 Polymers are organic compounds that contain repetitive carbon units which are endless in its number. The synthesis of polymers is a whole branch of industrial chemistry and will not be discussed here. Polymer based energetic molecules are types of polymers that contain endless number of C-H bonds in its structure. In addition, it contains also endless number of oxidizing agent such as oxygen. The combustion of this material produces high amount of energy in the form of heat and CO2 gas. This is a basic description of a hypothetical form of carbon based polymer. Example of such a polymer that would function this way is a polymer that contains repetitive peroxide form in its structure that are attached to a carbon skeleton such as cyclohexyl ring or benzene ring in the form of phenol.
 Energetic molecules find uses mainly in the military industry for the production of explosive materials. Also, energetic molecules can be used to generate heat but due to its unstable structure they are dangerous to handle for household purposes and for other common uses that we do on a regular basis.

