 Pay attention to how long the symptoms are present. You should particularly pay attention if the symptoms appear after you or your child has had another infection, such as a cold, since that makes you more susceptible to ear infections, particularly in children.For babies under half a year old, see a doctor when symptoms appear.
For children and adults who've had symptoms last more than 24 hours, call your doctor for advice.
 If you or your child have been running a fever, it's time to talk to the doctor. A fever is a sign of infection, and you or your child may need a round of antibiotics to help fight the infection.If your child's temperature goes over 100.4°F (38°C), it's time to go to the doctor.
 Severe ear pain indicates it's time to get advice from your doctor. It could be an indication the infection is worsening or spreading. Call your doctor if you or your child's pain is particularly severe.With your child, pay attention to see if they are in more pain than seems normal for an ear infection. For instance, if your child won't stop crying, that may be a reason to talk to the child's doctor.
 Drainage in both adults and children is a sign that you need to go to the doctor. Drainage is a symptom of a ruptured eardrum, and your doctor will need to check out your ear to see if you need treatment, such as antibiotics.If you are having drainage, you should avoid swimming until the infection is cleared up.
 Your doctor will likely start by examining you or your child's eardrum with an otoscope, which just means the doctor will visually inspect the eardrum using an instrument. While doing so, the doctor may also blow a puff of air on the eardrum, to see if it moves like it should.Your doctor might also use tympanometry. This test checks to see if there's fluid in the eardrum with pressure and air.
With persistent ear infections, you or your child might have a hearing test to see if there's hearing loss.
 That is, many ear infections go away on their own, and many doctors are trying to prescribe fewer antibiotics due to bacteria's adaptive nature. In addition, some ear infections are caused by viruses. Either way, antibiotics are not always needed, as ear infections generally clear up in a few days.In addition, ear infections are not contagious, though viruses that can accompany ear infections sometimes are.
Even after ear infections clear up, fluid can stay in the middle ear. It can remain there for a couple of months.
However, you can help with the pain by using ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Be sure to use children's versions of these drugs for your child.
 One rare complication of ear infections is a facial paralysis, when the swelling from the condition presses on the facial nerve. While this condition usually resolves when the ear infection clears up, it's still imperative to get any facial paralysis checked out by a doctor., One complication that can arise from an ear infection is the spreading of the infection to other parts of the body. When you or your child develops pain behind the ear, that could be an indication that the infection has spread to the bone under the ear, the mastoids, an infection called mastoiditis. You may also notice hearing loss, pain, and discharge.This condition is generally treated in the hospital.
 Rarely, an ear infection can develop into meningitis. You may notice you have a high fever, trouble breathing, and a bad headache. You may also have a stiff neck or feel nauseated. You may develop sensitivity to light, as well as a red, splotchy rash. If you notice these symptoms in you or your child, go to the emergency room or dial emergency services., If your child has persistent ear infections, your doctor may consider ear tube surgery. Usually, this procedure is performed if your child has hearing loss or speech delays due to hearing loss. Basically, a tube is inserted in the ear so that fluid can drain more readily.The presence of the tiny hole in the eardrum will not affect hearing. Tubes will remain in place six to 18 months, depending on the type used.