 Cupcake liners, particularly ones that have leaves on them, make a perfect serving dish for party treats. You can even serve hot appetizers in them, such as little bowls of mac and cheese or spaghetti and meatballs. If your dish is messy, though, try serving them in foil liners and then placing them in paper liners. That will help make them sturdy and decorative., Flowers make a great addition to a fairy party, but you don't have to stick to bouquets. Try making flowers out of fruit, for instance. You can use cookie cutters to cut out flower-shaped pieces of watermelon, then skewer them with green grapes or kiwi to create the leaves.You can also use edible flowers in your food. For instance, freeze edible flowers (like rose petals) in ice cubes to add whimsy to drinks.
 One option for treats is bird's nest cookies, which are no-bake. Just melt a 12-ounce bag of chocolate chips and a 12-ounce bag of butterscotch chips together in the microwave. Make sure to stir the mixture every half minute while it is heating. Once melted, mix in a 12-ounce bag of chow mein noodles. Spray down a muffin pan, then drop the mixture into the pan in spoonfuls, shaping them into nests as you go. Let them set up in the fridge, then add in small, egg-shaped candies, such as jelly beans., Your fairy punch doesn't need to be very sophisticated. Even pink lemonade with flower-shaped ice cubes would add whimsy to the party. For something a little more sophisticated, try an orange smoothie. Mix a can of frozen orange juice (thawed out), 1 cup of water, 1 cup of milk, 1/4 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and about 10 ice cubes in a blender, which makes 4-5 servings. Add a sprinkling of edible glitter on top and garnish with a striped paper straw and a flower., You can go any number of directions with the cake. You can make a simple cake with edible glitter on top, or you can add decorative frosting flowers. Another option is to create a "mossy" cake with green frosting, then add in decorations like trees, flowers, fairies, and toadstools.

