 In order to take accurate readings of the push-ups you do, you must first make sure you’re performing a proper push-up each time. A push-up in good form will work your chest, arms, shoulders, and upper body.You want to keep your arms just over shoulder-width apart and keep both your back and legs straight for every repetition.








For more information on proper push-up technique, you can visit: How to Do a Push-Up.
Remember that you only go low enough for your chin to touch the floor while keeping the rest of your body elevated.;
, In order to increase the number of push-ups you can do, you must first find out what that number is. Do as many push-ups as you can in good form until you feel the muscles shake and you simply cannot do another. You also want to time the amount of time it takes you to do your maximum number of push-ups.
 You want to allow yourself to rest for the same amount of time that it took you to do the first set of push-ups. For most beginners taking a baseline reading, this will likely be between twenty and thirty seconds.









Since you need to track your baseline and progress, take the rest time to write down the number of push-ups you did.
 One single set of push-ups alone will not work the muscle groups enough to see overall progress very quickly, so you want to perform at least three sets of as many push-ups as you can do. You want to continue timing each set, so you can take an equivalent-length rest between each set.









It’s perfectly normal to perform fewer push-ups until muscle failure with each subsequent set, so don’t allow that to discourage you. With practice, you’ll see increases in the number in each set you can do.
 Once you have done all three sets of your maximum amount of push-ups, chart your baseline for sets one, two, and three as well as the amount of time that each set took you.
 You’re likely to feel some ache in your muscles the day after your baseline, which is perfectly normal. You may be itching to get started on doing more push-ups, but this routine will offer the best results if you do it three-to-four times per week so basically, every other day.
 When the next workout day comes around, perform the same routine you did to find your baseline, but try to increase the number in each set of push-ups by at least one.









You likely will not be able to increase the number in each set every time you work out, but that’s okay. If you reach such a plateau, hold yourself to that number for three or four workout sessions, and then try to increase the amount after several days.
Continue charting the results, and you’ll begin seeing more push-ups performed in less time over several weeks.
 Once you’re comfortable with this routine, you can start working additional muscle groups by varying the type of push-up you do. Follow the same set structure, but try diamond push-ups for the first set, standard push-ups for the second set, and do the third set with your arms set slightly wider.









This will give you a more complete workout of the push-up muscle groups.
You’ll definitely notice that you’re capable of fewer overall push-ups with this variation, so take a new baseline measurement to start with.

