 For this mobile you will need about 10 to 20 spools of ribbon and an embroidery hoop. You can choose to use different colors of ribbon, or you can use one or two colors, depending on the variety you desire for your mobile. Basically, you'll need enough ribbon so that you have enough to cover the circumference of your mobile, with each ribbon being doubled up.
 You will use your ribbon to cover the entire circumference of your embroidery hoop. Each piece of ribbon needs to be long enough to double over and knot around the embroidery hoop. So if you want your ribbons to be a foot in length, then you'll want to cut your length of ribbon to be about 26 inches in length. Your ribbon might look better if you cut different lengths, so you can vary each length of ribbon by one or two inches.To figure out how much ribbon you will need, place your embroidery hoop on the floor. Then, take a piece of ribbon and place it over the hoop. Do this until you have covered the entire hoop with ribbon. Then, you'll know how much ribbon to cut for your mobile.
 With each piece of ribbon you cut, double it over, so that both ends meet each other. Then, place the folded end over your embroidery hoop. Take the rest of the ribbon and stick it through the loop of the fold, creating a full circle around your hoop. Pull tight, and your ribbon should create a knot around your embroidery hoop.


It's best if you use relatively thin ribbon here, because you will be able to create tighter knots. If your ribbon is too thick, your knot won't stay secure and you may have to glue the ribbon to the hoop.
 Take two pieces of ribbon, about three feet long, and tie each end of the ribbon to the hoop. Tie one end of the ribbon to one side of the hoop, and tie the other end to the opposite side, exactly across from the previous end. Then, take your second ribbon and tie one end in between the other two ends, exactly in the middle. Then tie the other end across from the previous end.Once you are done tying you should have your ribbons evenly spaced on your hoop, at the 12, 3, 6, and 9 hands of a clock.
 Attach a hook to your ceiling and hang your mobile by taking the middle of the ribbons you just tied and placing them on the hook. Your mobile may lean one way or another, so you may have to position your ribbons so that the hoop of your mobile lies flat.

