 One way that you can support an adult with ADHD and boost their self-esteem is to make time for them.Let them know that you care about them and want them to feel good about themselves by including them in your life and being a part of theirs.

Invite them out to do things that might interest them or that they might excel at. For example, you can invite your cousin with ADHD to volunteer with you at the community center. Or, you could invite them to start a workout regimen with you since this will help to manage them condition.
Avoid inviting them to do things that involve drinking alcohol or using substances.
Take some time and help them get organized. This might mean suggesting a way to organize their files or going by their house and helping them organize their home office.
You can also simply express an interest in their goals or therapy directives. Ask them how things are going.
 One of the best things you can do to boost self-esteem in someone you care about who has ADHD is to let them know that you have faith in them. They probably hear enough negative criticism and self-talk already. Do things that remind them that they are a good person, worthy of love regardless of whether they have ADHD or not.

Tell them that you are proud of their effort, their successes, or their determination. You might say, “That was really brave to give your presentation at the meeting. That took a lot of focus and planning!”
You don’t have to go overboard and tell them “Good job for breathing”, but it does help to frequently remind them that they’re doing a good job.
Keep in mind that people with ADHD may say or do things impulsively that may hurt your feelings. Try not to take these things personally.
 Adults with ADHD may experience lowered self-esteem because of the stigma surrounding this disorder. Remind others that just because someone has ADHD doesn’t mean they don’t have other talents and skills.Speak up when someone with ADHD is being picked on, teased, or is struggling.

For example, if you hear someone say, “He needs to take his meds. Weirdo!” You might say, “There’s nothing weird about him. He has ADHD, but he’s still a really great guy.”
Learn about adult ADHD and share what you have learned with people close to you and in your community.

