 Birthstones are precious or semi-precious gems that correspond to your month of birth. You can get them on necklaces, rings, bracelets, and other types of jewelry. The most common birthstones are:January's birthstone is garnet, which is usually a reddish color.February' birthstone, amethyst, is always purple, though it can be varying shades of purple. Aquamarine is March's birthstone and is a blue-green color.April's birthstone is diamond, which is usually clear, though it can occasionally have imperfections that make the gem cloudy.May's birthstone, emerald, is a vivacious green color and contains aquamarine, heliodor, and morganite.Moonstone is June's birthstone and is usually blue-white or peach and gets its name from the reflectiveness of the gem, similar to that of the moon.July's birthstone, ruby, can be a variety of colors, though deep red is the most common color for birthstone rubies.Peridot is August's birthstone and comes in various shades of olive green from more to less vibrant.September's birthstone is sapphire, which is the non-red version of the gem ruby, though it is usually a shade of blue.October's birthstone is opal, which usually contain a prism of different colors that are organized in spherical pockets.Citrine is November's birthstone and is a yellow to orange color.December's birthstone is turquoise, which is usually blue-green., Jade charms, especially those coming from China, are thought of as highly valuable. Often, jade charms are carved into symbolic figures that are meant to give its wearer specific power coming from the figure. Some common figures include:Bats symbolize happiness and longevity.
Butterflies symbolize a long life, though they can also mean joy. Cats protect against evil spirits during the night.
Fish symbolize wealth and abundance, though they can also symbolize freedom.
Rats symbolize industry and prosperity.
Yin-yang represents the positive and negative qualities of life.
 Dream catchers come from a Native American tradition of “catching” bad dreams, while letting good ones through. You can make a dream catcher if you get a kit, but they are also widely available for purchase.Since dream catchers have to do with dreams, these charms are usually kept above your bed. The feathers below the net of the dream catcher are said to filter the good dreams down to the dreamer.
Dream catchers are often made with a willow hoop and decorated with pieces of daily life. While Native American dream catchers are made with arrows and beads, you can make your own dream catcher with trinkets from your own life.
 Certain crystals are said to have healing properties. Since the crystals have a variety of different properties, it’s best to choose the one for your own need for luck. Some common healing crystals include.Abalone comes from a sea shell. It is said to be soothing and lead to a calmer behavior.
Malachite is a stone designed to transform a person. It is supposed to be cleansing in order to help one regain hope.
Pyrite is meant to attract financial prosperity. Its gold color is said to correspond with the monetary windfall that it brings.
Serpentine is said to bring one’s hormones into balance. It allows one to gain responsibility for one’s life and help one heal.
Sunstone is said to be connected to light and the power of the sun. The crystal is supposed to bring sunny and happy moods and to banish negative emotions.
 A rabbit’s food is one of the more common lucky charms in the United States. Originally, a rabbit’s food was an African-American folk tradition that was said to bring good luck and fortune when rubbed by the wearer.Since rabbits are notoriously fertile, rabbit’s foot is supposed to be affiliated with fertility. In particular, the rabbit’s foot is said to be the left foot of the rabbit.
You can likely find a rabbit’s foot at a variety of locations. Though it may be tempting to make your own, it’s probably best to leave any wild rabbits alone.
 Four leaf clovers are extremely rare; the odds of finding one are roughly 10,000 to 1. If you can’t find a four leaf clover, it may be fun to make your own out of other material.Each leaf of the clover is said to represent different fortunes. The four leaves of the clover are said to make you lucky in faith, hope, love, and luck.
A three leaf clover is said to represent the Holy Trinity in Irish Catholicism. The fourth leaf, which is four luck, also has its origins in religion; allegedly, Eve had a four leaf clover from the Garden of Eden.