 Apply for jobs in production online using sites like Craigslist, Indeed and Monster. Craigslist may be the best bet for finding small projects in your area that need short-term help. Job sites like Indeed and Monster usually post long-term jobs, which are harder to get but are more permanent., Don’t send the same general resume and cover letter on all your applications. You want to make sure that you express why you as a candidate admire that studio or company and how you would fit into the environment there.For example, you could include a sentence in your cover letter that says, “I am particularly excited to have the opportunity to apply to Red Crown Productions because I admire the work they have done to bring national attention to smaller, independent filmmakers.”

, Don’t apply for an Executive Director position if you have no experience in the industry. Look for Production Assistant, also known as PA, roles. These are the entry-level positions in film and video production, and are where many start off when getting into production., Unfortunately, this is an almost inevitable part of starting out in film or video production. Almost everyone in the industry has to pay their dues and do unpaid work as assistants or runners. If a studio or company is interesting, fetching coffee may be worth it for the connections that you can make., You have already researched studios and companies in your area. Make a list of the ones that most interest you and call their production office . You will likely reach the Production Assistant on the phone. Ask them if there are any openings and if you can send a resume. Just because a studio doesn’t list jobs, it doesn’t mean they don’t exist. Many studios hire through word of mouth or through references, which is why pursuing them is a good tactic.
 Create a LinkedIn profile and post your resume. Get in touch with any recruiters that you can find that are in the industry. LinkedIn is fast becoming one of the most vital ways to find jobs in the digital age., If you get an interview with a studio or company, do thorough research. Make sure you know things like their size, where they usually work and what projects they have been doing.


Their website is always a great place to start. You can also find information on them by doing a Google search.
 If you get an interview, do your best to communicate your own skills and assets. Bring each question back to your strengths and the ways that you can contribute effectively to the company or project.Stay positive and down to earth. The last thing any film crew needs is someone who will bring drama to the table. Present yourself as someone who is grounded and is willing to follow directions.
 After the interview, send an email thanking the interviewer for their time. It is a polite gesture that is almost standard interviewing procedure now. It will also make sure that the employer will keep you in mind as he or she is interviewing other candidates.