


Use baking soda twice a month to brush your teeth. It'll help you to get rid of coffee or red wine stains. Baking soda can react with acids and bases. This makes baking soda perfect for neutralizing acids produced by bacteria in your mouth. Besides tiny particles of baking soda dissolve easily in water which allows the baking soda to penetrate more deeply into hard-to-reach places in your mouth. Additionally, baking soda neutralizes bacterial acids that cause bad breath. Brushing your teeth with baking soda will make your breath fresh for up to three hours after you brush. How to use baking soda for cleaning your teeth? Mix baking soda with water and dip your toothbrush into that mixture. Remember: baking soda works to brighten and prevent discoloration of your teeth, but it won't make your teeth a shade of white!;
,


Cut the banana peel into pieces that will be easy to hold and rub the peel in circular motions into shoes. If the peel is thin, replace it with the new one. After rubbing your shoes with banana peel, let them set for few minutes. At the end, buff the surface of shoes to a shiny polish using a clean soft cloth. Remember: Do not use paper towels! An old cotton t-shirt will works the best!

,


Sometimes pots get black film on the bottom. It is caused by over-cooking or - sometimes - it is caused by the fact that you've cooked highly acidic foods in your pots. How to easily clean that black film? Pour in your pot enough coca-cola to cover the bottom by an inch. Put the pot on the stove on a low heat. After about an hour, wash the pot.



Prepare shea butter, coconut oil, olive oil, baking soda. Melt coconut oil and shea butter together and then turn off the heat and stir olive oil. When everything gets melted, you can add few drops of oil blend for a nice smell. Pour mixture into a container, give it a good stir and put in the fridge. Once it is solidified, remove it and let it soften. After that, put mixture and 2 tbsp of baking soda to a mixer and beat until it will get light and fluffy. Apply to the jar and rinse. Remember: You should store your new shaving cream in a cool dark area.



To add shine to your plants' leaves, simply use mayonnaise! Rub a little bit of mayonnaise onto the leaves (with a paper towel). Leaves will shine for weeks! You can also try a mixture made of milk & water.



You can use olive oil both to remove makeup and wash your face. It's more affordable, better for skin and eco-friendly! Use oil to wash your face to naturally dissolve dirty oils on your skin without stripping it and to remove mascara, eyeliner or foundation. How to use olive oil as a makeup remover and cleansing product? Use1:1 ratio of castor oil to olive oil for normal skin / 3:1 ratio of castor oil to olive oil for oily skin and 1:3 ratio of castor oil to olive oil for dry skin. Prepare a clean washcloth. Mix oils together and store in a glass jar with a lid. Rub a small amount of oil onto dry skin and massage onto skin for about 1 minute. Rub a small amount onto your lids gently to remove makeup, just as you would use a makeup remover. Run washcloth under warm water. Wring out and place it over face for about a minute - this will help to clear pores and remove impurities. Wipe away any oil that's left with washcloth.

