 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out two 8 or 9-inch (20 or 23 cm) cake pans and spray them with cooking spray. This will keep the cakes from sticking in the pan.You could also make this in a 9 x 13 (23 x 33 cm) cake pan although it will need a longer baking time.;
, Measure all of the dry cake ingredients into a large mixing bowl. Use a whisk to combine the mixture. You'll need:2 cups (400 g) white sugar
1 3/4 cup (218 g) all-purpose flour
1 cup (100 g) unsweetened, Dutch process cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt

, Add 2 eggs, 1 cup (236 ml) of milk, 1/2 cup (120 ml) of vegetable oil, and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract to the mixing bowl with the dry ingredients. Use a stand or hand mixer to beat the cake batter on medium speed for 2 minutes., Turn off your mixer and scrape down the sides of the bowl. Turn the mixer on to the lowest setting and slowly pour in 3/4 cup (180 ml) of boiling water. Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl. Divide the batter between the two prepared pans.The cake batter will appear very liquid which is fine. This will just make your cake moist.
 Put the cake pans in the oven and bake them for 30 to 40 minutes. Insert a cake tester to see if they've finished baking. Once they're done baking, a tester should come out clean and the tops of the cakes should spring back a little if you press them in the center. Wear hot pads and take the cakes out of the oven.For the most even baking, try to put the cake pans on the same rack in the oven.
 Set the cake pans on a rack and let the cakes cool in the pans for 10 minutes. Carefully turn the cakes out onto the wire rack and let them finish cooling completely.It's important to wait until the cakes are totally cool before frosting them. This will prevent the frosting from melting into or running off of the cake.
 Place 1 cup (113 g) of slightly salted butter into a large mixing bowl along with 1/3 cup (80 ml) of heavy cream, 2 teaspoons of mint extract, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. Use a stand or hand mixer to beat the mixture on medium speed.The butter base should become light and fluffy after several minutes.
 Turn the mixer to low speed and gradually beat in 4 cups (500 g) of powdered sugar. Once it's been mixed in a little, you can add a few drops of green food coloring and turn the speed up to medium-high. Beat the frosting for one more minute, so it becomes light and fluffy. Stir in 2 ounces (60 g) of finely chopped semisweet chocolate.You can adjust the flavor and color of the frosting according to your taste.
 Place one of the cake layers on a cake stand. If the layer is uneven, you can use a serrated knife to cut it, so it's level. Dollop a scoop of the frosting on the layer and use an offset spatula to spread it evenly across the top. Set the other layer of cake on top and scoop more frosting on it. Spread the frosting across the top and sides of the cake.Store the leftover cake in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Bring it to room temperature before you serve it, so the buttercream can soften a little.

