 Essential oils smell amazing in your perfume mist, but they also provide a variety of mental, physical, and emotional health benefits.Cultures all over the world have been using them for thousands of years for these purposes.When choosing essential oils for your perfume mist, give therapeutic edge to the blend by addressing specific physical and mental health issues.


The act of inhaling different essential oils offers a wide range of psychological and physical benefits known as aromatherapy.Inhalation and topical application of particular essential oils can provide medicinal benefits with additional health, hygiene and beauty advantages.
 An array of mental and emotional reactions can be triggered through the act of inhaling particular essential oil scents.You can choose a single oil or combine the oils to experience a combination of positive effects. Aromatherapy is a vast subject, but there are some commonly chosen oils for therapeutic uses.Roman chamomile essential oil has fragrance properties that are soothing and can reduce stress.
Clary sage essential oil has fragrance properties that can reduce anxiety and promote relaxation.
Neroli essential oil has a rich scent with antidepressant effects. It can also relieve stress.
Patchouli essential oil has fragrance properties that can help ease depression.
Lavender essential oil has fragrance properties that can promote calmness and relaxation.
Lemon essential oil has an uplifting scent that can ease depression and boost energy.
 The naturally occurring chemicals in essential oils can offer medicinal and healing benefits when applied topically to the skin and when inhaled into the lungs.The range of essential oils with medicinal benefits is wide, but not all of these particular oils make great ingredients for a perfume mist because some of them don’t smell especially pleasant. Luckily, there are plenty of oils that both smell great and provide medicinal value.


Roman chamomile essential oil acts as an antispasmodic and sedative; it also provides anti-inflammatory properties and can ease insomnia/promote sleep.
Lavender essential oil can relieve headache and migraine pain. It can be applied topically to soothe minor skin irritations and ease insomnia/promote sleep.
Clary sage essential oil can relieve menstrual cramps and labor pain. It’s also considered to be an aphrodisiac.
Neroli essential oil has antispasmodic properties and can be helpful during pregnancy/delivery. Neroli can also ease postpartum depression.
Patchouli essential oil is soothing to the nervous system and has anti-inflammatory properties.
Eucalyptus essential oil provides antibacterial benefits and can soothe muscle aches. Through inhalation, eucalyptus oil can both clear the sinuses and boost the immune system., Because they are so highly concentrated, essential oils can have negative side effects if used improperly. Consult a doctor before using them if you are pregnant, nursing or have immune deficiencies. If you have sensitive skin, always do a skin patch test before using essential oils topically.


Essential oils are far too potent to be applied directly to the skin without diluting them first. Some of them can irritate the skin.Use the highest grade essential oils that you can find. Check their bottles and packaging for key phrases like “pure grade”, “aromatherapy grade”, “certified organic” and “therapeutic grade.”

