 Reviewing the job description and significance of the management role within the company will assist you in tailoring your cover letter to the unique aspects of the company.;
, Review your resume and think about aspects of your employment background that align well with the open position.
 Use the name provided by the job posting. If you have been recommended for the job by a friend, ask for the exact spelling of the name of the person in charge of hiring. If you don't have a specific contact for the cover letter, use "Dear Human Resources" or "Dear Sir or Madam."

, The opening paragraph is an opportunity to indicate which position you are interested in and how you heard about it. If you were referred by a friend who works for the company, stating this in the first paragraph might establish an instant connection for the hiring personnel.


Include 1 or 2 sentences explaining your appreciation of the company's products or services. If you are not familiar with the company, research it so you can elaborate on your desire to join the management team.
 The second paragraph contains the bulk of your explanation about how well-aligned your skills are for the position.


Explain in what ways you are qualified. You might have managed a department in the past that provided similar products or services. Your ability to effectively manage large numbers of employees may be an asset to the company. Tailor your explanation to the needs of the hiring company.
Highlight past achievements as a manager. Managing a product team that created a product from start-up to completion is one example. Saving a company money by streamlining processes illustrates strategic management skills. Managing a sales team through the launch and successful sale of a brand new product is yet another example.
 Thanking the letter recipient for review of your application is standard practice in a cover letter conclusion.


Offer to provide additional information as needed. Express that you are willing to provide references or other information upon request.
Provide contact information. Indicate a phone number where you can be reached and when you are available to discuss the management position.
 "Best regards" and "Sincerely" are common closings for a professional letter.

