 Some research suggests that self-reflective thought can help increase creativity while brooding thoughts can increase feelings of depression.Being mindful in everyday life and practicing mindfulness meditation are good ways to be more self-reflective, stop brooding thoughts, manage depression, and increase creativity. Mindfulness allows you to be aware of what you are doing, feeling, and thinking which can help you manage your depression.


Be more mindful by focusing your senses and thoughts on one thing at a time and focusing only on that one thing. For example, if you’re driving, focus on driving instead of trying to eat, call your mom, and drive at the same time.
Be mindful of your environment. Paying attention to the details around you can spark creativity. For example, take a moment to notice how the sunlight looks and use it for creative inspiration.
Try mindfulness meditation as a way to calm yourself and address depressive thoughts and feelings you may be having.
 This simple activity can help you in several ways. Recent research suggests that walking can help you be more creative.In addition, walking is a way to ‘get moving’ when depression makes you feel you have no energy and it supports your overall health.


You shouldn’t feel as though it needs to be a long hike or even a power walk. Try just taking a leisurely stroll to the corner and back. If you keep it up you might find that you want to walk farther or faster.
If you need to, set an alarm to remind you to walk each day. For example, you might set an alarm for after dinner to remind you to take a walk.
Ask a family member or friend to be your walking buddy. They can help you be accountable, encourage you, and help you fight the isolation and withdrawal of depression.
 Sometimes your mind can get stuck in a cycle of negative thinking or you may be so focused on tackling a problem that you become stuck. Some studies indicate that taking a ‘psychological break’ from a problem can help boost your creativity.It can also help relieve your depression by focusing your mind on something else – preferably something positive and creative.


Try to clear your mind for a few moments and just focus on your breathing. If your mind starts to stray, gently bring it back to your breathing.
Visualize yourself doing something creative, relaxing, or peaceful. For instance, you could picture yourself on an ocean-front terrace painting a picture of the coast.
Do something that engages your mind that is completely unrelated to the task. For example, you might take a five minute break to work on a crossword puzzle or read.
 Although you may feel that there’s nothing to laugh about when you are battling depression, you should still try. Chuckling, or just smiling, can help boost your mood and help you develop a more positive outlook. Also, research suggests that people that have a healthy sense of humor are more creative than people that take life more seriously.Make a list of things you’ve found funny in the past. Include one or two of those things in your daily routine. For example, if a particular song used to make you smile, play it for yourself every now and then.
Surround yourself with things that make you laugh. For example, put a comical wallpaper on your phone, buy a joke of the day calendar for your desk, or put a funny picture in your notebook.

