 You can find these programs in retail or office supply stores, or online. These programs will specify whether they are for personal tax preparation, business tax preparation, or for a combination of both. Some of the reputable tax preparation programs you might consider include:


TurboTax
H&R Block
TaxACT
TaxSlayer

, Some of the programs include software that you can download if you would like to work on your return without having an internet connection. If you will be working with an internet connection, you may not have to download anything.


Keep in mind that if you decide not to e-file after using one of these programs, you will need to print your return and mail it in.
You don't need an internet connection to use all of these programs, but you will need an internet connection if you wish to file your taxes electronically.
Be aware that these programs are best for people who do not have very complicated tax situations: if you have any reason to believe that your taxes may be complicated (reasons could include claiming lots of deductions, having a high income, or owing taxes from a previous year) you should consider hiring a professional to prepare your taxes.
 The program will prompt you to enter specific information. It will also help you locate the information by telling you where to look on your tax document(s). As you go through the prompts, your tax preparation software will ask you for information about your:


Income. Any money that you made during the calendar year, whether from a job, a freelance gig, or the selling of goods may qualify as income.
Deductions. The government allows you to deduct certain expenses from your taxes as long as they meet certain requirements.
 To check for errors, run the self-check feature included with your tax return program. If the program finds errors or omissions, it will help you make the necessary corrections.


Use common sense when checking for errors. A simple typo or missing field in your application could make a big difference in what you owe on your taxes or your refund.

For example, if your income for the calendar year is $32,000 but your tax preparation software indicates that you owe the government $8,000 in taxes, you probably made a mistake.
 An IRS audit is a review or examination of an organization's or individual's accounts and financial information. The IRS uses audits to make sure that tax information has been reported correctly and accurately. They also use audits to make sure that individuals and organizations are obeying the tax laws.


You can use the audit meter in tax programs to review your information and determine your audit risk. If your audit risk is high, go back through your tax return and make sure that all of the information is correct.
 After you have finished your tax return, you can file your taxes in one of two ways: by mail or by selecting the e-file feature. The filing date is usually April 15th. If you owe any money, you may need to file your taxes and send in your owed taxes to separate locations.


To file by mail, send your tax documents to the address specified for your state. You can find this information on the IRS’s Where To File webpage. Make sure that you have sent your tax documents in time to reach its destination on or before the filing deadline.
To file electronically using IRS e-file, follow the instructions provided with your program. After you have completed your tax return, the program will offer you the option to e-file and walk you through the process. E-filing allows you to sign and submit your tax return electronically any time or day of the week. You will also get your refund (if you are getting one) sooner than you would if you filed by mail.
 If you think that you will need an extension, you can request one online or by mail. Keep in mind that you must file your request for an extension by the due date for your return, which is usually April 15th. If you apply for an extension, you may be allowed 6 more months to file your tax return.To get an extension by mail, file a paper Form 4868. Complete the form and then mail the form to the address shown in the form instructions.
To get an extension online, complete an electronic version of Form 4868 using the tax software that you have purchased.
Keep in mind that an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay. When you file a Form 4868, you may have to pay part or all of your estimated income taxes owed.
If you are unable to pay the full amount of tax due with your tax return because of financial hardship, you should still file the tax return on time. When you file, you can make a “good faith” payment of as much of the tax due as you can afford to pay.
If you believe that you will be able to pay in full within 120 days, you should call 1-800-829-1040 to establish the request to have extra time.
If you cannot pay within 120 days, you should complete Form 9465 or Form 9465-FS to request paying the remaining tax in installments.

