 Holding a gingerbread decorating party means you will need to make sure there is enough room to accommodate everyone you wish to invite. This means you will need to determine your guest list at the beginning of the planning process. You may find that after you choose a location for the party, you will need to trim the guest list so that each guest has space to make their gingerbread house.If you are inviting children, you should also invite enough adults to help supervise the children.;
, After you decide whom you will be inviting to your gingerbread decorating party, you will need to find a location that will accommodate all your guests. Each adult or child making a gingerbread house will need a flat workspace, such as a countertop or table, and a chair to sit in while they decorate their gingerbread.Choose a location that can accommodate all of your guests, or adjust your guest list to fit the space you choose.
 Once you’ve finalized your guest list and decided on a venue, you will want to select a date and time to hold your gingerbread decorating party. Consider your guests’ schedules when you decide exactly when you will host the gingerbread decorating party.


For example, if you are inviting children, you will want to select a date when the kids are not in school and their parents will also be free to attend.
 Once you've nailed down your guest list and venue, you will need to outline the supplies you need and estimate the costs of these items. When determining the budget, you will need to take into account the cost of gingerbread decorating supplies, invitations, refreshments, decorations, and venue rental if applicable.


Think about ways you can save money. For example, consider buying your supplies in bulk or at a discount store.
 You’ve selected a location, determined a date and time, and set the budget for your gingerbread decorating party. It’s now time to invite your guests. You can invite guests to your party in a variety of ways, including by telephone, by mailed invitation, by social media invitation, or by an invitation you email directly to your guests.Your invitation should include the date, time, and location of the party.
Make sure you ask your guests to RSVP so you can purchase gingerbread decorating supplies accordingly.
 You can make your gingerbread houses in a variety of ways. Two of the most popular include making the houses out of homemade gingerbread and constructing the houses out of graham crackers. Keep in mind that one of the keys to a successful party is constructing the houses the night before., You will need to purchase gingerbread or graham crackers for your gingerbread houses. You will also need to buy ingredients for royal icing, which serves as a type of edible glue. Finally, you will need to buy decorations for the gingerbread houses. You can use gumdrops, licorice, peppermint candies, and more. Gingersnaps or round candies make great shingles, and candy bars can be arranged to create a convincing door!Be creative when deciding on your decorations, and keep them edible, especially if there will be children participating.
Make sure you purchase enough supplies for each guest’s gingerbread house.
 Your gingerbread houses will be held together with royal icing. Royal icing is a delicious and gooey icing that serves as an adhesive. It will help candy shingles and gumdrop chimneys stick to your guests’ gingerbread houses. You can whip it up the night before and refrigerate it until you are ready to use it.Each gingerbread house will need about one cup of royal icing for construction and decorating.
 Your gingerbread decorating party will go smoothly if you construct the gingerbread houses well in advance of your party. This is especially important if there will be children attending your party. To save time, you can make the gingerbread houses using graham crackers instead of gingerbread. For a more traditional gingerbread decorating party, you can make gingerbread houses from homemade gingerbread.You can construct the gingerbread houses the night before your party.
 You can easily make icing tubes that your guests can use to decorate their gingerbread houses. Take about one cup of royal icing and place it in a quart-sized zipped style freezer bag. You will need one bag of icing for each guest. When it is time for your guests to decorate their gingerbread houses, simply snip one of the bottom corners of each bag.
 Each guest will need a space to decorate their gingerbread house, such as a table or countertop. Ideally, they will also have a chair to sit in while they decorate. Place a paper plate at each decorating space. Place the candy decorations in small cups, with each guest having access to a variety of decorating supplies. Right before your guests arrive, place a constructed gingerbread house and icing tube on each plate.


You can create name cards for each guest and place at their decorating space.
 Welcome each guest to the gingerbread decorating party. Show them the space you have set up for gingerbread decorating. If you have decided to use name cards, show each guest to their seat. If you did not utilize name cards, allow each guest to choose a seat or wait until the rest of the guests arrive.
 Since you have already constructed the gingerbread houses, it will be simple to give your guests an orientation to gingerbread decorating. Explain to your guests that the icing serves as glue and will hold the decorations in place on the gingerbread house.


For example, use an icing tube to demonstrate gluing some gingersnap shingles on the roof of your house or a gumdrop post near your gingerbread front door.
 Once your guests have learned how to decorate their gingerbread houses, let them go wild! Encourage creativity and help those who might need some ideas for decorating. A few fun, yet easy decorating ideas include:


Candy cane doors
Gumdrop shingles
Sprinkled sugar snow on the roof
Peppermint candy windows
Candy bar columns
Swedish fish fence

, While everyone is having fun decorating their gingerbread houses, make sure you document the event. Take photos as your guests deck out their gingerbread houses in all the trappings of the season. Make sure you ask guests’ permission before you post the photos on social media. You can also print out photos from the day's festivities and give them to your guests as they leave.
 Allow the gingerbread houses to sit for at least an hour after your guests finish constructing them. Then place the houses in cardboard boxes or plastic containers. Advise your guests to gingerly walk the houses to their vehicles and hold on to them tightly while transporting them to and in the car.

