 While you should talk to your partner about concerns regarding other problems, with infidelity it is best to wait until you have proof. Proof in this case means hard evidence (e.g., pictures, catching them in person, etc.) that your partner has been unfaithful. If you confront your partner too soon or without evidence, they will just deny everything. They will also become more secretive and careful with their actions, making it even harder to obtain proof of their infidelity., Before deciding to hire a private investigator it can be helpful to start gathering some information about your suspicions. Be very careful as you do this, as you do not want to be caught during this initial step. Also keep in mind that signs of cheating are not the same as proof of cheating. The most common signs of infidelity include:Notable increase or decrease in intimacy, affection levels, or sexual interest.
Suspicious phone habits like hiding their screen when it rings or being secretive about their text messages.
A marked change in appearance and hygiene, such as showering right when they get home from work, dressing up to do mundane things like grocery shopping, or wearing a new perfume or cologne.
Being overly secretive about their browser history and an increase in the amount of time they spend online, especially at night.
Changes in work routine, like needing to work late often or having to go out of town for work.
 In order to track your partner’s changing behaviors, it is crucial that you start writing down important information. A cheating partner will often change their story or question your memory, and this journal will help you bring to light these inconsistencies. Some things to track in the journal include:Dates and times of outings/events
The other people attending the outing/event
Reasons why you are not invited
Excuses given for why your partner is late

, Without being too obvious or invasive, further your preliminary investigation by monitoring your partner’s habits and spending. In addition to keeping a journal about what they say, try to find some hard evidence about what they are doing. Watching your partner slyly can help build a case against them, which you can then use to find the right private investigator. Without being too obvious, try to track some of the following:Monitor your partner’s mileage, receipts, credit card statements, ATM withdrawals, phone records, etc. to give you an idea of where they are going and if they are spending more money than usual.
If you share a cell phone account, contact the phone company for the text message log, which includes all text messages sent or received that weren’t deleted.
Try searching for other social media accounts to see if your partner has a secret profile under a different name.
 If you are serious about hiring a private investigator, it is important that you speak with legal counsel about it beforehand. Marital disputes are fraught with legal issues, and having advice from a lawyer can help limit your exposure. Many attorneys also work with private investigators and may be able to recommend a PI that they have worked with or have heard is reputable.