 To start a "king cobra" lanyard, you will need roughly 13 feet (4 m) of paracord, a metal clip, a tape-measure, a rubber band, a pair of scissors, and a lighter.


The king cobra paracord lanyard is popular among hikers and survivalists, as it allows you to conveniently carry a long amount of rope in the palm of your hand.This same style of braiding is also used in scoubidou, also known as gimp, a popular knotting craft among children. When made using plastic strings, it can be used as a decorative lanyard in its own right., Fold your length of paracord in half. Tie your rubber band around the loop that forms in order to mark its center.You can substitute other markers for the rubber band as long as the alternative is both secure and temporary. Twist ties and bread clips are good options.
 Position the knot so that it is roughly two inches away from the rubber band marker. You may remove the rubber band once the knot is secure. Two potential knots you can use are:



The diamond or lanyard knot – This type of knot is both very secure and aesthetically pleasing.

A simple overhand knot – This knot is much easier to do but is also bulkier and less decorative compared to the diamond knot., Push the two free tips of paracord through the solid loop portion of your metal clip. Pull them through until the knot is roughly five inches from the loop. Position the two long portions of the paracord so that they are on either side of the central five-inch stretch., This will start your first cobra stitch.In knot tying, a bight is a U-shaped loop formed by the cord.
 Keep the knot slack.
 Make sure to leave the knot slack at this point.
 This action finishes your first cobra stitch., This will start your second cobra stitch. You'll be making the same stitch as you did for the first but this time with the directions reversed., Keep the knot slack., Cinch to to tighten the stitch., Make additional cobra stitches, alternating between left and right, until you reach your diamond or overhand knot.


For a king cobra lanyard, you will repeat these stitches in the opposite direction, using your first set of cobra stitches as your new central strings.
Use your lighter to seal the ends and prevent fraying when you've finished.