 This free downloading site is a trusted source for free conversion software downloads and reviews.


Type in “YouTube download” in the download search bar at the top right of the page. Look for free products with high ratings.
Choose a YouTube downloader program that also contains a conversion program, so that downloaded programs can be converted to MP4 files.
As of 2013, software programs entitled YTD Video Downloader, Free YouTube Downloader, YouTube Free Downloader, aTube Catcher and Solid YouTube Downloader and Converter were highly rated by CNET editors.;
,


Click on a download manager program on CNET. Look at the specification in the left hand column.
Pay attention to what operating systems (OS) can be used with the program. Although some programs work with Mac OS and Windows OS, others are exclusively for use with Mac or Windows computers.
View whether the software works with certain browsers. Although some software programs require you to paste a YouTube link in the application, others download directly from your browser. However, it may only work with certain browsers, such as Firefox and Safari.



Quit open programs, such as your browser application and iTunes before installing.
 Click on the file.


Wait for your computer to open and begin installation.
Move the program to your “Applications” folder, if it does not automatically save into this location.
 Look through the home page to see if you must paste a URL into the program, or if you should download the video through your browser.
 Firefox is a safe bet, if you are unsure which browser you need.
,, You may need to hover over the video for the download button to appear.


If you cannot find a download button, you may have chosen a converter without downloading capabilities. You can use a download site, like KeepVid.com in the meantime.
Paste the YouTube video link into KeepVid.com’s search bar. Press the “Download” button. Wait several minutes for the video to download. You will need to click “Allow” in order to open the video on your computer.
 It may automatically save to the "Downloads" folder.


You may want to create a folder on your computer where you can keep downloaded video files before and after they have been converted.
You will notice that YouTube files are downloaded as FLV files. This format is not compatible with iTunes, so you will need to convert it to MP4, MOV or M4V format.
 Use the browser to find the downloaded iTunes video on your computer.


You may also be able to open the download manager application, open a Finder/Folder that contains the YouTube download and drag it into the download manager program.
 Choose the type of program conversion you would like to use. For use with iTunes, you will want to select MP4, MOV or M4V.


Look for an additional setting that helps you convert the video for use on devices, such as iPod, iPhone or iPad. If you plan on downloading these files to a different device, the program can offer additional conversions for those formats.
Look for an option to automatically export the video to iTunes. Check this box before you convert the file.
 Wait for the program to convert your file.


If you have clicked the option to automatically export the video to iTunes, it will load in iTunes once the conversion is completed.
If you did not have this option, you will want to drag the newly converted file into your iTunes library.



Connect your iPhone, iPod or iPad device to your computer with the USB cord.
Open iTunes. Drag the video files from your library to the device’s library.

