 She might think he's available even if she knows you're crazy about him. Have a talk about this and work out where you will both draw the line. If you really like a guy she should know that he's off limits for her, whether or not it's not particularly credible that you'll get him.
 Does she feel insecure about her chances with boys? Does she want to show she's as good as you? Does she lack confidence? Talk to her, even if you don't ask her directly. Work on making her feel like she has her own options and opportunities but different ones to yours which are equally special in their own right. Introduce her to boys that she might not know that you think she might like and praise her, especially the parts of her that make you different., It's not really fair to compare saying that you fancy three different lads every week in comparison to admitting to obsessing over the same guy for months if you expect her to keep her hands off. There is a difference between liking the look of, fancying and being completely crushed out on someone. Work out a system so that when you say 'out of bounds' she knows he really is 'out of bounds'., You're friends and you probably have a lot in common, particularly in your taste in what you like in a person. After all, you probably have similar friends for that reason. It makes sense that you like similar things in boys too. Make a pact that you'll both support the other when she has a major crush so that any potential relationship with the boy is out of bounds for the other. Set reasonable time limits and quantities - you can't have everyone! People usually accept the first person to call has the first chance but consider who has the most realistic chance (if she's already his bestie and you've only saw him in a photo, you're being a bit unreasonable to insist your crush on him should come first) and who has the most interest (a major, year long, all out crush is different to just liking the look of him). Be prepared to compromise from time to time., If she has cheated with other guys in relationships before, she's more likely to be tempted this time. If she has cheated with partners of other friends, be warned. Your case could very possibly end up there too. You need to decide what is more important to you - your friend, loyalty or the relationship. If you really can't lose either of them have a serious talk with her about how important and special this relationship is and how he is out of bounds, period, or that's the end of any friendship. This may, however, do more harm than good by making her feel you don't trust her but you are making the situation very clear.,,,,,