 Before you put multiple cockatiels in the same home, you should make sure that they are all disease free. Do not allow them to have contact with each other right away and have all incoming birds assessed by a veterinarian before they share space with your existing birds.You should try to quarantine a new bird in your home for 30 days before introducing it to your other birds.A healthy bird should be generally alert, should have well cared for feathers, clear eyes, and should not have discharge coming from the eyes or nares, which are what the bird breathes through.;
, It is important to let the birds adjust to each other before attempting to put them into a cage together. Allowing them to get to know each other while they each have their own cage will let you assess whether the birds have the personalities to be able to coexist together., Younger birds can typically adjust to life with other birds more easily than older birds that have been raised away from other birds. If you have a young bird and you are contemplating adding another bird to your flock, do it sooner rather than later.However, young birds that are raised together will always be more focused on each other than on you. They will likely form a strong bond that lasts their whole lives.
 A cockatiel's cage is its special safe place, so they can be territorial when a new bird is introduced into their space. To make sure your bird's first contact goes more smoothly, take both birds to a neutral location and let them meet face to face away from their cages.

The key is to minimize any chance of friction or aggression when the birds are first meeting each other, so that they can get to know each other peacefully.
This meeting must be supervised so that you can move them away from each other if they do not get along., Typically, putting cockatiels of the same sex together in a cage together works well if they have gotten along during initial meetings. However, to avoid potential territorial behavior, consider getting a new cage that is big enough for both birds and have them both move into it at the same time. With enough space and a neutral territory to begin with, the stage is set for them to live peacefully together.

If you put male and female cockatiels together they may get along but you will likely end up with baby cockatiels.
 Sometimes when you have multiple birds it is easiest to just keep them in different cages. This will assure that they each have enough space and that they each get all the food, water, and access to toys that they need. It will also help assure that you avoid the chance that they are aggressive or territorial with one another.Keeping birds in separate cages doesn't mean that they won't interact with each other. You can put the cages next to each other and you can let them out of their cages at the same time, if you like.

