 There are three Xbox 360 models, the original, slim and E models. Certain models including older versions of the Xbox 360 do not allow HDMI output, whereas the newer ones, including Slim and E models provide HDMI output. All models accept composite (Red, White and Yellow) cables. This method does not work for Xbox One.;
, You can output to two displays by either using a slim composite video cable with an HDMI cable or by using a cable that features both composite and component video that come with older models.


Use a slim composite video connector with an HDMI cable to output from your console.Use a combined composite and component video cable if you have an older model that comes with these cables, the connector has a toggle switch located on the end that connects to the Xbox 360 console, set the switch to “TV.” Only one television will be able to output sound using this method. You cannot use separate composite and component video cables., Use a television or other device that accepts composite cables.If you want to output sound to this device, plug in the red and white sound cables to this display.
 If you are using an HDMI cable, plug the HDMI cable to a device that accepts HDMI input. If you are using the composite and component video cable set, plug the red, blue and green cables to a device that accepts component video.


The red and white sound cables are not needed for sound if you are using HDMI.
If you want to output sound using the component cable method, use the red and white sound cables for either video input device.
 Set each display to the video input based on the type of cable used. Set your display to AV if using composite, set to component if component cables are used, and set to HDMI if the HDMI cable is used.
 You should immediately see video output on both televisions. If a display does not show a picture, ensure all cables are connected. If you still do not see a picture, this is due to the television not supporting the video signal from that cable. Try using a different television that supports the video signal with the same cable.

