 It is usually a light colored reservoir with a black cap and is usually is inline with your brake pedal in the engine compartment.;
, Using a clean turkey baster, suck out as much of the old, inky fluid as you can.
 After you've gotten all the old brake fluid out, clean any sediment out of the reservoir, if accessible, with a clean, lint-free rag. Do not spill any brake fluid on any painted surfaces, it will remove the paint almost immediately. Clean up any spilled fluid with a brake clean fluid or soap and water.
 Replace the top of the master cylinder reservoir.
, Using a box-end wrench (often 5/16") that fits the bleeder bolt, loosen the bleeder valves, but leave them closed. A little oil drizzled or sprayed on the bolts the day before will help to loosen them.
 Using a piece of clear plastic tubing (aquarium tubing works fine), push one end of the tube over the brake bleeder bolt.


Put the other end of the tube into a small, clear bottle with an inch or two of clean brake fluid in it. (This will keep air from being sucked back into the brake cylinder or lines.)

, This will prevent the pedal from traveling too close to the floor and you begin to bleed the brakes. This is needed so you do not bottom out pistons in the master cylinder and causing internal master cylinder leakage.
 Remove the top of the master cylinder reservoir and top off the master cylinder reservoir with fresh fluid. Keep the master cylinder full during process otherwise air might get into system.
, The helper should shout "down" when the pedal is down as far as it will go.



Note: Not too much force is needed. Press down as much as you would to fully come to a halt before a stop sign.
 Old fluid and air will go down the tubing into the bottle. When the fluid stops, close the bleeder valve.



Note: Warn your helper that the brake pedal he or she is pressing down on will sink down as you unlock the bleeder bolt a quarter turn. This is perfectly natural and your helper should keep pressure and follow pedal down until it stops and hold it down.
, After every five times the brake pedal is depressed, top off the master cylinder reservoir with fresh fluid. Never let the reservoir get too low, or air will be sucked into the master cylinder.
,,,, Your brakes have been properly bled. Thank your helper by buying him or her a beer or cream soda. Never take your help for granted.
