 These over-the-counter medications include salicylic acid ointments, glycolic acid, and tretinoin ointments. These medications work to peel away at the warts and reduce their size.


These ointments should be applied every morning to be effective. However, talk to your doctor before using these medications, as he or she may have a prescription medication that is more effective.;
, First wash the area with a disinfectant, such as povidone-iodine. Soak the affected area for 20 minutes and then let the area air dry. Use a towel or pumice stone to remove the dead skin.


Once this process has been finished, apply cantharidin ointment to combat the warts. Repeat this whole process twice a day until the warts go away.
 Imiquimod can be used on sensitive parts of your skin, including your face and genitals. Creams that contain this ingredient act by stimulating your immune system and helping your system to recognize the virus that causes the warts. Your immune system can then attack this virus more effectively., Retinoids are usually prescribed to treat acne, but can also be used to treat these kind of warts. The retinoids disrupt the cells inside the warts, causing them to slough off and shrink.
 This autoimmune method uses your immunity to fight the warts. This treatment involves putting chemicals in your body to initiate a reaction. Diphencyprone (DCP), which is a chemical, is applied to the warts, and causes a mild reaction in the surrounding area that helps to clear the area of the warts.Alternatively, try immunotherapy using interferon. Your doctor will give you an injection of interferon, which will stimulate your immune system, activating your body’s ability to fight the virus.
 These medications can help to shrink and get rid of the warts. They are designed to kill cancerous cells; when they are injected into the warts, they can kill off the cells that have formed the warts.One kind of medication that can be injected is bleomycin. Talk to your doctor about getting a prescription for these injections.

