 Short blurb-style bio notes are common in work directories, pamphlets, and other materials. You may be asked to provide one for any number of reasons. They're usually short, and can be somewhat awkward to write.


Pretend you're writing about someone else. Write your name and start describing that person like a character or a friend: "John Smith is the Executive Vice President of Company Inc..."

, Be sure to clarify your specific role and specialty, taking into consideration the purpose of the bio note. Describe what it is you do and what it is that people know you for.


If you're a jack of all trades, say so. Don't be afraid to list "actor, musician, mother, motivational speaker, and professional rock climber" if they all apply equally.
 If you're a frequent winner of awards and distinctions, a bio note is a good time to list them and toot your own horn. Try to keep bio notes focused on recent history.


It's common to list degrees that you've received as well, paying special attention to anything that ties into the work you are writing about. If you have special training, include it here.
 Bio notes don't need to be cold. It's common to end on a small personal detail that will spice up bio notes a bit. Consider including your cat's name, or a quirky detail about a hobby:


"John Smith is the Executive Vice President of Company Inc., in charge of marketing and overseas acquisitions. He received an MBA with distinction from Harvard and lives in Montauk with his cat Cheeto."
Don't overshare. It can seem funny to immediately start with "John Smith loves rafting and hates eating Cheetos. He's a total boss" and such bio notes can be appropriate for some venues, but be careful to avoid awkward oversharing. Telling everyone about your killer hangover might be best left for after work talk.
 Generally, these types of bio notes are no more than a few sentences. They'll usually be included on a contributor page or a list of other employees all together, and you don't want yours to stand out as the person who droned on for half a page, when everyone else used a few sentences.


Stephen King, one of the most successful and popular authors in recent history, has a bio note that just lists the name of his family members, his hometown, and his pets. Consider leaving out the self-congratulation entirely.

