 Talk to her in a friendly and casual way. You don't have to make it obvious that you like her, try just being friends first. While talking, be confident. Most likely, she's nervous too! Most girls will appreciate a guy that takes the lead. That way, they don't have to stutter and mumble their way into a conversation.;
, Don't dress like a slob in a baggy chili stained sweatshirt and sweat pants, but don't wear a suit and tie everyday either! It's also important to smell good. Wear a scent that isn't too strong, and don't spray it on too heavy. There's nothing worse than the girl you like being covered in your cologne after she talks with you!

, Some girls are more confident than others, and some will take them well and some won't. If your girl is on the less than confident side, don't attempt a joke about her appearance. She might take you seriously and think you're a jerk. Also, make sure that your jokes are actually funny! If you are talking about that hard math test, don't relate it to your friend's pet turtle. It not only be a mood killer, but just plain awkward.
 Maybe you're both book or band geeks, or love the same movie. If your girl is into something that you're not, try to be open minded about it. For example, if she likes painting, grab a brush and try it with her. You could also try something new to both of you! If you both have never tried photography, take a class together. Something you thought of before as stupid or boring could actually turn out to be really fun! Another thing to try would be dancing classes. Dancing is classically romantic, and taking a class will set the mood without being too obvious.
 It's pretty embarrassing to show up without a present or at least something to say when it's a special day.
 Go to her sporting events, recitals, concerts, art shows and performances. It's important to encourage her hobbies and interests by attending to show that you care.
 It doesn't have to be anything fancy, just a stuffed animal, or a card. Maybe you don't have a lot of money to spend. That's okay! Just a heartfelt letter can be enough. Don't make a big deal of it either. Just slip something in her locker, or send her a text or an email. Even a cheery, "Happy birthday!" the next time you see her will make her pleased that you remembered.
 It comes off as annoying, or even conceited when guys constantly brag. It doesn't hurt to mention something about your football practice the other day, but don't constantly say things like, "Since I'm the star on the football team, this will be no problem!"

, When guys always follow whatever the new trend is, they start to be less like themselves and more and more like other people. It's good for the world to have differences because if everyone in the world were the same, life would be really boring! Don't be someone you're not just to impress her. If she doesn't like you for you, she's not the right girl for you.
 Sports are fun and healthy activities to be involved in, and help make you a well rounded person. But remember that it's good to be involved in more than just sports. There are a wide range of activities to choose from including music, theatre, dancing, photography, visual arts, singing, playing an instrument, book clubs, environment clubs, wood shops, writing workshops and countless others. Being involved will show your girl that you know how to live life to the fullest!

, It's good to remember to stay focused on schoolwork because it will benefit you in the future. Girls also enjoy studying with guys, and it's a good way to spend quality time with the girl you like.
 Don't talk with your mouth full, and remember to use a napkin. When meeting her parents, say please and thank you. Don' burp, pass gas, sneeze or cough, don't do it in front of her. If you absolutely have to, leave the room for a moment. Sometimes this happens accidentally, and that can be really embarrassing! Just say excuse me and move on. Try to avoid making a joke unless she laughs. Then it's okay. Otherwise, It's just rude and disgusting.
 Treat the girl you like as if she were any other friend at first. Don't be afraid to punch her on the arm, give her a high five, or give her a hug. None of these things have to be "romantic", so there shouldn't be any difference. Once you and your girl start to become closer, than you can start with the romantic stuff.
 Don't go crazy and start bringing her flowers, but try to be subtle. When you two are alone and happy, lightly brush your hand against hers. Look at her face to see if she responds well. If she still looks happy, gently take hold of her hand. Be gentle, and don't make a big deal out of it. If she seems uncomfortable, let go. Most likely, she will be happy that you were brave enough to map the first move, and might be more comfortable seeing you as a romantic partner rather than a friend. If your girl is still responding well, put your arm around her. If she likes that, it's all downhill from there.
 E.g., do not tell her "GM>tomboy-made Nissan" or "Nissan>recall-esque GM". This'll get her NOT to like you.