 Incorporating what you love to do into your username can help you create one that's both unique and personal.;
, Making a username out of what you love to do will not only make it easy to remember, it will make it uniquely personal.


One way to do this is to use your pastime, and add your birth year to it. For example, climber86 or fictionauthor91 will likely be both unique, and personal—and thus, easy to remember.
 You might want to keep it simpler, and just use your first initial and last name. However, this is easier for those who possess a somewhat unique last name. For example, if your name is Felix Carpren, you'll have a much easier time than John Smith.


Adding your skill set as part of your name is one way to push even a common name into the world of the unique: jsmithcpa, for example.
 Barely anyone is going to know what Kindi is (an elvish language) or what the word Daonna means (Irish). Some of the most unique usernames aren't English!

, Instead of just your name, your job, or your pastime, combine them with your personality. While jsmith might be rejected virtually every time, brilliantjsmith probably has a good shot at being unique.


Note: Do not use your email name as a user name. Half of what makes a login unique is the username—the other half is a password. While it still would take some effort to hack your accounts, the truth is that most people have very easy-to-guess passwords. Giving an identity thief half the equation is simply not a good idea.
 Be judicious here: "O" might be too short, where "reallyboredhousewivesofschenectadycountyohio" is not only too long, who wants to type that every time they log in?

, This will, at the very least, brand you as hip and cool when you talk to the tech support department of a website. They'll ask for your username, and you can smile when you type "w91b50n," which of course is a reference to William Gibson, who coined the term "cyberspace."

, You may need to modify that a little bit, as there are probably a lot of "cleos," "patches," and "buddies" out there.


The same is true of sports teams, though those can make a good start to a unique username. Try adding your favorite player's number to make it different: tblazers12 or goblazers#12 are ways to keep it local.
 Maybe try rhymes, like dennisthemenace, or alliteration, like meticulousmathilda.
 You can use keyboard symbols like $#%*^, Unicode characters such as ♠, ♣, ♥, ♦, ♪, and ♫, or other special characters, but be aware that if you're trying to keep things simple, not every website will allow those sorts of characters. In some cases, like Minecraft...You cannot put any of the following keyboard symbols;$#%*^, You'll have to remember which site uses which user name.

