 Hydroquinone (HQ) is a bleaching cream that can gradually fade your brown spots over the course of a few months.HQ is available over-the-counter or by prescription. You will need a prescription for higher strength (e.g. 10% concentration) but you can purchase 2% concentrationat a drugstore or online. It is safe and effective for individuals of all skin tones. Possible side effects include: a red itchy rash, nail discoloration, lightening of the skin around the area being treated or darkening of the spots.Do not use hydroquinone if you are pregnant or breastfeeding., Find products with a 5 to 10% concentration of ascorbic acid. This ingredient is safe and effective for all skin tones.You can buy creams, serums, and patches that contain Vitamin C. It is safe for you to use Vitamin C products with other topical medications.Side effects are rare. You may experience dryness, stinging, or yellowing of your skin. Stop use if you do experience any irritation.
 Natural ingredients such as soy, niacinamide, ellagic acid, and lignin peroxidase. These ingredients are included in moisturizers and other cosmetic products. They effectively lighten skin and prevent additional dark spots from coming to the surface of your skin.Read the label of moisturizers and skin products to see if any of these ingredients are included. Always follow the product instructions when using.


There is a low risk of allergic reactions with these ingredients. If you experience any irritation, stop using the product and see your doctor.
Arbutin, kojic acid, and licorice are also options, but they are more likely to cause an allergic reaction.In addition, simply eating more vitamin C containing foods like lemon, oranges, kiwi and strawberry may be good for the skin., Retinol is derived from Vitamin A and can improve skin tone and any discoloration. You can buy over-the -counter products that contain retinol. If over-the-counter products are not working, talk to your doctor about prescription products. Retin-A and Renova contain a stronger version of retinol. If you have sensitive skin, stick with over-the-counter retinol products., Chemical peels can brighten your complexion, smooth your skin, reduce wrinkles and lines, and even your skin tone.Your doctor will apply the chemical to your face, monitor your skin, and remove the peel. The results will depend on the type of peel you get and the skill level of your doctor. You will see improvement once your skin is completely healed.It takes anywhere from 1 to 21 days to completely heal from your peel. The deeper the peel, the longer the healing time.
If you are a person of color, only see a dermatologist who has experience working with darker skin tones. An inexperienced doctor can permanently damage your skin., Microdermabrasion is a gentle,exfoliating treatment that can even your skin tone and smooth and brighten your skin. It can be done at home, at a spa, or by a dermatologist and is safe for all skin tones.This treatment gets rid of both age spots and dark spots. The procedure usually takes 30 to 40 minutes, and then a moisturizer is applied.Only see a dermatologist for this procedure if you scar easily, are taking isotretinoin, or have a mole that is bleeding or changing in size and color.
You may need multiple treatments before you see results.
Possible side effects include redness, swelling, bruising, burning, or sensitivity to sunlight., In conjunction with other therapies laser therapy is emerging as a treatment that may be able to help some people. Talk to a dermatologist to see if this might be a good option for you.