 The point of a fighting game is simple -- you trade blows and blocks with 1-3 opponents in order to knock them out. While the exact rules vary from game to game, more often than not you play until someone wins 2 out of 3 rounds, ending the match.


If you're learning to play fighting games for the first time, just pick up the one that piqued your interest. Don't worry about finding the perfect introductory game. All fighters have a tutorial section in the main menu that will help you learn the precise rules of your game, but the basics are similar from game to game.;
, The buttons for each fighting game are different, so just spend some time getting used to them for your game. Don't worry about winning at first, simply start a fight (usually "Fight Now!" or "Single-Player" on the main menu) and experiment with each button. You can also use the "Practice" or "Tutorial" mode to get used to the buttons without someone attacking you. The buttons you must know in order to get started are:


The different attack buttons ("heavy" vs. "quick;" "punch" vs. kick;" etc.).
Block/Shield
Jump.
Grab/Counter

, Experiment with characters you think looks cool or enjoy playing with, then sit down to really get to know them. Most games have "Challenge Modes" within their tutorials that test and teach certain skills, helping you get used to the timing of fighting games. A good fighter is all about timing -- executing perfect blocks right on contact, punching right in the open half-second before you get attacked, and stringing together quick combos. The only way to learn them is to practice, so pick a few characters and dive a little further into the game.


Once you've played through a few characters, pick one and stick with them. You want to learn one character inside and out before trying to master them all., Combos are the bread and butter of fighters. They are specific series of buttons, performed in rapid succession (such as ABBA + Down), that lead to a unique attack. You can find them online or in the tutorials, and will need them in order to beat anyone but the most basic fighter. Some things to note as you start learning combos:


How long does it take you to pull off the move? You need to finish the combo quickly or an opponent is going to take advantage your pause and attack.
Do the combos hit from a distance? Do you need to be right up close?
Is there a combo meter or power bar under your health? In some games you can only use combos when this little bar is filled., Blocking is generally done by pressing a button or tilting your control stick away from your opponent. Blocks usually deflect a large percentage of damage, especially when they are timed perfectly. Fighting games are not all about constant offense, and becoming an effective blocker can help you turn the tide against experienced players and button mashers alike.


In many games it is possible to counter a block with a grab or throw, so don't expect to block the whole time and take no damage.
 Once you are comfortable with a character you can learn their combos inside and out. Combos refer to landing consecutive strikes on an opponent in a way that gives them no chance to strike back or break free. The higher and longer the combo, the more damage you will do.


Combos must be done fluidly and quickly, otherwise the game will just try and act out all of the individual buttons instead of the one combo attack.
With joystick combos, where you need to press down, then over, etc, try and move the stick in one solid, continuous motion for the best results., Fighting games are, to a large degree, complex games of countering and reading your opponent. Every move your opponent has can be countered by one of your own moves. The trick is knowing and anticipating your opponent so that you can get these counters off. The most simple counter is blocking an attack, but you also need to recognize when to use a throw against a block, a counter against a throw, and an attack to cut short an opponent's charging. The only way to learn these moves is to practice, practice, practice.


Try and define a move in terms of what it wins against, what it loses against, and what it draws against. This will help you see the right response for every situation.
Learn to recognize each character's animations. Many attacks have tell-tale signs that they are coming, and learning to react to them in a split-second will separate you from the beginners.