 It can be a struggle to stay positive when you have a bad bout of depression. To stay focused and upbeat, use positive affirmations before you get to school and while you are in school. Say the positive affirmations out loud in front of a mirror several times to help you stay energized for the day.


For example, you may use positive affirmations like, "I am strong and motivated to go to school today," or, "Today I am going to have a good day at school."

, If you feel depressed while at school, prepare yourself for the day by doing deep breathing. You can do deep breathing and meditation at home, on the drive to school, or in front of the school before you go inside. Deep breathing and meditation can help you stay calm and relaxed. It can also help you set a good intention for your day, even as you are dealing with depression.


To do deep breathing, close your eyes and inhale slowly through your nose for four counts. Then, exhale through your nose for four counts. Do this several times until you feel calm and relaxed.
You can even do deep breathing while seated at your desk or walking to class.
 Listening to calming music on headphones can help you stay relaxed at school. Make a playlist of music that you find soothing or calming and listen to it at school or on the way to school. Look up calming playlists and upload to your phone or music player so you can listen to them.If you find yourself getting depressed before school, try listening to the playlist to help lift your mood. Though the lift may only be temporary, it may be what you need to get through the school day.
 Another way you can cope with depression is to keep a private journal where you write down your feelings. You may keep the journal in your backpack, in your locker at school, or at home in a safe place. Write down thoughts once a day to help you release your emotions.You can also use the journal as a way to help track your progress as you deal with your depression. Note days when you felt good or energized and days or moments where you felt unmotivated or depressed.
 You can also cope with depression at school by getting more involved in student life. Join a club at school or get involved in school events. This will allow you to get more involved with the social aspect of school and feel like you are part of a community of peers. Often, depression can feel isolating and lonely. Joining a school club can make you feel more included.For example, you may join a club that focuses on a hobby or activity you enjoy, such as art, photography, debate, or dance.
You can also join a club that focuses on something you want to get better at, such as chess, the performing arts, or math.

