 It’s always a good idea to have some cutlery in your desk drawer so you’re prepared to eat a snack when the mood strikes. Plastic utensils work well for many foods, but if you prefer harder snacks that you usually cut, such as apples, you may want to include a sharp knife to make cutting easier.Most snacks can be eaten with your hands, but you may need a spoon for oatmeal and cereal. A butter knife comes in handy for covering crackers and other items with spreads or cutting soft items, such as cheese.
You may want to include some paper plates and napkins in your drawer as well.;
, If there are certain seasonings or spices that you often use on your snacks, keep them in your snack drawer too. For example, you might throw in a few packets of black pepper or include a container of cinnamon to sprinkle over snacks.If you enjoy having salad as a snack, you may want to keep a bottle of olive oil or vinegar in your desk.
 Peanut butter and other nut butters, such as almond or cashew butter, can make a healthy snack because they’re high in protein and can fill you up quickly. Best of all, they can be stored at room temperature, so you easily keep a jar in your desk drawer.For the healthiest option, choose a natural nut butter. It won’t have as much sugar as highly processed versions.
You can spread nut butter on crackers, rice cakes, and fruit slices, or even eat a spoonful straight from the jar.
 Crackers and rice cakes are easy to store in a desk drawer as long as you keep them in airtight packaging. They also pair well with nut butters, hummus, and other healthy spreads. Choose whole grain or vegetable-based crackers for the healthiest option, and opt for unflavored rice cakes to keep the sugar and sodium low.Mini rice cakes are often the best option when you’re trying to eat healthy because you can control your portion more easily.
It’s a good idea to divide crackers and rice cakes into portions ahead of time rather than storing them in a sleeve or bag. That will reduce your risk of eating more than one serving size at a time. Buy small packets or use plastic containers to divide them yourself.
 You might think of oatmeal as a healthy breakfast, but it can also be a filling, healthy snack. Keep a few packets of plain, instant oatmeal, which has less sugar, in your desk. You can mix it up in a mug and use the office microwave to heat it.If plain oatmeal seems too bland, sprinkle a little cinnamon over it for added flavor.
You can also mix dried fruit and nuts into the oatmeal to dress it up.
 Granola and protein bars can be a healthy, satisfying snack, and they are very easy to toss in your desk drawer. Just be sure to read the labels and only choose bars with whole food ingredients, such as nuts, seeds, and dried fruit.If you have a difficult time controlling your portions, only keep enough granola or proteins bars in your desk for the week. That may help deter you from overeating.
 If you enjoy healthy snacks that are perishable, such as fruit, veggies, and cheese, there’s no way to safely keep them in a desk drawer. Instead, purchase a small, insulated cooler that you can keep under or beside your desk to stash your snacks.Other perishable, healthy snacks that you might keep in a cooler include yogurt, hummus, and cottage cheese.
Keep in mind that coolers are only designed to keep items cold for a day or two at most. As a result, you can’t store your snacks in it indefinitely. It’s best to only bring enough perishable snacks for that day rather than try to stock the cooler for the week.
To ensure that they keep your snacks cold, it’s a good idea to chill the cooler itself before you pack it with snacks. If it fits in the refrigerator, you can chill it in there. Otherwise, add some ice and let it sit overnight.
Depending on your workplace, you might see if you could bring in a mini fridge that could be shared with co-workers. Label and date any snacks that store inside.
 Ice is usually too messy to keep the perishable snacks in your desk cooler cold all day. Instead, add some cold packs to the cooler to help keep the food chilled. The packs are filled with a water or refrigerant gel or liquid, and you simply freeze them in your freezer overnight so they’re ready to go to work in the cooler in the morning.If you don’t have any cold packs, freeze a bottle or two of water in your freezer overnight. Toss them in the cooler and they’ll help keep your snacks cool all day.
 Fruit makes a very healthy snack that can often satisfy a sweet craving. However, to ensure that it stays fresh in your desk at work, it’s best to opt for fruits that can be eaten whole, such as apples, bananas, oranges, berries, grapes, plums, and apricots.You don’t have to keep bananas, apples or oranges in a cooler, many fruits are usually fine at room temperature as long as they are not too ripe.
Berries, grapes, plums, and apricots are best kept cold.
 If you like snacking on vegetables, it’s best to choose vegetables that aren’t too juicy so you can cut them ahead of time and they’ll stay fresh in a cooler. Carrots, peppers, celery, and broccoli are good options. Avoid slicing tomatoes and cucumbers because they tend to get mushy if you cut them ahead of time.If you like tomatoes as a healthy snack, opt for small grape or cherry tomatoes that you can eat whole.
Vegetables that you can leave whole, such as snap peas and fresh green beans, are also good options for work snacks.
 Plastic bags with airtight zippers are ideal for storing snacks that aren’t particularly fragile.Consult the packaging for your snacks to determine the appropriate serving size, and fill the bags with that amount so you know exactly how much you’re eating.You can store items in a plastic zippered bag in your desk drawer or in the cooler that you keep at your desk.
 There are many healthy snacks that fit well in plastic bags and won't be crushed if you throw the bag in your drawer or cooler with other items. Dried fruits, nuts, and seeds are all ideal options, as are small whole fruits, such as berries and grapes, or cut vegetables.Dried fruits that you may want to snack on from plastic bags include raisins, dried cranberries, figs, and apricots. They don’t have to be kept cold.
Nuts that you may want to snack on from plastic bags include almonds, walnuts, pistachios, or cashews. They can be stored at room temperature
Seeds also store well in plastic bags at room temperature and can make a healthy snack. Try sunflower or pumpkins seeds.
You can also mix your favorite nuts, dried fruit, and seeds to create your own healthy trail mix to snack on.
If you're storing fruit or vegetables in plastic bags, it's best to keep them in your cooler.
 Some softer snacks may get crushed in your desk drawer or cooler if you store them in plastic bags. For items such as berries, grapes, and small tomatoes, choose hard plastic containers that will protect the foods while keeping them airtight.Make sure to wash your plastic containers daily to prevent any possible contamination of your snacks.
 If you plan to bring multiple snacks to work and don’t want them to mix together, opt for a bento style storage box. Bento boxes are traditionally used for separating the components of a Japanese meal, so lunch boxes inspired by them have dividers that form compartments to sort your snacks.For example, you might store nuts, fruit, and cottage cheese in your bento box and place it in your desk cooler to stay fresh for your afternoon snack at work.
 If you're busy, you may not have time to portion your snacks yourself. Fortunately, you can find many healthy snacks that come in smaller bags or containers so you only get one serving, which keeps you from eating too much.Many single-serving snacks are divided into portions based on the calorie count. For example, it might be a 100-calorie pack of crackers.
Nuts, whole grain crackers, and pretzels are just some of the healthy single-serving packaged snack options.
 These subscription boxes tend to have snacks already portioned into serving sized packages. You might even have the box sent directly to your office.