 The smell is generally the worst part. To gross you out, the stench molecules have to get to your nose. How does that happen? First, they have to vaporize out of the poop, which happens much faster as it is warm. Then, an air current can carry them, which would be fast. Or they'll have to wander through the air by Brown (really!) -ian motion, which is relatively slow (and proportionately lower in the cold, but don't freeze the baby.So, to not smell the stench much:


Find a relatively cool area, within reason, for diaper changes. If the poop cools faster it won't stink as much.
Find a spot with good airflow direction. A sun-warmed side of a room generally isn't ideal because the warm air there will rise toward you. The warmth of the baby and the poo will cause some convection regardless so try not to position yourself directly over the baby.
Optimally, remove the bad air. There are a few options:

Change the baby in a room with an exhaust fan, such as a bathroom.
Change the baby in a room well ventilated to the outdoors, such as one with all the windows open or a porch, in good weather.
Change the baby in the general area of a window, opened for the purpose, that air tends to flow out of due to the house's general configuration or that flow out of is created with a window fan with exhaust (some kind of baffle would prevent excess heat loss or gain from outside).
Make a changing table with an exhaust. Air can't be sucked from a particular direction, so the intake(s) need to be near the stench. A light directional laminar flow of air might push bad air from another direction to them. One possibility is a perforated false bottom, like peg-board, for a changing table, removable or with an access panel for cleaning out anything that gets into the plenum. Another would be intakes on one or both sides of a shallow trough which would contain the baby. The exhaust could couple to an existing vent such as for a bathroom with a baffle to prevent backflow into a room, a suction source such as a central vacuum, or a portable source such as a portable air-conditioner window exhaust (again, preferably with baffle and window sealing when heat or AC is in use). Install a touchless fan power switch or couple it to the folding-down of a retractable changing table for the ultimate in convenience. Do not put electricity near, or possible to be conducted to, the baby!

Exhausting warm or cool air that contains stench may waste heating or cooling. See if it can economically be purified by something like activated carbon, or might be neutralized rather than just circulated by an air conditioner (whose condensate may absorb odour and is generally sent outside) or furnace (whose heat might destroy it), in which case changing baby by a convenient intake could be acceptable. Try to update the article!




As an alternative, cut off the initial emergence of stench by rinsing off the baby with water during the changing process. This can be done on a special changing table, and can be combined with ventilation techniques (generally not a fan near the water). But don't risk dropping a wet baby, especially onto a hard floor.;
, The senses are connected, at least psychologically: for example, smelling something pungent like an onion while eating something sweet like chocolate will make it taste terrible. Similarly, green grassy goose poop just looks weird, not particularly gross like little dog poops. Dim, shadowy lighting, cheap, basic cold fluorescent lighting, or even colored bulbs can make it look unnatural and sterile, which is perfect for something naturally disgusting.


Colored glasses might work too, but make sure you don't put them on with dirty hands.
 Less time reaching for supplies and less places to soil that are not easily cleanable will make the process faster and less mentally involved. It will also make a cleaner, healthier environment for the baby.
 A well-covered diaper bin will keep the dirties from continually soiling the air, and keeping it cool will reduce the accumulated nastiness that can escape. There are even fancy pails that apply individual wrappers.


Cloth diapers can be set in a pail under water to soften soil and possibly dilute and reduce surface area for stench diffusion., With pull-up diapers, the changing is not as involved. Just be sure not to attempt to toilet train them so early as to where the child is frustrated with constant failure. No dirty diapers means none to change!

