 If your too shy to talk to him at first, make or develop a friendship with someone close to him, and hang around with them (this is also a great opportunity to make new friends). You can start by laughing at his jokes, then answering questions he asked to the group, and so on and so forth, until you are ready to speak to him.When you are feeling that you two are getting close tell him that you like a boy but you don't know how to tell him and when he asks who is it don't tell him and see what he does or says after that.;
, MSN is good too. You could share more things and become closer to them, without having to talk TOO much in person. But remember, you do need to talk to them! Don't talk to him every night though, then he will think you are desperate.
 Flirt a little. Laugh at his jokes, but not too much, just giggles, act happy to see him, and twirl you hair. Try to play sports; guys love girls who like sports. And try to find out his interests and try them, but don't change yourself too much.
 You could use this as a guideline for how long you wait before you tell him. Wait until something similar to that subject happens.
 If he asks who you like, just say no one, don't make anyone up. If he says no one too, it's a good sign. If he likes another girl, use it to your advantage. What is it about her he likes? Is she well liked? If she is, why? Is she funny? Sweet? If it's because she's pretty, think about why she's pretty. Is it her long hair? Big eyes? Don't copy her completely, but try to accentuate whatever you have in common. Try out some of her interests but if you try all of them he might notice and think you are weird.
 There's a little something called self-fulfilling prophecy, which means that if you think it's going to go terribly, it will lead to subconscious mannerisms that will make it go terribly. Believe it will go well, and it most likely will.
 Ask him who he likes (again), or say 'Do you still like her?' They might say 'Why' or 'Yeah/No, because .... What about you?' Then is the time to laugh, or type (I'd rather do it through cyber) 'Ha,' then say/type/text, 'I'm kind of starting to like you.' But only if it seems like he is ready.
