 In some cases, side cramps that are severe, especially on your right side, and occur along with other symptoms can be a sign of a more serious medical condition, including:Appendicitis: Your appendix is located on the right side of your lower abdominal. If your appendix starts to swell as the result of an infection, this can lead to some intense pain on your right side and possibly a fever. Your appendix will need to be examined as soon as possible to prevent a rupture. Treatment includes surgical removal of the appendix and if severe, possible treatment with antibiotics.
Ovarian cysts: If you are a woman, severe pain on your right side could also be due to ovarian cysts. These cysts form in your ovary and can cause ovarian cancer. The cysts can be removed through a surgical procedure called a laparoscopy.
A doctor would order blood work and possibly an abdominal CT to diagnose you. Other medical conditions that cause similar pain include testicular torsion, ectopic pregnancy, intussusception, intestinal malrotation, and bowel obstruction. Other causes for women include pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), pelvic cysts, or masses.
 These could all be symptoms of gallstones. Gallstones are stones that form in your gall bladder and can be very painful. But they can be removed through a surgical procedure called a cholecystectomy.Biliary disease is a condition of the right upper quadrant (RUQ). This usually represents itself as right upper quadrant pain due to stretching of the capsule of the liver with inflammation. There can be stones or infection of the biliary tree that leads to this diagnosis. Usually blood work and abdominal ultrasound are used to diagnose this condition. Fever may also be associated. Surgery is the treatment option for this disease as well.
 These could be symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI), which occur when bacteria enters your urethra and your bladder.UTIs are more common in women. Women tend to get a UTI after sexual activity or when using a diaphragm for birth control., If the pain persists, this could be associated with an ectopic pregnancy. An ectopic pregnancy occurs when the fertilized egg implants itself outside the uterus, often in the fallopian tubes.If an ectopic pregnancy occurs, you will feel pain based on which side the egg has implanted itself. The only treatment for an ectopic pregnancy is to terminate the pregnancy.
 These could be symptoms of an ulcerative colitis or a stomach ulcer. Your doctor can prescribe medication to relieve these symptoms.Stomach ulcer result from an overuse of NSAIDS and can be very painful. Other causes of stomach ulcers are H. Pylori bacteria.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease may be causing your abdominal pain. Treatment with antacids may be necessary.
Ulcerative colitis is unusual for this type of pain, but it does lead to belly pain with diarrhea and inflammation of the bowel.

