 A child with an attitude problem will probably disrespect your authority, or the authority of other adults like teachers. Watch out for small indicators of disrespect like eye-rolling and door-slamming, as well as bigger problems like talking back and breaking rules., It’s normal for kids to squabble now and then, but if your child always has a hard time getting along with their siblings and peers, then that’s cause for concern. Stay on the alert for bullying behaviors like teasing and pushiness. In addition, notice whether your child struggles with social skills like sharing and compromise.A child who is constantly aggressive to their siblings may indicate attitude problems.If you have an older child or teenager, pay attention to the way they talk about their friends, even if you don’t see many of their interactions.
 At certain ages, children and adolescents commonly test the limits. This can appear to be an attitude problem when it's actually a normal aspect of development. For instance, toddlers and preschoolers may talk back or throw tantrums to see what they can get away with. Teenagers might break the rules you set in an attempt to assert their individuality. These behaviors don’t mean you’re doing anything wrong as a parent.
You should still correct negative behaviors, even if they’re part of a normal developmental stage.
 Take your child’s age into consideration when determining if behavior is problematic. Although some testing of limits is typical, you should be cautious if your child has trouble controlling their emotions, managing their impulses, or correcting behaviors after being disciplined.For instance, if your 10-year-old has explosive outbursts and tantrums when she doesn't get her way, this may indicate a problem.
Similarly, if your teen seems to impulsively lie to you, even when caught, this may be proof of a more serious underlying problem.
Having an attitude problem may also be a sign of internal discomfort that your child can’t verbalize. If your child is having discomfort, then they might be acting out because of that.
 Beyond parents, teachers are the other adults who generally have the most contact with your child. Reach out to your child's teacher(s) to see if they have noticed a problem with their attitude.


You might say, "Ms. Hannah, I'm noticing that Billy is talking back a lot at home. Are you having any trouble with his behavior at school?"
Getting an understanding of your child's behavior on a global scale can help you recognize if any acting out is contextual, or if they are having problems in many areas of life., Coaches, school counselors, youth leaders and other adults who know your child can fill you in on how they act when you’re not around. For example, if your child is on a sports team, then you could ask about how they interact with other members of the team, or even observe them yourself. If you’re worried about your child’s attitude, make an appointment to discuss their behavior with some of these people.


You might say, “I’ve noticed some undesirable behaviors at home and wanted to get your take. Has anything happened lately that caught your eye?”

