 A perfect day for your dog should probably contain some form of exercise. However, the day may not be so perfect if your dog can’t keep up with you or ends up injuring himself from playing too hard. Take your dog to your veterinarian to discuss how much your dog can safely exercise. Scheduling this appointment with your veterinarian is especially important if your dog has not been exercising regularly.How much your dog can exercise would depend on his age, energy level, and overall health status.;
, Any other day, you would control the direction and pace of the walk. On a perfect day, switch this around—let your dog tell you where to go.This does not mean he can forget his leash manners for a day—you are simply letting him to use his nose to guide the walk.


You may be pleasantly surprised with where you end up when you let your dog choose the direction.
Make sure your dog is properly leash trained.
 If you have an active dog, part of your perfect day could involve taking him out for an invigorating run. A good run increases your dog’s stamina and strengthens his muscles.The run is also a good way for him to release pent-up energy.


For a perfect day, remember that the run is for your dog, not for you.If he wants to stop and smell some flowers or investigate something along the running path, let him do so.
 If you enjoy outdoor exercise, then consider going hiking with your dog. A hike would allow him to explore the outdoors and experience new things in his environment.Be sure to pack plenty of water, poop bags, and a first-aid kit for your dog when you go hiking.Antibiotic ointment and gauze are especially important in case your dog cuts or scrapes the bottom of his paws.
If you live in an area with ticks, check your dog for ticks after the hike. Remove the ticks if you see them.
Be aware that many state parks, but not national parks, allow dogs on trails.The website http://www.hikewithyourdog.com/ is a good resource for identifying parks in your area that allow dogs on their trails.
Going backpacking with your dog is another great way to spend a day outdoors with your dog., If you live near a dog-friendly beach and the weather is nice, then a day at the beach with your dog would be perfect. On a warm summer day, your dog would love to run in the sand, play in the water, and generally enjoy the warmth of the day.Before you hop in the car and head to the beach with your dog, remember a few things to keep him safe.


Being out in the heat and sun at the beach can be exhausting for your dog. Create a shaded area for him and give him plenty of water to keep him cool and well hydrated. Dogs with short hair, white hair, or pink skin can easily be sunburned. Put pet-safe sunblock on your dog’s nose and ear tips before heading to the beach.Check the water conditions before your dog jumps in the water.If the water is unsafe for humans to swim in, then your dog should not swim in it either.
If your dog doesn’t swim well, play fetch with him or take him for a run or walk along the water line. Your dog can injure himself running in the sand,so you may want to take him on a leisurely stroll instead.
Put a dog-specific life jacket on your dog if he is going to be swimming in the water.Do not let your dog drink the ocean water or eat the sand. Both the water and sand could cause digestive upset.Bring a poop bag to clean up after your dog.Give your dog a good bath when you get back home, especially if he has played in the water. The water has salt and minerals that could irritate your dog’s skin., Dogs naturally use their noses to locate items in their environment.During a perfect day with your dog, let him put his ‘nose’ skills to the test with a tracking game. This can be done in the comfort of your own home or outside in a large open area.


Think of tracking as playing a fun game of hide and seek with your dog.
Hiding his toy when he cannot see you hide it will allow him to use his nose to locate it.If you are outside, hide the toy and stand downwind (wind is in your face) of it with your dog. The wind will carry the toy’s scent to your dog’s nose, once again testing his ‘nose’ skills to find the toy.