 The healthier your pet is, the less likely it is that he will need expensive medical care. Take steps at home to keep your pet healthy and happy. There are several ways you can be proactive when caring for your pet.Feed him a healthy diet. Take care to feed your pet the right kind of food. For example, dogs do best with a hard kibble full of natural ingredients.
Groom your pet. Grooming, such as brushing and bathing, can help keep your pet infection free.
Play with your pet. Many pets, such as dogs and cats, enjoy play time. It will also help keep them at a healthy weight.
 No matter how healthy your pet is, you will need to regularly take them to the vet. All animals need regular check-ups. Wellness exams can help you to avoid major medical issues in the future.Take your pet for an annual check-up. You can make sure they get their necessary shots at this time.
Monitor your pet's health. Keep an eye out for symptoms of illness, such as change in behavior or weight loss.Call your vet anytime you notice a change in your pet's appearance or behavior. If may be expensive to go to the vet, but regular checkups will cost less than a major procedure down the road.
 If you have a dog, one of the most important things you can do is to provide him with good oral health care. Many canine health issues are the result of poor oral hygiene. Brush your dog's teeth at home to avoid expensive medical bills down the road.Buy a toothpaste that is specially formulated for canine's. "People" products aren't safe for dogs.
Brush your dog's teeth as often as he will allow. Ideally, you will brush his teeth each day.
Other animals, such as cats, need good oral hygiene, too. Talk to your vet about how to care for your pet's teeth.
 All veterinary care can seem expensive if you are unprepared. When you have a pet, you should build pet health care into your monthly budget. Write down how much you expect to spend.Include basic items such as food, grooming tools, and toys. Write down the approximate cost for each item.
Factor in the cost of annual wellness exams. This should also include the cost of vaccinations.
Set money aside each month for future healthcare needs. For example, putting $20 aside each month can be very helpful if your pet ends up needing a pricey procedure.

