 Feral cats were never pets, and have not learned to meow or make eye contact with humans. Their coats are usually clean and well-kept compared to strays', since feral cats are used to taking care of themselves. Also look for these tell-tale signs:


Feral cats found alone are often unneutered males (tomcats). These have a more muscular, stockier build and fuller cheeks than neutered pets.Some tomcats have a spiky coat and a greasy or hairless area at the base of the tail ("stud tail").One clipped ear tip is the international sign of a spayed or neutered feral.Female ferals often live in small colonies around dumpsters or other food sources. When found alone, they can be difficult to tell apart from strays. A pregnant or lactating cat (with enlarged nipples and breasts) is usually feral., If the cat does not have a clipped ear, take it to the vet to be spayed or neutered. Always fix the cat before release so it displays fewer obnoxious behaviors (such as spraying or howling) and does not increase the feral cat population. If the shelter or vet clinic is part of a trap-neuter-release (TNR) program, it might perform the surgery for free. Bring the cat to the clinic promptly so the cat is not confined to the trap for more than 12 hours.If you decide to become more involved in a TNR program, invest in a transfer cage. This is a trap and cage with doorways that hook together, so the cat can walk into the larger space without escaping.You can also learn to tell whether the cat is fixed directly: follow these guides for female and male cats. Since this often requires handling the cat, it is not recommended until you have experience under trained supervision.
 Cats usually need 24 hours to recover from the surgery, but some females take 48. Keep the trap or cage covered and move it to a temperature-controlled room, since cats recovering from anesthesia cannot regulate body temperature. Keep the room as quiet as possible and do not allow any other people or pets to enter. Monitor the cat closely:Feed kittens shortly after they wake up, and adult cats eight hours after they wake up. To do this, open a small gap in the trap door and slide in a little food and water on a plastic lid, without putting your hand inside. If you cannot do this safely, don't do it; the cat will manage. The cat might not eat right away.Call the clinic's emergency number (or the number they asked you to call) if the cat is bleeding, has trouble breathing, vomits, or does not wake up.If the cat vomits while asleep, gently tip the trap at a slight angle so the vomit runs away from the cat's throat., An adult feral cat can almost never be socialized enough to become an indoor pet. Bring the trap back to the same location you trapped it, open it, and wait until the cat walks out on its own.Disinfect and rinse the trap thoroughly before using it for another animal.
If you do not want the cat living in your neighborhood, take it to a shelter. Cats rarely do well when released in a new location, but shelter staff should know how to increase the chance of success., If you would like to help the cat, you can leave out food and water near the location where you trapped it. Feral cats are especially vulnerable in cold climates, and may benefit from a shelter and a source of liquid water (a heated water bowl) in winter.
 If the cat shows some friendliness toward humans, or is no more than four months old, it may be possible to adopt it as a semi-tamed pet.The first step is to take it to a veterinarian for deworming and vaccinations. After that, a slow introduction to your household, one room at a time, may succeed in socializing the animal. Keep in mind that this is very difficult for fully feral, adult cats, and you may need to release the cat if it doesn't work out.

