 You need a flat head screwdriver, scissors, and needle-nose pliers for the beginning. Look at the "Things You'll Need" section for all of the materials required.
 Globe light bulbs work best for this project. Use a light bulb that is burned out, so as to save you money. Don’t use the soft white bulbs because they are a little too fragile to work with.;
, Place a cardboard box under the light bulb, so that it catches any falling glass. Goggles are needed in this step because it involves breaking glass. This is the part that is done by adults only.
 Carefully push up the sides of metal tip away from the black glass part.
 Yank out the metal piece. You will feel some little wires snap when this is done.
 This is done by firmly holding one side of the glass with pliers and twisting it up to break the glass. Hold on the bulb firmly––the black glass is quite thick and it takes some force to break. Be very careful while doing this step.
 You will be able to see the inside parts of the light bulb at this step.
 It will make a little sound as the gas escapes. Smash the remaining glass containing the tube. It takes a little force to do this, so hold on the light bulb firmly. The light bulb will not break, provided that you keep the screwdriver away from the bulb itself.
, This will remove all the white substance from the inside edge of the light bulb.
 Now you have a hollow light bulb. That was the hardest part of this project.
 Make sure that you have enough sand to place in the cookie sheet. The sand can be bought either at a garden store or obtained free from a beach. If you are using beach sand, rinse it thoroughly to remove any non-sand materials.
 Put it into the oven at 350ºF/180ºC. Be very careful when taking it out, because it will be very hot. Wear suitable oven mitts.
 Any condensation left in the hourglass it will cause the sand to stick to the light bulb.
 Use a funnel or a folded piece of cardboard to make it easier to pour.
 This will hold the light bulbs tighter. Make sure that you place a hole in the center of both for the sand to flow through. The picture is similar, but it gives you an idea of what you have to do.
 This is the fun part because you can make it any way you want it to look. A simple hand saw can take care of the whole job. You will need measuring tape and a hammer for the nails. Also, you need four columns, a base, and a top for the frame.
 You are almost done; you can see that there are three columns in place.
 This is the part in which you set up your materials in the way that you want it to ultimately look. Once everything looks good in the mock-up, glue the light bulbs and build the frame around the light bulbs.
 You can now decorate your hourglass in any way that you want. The image in this step show an example of what a finished light bulb hourglass looks like.

