 Go to imageresizer.codeplex.com on any web browser, and click on the download link for the setup file.;
, Locate the downloaded file on your computer. The filename will be ImageResizerSetup.exe.


Double-click on the setup file to run the installation.
 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup., Navigate to the folder that contains the photos you’d like to resize.
 All resizing configurations will be applied to the whole batch of photos.


You can select multiple files by pressing the CTRL key on your keyboard and clicking on each file.
 Right-click on the selected files to open the context menu. Click on “Resize pictures,” and Image Resizer for Windows will launch.
 Choose from the predefined options:


Click the radio button for Small to set the output files to 854 x 480 pixels.
Click on the radio button for Medium to set the output files to 1366 x 768 pixels.
Click on the radio button for Large to set the output files to 1920 x 1080 pixels.
Click on the radio button for Mobile to set the output files to 320 x 480 pixels.
Click on the radio button for Custom to set your own custom size. You can set it by Pixels, Centimeters, Inches, or Percent.
 After selecting the output size, there are several configuration options available for the resizing:



Only shrink pictures. Tick the checkbox for this option if you want the photos to only be shrunk and not be enlarged to fit the set dimensions. If this is selected, only files larger than the output size will be resized. Enlarging a smaller picture to fit the output size may cause pixelation of the output photo.

Replace the originals. Tick the checkbox for this option if you want the output photos to replace the original files. Make sure you won’t need the original files anymore if you select this as they will be overwritten.

Ignore picture rotations. Tick the checkbox for this option if you want the tool to ignore the orientation of the photos when resizing. The output photos may be poorly cropped if this is chosen.
 The selected photos will be processed and resized accordingly.


The output files will be placed in the same folder as the original files.

