 The team leader will make final decisions about definitions or arguments should there be disagreement in the group. He or she will also keep track of time to ensure that preparation is moving efficiently. This method requires that everyone develop a full case and then collaborate afterwards. Decide if this method is appropriate for your team and the given topic.
 Have each member of the team quickly outline the entire case. This way, everyone puts their ideas to work, and no one dominates the initial thinking process.Use this time to create definitions or look for facts.
List arguments and counter-arguments if time allows.
For example, if the topic is abortion, start with a definition for abortion that is clear. Create a general case and list the main arguments that you think your team should use. You might focus a general case for abortion on the life of the pregnant woman. The first speaker could discuss reproductive rights and female empowerment.
The second speaker might give facts on the financial difficulties with unwanted pregnancies and highlight that women who are denied abortion can face psychological issues.
The third speaker may defend possible opposing arguments by focusing on historical cases, legal definitions of people, and medical advancements.
 Each team member now shares his or her outline from step one. Other team members should listen carefully and write down what is said.Sharing should be brief as details can be filled in later.
 Start with a blank paper and create your case together. Ideas from each team-member’s brainstorm will hopefully be included. Outline all elements of the case including the driving points for each speaker.


The goal here is to create all arguments as a team. Do not assign tasks to individual speakers.
 Use your group work to individually write your speech. Remember to include parts that are specific to your speaking role. This may include introductions, definitions, and defending arguments. , Gather as a team and have each speaker summarize his or her speech. Remember to bring up any potential weaknesses in your arguments, and discuss how they will be addressed. At this point, the team should ensure that everyone understands the path that the case will take. It may be useful to highlight goals and strategies to use during the debate.
As the development is primarily a group effort, the case may evolve quickly. An individual team member may have initially focused an abortion case on the rights of the mother, but the final group focus may be on developing healthy families.

