 Some teams have a minimum age, a maximum age, and so on. Is it even realistic for you to try to get on team in your gym. Most gyms will take anyone who has reached the appropriate standards and others will only take people of a certain height, age and/or body type.


Some gyms only take team gymnasts of a certain age. This is especially true with pre-teams. Most pre-teams only take gymnasts who are about 4 to 8 years old.Older gymnasts often have to start at levels 4 or 5.Some gyms won't take older gymnasts on their teams at all. A gym which aims to produce elites will look for kids who are 6 to 7 years old to do level 4 and 5.A gym which focus's on college scholarships will usually want their level 4 and 5's to be no older than 10.Find out what the case is for your gym.;
, Some gyms hold open trials once a year. Other gyms will invite those who they think are good enough. Other gyms will take everyone who reaches a certain level, and so on.


Many gyms start their team at Level 4 but many now begin at levels 2 or 3. Some gyms may not start their team until level 5. Talk to your coach or the gym managers to find out what's expected.
 Team is a big commitment from your parents as well, not just you. They need to agree to drive you to and from the gym, usually 3 to 5 days a week at least. They need to be prepared to allow you to have a lot less time for homework and they will pay a lot of money.
 If your coach doesn't know they can't help you achieve your goal.


Many kids who are desperate to be on team have not even told their coaches and the coaches don't realize they want to be there. If you tell the coach, they can find out if there could be a place for you.
 Teams are not just interested in talented kids, they want dedicated gymnasts. Be on time and dressed appropriately, with the right equipment.
 If you are only training once a week it is unlikely you will ever make team. You should be going a minimum of twice a week, while three times a week is better. Find out whether you can take another class each week, if your class is only once a week perhaps another type of class at the gym.
 You need to acknowledge this before getting on the time because it will mean a massive time commitment on your behalf. Team gymnasts need to train a lot of hours: Level 3s usually train 3 to 8 hours per week, level 4s around 9 to 12 hours per week, level 5s about 12 to 15 hours per week, level 6s about 14 to 18 hours per week, levels 7 and 8 train around 16 to 24 hours per week. Levels 9 to 10 train around 18 to 30 hours per week. This may not be possible if you do any other activities or get tired easily. Training sessions are usually 3 to 4 hours long.
, When your coach is correcting you, he/she is helping you to pinpoint and then eliminate your weaknesses, in order to become the best gymnast you can be.
 Check whether they apply to you. The more tips you can pick up, the better.
 If you look like a competitive gymnast your coaches are more likely to see you as a competitive gymnast. Wear a leotard and keep your hair neat and tidy.
 Try to be in the gym as much as possible so that you can absorb as much as possible.
 This way you know what skills you need to be ready.
 If your team starts at level 3, you will need to know how to dive roll vault.


On bars, you will need a pullover, back hip circle, stride circle and round-off.
On beam, you will need side handstands and 3/4 handstands.
On floor, you will need handstand forward rolls, round offs and bridge kick overs.
 If your team starts at level 4, you will need your round off back handspring and tic toc on floor.


Your handstand twist dismount and full handstand on beam.
On bars, you will need glide swing, pullover, back hip circle, front hip circle, stride circle and underswing and a handstand to flat back vault.
 If your team starts at level 5 you will need your front handspring vault.


On bars, you will need your glide kip, long kip and squat on a jump to high bar.
On beam, you will need handstands and cartwheels.
On floor, you will need dive roll, round off followed by two back handsprings, back walkover, front handspring and backward roll to handstand.
 These two aspects are among the main things looked at for choosing team gymnasts. You should work on building both strength and flexibility every day at home, for at least 20 to 30 minutes. Ask your coach to design you a home program to do each day and ask them to review it after you have done it daily for 6 weeks.
 It takes a while to develop your gymnastics skills to team level. Keep at it and you will get there.

