 The first step in writing a forensic accounting paper is deciding on a broad topic. A topic may be assigned to you by your instructor, but a more open-ended paper will require you to pick a topic yourself. Possible areas to focus on within forensic accounting include bankruptcy and insolvency, economic damages calculations, computer forensics techniques, securities fraud, the role of government, insurance claims, and personal injury claims.;
, The central thrust of any academic paper is contained within the thesis statement. To construct a thesis, choose a specific facet of your desired topic and, if possible, defend a particular position. For example, if your broad topic is "the role of government," your specific issue could be "the need for policy intervention in preventing securities fraud." By building a thesis from this, you will be dealing with a specific area as well as defending a position - in this case, calling for new government policies.
 The amount of research conducted will depend on the paper's length. You should begin your research early in the process, as you may want to adjust your thesis as you learn more. University libraries and their databases of industry journal articles are an excellent source for material. Popular magazines such as New Accountant can also be used for research. If you need to interview professionals, consider working through your professors or through professional organizations such as the Forensic Accountants Society of North America (FASNA).
 An outline is an essential tool for structuring your paper before writing it. Place your thesis at the top of the outline, and order your supporting points and evidence below it. Forensic accounting is a practical discipline, so case studies are important as evidence. If you are claiming that increased policy intervention would stem securities fraud, you need to build convincing case studies of past events - such as the Enron and WorldCom frauds - that support your position.
 When writing the first draft, focus primarily on the strength of your argument, rather than the elegance of your writing. Make sure that your case studies demonstrate an adequate understanding of the issue, and that your thesis arises naturally from the evidence you present. During your first draft, work tables and figures into your paper. While lengthy tables containing numbers can drag down a paper in another discipline, in an accounting paper they are absolutely essential. Accounting is a field in which you must be able to back up your claims with hard numbers.
 The second (and possibly final) draft of your paper is when you focus on making the writing engaging. Forensic accounting is often joked to be the "sexy" side of an oft-acknowledged boring profession. Make sure your paper reflects this through an engaging style. The occasional piece of anecdotal evidence may be appropriate to lighten the tone of your paper, depending on the gravity of the topic and the assignment.

