 Challenge yourself to find a new skill in the office, gym, kitchen, or garage. Pick something you are interested in and try to master it. This will help you to achieve a goal, build confidence in your abilities, and improves your mental fitness.


Most jobs require some adaptation over time. Taking time to learn a new skill can keep you in control of your career path, boost your self-esteem, and keep your mind sharp.
Lifelong learners are able to keep up with rapidly changing times and face the ever evolving challenges of modernity.
Acquiring a new skill will help keep your mind operating at a high level, decrease the risk of cognitive impairment, and the overall enjoyment of better mental health.
 Stress is a part of live and is unavoidable, however, understanding what triggers your stress is important in dealing with it while keeping your mental strength intact. A balanced lifestyle is the most immediate way of handling stress, but if you find stress debilitating then you might have to go a step further and reduce stress by trying yoga or breathing exercises.Perform yoga as a way to help you experience your true nature – thoughts, feelings, and emotions – as a way to help you interact with the stressful environment. In short, it could factor in your quality of life.
Taking short, three minute breaks a few times every day to stop what you are doing and inhale and exhale deeply can help clarify your thoughts, calm you down, and make you more productive. Make sure you find a quiet space so that you can concentrate on breathing as the air circulates throughout your entire body.
 Take time everyday to try and experience all of your senses. Performing these exercises will slow your body down and boost your brain power, reduce stress, and refocus your thoughts for the rest of the day. Our brains are constantly flooded with both visual and mental clutter as we endure the frenzied and chaotic world around us. Mindful exercises enable us to become more fully immersed in the present moment, and break the chain of stress and worry.Mindfulness is the art of experiencing the step-by-step process of ordinary, everyday activities by consciously thinking about how each sense plays a role in doing the mundane. Breathing is a key element to this exercise as you will need to concentrate on inhaling, exhaling, and tracing the path of the air as it travels throughout your body. Mindful exercises will bring the moment-by-moment awareness of thoughts, sensations, feelings, and a sense of the environment around you.
Doing routine chores around the house can serve as mindful exercises. Whether vacuuming, ironing, or dusting, engage with each step of the process instead of performing it without thought.
Take ten minutes every day to perform one mindful activity. Keep a journal to write down your feelings to each activity to explain in words your experience. It is important to realize the difference in performing the activity mindlessly compared to mindfully.

