 You can do this with a spiralizer, a julienne peeler, or a mandoline. You can peel the zucchinis beforehand or leave it unpeeled.
 Place the zoodles on top of a paper towel. Lightly salt it, then cover it with another paper towel. Pat it down with your hands, wait 20 minutes, then roll the zoodles up in the paper towel. Wait 30 to 60 minutes, then unroll the zoodles and place them into a bowl.If the top paper towel is soaked through before you roll up the zoodles, replace it with a fresh one.You do not need to drain the carrots. Carrots don't have as much moisture in them as zucchinis do.
This step is not absolutely necessary, but it will help soak up any excess moisture and prevent the zoodles from turning too soggy.
 Pour the soy sauce into a small bowl. Add the brown sugar, fish sauce, fresh lime juice, and Sriracha. Stir everything together with a fork or mini whisk, then set the bowl aside.

If you are a strict vegan and don't have honey or brown sugar, try agave nectar instead.
 Heat a heavy-duty pan over high heat. Pour 2 tablespoons of canola oil into the pan, then add the minced garlic and the shrimp. Cook them until the shrimp start to turn pink, stirring often with a wooden spoon or spatula. This will take about 2 minutes., Add the sauce, green onions, and zoodles into the pan. Stir everything to combine, then cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Be careful not to overcook the zoodles, or they will turn soggy., Divide them between four bowls. Top each bowl with 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) of chopped peanuts. For extra color and zest, add some chopped fresh basil or cilantro/coriander., You can do this quickly with a spiralizer. If you don't have one, use a julienne peeler or a mandoline.

You can peel the zucchinis or leave them unpeeled.
 Place the spiralized zucchinis on top of a paper towel, then lightly salt them. Cover them with another paper towel, then pat them down with your hands. Wait 20 minutes, then roll up the paper towel. Wait another 30 to 60 minutes, then unroll the paper towel and place the spiralized zucchinis into a bowl.Replace the top paper towel if it gets too soggy.You don't have to do this, but doing so will help soak prevent the zoodles from getting too soggy.
 Pour 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of freshly squeezed lime juice into a small cup. Add 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of hoisin sauce, ½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) of soy sauce, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of chili sauce, and 1 teaspoon of honey. Stir everything together with a fork or mini whisk. Set the sauce aside for later.Use agave nectar if you are a strict vegan.
Save time by preparing the sauce while the zoodles are draining.
 Place the tofu down on top of a paper towel. Cover it with another paper towel, then press down on it with a plate or cutting board. This will help remove any excess moisture., Toss the tofu with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of cooking oil, then place it onto a hot wok. Brown the tofu on all sides (about 1 to 2 minutes), then transfer it to a plate., Wipe the wok clean with a paper towel first. Turn down the heat to medium-high. Pour in ½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) of cooking oil, and swirl it around. Add the eggs, then scramble them with a spatula. Once the eggs are set, transfer them to the plate with the tofu.

Skip this step if you are vegan or don't like eggs.
 Pour the remaining ½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) of cooking oil into the wok. Swirl it around, then add the green onion, garlic, and ginger. Sauté them for about 15 seconds, or until they turn fragrant., Add in the carrots first. Fry them, stirring often, for 1 minute. Toss in the zoodles, and cook them for another minute., Start with three tablespoons (45 milliliters) of the sauce first. Add in the tofu and the eggs. Toss everything together and cook for 2 minutes. Give the Pad Thai a taste, then add more sauce, if needed., Divide the Pad Thai between four plates. Add a squeeze of lime juice on top, along with some chopped peanuts and cilantro. Plan on using 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) of chopped peanuts per dish.