 This is one of the more simple duct tape crafts to make. You can probably do this craft in less time, if you have done other duct tape crafts before.
 Get out your duct tape and a ruler. Reference method one to read about your options for purchasing duct tape.
 Make sure you have a cleared off desk or the equivalent to do make your craft. Reference method one to read more about what to do to prepare your space.
 Materials include: scissors, board, and a roll of the tape of your choice. Once again, method one will help you give you more specifics on the materials, if need more information.
 Cut off four, seven inch strips of duct tape. Lay down your first strip, sticky side up. Cut off another piece of duct tape, and lay it, also sticky side up, next to the first piece, so that it slightly overlaps. Repeat until you have all four in a row. Take four more, seven inch strips of duct tape, and lay them, sticky side down, on top of the duct tape sticky duct tape, to make your fabric.









Trim off excess, fold your fabric in half, hotdog style, so the long sides are touching at the top. Trim off the excess duct tape on each side, so you have straight sides.
 Cut off a ten inch strip of duct tape, and cut or rip the strip in half. Take one piece, place half of it along the top of one of the sides, and fold it over. Cut off the edges. Repeat the process with the other side.









Sealing the top and bottom will give the wallet a cleaner look.
 Put two on each side of the wallet. To do this:









Cut three, fourteen inch strips of duct tape.
Take two of the fourteen inch strips and stick them together, sticky sides touching, to make a long strip of duct tape fabric.
Seal each of the long edges of fabric with tape. Lengthwise, rip the third piece of tape down the middle. Take one of the two pieces, lay it on one long side of the fabric, so that it halfway covers the fabric. Fold the tape down and smooth it, to make the edge. Repeat on the other side.
 Fold your original fabric in half, hotdog style, or so the long sides touch. Then, fold the fabric again in half, hamburger style, so the short ends touch, to see where the credit cards pockets will go.
 Get a credit card and your wallet, folded hot dog or lengthwise. Lay the card on the inside of the wallet and measure a piece pocket fabric big enough to hold cards. Make a mark on the fabric and cut it to size. Use that same measurement for the three other pockets.









Measure the fabric so that it is slightly longer than the size of the credit card, so they will fit.
Make sure the pieces of fabric you cut for your credit cards are not so long that they stick out of the sides of the wallet. Also see to it that you can tape the pocket in the middle, as well.
 Lay the pieces of fabric in place where you want the credit cards, on the inside of your wallet.









Cut twelve strips of tape, a few inches long, to secure the pockets. Tape the bottom and two sides of the four credit card holders.
 First, fold the wallet in half, again, lengthwise (hotdog style). Make sure that the pockets are faced out. Take two strips of tape, a little longer than the short side of your wallet, and seal the short edges that are touching, on both sides of your wallet. Trim off the excess tape.
 You have your completed wallet!

