 These should be done frequently and randomly and should be included as part of an extensive hiring process, as well as once they have been hired.;
, Bonded is a term that means it protects the hiring agency from property loss. Bonded does not give any notion of a person's integrity, level of ability or honesty.
 This will tell you if they have ever been convicted of any crimes in other states or at the federal level.
 It's simple for people to claim they have a degree or training. But when it's your parents' lives on the line, you need to know for sure. Call the institutions they claim to have degrees in and verify the degrees. Likewise, if they are licensed call the licensing agencies and confirm their certifications are up to date and are real.
 Requiring and checking up on references can help you find someone who is kind, patient and well trained. Making certain the references are non-relatives and non-friends. Call and verify the references and ask them very specific questions you need to know about.
 Keeping cameras is perfectly fine in your parents' home. It is a measure of protection to ensure that the home care nurses are doing their job and are not neglectful or abusive. Time and time again you see this type of abuse on the news. It does happen and should be watched for. Your parents' lives are depending on this person and they should be treating them well.
 It needs to include an employment application, social security information and license information. Likewise, verify that they are legally allowed to work in the United States or you could face penalties. You can use many types of software to run background checks and verify employment eligibility.
 If someone strikes you as odd or like they are hiding something, they could be and its not worth risking your parents' lives. Don't go just by what people say. Their body language speaks volumes about who they are and their intentions.
, Still, you want to take all the precautions you can and never fully give your trust over. Continue drug testing and using cameras to ensure your parents' are being well cared for.
 Don't over work or ask from them what is beyond their skill set.
 Asking someone to do tasks that is beyond their training is dangerous and illegal.

