 Now think of all the good things in your life that will happen and have happened. Now look at all the stressful things and come up with a good, and positive solution for each one. Try doing this once a week, or if you feel like you're under a lot of stress. You're now stress free!;
, Well the most common signs are, constantly gritting your teeth, nausea, having trouble breathing, panic attacks, pain of any kind, eczema, depression, sleep problems, obesity, and digestive problems.
 like chicken noodle soup. Proceed with a warm tea and hot bath. Take the bath with bath beads, or just simple bubble bath will be fine. After wards, dress in warm pajamas, and watch your favorite movie and even have a small piece of chocolate to to top it off.
 Breath in through your nose and count to three and breath out through your mouth counting down from three. Do this three times and you'll feel much better!

, Then say when and how you are going to finish that stuff. When you hear yourself figure out a plan, it will create more confidence that you can get it all done. Technically, you don't have to be alone when you do this, but you may seem a little crazy if you are talking to yourself in your school hallways!

, Try being happy and positive and understanding of those around you.
 Eating unhealthy foods puts unwanted oils in your body which causes acne, and makes you feel...bleh. Try having five fruits and vegetables each day. This means having five fruits would be acceptable (so would having three fruits and two vegetables.) Also having at least two servings of meat and poultry each day is healthy. Avoid eating a lot of foods that contain alcohol, caffeine, wheat, dairy, and sugar. (Soda, coffee, alcoholic beverages, pasta, bread, etc.)

, Drinking at least eight full glasses of water a day helps a lot! It washes out unwanted toxins in the body which contribute to stress and acne. Drink the water as the day goes by, not all at once.
 If you lack confidence it makes it worse, so always have a handful of confident thoughts with you ready and armed!

, Even going for a small jog each day helps! Going to the gym is good too, but getting fresh air and sunshine helps a little more.Try swimming, running, riding a bike, and other outdoor sports.
 Try getting up at a stable time and the same for going to bed. Don't eat lunch or dinner too late or early.
 Keep your room clean and make your bed each morning when you wake up. Clean your sheets every four weeks and shower every day. Wash your face as soon as you wake up in the morning. Don't leave clothes on your floor and try to keep your floors clear. Keep your drawers organized. Even try practicing, feng shui. I've tried it and it's made a great significant difference in my stress.

