 When feeding your puppy, make sure you give them the right amount of food, as well as the proper kind of food. For example, puppies need to be fed high-quality brand name puppy food. Try to limit “people food” because this can cause vitamin and mineral deficiencies and imbalances, bone and teeth problems, and obesity later on. Clean, fresh water should be available at all times.Here’s a guide to feeding your puppy the right amount of food:Eight to 12 week-old puppies need four meals a day.
Three to six month-old puppies need three meals a day.
Six months to one-year-old puppies need two meals a day.
Once your dog is one year old, one meal a day will suffice.
 Clean your puppy's water and food dishes at least once a week. Clean them with regular soap and water. Try to avoid soap that may have chemicals that will harm your puppy, such as dish washing detergent. Make sure all the soap is removed by rinsing and drying the bowls well.
 Installing puppy gates inside the home will prevent your puppy from escaping through an opened front or back door. Gates inside the home will also prevent your puppy from going into areas of the house that are deemed unsafe. Unsafe areas can include areas that contain household plants that are poisonous to dogs, as well as areas with a lot of wiring and electric cords.Install gates outside that will prevent your puppy from escaping, as well as prevent other dogs from getting inside your back yard. Gates that are safe for the backyard are ones that have safety latches.
 Let your puppy become accustomed to the motion of the car by gradually increasing the length of the car rides. If your puppy still gets sick from car rides, even if you do not feed it, you can buy over-the-counter motion sickness drugs by the name of Meclizine, Bonine, or Antivert. Administer the medication one hour before the car ride.It is best to talk to your puppy’s vet before you administer these drugs. Your vet will tell you when and how much medication to administer to your puppy.
 When handling your puppy, make sure to place your hand under your puppy’s chest, with either your forearm or other hand supporting your puppy’s hind legs and rump. Do not lift or grab your puppy by the forelegs, back of the neck, or tail. If your puppy is heavy, lift it from its underside, supporting its chest with one arm and its rear with the other., If you place your puppy on a surface, it may try to jump down. If it jumps from a surface that is high above the ground, it could break a bone, suffer head trauma, or even cause death in extreme situations.

