 No one is better or worse than you! Don't try to change yourself, as there will never be another person like you in the future. If the snotty girl in your class beats you down and insists that she is better than you, ignore her and know that she is lying to make herself feel good. Don't let anyone's negativity get to you!;
, Avoid frowning or having a sullen face around others. Being surly causes people to avoid you or form incorrect ideas about your personality. Push yourself to talk to others and start conversations; don't just sit alone and wait for someone to come talk to you! Refrain from excessive shyness; there have been many incidents in which a shy person has been thought to be snobby, when they really were not!

, People tend to avoid those that are embarrassing to everyone as a whole. Be humorous, but know your limits and keep your witty comments within the boundaries.
 Keep your voice at an appropriate and level volume, and make sure you are enunciating your words correctly.
 Hopefully, they will return the favor and include you in their groups and conversations. Avoid appearing like a loner and never sit by yourself. Always look for a good, friendly group to sit with; avoid the snobby groups!


Treat everyone neutrally, even those that you dislike. This way, people will look up to you as a nice person and you will have an excellent reputation all around. You don't have to put on a show and act fake towards everyone!

, People are more likely to remember you if you look like a nice person. They will also remember if you smell bad, so be careful. Daily showers and a nice smelling deodorant/perfume should be enough to leave a good impression. Have decent clothes, but avoid dressing smartly or sloppily.
 Having reason for a discussion goes a long way. Always ask questions about themselves. Normally, people love to talk about themselves, but don't let them talk all the time! Insert a few words here and there, listen earnestly, and focus all your concentration on them. Keep eye contact and don't let your eyes roam around the room. If people feel like you aren't listening to them, they will refuse to talk and that will result in an awkward pause or end.
 Do not tell lies just to make yourself look good - eventually, everyone will find out the truth and, perhaps, refuse to speak to you. People like real people, not fakers.
 This will not make you more popular; it will only make you universally disliked. Refrain from listening to any gossip.

