 This helps you practice the exercise with full awareness. You take a calming breath by breathing in to a slow count of five, holding your breath for another count of five and then breathing out to final slow count of five. Breathe normally as you do the exercise and when you have completed the exercise, take another calming breath before going on about your day.
 The first three can be done before getting out of bed in the morning, the last three before falling asleep. The others can be spaced out during the day. Some people cycle through the majority of the exercises several times a day.
 Here they are:

,;
, Our purpose in this life is to bring peace and harmony to this world. That is The Mission. Doing what you can to make your part of the world more peaceful is your mission. Your mission is also to bring all your acts in line with The Mission.
 There is beauty all around if only we take the time to see and be with it. The more deeply you examine something, the more beauty you will find. Watch a bird soar, the clouds build. See the beauty in the human face. Listen to music that lifts your soul. Find flowers on the ghetto windowsill.
 This is the only one of two exercises that take more than a few minutes to practice. It is also one of the most important for your overall health. With your doctor's approval, find safe ways to increase your heart rate and strengthen your muscles for 20 to 30 minutes daily. It can be done in 10 minute sessions. Climb stairs, walk, dance, jog, jump rope, play a team sport, lift weights.
 Not one of us would be alive, if we had not had caring people in our lives. This does not mean we have not also had to deal with those who didn't care or who were abusive. Nor does it mean those who cared where always caring. Unfortunately, much of the media focuses us on remembering the bad; not healthy. It is far better to remember the caring in doing so to feel once again the power of caring.
 Practice random acts and planned acts of kindness. The smallest act--saying thank you to a sales clerk, giving your seat to another, complementing a stranger, smiling and greeting those you meet are small acts that move the world toward peace. Do not expect any thing in return. Kindness is its own reward.
 Have a funny face contest with a child, watch a funny movie or tv show, read the comics, tell silly jokes. Play childish games and grown up games, but play only for the fun of it. Fun and laughter help us stay strong.
 Much of what we do does not yield concrete rewards. Exercising your creativity daily does. You can exercise your creativity by singing a song, drawing, painting, knitting, crocheting, braiding, cooking, baking, planting or tending a garden, writing a poem or doing any one of a hundred other things to be creative. You do not have to finish a project. One row of knitting adds up in time to a sweater. Ten minutes of writing can become a novel.
 One piece of chocolate. A cup of tea. A hand massage. A warm bath. Anything that is for you, is healthy, and is an indulgence.
 Forgiveness might mean only making a conscious decision not to seek revenge. Depending on the situation it might mean going on with the relationship; it might mean letting the relationship go. Anger, hardness of heart and thoughts of revenge harm you, not the one who hurt you.
 We all do some wrong. We all need to be forgiven. It starts in our own hearts. If we have hurt another, plan how to make amends. Work daily toward being a more caring person. No one is perfect, everyone needs forgiveness, everyone can seek to do better.
