 Once you reach Omicron, you will need to head up the stairs to the second level and immediately enter the door on your first right.
 While following the signs on the walls, make your way to the Dive Room. Once you enter the room, the door behind you will lock. Place your Omnitool on the terminal to speak with Catherine., There will be a power suit in the lockers further into the Dive Room. Pick up this suit and then locate the terminal. The terminal will be beside the lockers, which allows you to scan the suit. Once done, Catherine will give you the new objective to find a Structure Gel, Battery Pack, and Cortex Chip., Make your way back to the Containment Room, can be found in the middle of the floor. Find the lockdown terminal in the Containment Room close to the glass containment zone, and interact with it by clicking on the Override button located on the lower-right corner of the screen. This will activate a puzzle to allow you to unlock all the rooms on this floor., This puzzle requires you to connect each square so they create a single line. You cannot overlap the line as each square needs to be crossed only once. Start from one corner of the puzzle and pass through each square once., The clean room can be found behind the lockdown terminal as you go through the door. You will see the Structure Gel at the back of the room locked in a machine container. Click the button on the right side of the container to open it. The chip controlling the machine will malfunction, resulting in a small door opening below the button revealing the control chip. Remove the control chip as you will have to fix it., Once you have the control chip, you will need to open the glass door on the right side of the room. Press the button located beside the bright red light on the middle compartment to reveal a tray. Place the chip on this tray and go to the controls behind you. Operate the stick so the laser is hitting the broken chip. Press the Dispense Gel button to repair the chip and pick it back up to return it to the machine container., When you have picked the chip back up, bring it back to the previous room where it once was before. Place it back and proceed to open the machine container. Pick up the Structure Gel. After picking up the gel, exit the clean room and make your way back to the Containment Room where you were before., You will need to leave the Containment Room and find the South Stairwell down the hallway. Following the signs on the walls, you will come to the Containment F2 room where you will shut off the lockdown on this level., There will be a terminal within the Containment F2 Room that will stop the lockdown. Click the terminal and then “Upper” and then select “Override.”, Once the lockdown is off, head through the door on your right to the Power Room. There will be a monster standing guard near the Battery Pack. As you begin to approach the monster, it will transform into a larger monster until it eventually will attack you. The monster will hit you one time and move to the other side of the room afterwards, posing no threat at this time., You can find the battery on the wall near where you first encountered the monster. Pick up the Battery Pack and return to the Containment Room where you were before., As you walk back, you will come across the same monster you saw earlier. You can try to sneak past the monster, but if it attacks you, it won’t kill you—just run for the Containment Room!

Before you head upstairs, you can pick up a WAU connection to restore your health found in the Dining Hall through the West Hall.
 Follow the signs located on the walls until you reach the Containment FB found at the lower level of Omicron. You will make your way down the East Stairwell as you proceed to FB., You will need to remove the lockdown from this level by using the terminal in Containment FB. Simply interact with the terminal and select “Lower” followed by selecting “Override.”, Take your first left to the South Hall and then proceed to enter the Robot Repair Bay. The Cortex Chip will be located in this part of the map but requires a puzzle to unlock it first., When solving this puzzle, your goal will be to make the laser reach the left side to the receivers found on the bottom. By changing the nine shapes in the middle, you can align the lasers correctly. The top laser needs to touch the shapes 1, 2, 3, 6, and 9 while the middle laser needs to touch 4, 5, and 8. Finally the bottom laser much touch just 7., After solving the puzzle, you will be able to pick up the Cortex Chip and return to the Dive Room. The monster will still be here, so turn your flashlight off and sneak by it. You will die immediately if the monster is able to attack you!, Place all three items onto the dive suit and then click “Retry” on the nearby terminal beside the lockers. You will need to solve a small puzzle before sitting in the pilot seat as Catherine requests you do. You simply need to line up the two wavelengths (the solution will vary from game to game). Once done, sit in the pilot seat., After completing the event, you will need to take back your Omnitool and exit Omicron by going through the pressure chamber near the lockers.