 You'll find the magnet sensors of most alarms on the windows and doors of your home. You'll want to choose a door or window that's easy to access and escape through. For windows, you'll also want to consider your path after you exit.


Second story windows can be difficult to safely get down from without extra tools, like a ladder. Because of this, these windows should be avoided.If you plan to leave through a window, your best choice may be one that's ground level and roughly chest height.;
, Generally, magnet sensors will look like a small metal box. In some cases, this may have exposed pieces of magnet, which are usually dark in color. The sensor will have two parts. One will be stationary, and the other will be attached to the movable part of your door or window.


When the magnetic bond between the fixed and movable parts of the sensor is broken, the alarm will be activated.
Magnet sensors are almost always placed on the frame of the door or window at the top, bottom, or one of the sides., You should be careful when attempting this, as some sensors are higher quality than others and this technique may not always work. However, in some cases, you may be able to place a fridge magnet on the sensor to trick it into thinking the door or window is closed even when open.For more sophisticated magnet sensors, you may need to use tools, like a screwdriver, to remove the movable part of the sensor on the door or window. Then, place it onto the stationary sensor to make it think the window is still closed.
Before you remove any parts of the sensor, you might first want to take a picture of it with your cell phone. This way, you'll have a reference photo if you have to put it back together later.
You may be able to check whether or not your fridge magnet works by applying it to the sensor and running a check on your security system, if that feature is available. If the sensor reads as closed when the fridge magnet is in place and the window open, this technique should work.
 After you come back, you'll want to re-engage your alarm to prevent burglars from using your temporary escape route. To do this, simply return your door or window to the fully closed position and remove the magnet you used to trick the sensor.


If you removed the movable part of the sensor because your system was more sophisticated, all you have to do is refasten that part into place. If you have difficulty remembering how to reinstall the mechanism, consult the picture you took earlier.

