 Ask each other questions about life, goals and future hopes. Things you should know about one another include:


What you hope to do when you grow up
What your biggest secrets are; share stories and secrets
What your favorite color, food and clothes are
Where you were born, and if you didn't grow up together, where each of you grew up
What you like to do most, at school, in your spare time, etc.;
, Always make time to do things together whenever it's possible. Perhaps a weekend afternoon, or a night after school, or each lunchtime during school. This will give you the chance to talk, catch up on news and simply be together.


Ask your parents if it's okay to have sleepovers at each other's places. Sleepovers are lots of fun for good friends.
Go to the mall together, even if you're just window shopping and having a milkshake.
Share fun activities. For example, visit the pool, go to the beach or go to the movies.
 Friend each other online on social networking sites, send each other emails and texts and call one another often.
 Tell jokes and funny stories. Have times when both of you do crazy things and just laugh a lot. Humor is a great way to keep a friendship thriving.
 For example, if you misunderstand something, ask rather than assume that your friend is being mean, difficult or jealous. Always be direct and open with each other.


You don't need to see eye to eye on everything. If you have different tastes in things, that's fine, be accepting of each other's differences.
If you think your BFF has written something mean or unfriendly, always ask. It is very easy to mistakenly assume that things written mean something that they don't.
Play fighting is okay provided you don't take it too far.
 Expect that she will treat you with respect and kindness too. These are the virtues upon which friendships flourish. Be thoughtful, kind and caring every day and your friend will think: "Oh! You're my BFF and I always want to hang out with you!" Boom! You made it.
 If she's going through a hard time, be the shoulder she can cry on and the ear that listens to her. Give her helpful advice but don't tell her what to do or make her feel bossed around. In turn, expect the same respect and care from her. BFFs take care of each other.


If you hear someone putting down your BFF, stick up for her and tell that person to stop spreading rumor and gossip.

