 Also, try waking up your toes by trying to make them go apart and stretching them. Try doing anything that makes your feet warm enough, and your muscles not as tight, a bit loose, ready for action. (You will feel if your muscles are awake).


Before doing any exercises, such as the splits, (or any kind of exercise), its important to warm up. So, when you do stretch, your joints and muscles will be relaxed and ready to improve.
When getting warmed up, it's easier to stretch and is more effective.
You don't want to hurt yourself, because your muscles might not be awake, and when your joints aren't quite ready, you might sprain yourself, or over-stretch a muscle, which is very dangerous, especially to a ballerina.;
, You can do this by finding a low surface close to the ground. (Such as the bottom of a couch.) etc.


Find something that is close to the ground, somewhere you can put your feet under.
Carefully, with your knees bent, slide you toes under the opening. (Make sure to cover half of your foot.)
When your foot feels comfortable, slowly unbend your knee. Note: be careful, if you don't feel the stretch, try moving your foot more in, or in a different position.
Be very careful and patient. If you feel a stretch, that's okay. However, if you feel a pain of any sort, stop! Go as far down as you can, without feeling bad pain. This will stretch your arch greatly. (Don't push yourself too hard, to prevent injury).
Keep your foot under for as long as you can.
Watch TV, play on your iPad, or do homework, to entertain yourself while stretching.
Take quick breaks, to walk around the room, and let your foot become pain free.



Buy a foot roller, or, get a ball of some sort, or an object that is comfortable to roll your foot on.
Roll your foot on it, especially near the arch.
Do this for 5-20 minutes, or even more!

, Foot stretchers are expensive, and could be anywhere from 30-70 dollars. You can always create your own! (Or follow Step 3!) The method resembles a foot stretcher.



If you have a naturally flat foot, don't worry! Making your arch beautiful is hard, and long work!
Be patient, and don't push yourself over the limit, you don't want to outstretch a muscle, or hurt yourself badly. (You can end up in the hospital, or worse, a broken bone! This will slow you down even more!)
Practice every day, and take pictures or a time lapse to see your improvement!

,


Many people don't understand that safety comes first! Be careful when attempting any of these! (you don't want a bad injury, do you?)
Make sure you have the proper diet. Eating healthy things, and drinking milk is important, because they strengthen your bones. (make sure you aren't allergic to the food you eat!)

,


Sit down
Make the leg you want to check, (only one at a time) straight in front of you, while sitting down on the floor.
Make sure your knees are straight, and that your whole leg is straight.
Now, arch your foot.
If your toes touch the ground (while your leg is straight) then congratulations! You have officially mastered your foot arch! If your toes don't touch the ground, you still have some work to do! But don't worry, you will get there!

,,, (You might want to make a list of these, so you can do them everyday!)

,, There are many more steps to becoming a graceful ballerina, such as good turnout, balance, strengthening the leg muscles, upper back, flexibility, etc.

