 There are many autistic self-help groups that will enable you to talk to other autistic people and understand more about your diagnosis and how to cope as an autistic person in a neurotypical world.You may be able to find groups in your community that meet in person. There also are many online groups if you don't feel comfortable meeting with a bunch of people you don't know. To find groups or online forums, contact a nonprofit autistic organization or peruse their website. They typically will have a directory.
Talking to other autistic people can build your confidence, especially if you've spent most of your life as an outcast. It can be refreshing to find out that there are other people who think and relate to the world just like you do.
Other autistic people also can share tips and coping strategies with you so you can better adapt and come to terms with your diagnosis.;
, Having a diagnosis of autism means you may have easier access to government support and disability benefits to help you manage your life.You can find out about assistance by contacting a government disability office near you.
Nonprofit autistic organizations also may have information about assistance and grant opportunities. The best organizations will have autistic people in leadership positions or on their executive board, and autistic people will have a strong voice in the organization.
 Particularly if you've been diagnosed as an adult, you may not want to tell everyone you know that you are autistic. Before you reveal your diagnosis, think hard about the pros and cons of doing so.Many autistic people, especially women, escape diagnosis until later in life because they don't fit the stereotypical profile of an autistic person.
Depending on how old you are, you probably have already learned many coping mechanisms that allow you to blend in better. This is good for you, but in terms of disclosing your autism it means that people may doubt you or not believe you.
Keep in mind that people often have misconceptions about autism. As a result, they may say things that come across as rude or insensitive because you don't fit the image they have in their head of an autistic person.
Before you decide that you want to be completely open about your diagnosis and your identity, make sure you're prepared to handle people who will have doubts or attempt to invalidate your diagnosis.
 In many countries such as the U.S. and the U.K., autism is considered a disability within the national legal framework. Your diagnosis entitles you to accommodations you might otherwise have difficulty getting.Keep in mind that seeking accommodations typically involves telling people at work about your diagnosis. Be prepared to explain autism and how it impacts your life.
Let your boss or immediate supervisor know of the accommodations you request. For example, suppose you work in an office cubicle, and you have trouble concentrating because you can hear your coworkers talking on the phone all day. You may request a closed office as an accommodation.
If they deny your request, you may have to take further action. Talk to a disability rights attorney if your request for accommodations has been denied, or if you have been discriminated against by your employer after revealing your diagnosis.
 The people closest to you often will be your greatest sources of support – even if none of them are autistic themselves. Spending time with people who love and care about you can help you come to terms with your diagnosis.In most cases, diagnosis of adults or teenagers includes a questionnaire or interviews with your parents. If this was the case for you, they already know about the situation and may be eager to provide you with any help that you need.
Your closest friends are people who have been through thick and thin with you, and they love you for who you are. They likely will take the news well, and can help you decide whether to tell others, and who to tell.
In particular, lean on people who've been in your life for a long time. They've become accustomed to and accepting of your various "quirks," and they can be a breath of fresh air as you come to terms with your diagnosis, because around them you know you can just relax and be yourself.
 Many autistic people have senses that are either extremely sensitive, or that aren't as sensitive as those of "normal" people. This can mean that some environments are uncomfortable or even painful for you.Sensory overstimulation can be a difficult thing to understand as a child. However, as a teenager or an adult you probably have a good idea of situations or environments that cause you problems.
For example, you may find that you hate grocery shopping, and that you frequently leave the grocery store frustrated or in a foul mood. Think about the atmosphere: grocery stores are frequently lit by fluorescent lighting, which can cause sensory overstimulation for many autistic people. Grocery stores also have a lot of competing noise – shoppers having diverse conversations, overhead music, PA announcements, employee chatter, and the like. Many autistic people have difficulty filtering background noise, which can make all of these sounds occurring in one place frustrating if not painful.
 Based on what you learn about sensory triggers and other autism-related issues, you can implement changes that could potentially make a vast improvement in your living environment.For example, understanding that your problem with grocery stores is related to sensory overstimulation can help you identify options that will make this errand easier for you. Adjustments you might make in that situation include wearing headphones and playing some soothing music or white noise to block out the cacophony of the grocery store, or wearing sunglasses to blunt the effects of the fluorescent lighting.
Over time, as you become more comfortable and gain a better understanding of your diagnosis, you will discover other things you can do to improve your life and your experiences with the world.
 There are many strengths related to autism, including pattern recognition, strong memory, and intense passions. Take some time to identify the strengths you have and learn ways to apply these strengths in your everyday life.Thinking about your strengths can help you come to terms with your autism diagnosis because it can help you to see that while autism creates some challenges, it also has its positive side.
You also can use your strengths to find others with whom you can relate. For example, many autistic people are highly visual thinkers who process thoughts in pictures rather than words. You probably will get along better with other people who are also visual thinkers – regardless of whether they're autistic.
If you're struggling to find a job or career path that's right for you, identifying your strengths also can help you identify career fields where you will have the opportunity to shine.
 Certain challenges, such as difficulty with social interactions, are intrinsic to autism. Getting a diagnosis of autism can help you understand the difficulties you've had and provide tools you can use to overcome them.For many autistic people who are diagnosed at a late age, learning they are autistic is like a light bulb turning on in their heads. Suddenly there is an explanation for so many things you may have beaten yourself up over before.
Now that you know you are autistic, you can cut yourself some slack on some of the things that you might have thought were negative aspects of your personality before.
For example, you may have accepted criticism that you were lazy because you have the tendency to procrastinate and overlook certain tasks. However, autism explains this as poor executive functioning – you may see something that needs to be done, but your brain can't put together the steps required to take care of it.
This doesn't mean you can use autism as an excuse. Rather, identifying the cause of your challenges opens new doors for you, enabling you to discover different ways of handling those challenges that will actually be effective for you.
 The doctor who diagnosed you should be your first source for information about autism and how you personally fit into the autistic spectrum. They will be able to explain the diagnosis, as well as provide you with resources to enhance your understanding.Have the doctor go through the screenings or tests that you took in detail, and explain the traits that indicate you are autistic.
Go through the diagnostic criteria and consider how you identify with them, and which ones don't seem to apply to you.
Ask your doctor any questions you have about the autistic spectrum and the diagnostic process.
 There are a number of books, essays, and articles written by autistic people for other autistic people that can help you understand your autism. Focus on books written by people who also were diagnosed late in life, such as Cynthia Kim.Loud Hands and And Straight On Till Morning are prominent anthologies of work by autistic people.
Generally, you want to avoid books or articles by non-autistic people. They may have misunderstandings because they do not have the life experience of an autistic person. However, NeuroTribes is a book that is well-regarded by the autistic community for its accurate and compassionate overview of the history of autism – despite the fact that it is not by an autistic author.
When you find an autistic author that you like, find out if there are other authors, books, or websites that they recommend. Many of these books have a "resources" section in the back.
 Many autistic people who were diagnosed with autism at a late age have an extensive history with the mental health profession. You may have previously been diagnosed (or misdiagnosed) with other conditions or disorders.For example, many autistic people who were diagnosed in adulthood were previously diagnosed with ADHD, schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder. If you have any of these diagnoses in your history, talk to your psychiatrist about whether you should continue to be treated for that disorder or take previously prescribed medications.
On the other hand, there are disorders such as anxiety and depression that often co-exist with autism. Talk to your doctor about how autism potentially impacts those disorders or how they're treated.
You may be on psychotropic medication for anxiety or depression. If you are, and if you like what the medication does for you, there's no reason to stop taking it just because you were diagnosed with autism.
However, if you aren't satisfied with the treatment you're receiving for other disorders with which you've been diagnosed, understand that these may be misdiagnoses. Autism also may present other options for effective treatment.
 If you enjoy writing, a blog can be a good way to come to terms with your diagnosis and understand autism and the autistic spectrum better. Many blogging platforms have active autistic communities.Even if you don't yet feel comfortable writing yourself, you can still establish a presence on the platform and follow other autistic bloggers.
Search under tags such as "actually autistic" to find blogs written by and for autistic and neurodiverse people.
Blogging platforms such as WordPress and Tumblr allow you to share the posts of others on your own blog, which enables you to save those posts you find helpful for future reference.

