 These saws come with a variety of functions and in several sizes, so choose one that will meet your needs. Here are a few differences in these machines:


Size. This is determined by the blade diameter, and normally varies between 8 and 12 inches. The diameter of the saw's blade will determine how wide and thick the material you are cutting can be.
Action. There are three types of power miter saw:
Standard miter saw: The basic, standard miter saw will make a perpendicular cut through a board or other material at angles typically ranging from 45 degrees left (counterclockwise) to 45 degrees right (clockwise). An angle scale and locking device keep the blade correctly aligned.
Compound miter saw: Adds the ability to tilt the blade at a specified angle from vertical, to cut a compound angle.
Sliding miter saw: The saw slides along a horizontal arm, similar to a radial arm saw. It can be pushed through the material being cut, which allows a much wider piece of stock to be sawed.

;
, In electrical tools, the power to do the job the tool is designed for is generally considered the amperage rating of the tool, or its horsepower. A standard miter saw is designed to draw (use) between 12 and 15 amps or electrical power, and operate on 120 volts (in the U.S.). For cutting tough or very large pieces of stock you may need to select an industrial rated machine which is much heavier and may require special wiring.
 Once you have decided which saw you want, and what features it will need, you need to get your hands on it. These machines can cost between $80.00 USD to over $1,000 USD, so if the project is a one time event or you are on a tight budget, you may consider if purchasing one is a good investment.
 For very long material cutting, you may find it necessary to work on a floor, but a work bench or improvised work table makes operating the saw much more comfortable.
 The first section will be general safety rules like wearing safety glasses, using the correct type of extension cords, and making sure the electrical power is sufficient for the machine. Make sure you understand the tool's requirements before operation as overloaded electrical circuits can damage your saw or cause a fire in your workshop.
 You should find an angle scale and an angle indicator on the front of the saw's bed, a blade guard, a power switch or trigger, and a mechanism for locking the saw in position when it is not in use. Other features, such as laser guides, saw tilt scales, and locking clamps for securing the workpiece vary from saw to saw.
 Raise and lower the saw several times before turning it on to become familiar with the path the blade takes as it will saw through the stock. This will make it easier for you to avoid accidents when actually cutting with the saw.
 Start with a small piece of scrap material to test the saw with. Make sure it is long enough to fit securely against the backrest of the saw's bench and to allow you to hold it in position while it is cut. Very short pieces of stock are difficult to cut safely without clamps, and cutting near the end of a piece of stock can allow the drop (the piece that is cut off) to be thrown by the blade when the cut if complete.
 When joining stock cut at different angles, you will find basic shapes are fairly easy to fit. To join two pieces of stock at a given angle, the angle of the cut on the end of each piece is half the angle of the joint. For example, to make a square (90 degree) corner, cut the ends of two pieces of stock at opposite 45 degree angles.
 Practicing with scrap material will make it less likely you will make a mistake when you cut your finished work. Notice that the blade begins cutting the stock on or near the front edge (unless it is a very wide piece), so you will want to make cut marks or measurement marks on that side of the stock, or use a square or angle square to mark your work piece all the way across before cutting.
 Once you are comfortable with your knowledge of the tool's features and performance, you should be able to begin the project you chose the miter saw for.

