 If you have diabetes, testing your blood sugar at home is the simplest way to monitor your glucose level. Many people do test their sugar before or after meals, but doing a fasting blood sugar test once a month is a good way to monitor the status of your diabetes and overall health.


Visit your local pharmacy to obtain a testing kit, called a glucometer. Most kits contain lancets (testing needles), a lancing device, testing strips, and a meter to read the results.
Many doctors can provide a prescription for these testing kits, which may save you money.
 Thoroughly read the instruction manual supplied with your blood sugar testing kit so that you are familiar with how it works, know how much blood is required for testing, and feel comfortable with the device. Look at the pictures, read the instructions, and if you have any questions or concerns then contact your doctor before trying to use the machine. They are rather straight-forward devices, but proper use is always the best use.



Go to bed at around 10 or 11 p.m. the night before you test your blood sugar. When you wake up around 7 or 8 a.m. the next day, you will have fasted for at least 8 hours without having to stop yourself from eating throughout the day.
 Insert a test strip into the glucometer, ensuring your insert the proper end inward. Insert a lancet into the holder you use to prick your finger.


Glucometers may differ in when you insert the test strip. Usually it is inserted in order to turn the machine on, but sometimes you have to put the blood on the strip and then insert it into the machine. Make sure you know which way your glucometer works before you prick your finger.
 Use hot water and soap to thoroughly wash your hands. Alternately, clean the finger you’re going to prick with an alcohol swab., Prick the side of your fingertip with the lancing device. This usually causes no, or very minimal, discomfort. You may need to squeeze or massage the finger you pricked on either side to squeeze out a drop of blood. Let the blood form a small bead on your finger. Hold the bead of blood to touch the tip of the strip at the right place, which should be indicated on the strip.Some people find it more comfortable to prick the side of the finger close to the fingernail, rather than the pad of the finger – there are fewer nerve endings on the side, making it a less sensitive area., The results will show up on the digital screen of your glucometer. How long it takes to show up may vary between machines. The numbers from an at-home test mean the same thing as the numbers from a test done at your doctor’s office: Below 100 mg/dL is normal, 100 to 125 mg/dL suggests impaired fasting glucose, and 126 mg/dL or higher may indicate diabetes.


Usually, more than one blood test is done to confirm the diagnosis of diabetes. If your at-home results are high and you have not yet spoken to your doctor about the risk of diabetes, contact them and set up an appointment to discuss it.
 Keep a log of your fasting glucose levels so you can compare them over time. Whether it’s something you do at home once a month, once every 3 months, or once every 6 months, look for trends to see if your blood sugar is staying the same, lowering, or increasing.


Take your log with you when you visit your doctor so they become aware of any trends you record.
Some glucometers record your results. Bring your glucometer with you to every doctor’s visit.

