 If she knows that the Warriors are your favorite basketball team and has suddenly started talking to you about them, then she may have picked up a new love for the team just because of you. If she knows you love watching Game of Thrones and suddenly knows everything about the characters, then she may just be trying to impress you with these new interests.


If she's never shown an interest in your interests before but suddenly seems to know everything about the things you like, then she probably likes you.
 If she approaches you and asks a question that you know she can easily get answered by someone else, like how hard the math test was, or what new sport you played in gym class, then she's clearly just looking for an excuse to talk to you. If she asks what you think of a certain teacher or the new kid in school, she's just trying to spend more time with you by asking any question that comes to her mind.
 If the girl teases you, then it's almost definitely true that she likes you. If she makes fun of you, from laughing at your shoes, giggling at your new outfit, or makes a comment about how messy your locker is, then she's just teasing you because she likes to be around you. Sometimes, her teasing can even get a little mean, but that doesn't mean she doesn't like you.


Just remember the golden rule: if she's paying attention to you, she likes you. Teasing is just one way of paying attention.
 In middle school, teasing and flirting are almost interchangeable. Still, there are some signs that the girl is flirting with you. If she winks at you, even jokingly, she's definitely flirting. If she teases you about your new haircut and maybe even says it's an improvement, then she's flirting with you.


If she acts coy, playful, or just a little bit silly around you, then she's flirting with you.
If she makes fun of you for liking another girl, especially when you clearly don't like another girl, then she's just flirting with you.
 If the girl is suddenly interested in who you like and if you want to ask any girl out, then she wants to know if you like her -- unless she's playing matchmaker for one of her friends. If she's always bugging you about who you like or even throws out some names of people she knows you don't really like, then she's just trying to talk to you about your romantic life to get close to you.


If she makes fun of any girlfriends you've had in the past, or just makes fun of other girls around you, then she's probably just jealous because she really likes you.
 Middle school girls love flirting over Facebook and texting. Remember the first rule: if she pays attention to you, then there's a good chance she likes you. If she's always texting you or posting on your Facebook wall for no reason, then she probably likes you.


If she posts a video or a link to something you like on your Facebook wall, then it's even more likely that she likes you.
If she asks what you're doing over the weekend when she texts you, then she's interested in you plans because she likes you.
Check out her Facebook activity. Does she talk to other guys on Facebook as often as she talks to you, or are you special?

