 When dealing with any chemicals, you should always wear gloves, long-sleeved shirts, pants, goggles, and closed-toe shoes.You want to minimize skin exposure as much as possible. Chemicals often emit noxious fumes, so you want to work in a well-ventilated area.


Never breathe deeply and inhale chemical fumes, particularly if you are unsure of what the chemical is.
Read all safety information for a chemical before working with it or disposing of it.
If you get a chemical on your skin or in your eye, immediately rinse the affected area with water for at least 15 minutes before seeking medical attention.
 Make a very dilute solution of bleach or hydrogen peroxide by adding at least 10 times the amount of water. Let the dilute solution sit for at least an hour before disposal., Solvents such as paint and varnish must be disposed of at a special recycling center or collected by a hazardous waste company. Many home improvement stores have paint recycling centers as well.


Latex paints can be disposed of at home. Stir in an equal part of cat litter to match the amount of paint. Stir until the paint thickens and allow the mixture to sit for one hour. You can throw the hardened paint away in the garbage., Car-related fluids such as antifreeze, motor oil, and transmission fluid can be collected and recycled. None of these items can be thrown away or disposed of down the drain. Collect the fluid and bring it to a nearby recycling center.


Use a recycling locator to help you find a location near you., Do this by turning them upside down and spraying them into an absorbent material, like paper towels, rags, or a sponge. Once the can has lost all of its pressure, wrap it in several layers of newspaper and throw it out with regular household trash.Alternatively, you can dispose of partially filled cans by taking them to a Household Hazardous Waste collection center.
 Most pool stores will take pool chemicals and dispose of them properly. Alternatively, you can check with the community pool and see if they have any need of your unused chemicals.If you must dispose of them in the garbage, make sure the chemicals are dry, stored in their original containers and double-bagged to prevent contamination.
 If you are unsure of the proper method of disposal for a potentially dangerous product, like a car battery, seek out a hazardous material collection service nearby and see if they will take your waste. Most communities should have such a service.Laboratories have specific waste disposal departments that take care of this. Once you have a full container, schedule a pick-up for disposal.
Store the used chemical in a proper container for disposal. A sealed plastic container is generally sufficient.