 At the very least, you need 1 Bucket and a tool with the enchantment Silk Touch. With the Bucket, you can gather the water needed to provide a steady stream of water to freeze, but you can’t harvest the resulting Ice without a tool (Shovel, Axe, or Pickaxe) with Silk Touch. This is because some blocks break too easily, and yield nothing when interacted with, so Silk Touch bypasses the sensitivity, so to speak, of the block and lets you obtain the block itself.
 The most basic method asks for a singular Torch, and making a torch is also quite vital since it lights up your way and keeps monsters from spawning in the area it’s placed in. Simply take one piece of coal and a single stick, then upon opening your inventory (E key on the computer; triangle and Y on the Xbox), place the coal on the top row of the 2x2 crafting grid found next to your character. Place the stick below it. This will yield you 4 torches from the get-go.
 Before crafting your bucket, though, you first need a crafting table. To create a crafting table, open your inventory and place four Wood Planks on all the slots of the 2x2 crafting grid. Your Crafting Table will appear in the result slot next to the grid. Place it on the ground by right-clicking or pressing the Left Trigger button on your controller. You can then pull up the Crafting menu by facing the table and right-clicking or pressing the X button.


Now create a Bucket by arranging 3 Iron ingots in a V pattern on your Crafting Table like so:
i = iron
X = empty space
X X X
i X i
X i X

, Tools are easy enough to create, even in the earliest stage of the game. All you’ll need is, at most, your crafting table, 3 Cobblestone, and 2 Sticks. Here are the crafting recipes for all the tools:
s = sticks
m = stone/iron/gold/diamond
X = empty space


Axe
m m X
m s X
X s X
Pickaxe
m m m
X s X
X s X
Shovel
X m X
X s X
X s X

, While the tools themselves are easy enough to make, enchantments are much harder, and Silk Touch is the rarest enchantment of the bunch. To even consider enchanting, you’ll be needing an Enchanting Table, a somewhat late-game crafting station that lets you enchant different supplementary effects on your weapons and tools. To make an Enchantment Table, you’ll need four Obsidian, two Diamonds, and a Book. Diamonds and Obsidian can be very hard to acquire at the early stages of the game since you’ll actually need a Diamond Pickaxe to even harvest Obsidian.


To craft the Enchantment Table itself, you’ll also need your trusty Crafting Table, and lay out your materials in this format:
o = obsidian
b = book
d = diamond
X = empty space
X b X
d o d
o o o

, To enchant a tool with your table, first make sure your level is at least 30 to take full advantage of the enchanting mechanism. You can find out your current level by checking the small green number in the middle of the small tracking bar on top of the hotbar.


Take your desired tool and place it on the left slot on the Enchantment Table’s crafting window, and on the PC, you also need to put at least 1 piece of Lapis Lazuli (a very rare resource you can sometimes find through mining very deep underground or from trading with villagers) on the right slot, and you’ll see that at the right, there will be three options presented. The topmost option costs the least amount of EXP, and the third option costs the most. Select whichever one looks most promising to you, or the one you can afford, and then the weapon will then start to glow a purplish light, signifying that you successfully enchanted it.
It will take you a few tries before you can get Silk Touch, since it’s a rare enchantment.
 If you can’t make an Enchantment Table or don’t have enough resources to keep trying with that method, there are other available methods, like obtaining an Enchanted Book from either fishing, trading with Villagers, or exploring mineshafts, dungeons, temples, or strongholds. You can apply an Enchanted Book to your tool using an Iron Anvil.


Sometimes, finding a Priest Villager (purple robes) and talking to him might luckily let him enchant a tool with Silk Touch. This is somewhat unreliable because not all Priests can enchant Silk Touch, and sometimes they require tools and objects you do not have on hand.
Occasionally, Zombies will hold an enchanted tool, marked by the purple glow effect on it. Killing the Zombie will rarely give you the tool itself, but this is less reliable than the other methods. In any case, enchanting a tool might be the most difficult due to the rarity of this enchantment and the scarcity of the methods to obtain it.

