 Promoting love, peace, and happiness requires that you yourself spread these things out into the world. Start by taking the time to be kind to others. This could mean just being polite to people you meet on the street, being present for your friends and family, or seeking out opportunities to spread kindness, for instance volunteering to help others in need.
 Spreading love can mean a variety of things. It could mean telling your friends and family that you love them. It could be that you spread love in the world through your actions, for instance volunteering to help someone in need. Whatever you can do to show others the love and compassion you have for them, do it.Work on expressing your love clearly and convincingly. This usually requires a combination of words and action. Just telling your parents that you love them is not enough. Show them with your actions, for instance helping them around the house or visiting regularly, as well as your words.
 Help charity organizations and nonprofits that are working to promote world peace. This could be an organization with a broad mission, such as ending war, or it could be an organization with a more focused mission, such as ending violence in your community.Recognize the many opportunities that the internet offers. There are many organizations in the world who work for a better future through nonviolent means and you can find them through the internet. Find an organization by doing internet searches for causes that you believe in. Then contact the organizations you find about what volunteer opportunities they have available.
 Part of promoting love, peace, and happiness is to teach the next generation about its importance. Kids should be taught to help others, to be kind to others, and to respect others, including respecting people all over the world. If they are taught from an early age that love, peace, and happiness are the key ingredients for a better world, they will be more likely to work towards promoting these ideals., Humanity is one family. In a good family, all family members contribute to the success of the entire family. With this in mind, it is our social responsibility to work to end injustice. If one part of our human family is in need or treated unfairly, it is all our responsibility to end that injustice.


Working to eliminate injustice will not only help others to find love, peace, and happiness, it could help you as well. Working for and with others can help you to connect more deeply and concretely with a wide variety of people, expanding your community and giving your more opportunities to experience love and happiness.
 There is a danger along the path of unconditional, all-encompassing love that you can forget to take care of yourself as well. We can overwhelm ourselves and work so hard that we have no energy left for our own happiness. In order to work toward love, peace, and happiness for others, you must take care of yourself.


A path of exhaustion only leads to burn-out, not to enlightenment. Practice spiritually that is balanced for the development of the self and for the happiness of all people.
Along with feeding yourself and keeping a roof over your head, which is physical self care, overall self care requires that you remember your emotional well-being as well. Caring for your emotional well being requires that you manage stress, take the time for fun and happiness, and have people in your life that you can rely on.

