 “Pro bono” from the latin pro bon publico (literally “for the public good”) refers to voluntary legal services provided by law firms and other legal practitioners.There exist various pro bono wills programs across the United States that offer free drafting of wills. These services are not limited to seniors and are also offered, for example, to younger disabled individuals, veterans, active-duty military personnel, and first responders. Many pro bono programs offer all the same services that you would expect from those who charge for these services.


To find a pro bono wills program in your state, type “pro bono will” in a search engine followed by the name of your state, and you should be able to see a list of pro bono wills programs offered in your area.Other good ways of finding a pro bono wills program are to contact law schools in your area or to contact your local or state bar association. A good example of a pro bono wills program affiliated with a law school is the University of North Carolina Wills Project, which provides pro bono will drafting and other legal services to low-income senior citizen residents of North Carolina., Serving Our Seniors is a program that offers free wills and other services to seniors in 25 states. Determine if your state has a Serving Our Seniors program and seek their services to help you draft a will for free., If you are a low-income resident of the District of Columbia (D.C.), you can seek the help of the AARP’s Legal Counsel for the Elderly, which provides free wills and other services by volunteer lawyers to low-income residents of the D.C. area., Wills on Wheels is another program that offers to draft wills for free. The volunteer program is made up of a committee of paralegals and attorneys, who can help you draft your will and take care of related matters (such as powers of attorney, advance medical directives, etc.). They also deliver the documents to your home and serve as witnesses to the signing of your will. To find out if there is a Wills on Wheels program in your state, type “wills on wheels” in a search engine followed by the name of your state.