 Stop using your computer, television, tablet, and smartphone to get to sleep more quickly. All of these gadgets emit blue light, which can prevent you from sleeping for a time after being exposed to it. To make matters worse, these screens are brightly backlit, beaming light directly into your eyes. Wind down the day by powering down your devices.


Set the notifications on your phone to stop at night to keep from being distracted or tempted to look at its screen.If you can't tear yourself away from your devices, try reducing their damage instead. Use an app that filters out blue light before bed. Some phones and tablets now come with these settings already programmed in.Certain e-readers without LCD screens or backlights do not emit blue light or shine directly into the eyes. These are comparable to reading a conventional book and may be used before bedtime.;
, Hunger can make it difficult to get to sleep. If notice that you feel a little hungry while getting ready for bed, make sure to have a small snack. It's also a good idea to have some water if you're prone to waking up dehydrated.


Some foods that can help you get to sleep more quickly are bananas, turkey, yogurt, peanut butter, dairy products, and whole-grain crackers.Many people relax with a caffeine-free, nonalcoholic beverage like herbal tea or warm milk while getting ready for bed.
Don't eat a large meal before bed.
Make sure your snack isn't fatty or spicy., You'll also save time in the morning by taking care of a few things while you wind down. Some examples of things you can do are:


Laying out your outfit.
Setting up your coffee maker.
Packing your lunch.
 You can take care of most of the rest of your routine in a towel while you dry off.


A warm shower can help you relax before bed.
Most people don't need to wash their hair every day. Shave time off your bedtime routine by shampooing a few times a week or less. If you have fine, oily hair, though, you should probably keep up your daily washes.
Contrary to popular belief, it can be ok to go to bed with damp hair. However, you will need to pull your hair back and style it to pull this off.If you wear makeup, make sure to take it off before you go to bed. Leaving makeup on can clog your pores and give you acne., You should brush your teeth before you go to bed but only after you've finished eating and drinking. This will prevent bad breath in the morning and help protect you from cavities.


It should take two minutes for you to brush your teeth. It may be helpful for you to set a timer. Some electric toothbrushes even come with two-minute timers already built into their handles.
Use a soft-bristled brush to keep from wearing down your tooth enamel.
Stick to fluoride toothpaste for maximum protection.
Don't forget to brush your tongue, too.Quickly use the toilet if you need to. Afterwards, it's finally time to head to your bedroom.
 Remember to make your target bedtime as closely as possible. Lying in bed awake from turning in too early can be just as bad for your sleep as going to bed late. If you find yourself regularly taking a half hour or more to fall asleep, consider moving your regular bedtime a little earlier.


If you have trouble sleeping, you may keep a record of your sleeping habits called a sleep diary. Write down what time you actually get to bed. Keep your sleep diary on your nightstand in case you take a long time to fall asleep or wake up during the night., Unless you're the type of person who falls asleep right away, you may need to do something to occupy your mind as you drift off. Since you shouldn't look at LCD screens before bed, a book is the best low-stimulus form of relaxing entertainment available. One you feel yourself starting to get tired, shut off your light or e-reader and close your eyes.Avoid reading anything too exciting. If you get lost in a good story, you may not want to get to sleep. Dry technical writing will probably help you to fall asleep more quickly than an engrossing adventure novel.

