 Taking care of your body and having a little "me" time will help you to both look and feel amazing.


Take a nice, long, hot shower. Make sure to thoroughly wash your hair with shampoo, and leave your conditioner in for 5 minutes. Wash, rinse, and repeat as many times as you desire.
Apply moisturizer to your face and, rub on a little deodorant, and apply a dab of perfume to your heart, neck, wrist, and back.
Apply a face mask, give yourself a manicure or pedicure or apply a little make-up, if you like.
Wear fresh, clean shirts, pants (or shorts), and socks. Spray air freshener into your shoes to make them smell fresh and clean.
Floss, brush your teeth and rinse your mouth out with mouthwash.;
, Nothing beats the natural high you get after a good workout, so do yourself a favor and get motivated to get moving!


Go for a run or hike outdoors -- this will allow you to get some exercise while also enjoying the fresh air. Bring your camera with you in case you find come across any great photo ops!
Go for a swim -- swimming is a great total body workout which will leave you feeling tired but refreshed. If you really want to feel invigorated, try swimming in the ocean!
Take up a dance class -- dance is a great way to get your body moving and burn calories without even realizing it. Try hip-hop, jazz, salsa, ballet or Zumba -- whatever floats your boat!
Try a team sport. Team sports are a great way to socialize and make new friends while also being physically active. Think about joining a volleyball, soccer or ultimate frisbee team in your local area.
 When you eat poorly, your body can feel bloated, sluggish and out of energy. Eating healthily, on the other hand, gives you more energy, allows you to concentrate better and may even help you to slim down.


Eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables with every meal, eat lots of protein like turkey, chicken and lean beef, eat lots of oily fish and seafood such as salmon, tuna, sea bass, trout and oysters and eat plenty of healthy whole grains and cereals.
Stay away from foods with a high sugar or fat content and from highly processed foods, as these are bad for your health. These kinds of foods cause a rapid spike in your blood sugar levels, followed by a crash.
Try to control your portion sizes and eat only when you're hungry. However, a number of small, healthy snacks throughout the day can help to boost your metabolism and give you more energy.
Cut down on sugary sodas (even the diet variety which are full of chemical sweeteners) and try to drink more water and green tea.
 Sleep is an essential part of feeling good physically. A lack of sleep will leave you feeling tired, grumpy and out of energy -- pretty much the opposite of feeling amazing!


Try to get a minimum of seven, if not eight hours sleep a night. Set yourself a strict bedtime and don't let yourself stay up too late reading, watching TV or wasting time on the internet.
Do something relaxing before bed -- don't watch scary movies or play exciting video games, as these raise your heart rate and make it more difficult to sleep. Try reading a book, listening to gentle music or taking a relaxing bath instead.
Make sure your bedroom is nice and dark, as light can trick your brain into thinking it's daytime and prevent you from falling asleep. Make your bed as comfortable as possible and use clean, fresh sheets.

