 This is a good method if you want to use your eggplant to make a dip or spread, and the preparation is even simpler: just wash the eggplant and place it on a high heat grill.


Turn the eggplant occasionally and leave it on the grill until the skin has blackened and collapsed.This should take about 20-30 minutes, but will vary depending upon the size of your eggplant and the heat of your grill.
Once cooled, cut the eggplant in half and drain any liquid. Remove the peel and mash the flesh of the eggplant (or use a food processor to get a smooth consistency).The interior should be soft, with a smokey roasted flavor that will serve well as the basis of a Mediterranean dish like Baba Ghanoush.
 If you'd like your eggplant dish to be a bit more nuanced, it's very easy to take the standard olive oil, salt and pepper flavor base and kick it up a notch or two. After you've washed and cut your eggplant slices, prepare a garlic-infused olive oil mix by blending 1/3 cup of olive oil with 1 tablespoon of minced garlic.Add 1 to 2 tablespoons of finely minced fresh herbs to this olive oil mixture. You can use whatever you have on hand, but good options are parsley, rosemary, thyme, or basil (or any combination).
Brush the oil mixture on your eggplant slices and sprinkle with a large-grain salt and give the slices a generous dusting of freshly ground black pepper. Then proceed to grill according to the above directions.
 Because the eggplant is such a neutral-tasting vegetable, and because it is available nearly world-wide, it is featured in many different cooking styles. You can take your basic olive oil and add seasonings to introduce a bit of worldly culture to your dinner table. For a Greek-style marinade:


Mix 1/3 cup olive oil with ¼ cup minced olives or tapenade, brush this over the eggplant slices, and then grill until the flesh is soft and the skin is crisp.
Once off the heat, add crumbled feta cheese to taste and more olives, if desired., Mix 1/3 cup of olive oil with 1 tablespoon of minced garlic and ½-1 teaspoon of red pepper flakes. Add salt to taste. Brush this on the eggplant slices before grilling, and once off the grill, grate parmesan cheese over the hot eggplant.Consider adding an additional topping of fresh diced tomatoes and basil after you've removed the eggplant from the grill.
You could also place slices of fresh mozzarella on the eggplant in the final few minutes of grilling. Cover with a lid to ensure that the mozzarella melts completely.
If you're adding cheese to the dish, you may want to cut down on the salt when you initially season the eggplant (the cheese will impart a bit of saltiness to the dish).
 Begin by brushing your eggplant slices with plain olive oil or vegetable oil. Heat ¼ cup miso, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of mirin, and 2 tablespoons of sake in a saucepan. Once the sugar dissolves, add 1 tablespoon of grated ginger. Brush this mixture over your eggplant halfway through the grilling process., Mix 1 tablespoon of sesame oil with 4 tablespoons of hoisin sauce, 1 teaspoon of rice-wine vinegar, 1 teaspoon of soy sauce, a dash of chili powder and a dash of minced ginger.Brush this mixture over the eggplant slices and grill.
 Blend 3 tablespoons of olive oil with 2 tablespoons of honey and 1 tablespoon of ground cumin. Sprinkle with salt if desired, and grill.


Serve this eggplant dish with red onion slices (grilled or raw), tomatoes (optional) and cooked ground beef or lamb., Add salt if desired, and grill.


In the last few minutes of grilling, brush the slices with a coating of thick plain yogurt which has been blended with freshly squeezed lemon juice (add as much or as little lemon juice as you'd like). Sprinkle the final dish with finely chopped mint to taste. 