 Go over the woodwork with a dusting cloth, duster, or a hose attachment on a vacuum cleaner to remove dust. Make sure to dust in the direction of the grain. Dusting before cleaning assures that the dust is removed rather than shifted around while cleaning with a product.You can clean with any type of cloth, but microfiber cloths grab onto dust the best.;
, There are plenty of cleaners on the market made specifically for cleaning woodwork and/or other household items. You might choose to buy a cleaner instead of making one to ensure that you don’t damage the wood with the wrong type of cleaning solution. You can choose a spray or liquid cleaner.A few well known wood cleaning products are Magic Cabinet and Wood Cleaner, Murphy’s Oil Soap, and Method All-Purpose Spray.
You can purchase a cleaner at a home improvement store or most supermarkets.
 You can spray or put the cleaner onto a cloth. If using a spray, it is also an option to spray the solution directly onto the wooden surface. You should only need to use a few drops or few sprays of solution, but you should consult the directions on the bottle just in case.You can use a cloth, microfiber cloth, sponge, paper towel, or rag.
Although the cleaner should be okay, test it on a small spot of the woodwork to be sure.
 Once you have the cleaner on the cloth or surface, begin gently rubbing it over the woodwork. Rub it into the woodwork in small, circular motions. Make sure you cover every surface, edge, or cranny of the woodwork. Apply more cleaner if you run out while cleaning. Stop when you are satisfied with result.If you are cleaning items cabinets or doors, don’t forget to clean the sides that are not in front of you.
You can wear cotton or rubber gloves while cleaning if you are worried about skin irritation.
 If there are small spots or buildups leftover, you can take a toothbrush and scrub the spot with cleaner or soap diluted with water. Scrub until there are no spots leftover and then go over the surface once more with the cloth. Allow the surface to dry.It shouldn’t be necessary to wash the surface off with water once cleaner has been used on it.
The woodwork should take only a few minutes to dry.

