 Allow it to load the Cross Media Bar (XMB) before you click on anything. The XMB is a menu with icons that give you options, such as "Games," "Video" and "PlayStation Network."


Your PlayStation system will need to be updated with current software in order to add funds to your account. Scroll left through the XMB until you find the Settings menu icon, which looks like a suitcase. Scroll down vertically until you find the "System Update" icon. Press the icon to update your system.;
, This icon is a blue ball that features the 4 PlayStation controller symbols: a square, a triangle, a cross and a circle. Click on that icon.
 It is a smiley face with a pencil next to it. Click on this icon.
 This icon is a graphic of 3 stacked coins. Click on the icon.


If you want to add money with a promotion code, click the "Redeem Codes" option, rather than "Transaction Management." This may include email promotion codes or gift cards.
 In this menu, you can also choose to "Require Password at Checkout," "Automatic Funding," "Transaction History," "Download List" and "Services List."

, First click on the box, and then use the controller to type in the password 1 character at a time. Press the "OK" button when you are done.
 PlayStation Network Cards are available at authorized PlayStation stores. Click on the option you prefer.
 In North America, your options are $5, $10, $25, $50 and $150. At any time, your wallet cannot exceed $150.
 If you are using a credit card, you will need to enter the number, expiry date and other personal information. You can choose to save the card on your wallet, so that the details do not have to be entered for future purchases.


If your PlayStation Network Card does not work, it is likely that it was not activated when you purchased it. Return the card to the store with your receipt and ask them to activate it.
 Any money added to your PSN wallet is non-refundable. After the screen pops up to confirm the amount added to your wallet, you can use your funds to purchase content from the PlayStation store.

