 In addition to completing your chores on time, you can show your maturity and responsibility by doing more than you are asked to do.


Clean the floor if you notice it’s messy.
Start a load of laundry if you notice the hamper is overflowing.
Mow the lawn or weed the garden.
Fill up the gas tank if you notice it’s empty.
 By showing up and applying yourself at a job, you will demonstrate your ability to handle extra responsibility and you will learn valuable skills. If the new freedoms you are requesting cost money, you may be able to contribute some of your wages.Request and fill out applications for local businesses that are hiring, or ask your friends’ parents if they know of any opportunities.
After you submit your application or resume, follow up with the hiring manager a few days later, either in person or by phone.
 You may be able to find an internship that is related to the new freedom you are seeking. For example, if you want to study art abroad in Italy, you could try to intern at a local art museum. This could help prove to your parents that you truly are interested in studying art, and it may help your case.


Many businesses and non-profit organizations utilize interns for a variety of tasks.
Call the business or organization, and ask to speak with the intern coordinator. If they don’t have one, you could just speak with someone in the human resources department.
 Your parents will be impressed by your maturity and willingness to contribute financially when you say you will pay for some of your needs and wants.


Pay for your monthly cell phone bill or contribute to your car insurance.
You could also pay for your clothing or some of your favorite snack foods.
 When you are out in the world without parental supervision, you will need to know how to handle several different types of situations. Be proactive in demonstrating that you can depend on yourself and know how to get help when necessary.


Take a self-defense class.
Keep emergency contact information, such as police and fire department numbers, as well as contact information for friendly adults in your cell phone.
Don’t succumb to peer pressure. By demonstrating that you can think for yourself and don’t always follow the crowd, you will show your parents that you can be trusted to make good decisions on your own. If all of your friends are sneaking out to a party, don’t follow their lead. Likewise, if a group of classmates are planning to skip school on a certain day, show up for school.
 Whether you are asking your parents’ permission to travel abroad or to let you stay home alone for a weekend, the more you know, the more convincing you will be.


If you want to travel abroad, for example, gather information on classes and programs offered where you would like to go. Find out where students are housed, what most students pay, and whether additional traveling opportunities are available.
If you want to stay home alone for a weekend, plan out how you would spend your time. Learn about what you would do in emergency situations and how you could keep yourself safe in your parents’ absence.

