 A good strategy to help you make it through that last mile of your run is to pace yourself through your entire run. Many people start off running fast because they are energized and excited, but by the last mile, they feel fatigued and their energy levels have depleted. To make sure you can push yourself through that last mile, try to keep an even pace.To pace yourself, start off slower than what you feel like you can run. You want to make sure that you use roughly the same pace through the entire run to save energy for the last mile.
If you have problems pacing yourself, use a running app on your phone that can help calculate how fast you run each mile. You can also use a watch or stopwatch and give yourself a set time limit for when you want to finish each mile.
For example, if you are running a 5K, you want each of the three miles to be around the same duration. You may be able to run a nine minute mile for the first mile, but that leads to you walking part of the last mile. Instead, try to run each mile between 11 and 12 minutes.;
, If you are struggling to get through that last mile, try rearranging your pace so that you run your last mile faster. This means you have to consciously run slower at the beginning to conserve your energy. Once you hit the last mile, increase your speed and run faster. This helps you push through that last mile and get it over faster than the early miles.For example, if you are running a 10K, you may run the first five miles at a significantly slower pace. Then, once you hit that five mile mark, you increase your pace to finish strong. If your average mile is a nine minute mile, you may run the first five miles at 11 to 12 minutes, then increase to a nine to 10 minute mile in the last mile.
Consider cutting the run in half. Run the first half at a slower pace and then run the last half at a faster pace. You may run the first three miles at a 13 minute mile but then increase your speed to a 10 minute mile for the last three, which can help you push through to the end.
 If you are running a race and you are unsure you are going to finish that last mile, choose someone in front of you running at a reasonable pace and stay with them. Use them as a running buddy and motivation tool.Setting your sights on someone ahead of you can help keep you moving, give you something visual to move towards, and keep you motivated. This can help you push through that last mile.

