 You may need to leave it out of the fridge for a couple of hours. Once it has reached room temperature, pour the cream into a large bowl.;
, Sprinkle the mesophilic starter into the cream and stir thoroughly to combine. Cover the bowl with a clean dishcloth or some plastic wrap and leave to sit at room temperature for about 12 hours.


A solid curd will form, resembling the texture of firm yogurt.
Room temperature is considered to be about 72°F. If your house is any cooler, the cream cheese mixture will take slightly longer to set., Line a colander with a butter muslin cloth. Then pour the cream cheese mixture into the muslin-lined colander. Gather the corners of the muslin cloth and tie to form a bag. Use some string to hang the bag from the handle of a kitchen cupboard. Place a bowl underneath the bag to catch the whey.


If you do not have suitable cupboard handles to to hang the bag from, try tying the bag around the handle of a wooden spoon and balance the spoon over a jug or bowl.
 The length of time you allow the bag to drain will determine the consistency of your cream cheese. A shorter draining time will result in a softer cheese, while a longer draining time will result in a firmer cheese. Find the consistency that works for you - there is no right or wrong, just personal preference.


Use a shorter draining period to produce a soft cream cheese that works well in spreads and dips, or use a longer draining period to produce a firm cream cheese more suited for baking or cooking.Once the cream cheese is finished, you can chill it in the refrigerator, which will also lend it a firmer consistency.
 After the cream cheese has finished draining, remove it from the muslin bag and place it in a bowl. Add a teaspoon of sea salt, if desired. At this point you can also add in the flavor of your choice. Here are some ideas:


Onions and chives.
Toasted nuts and honey.
Cinnamon and brown sugar.
Homemade jams and preserves; strawberry, apricot etc.
Rosemary and garlic.
Bacon bits or chopped ham.
 Store your cream cheese in a sealed plastic container in the fridge. It should keep for up to two weeks.