 The easiest way to turn your rewards points into value is by trading them in for cash. Check the rates before you decide to do this. Even though it would be money in your pocket, a gift card may be a much better deal. Make sure a gas card or supermarket gift card wouldn’t give you a much better return for your points.
 Many credit card companies allow you to route your rewards points right back into a savings account. This could be a college fund, a retirement savings account – even your 401k in some cases. This may not be the sexiest way to use your rewards points, but it may be the best choice in the long run. Putting some money away for a rainy day is never a bad idea, and this way you don’t even have to divert cash from your checking account to do it.
 Many credit card companies now give you the chance to apply your rewards directly to your taxes. If this gives you a chance to keep a considerable amount of money in your pocket, go for it. As always, check the cash equivalent.A factor to keep in mind is the way you are allowed to pay taxes. Most credit cards require you to use an online tax filing service. These always have additional fees, which should factor into your cost-benefit analysis.
 Some credit card companies have partnerships or agreements with businesses that enable them to offer you tempting gift card values. In some cases, this greatly exceeds the cash amount you could trade your points in for. Make sure you do a careful cost-benefit analysis of the cash value of the gift card and your other rewards possibilities.


The best gift cards to opt for are companies that you already regularly use. Gas cards, supermarket cards, and other essentials are a great option because that is money you would spend no matter what. But if you really want to treat yourself to a new rod and reel at the sporting goods store, go for it!

, If you don't see a way to use your rewards points except by trading for something you don't need, consider donating them. Charities use rewards points in a variety of ways. Your points can be as good as cash for many organizations. Even though this doesn't qualify as a tax deductible donation, it will help those in need.


Some charities trade donated rewards points for specific items like travel, just as you might. This enables, for instance, grieving family members or cancer patients to book flights they can't afford.Other charities are able to trade the rewards points for a cash amount and apply the money how they see fit.

