 Create the account you are going to use. I would suggest making a name that doesn't use any l33t speak. So avoid words like Pur3 R4ng3r, try making an original and amusing name. Ex: "On My Own Now";
, Finish the Tutorial and you will get either level 4 Mining or Woodcutting. These are both very good for making money for arrows and supplies.
 Before heading off to get supplies, do the "Myths of the White Land" and "Rune Mysteries", For the 500xp lamp, and access to the Runecrafting skill. Use the experience lamp on either Defence or Range. So head up to Edgeville and bank all of your items. Then head over to Barbarian Village by the fishing spots, ask for free cooked food. Once you have some go do the "Stronghold of Security" and the "Stronghold of Player Safety", you should have 20k some boots, gloves, and two experience lamps. Use one lamp on the skill you used the 500xp lamp on and the other one on the opposite skill ( Defence and Range ).
 Okay, now that you have some money, its time to get some supplies. Head over to the Grand Exchange and buy the following: Shortbow, Oak Shortbow, Willow Shortbow, Maple Shortbow, Leather Boots, Leather Chaps, Leather Cowl, Leather Vambraces, Leather Body, Studded Chaps, Studded Body, Full Iron, Iron Scimitar, about 600 Bronze or Iron Arrows (Steel if you have enough money) and about 20 Trout or Salmon.
 Okay, Grab your Chaps, Cowl, Vambs, Body, Boots, Arrows, Food, Full Iron, Iron Scimitar, and your Shortbow ( Oak Shortbow if you have level 5 Range). Head over to the Monks at the monastery just west of Edgeville. Only eat when you have 20 health left, and after every kill talk to a Monk to heal you. Train here until level 15 Defence, and 20 Range.
 Okay now head to the bank and grab your Studded Chaps and Body, and your Willow Bow. Head to the Minotaurs (level 12) in the first floor of the "Stronghold of Security". Train here until you have level 40 Range and 35 Defence. If you run out of arrows, I would suggest Mining to level 15 and mine Iron. Mine about 500 Iron then sell them in the GE. You should get about 50k or so. Then buy some arrows and get back to training.
 Now you will be able to hit High enough to Pwn Hill Giants. Go to the GE and buy some more food, and a Brass Key. Now head to the little house west of the Cooking Guild. Have your brass key, equipment, and food in your inventory, and go in the house and down the ladder. Head to the north-west corner and their will be a little area surrounded by some rocks. Hide behind the rocks and range the hillies (Hill Giants). Then just melee them on the defence setting for training def. Train here until you have about 50 Range and 40 or 45 Defence.
 Once you have your membership Train at the Rock Crabs by Relleka til level 60 Range and 50 Defence.
 Okay, now you can either keep training at the rock crabs, or start the "Creature of Fenkenstrain" quest and train at experiments til level 70 Range and level 60 Defence. I also suggest farming Herbs while you are training, since each herb patch takes an hour and a half to grow, so train for an hour and a half then go gather your herbs, plant new ones, and train again.
 Okay, so now you could either train member skills, get Void Knight armour, or maybe even get a Crystal Bow from the quest "Roving Elves". Also, you could use the money you get from farming herbs to buy a Blessed D'Hide Set, they give very good Defence and Range Bonus. So, Hope the guide helped you, and Good Luck!

