 Whenever you feel hungry or have the desire to eat, take a pause for a minute or two and do a quick self scan. This will help you determine what the best action is for your feelings.


Many times we feel hungry when we're actually not physically hungry at all. We might be bored, thirsty, upset, stressed or just in the mood to eat a tasty snack.Since there are a variety of reasons outside of true physical hunger that can cue you to eat, a quick self scan can help you out.
Take a minute to think: Is my stomach growling? Does my stomach feel empty? When was my last meal or snack? Do I feel stressed, anxious or upset? Am I bored? Asking yourself these questions can help you determine whether or not you're truly hungry.
If you are physically hungry, have a planned snack or wait until your next meal to eat. You can also apply some tricks to help calm your hunger down.
If you're not truly hungry, find another activity to distract yourself with until your craving or desire to eat goes away.;
, Many times, people feel hungry and want to snack or eat but are actually just thirsty. The signals of thirst and hunger feel similar and are easy to confuse.Water can help fill your stomach which may help stave off hunger pains. It helps fill your stomach and send signals to your brain that you're full.
Drink a full two glasses if your stomach is growling. Or consider carrying a water bottle throughout the day so you can continuously sip throughout the day. This will also help prevent dehydration throughout the day.
Warm or hot water may make you feel even more satisfied than plain water. The flavor and warmth mimic a meal. Hot coffee or tea are good options. However, if you're watching your weight, stick to sugar-free options.
 Brushing your teeth is a very quick way to curb your appetite in just a few short seconds. You're much less likely to snack if you've just brushed your teeth.Toothpaste provides an intense flavor that can help cut cravings immediately. In addition, most foods do not taste as good right after you've brushed your teeth.
Try keeping a travel toothbrush around if you get hungry during a long day away from home.
 Pay attention to the symptoms of your hunger. If you think you're hungry, but aren't experiencing any typical hunger sensations you may be craving food for another reason.


Eating out of boredom is very common. Change your mind by participating in another activity. This can help distract your brain and mind for a bit and allow the craving to pass.Go for a quick walk, talk to a friend, read a good book, do some household chores or surf the internet. One study even reports fewer cravings when the participants played tetris., Some studies have shown that chewing on gum or sucking on a mint helps immediately decrease feelings of hunger.The chewing or suck sensation paired with a flavor tells your brain that you're satisfied and is thought to be the reason why this trick works so well.Stick to sugar-free gums and mints. These generally have very few calories associated with them and are an appropriate method to stop hunger pangs when you're following a diet.
 Although there are a variety of tricks to control your hunger in an instant, eating breakfast daily has been shown to reduce your feelings of hunger all day long.Skipping breakfast may set you up for feeling much more hungry throughout the day. In addition, those who skipped breakfast ended up eating more calories throughout the day in one study. People who routinely skip breakfast may increase their insulin response, which promotes weight gain.One study shows that eating a breakfast that contains fat, protein, and carbohydrates reduces your hunger throughout the day.Examples of hunger preventing breakfasts include: scrambled eggs with low-fat cheese and whole grain toast, whole grain waffle with peanut butter and fruit or oatmeal with nuts and dried fruit.
 Protein is involved in many important roles in your body. However, one notable thing about protein is that it helps you feel satisfied longer compared to other nutrients.Eating protein can also reduce your cravings for sugary or high-fat foods.Choose lean sources of protein (especially if you're watching your weight) at each meal and snack. This will help make sure that you eat an adequate amount but also give you that satisfying punch you need throughout the day.
Lean protein options include: seafood, poultry, lean beef, pork, eggs, low-fat dairy, legumes and tofu.
Make sure you eat food containing protein within 30 minutes after you work out. Protein helps your muscles absorb energy and grow., There have been a variety of studies that have shown that people feel more satisfied and satiated with a higher fiber diet compared to those who ate a low-fiber diet.There are a variety of mechanisms thought to contribute to fiber's filling effect. One is that fibrous foods require more chewing which could slow your rate of ingestion and help you feel more satisfied. Fiber is also bulky and may make you physically feel fuller.Vegetables, fruits and whole grains are filled with fiber. These foods will typically fill you up for longer than other foods.
Salads or vegetable soups are especially effective because they contain good amounts of fiber and few calories.
Fiber also helps you regulate blood sugar, which can help you control hunger pangs., There will be plenty of times when you're not physically hungry, but have a craving for a snack or treat. The occasional indulgence is OK, especially if you choose to satisfy your craving in a healthy manner.


There are a variety of healthy alternatives to typical cravings like sweets, salty or crunchy foods. Make a smart choice if you're craving a snack.
Eat fruit to satisfy a sweet tooth. An apple or orange provides fiber and vitamins, along with some sugar to satisfy your sweet cravings.
Go for a small portion of salted nuts if you're craving a salty, crunchy treat.
Eat raw vegetables with dip or hummus to satisfy a savory, crunchy craving.
 If you want to keep hunger at bay, it's important to eat regularly throughout the day. If you skip meals or go too long between meals without eating, you'll feel a heightened sense of hunger.For long term results, find a meal schedule that works for you. Some people report less hunger when they schedule three meals a day. Others become hungry more quickly. These people prefer to eat 5-6 small meals a day.
If there is more than 4-5 hours between meals, you may need to plan in a snack. This will help you manage your hunger and cravings in between meals.

