 Though some disorders (such as narcolepsy, in which people fall asleep unexpectedly during waking hours) are obvious and observable, you may suffer from a disorder that you don't even know about. Sleep apnea is a disorder in which people stop breathing in their sleep, causing them to wake up throughout the night, never understanding what woke them up. The American Sleep Apnea Association estimates that of the 22 million Americans believed to suffer from sleep apnea, 80% of sleep-disruptive cases go undiagnosed — so get yourself checked!, Even if you don't have a sleep disorder, there are any number of underlying medical conditions which may be waking you up intermittently throughout the night. For example, people who suffer from acid reflux often suffer from insomnia, sleep apnea, and restless leg syndrome.Men who suffer from enlarged prostates will wake throughout the night with the urgent need to urinate.


Describe your sleep disruption to a medical professional and ask for their advice on what medical condition might be causing your problem.
This will likely involve a blood test, and if the doctor discovers a medical issue, their suggested treatment might range from a simple change in your diet to surgery.
To avoid acid reflux, skip foods like citrus, chocolate, fatty and fried food, garlic, onion, tomato, spicy foods, and drinks containing caffeine.
Over the counter medications for acid reflux or heartburn will not treat the underlying cause of the problem, but will spot-treat the symptoms if taken before bedtime.
 With time, you’ll be able to figure out which habits keep you from getting a good night’s sleep and which ones ensure it.


Use the National Sleep Foundation’s template for a sleep diary. Take a few minutes every day to fill it out, making sure to be thorough and to not skip any days.
Analyze the data from your sleep diary. Look for any patterns: do you sleep through the nights on the days you exercise? Does watching TV before bed result in interrupted sleep? Are particular medications causing sleep interruptions during the night?
Change your day-to-day habits based on the patterns you pick up to set yourself up for regular, uninterrupted sleep.
 Depending on your schedule, both personal and professional, you may have an erratic schedule that requires you to stay up late one night, then affords early retirement the next. However, to prevent unhealthy sleep patterns that result in frequent sleep interruptions throughout the night, set strict parameters for your sleep schedule. Make it a priority to get to sleep at the same night every night, even if that means you have to rejig your schedule throughout the day.
 Do the same things every single night in the hour leading up to sleep. An example might be:


Take a bath or shower.
Read a book or listen to relaxing music.
Meditate.
 Research suggests that the bright light from phone, computer, and television screens disrupts the body’s production of melatonin, which is a hormone used to regulate the body’s internal clock.Don’t look at any screens for one to two hours before you’re going to go to bed every night.
 If you’re particularly sensitive to caffeine, avoid drinking caffeinated beverages after lunch, just to be on the safe side and ensure that nothing remains in your system to interfere with your sleep at night.
 A cool temperature will help lower your body temperature and keep you asleep throughout the night. If you have street lights outside of your windows, get thick curtains (blackout curtains) to prevent any light from disturbing you throughout the night, and do your best to maintain a quiet environment free of background noise.


If background noise is unavoidable — for example, if you live in an apartment with thin walls and noisy neighbors — try sleeping with a soothing, regular background sound that will drown out the irregular noise. A whirring fan will do the trick, as will phone or computer apps that play soothing sounds like rain falling or the ocean’s waves breaking on the shore.

