 Spend a bit of time reading them, if you are a bookworm, you could read for the minimum of half an hour. If you are not, just look through the book and read the things that look interesting.;
, Sometimes you can learn things about animals too. Learn as much as you can about the plight of endangered species. Some endangered species include tigers, lions, polar bears, panda bears, many birds and even insects too.
 Consider donating to any animal welfare causes, some of them are listed below.



Help dolphins because they are very endangered but very easy to help if you put your mind to it. They have many dangers including: Hunters, pollution, accidental deaths in fishing nets and many more. There are adopt a dolphin programs that let you give in money for the WDCS (Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society) and sometimes you can get a free dolphin fun pack. If you are young, your parents might not like the price, especially if they are not real animal lovers.







Help dogs because they too are in trouble. You can sponsor a dog. Like the adopt a dolphin program, it gives you a free dog fun pack. The Dogs Trust program needs only 1 pound a month to care for dogs who have been neglected, abandoned, etc.
 While these animals are peaceful creatures and help the deer and elk population (by eating out the old and sick ones), people unfortunately don't believe. Luckily, Defenders of Wildlife has an 'Adopt a Wolf' where it will give you a 'Fun Pack'.
,, It's a great way to show you love animals and are willing to spend time with them to help. Even to make them feel confident that most people are just there to help them. They love all the attention they can get.
 For example; feed birds, squirrels, observe animals, and more.
 You could have something simple like a garage sale and give the money to your local animal welfare center. Or, you could dance, sing, or do practically anything for people and earn money for it. Your animal shelter will appreciate it, even if it's just a couple dollars. It will someday make a difference in the lives of many animals who have to spend part -if not all- of their life in the pound. Also, you can adopt pets from the animal shelter instead of from a place where they bread them on purpose. There are so many strays that need homes and to be fixed. There's just not enough homes for them all.
 Show your love for animals by wearing clothes with cats, dolphins, or any animal on it. If you don't have any clothing like that, and if you can sew, make a shape of an animal onto your jeans. Just a simple little picture, believe or not, can make a huge difference to someone who is looking for people who care about animals.
 Animal abuse is a crime, so always learn to respect the animals around you.
 It's a great way to show your love for all animals.

