 It is normal to feel fear and frustration. If you are feeling, angry, anxious, restless or something else, give yourself a moment to acknowledge how you are feeling.

Say comforting things to yourself like, "It is okay that I am nervous," and "I can cope and manage my feelings."

, If the child behind you is kicking your chair constantly, or the person in front of you is being loud and obnoxious, ask the flight attendant to say something to encourage them to stop. Part of a flight attendant’s job is to keep everyone on the flight comfortable. This can include attempting to stop a few rowdy passengers from ruining the flight for everyone else.


Approach the subject quietly and politely. Simply tell the flight attendant that you are unable to enjoy your flight because there are a few people who are being loud or acting inappropriately, and ask if they would mind encouraging them to stop. Chances are the flight attendant will take swift action and hopefully the passengers will heed their advice., One of the best things about flying is that you are able to distract yourself. Listening to music can not only take your mind off of what is going on around you, but it can help you to calm down. Put on your headphones, close your eyes, and try to get your mind off of what is angering you.


Select your music wisely. While you may love an explosive beat or a fast-paced song, listening to it may get you pumped up even more. You may want to opt for slow and calming music to help you relax., Slowing down and counting to 10 when you’re angry may seem like a cliché, but it actually works. Additionally, taking deep breaths can help to calm your mind and decrease your rage. Although these exercises may not remove the situation at hand, they can help you handle it better.Breathing tends to quicken and become shallow when you are stressed. Making a conscious effort to breathe slowly and deeply can help to reduce your anxiety.
To breathe deeply, take a long, deep breath in through your nose, hold for a few seconds, and then exhale through your mouth. Repeat this exercise several times to help calm yourself. You can also try saying the word relax to yourself silently as you exhale.
 Antics on a plane don’t just end in the air. If the passengers or staff feel threatened by you, they may call the police, who will meet you upon landing. You could face charges or get arrested for your actions. Before you allow your stress and anger to take over, think about what may happen if you do.