 The creditor will send you a letter informing you that you must pay the amount of the judgment against you or your wages will be garnished.


Your demand letter will provide notice of options you have to avoid garnishment. One option is to file an affidavit with the court requesting a trustee be appointed. The trustee will collect a portion of your wages out of each paycheck and distribute it to the creditors on your behalf.
Pay attention to the date on your demand letter or notice. If you want to go with a court-appointed trustee, you only have 15 days from that date to file an affidavit with the court.
If you apply for a trustee, your employer doesn't have to become involved. You can avoid the stigma associated with wage garnishment, and the embarrassment of your employer knowing that you're having financial trouble.
 If a form is not included in your demand letter, you can request one from the clerk of the municipal or common pleas court nearest you.


The Ohio State Legal Services Association also has a form available for download on its website that you can use.
The affidavit requires the names and addresses of all your creditors, including but not limited to the one from which you received a demand letter. You must be able to list the total amount of each creditor's claim against you and the amount you will pay the trustee out of each paycheck.
 Affidavits are written under oath and must be signed in front of a notary to validate your signature.


Many banks provide notary services to their customers for free. You also may be able to find a notary at a private business such as a check-cashing or shipping service, but you may have to pay a small fee.
After you sign your affidavit, the notary will sign it and stamp it. Once all signatures are in place, make at least three copies of your affidavit.
 The court will assign a clerk as your trustee to accept payment of your debt.


The clerk will stamp your original and copies, and return one copy to you for your records.
 Once your trustee has been appointed, the creditor must be notified so garnishment proceedings can stop.


Call each of the creditors you listed on your affidavit and tell them that you've applied for a court-appointed trustee. After that point, your creditors can no longer garnish your wages.
If you don't make the payments as you agreed in your affidavit, your trusteeship will be terminated and your creditors will once again have the ability to garnish your wages. Additionally, if your trusteeship is terminated you must wait six months before you can apply for another court-appointed trustee.

