 Sleep has many benefits beyond rest and rejuvenation. Give your teen specific, concrete examples that they can relate to about how a good night’s sleep can benefit their everyday lives.


Some examples you may wish to share include better grades and behavior in school, driving alertness, increased risk of obesity, and increased stress.You could say, “Now that you have your driver’s license, it’s very important to me that you get as much sleep as you can. Tired drivers have slower reaction time than well-rested ones, and just a moment’s hesitation could get you into an accident.”

, Teenagers can be extremely busy, often in class from early in the morning to the middle of the afternoon. Then they may have extracurriculars, a part-time job, and/or a few hours of homework on top of it all. They may not be able to get to sleep until late at night. If this sounds like your teenager, help them reduce their commitment level to help them have more downtime and more sleep each night.Ask your teenager which activities they value the most. You could say, “I’m beginning to get concerned that you have too much on your plate. I’d like to talk to you about reducing your after-school activities. Are there any you’d feel comfortable giving up?”
If your teenager wants to keep all of their activities, you could help them find ways to help better manage their time. For example, see if they could squeeze in some homework while they are waiting for their after-school practice, or see if they can get off work an hour earlier in the evenings.
Another possibility is cutting back on your teen's activities and seeing how they manage their extracurriculars and school. If they show that they can responsibly balance their activities with doing well in school, then you can try introducing another activity back into their life.
 If you are the parent or guardian of the teenager, you can and need to set limits if you think your teenager is not able to manage their sleep schedule on their own. Teenagers do better when parents are helping them to manage their time.Decide on rules that you will be enforcing and talk to your teen about them. For example, you could say, “I will be making sure you are in bed with the lights out by 10:30 every night during the week. You will need to find a way to have all of your homework completed by that time. You will also not be allowed to have any electronic devices in your room during weeknights.”
Let your teenager know the consequences if they don’t follow the rules. For example, you may decide to take away their electronic devices for a few days.
 Model good sleeping habits as an adult. Children and teenagers learn by watching the adult role models in their lives.Keep your bedroom a screen-free zone. Don’t allow TVs or laptops in your bedroom.
Keep a consistent bedtime during the week.

