 Although it might be intimidating to talk to the people who are mocking you, addressing them and their ridicule head on might help the situation. Ask personal questions and try to understand why they are mocking you. This will help you take control of the situation and resolve it on your terms.


Remember that the bully's mocking you is a reflection of the bully, not of your worth as a person. This person is having their own problems and is wrongly taking them out on you.
For example, you could say, "I see that mocking me makes you feel powerful and in control," or "I understand that you feel better taking your anger out on me rather than confronting your problems."
You could also say, "I see that you're making fun of me, and it's not funny."
Think of yourself as a therapist trying to understand your bullies issues.;
, Sometimes taking a firm stand and addressing those making fun of you head on works. Calmly and assertively explain to those mocking you that you do not appreciate their comments. Although this tactic is more direct, it is unlikely those making fun of you expect this response. You might be surprised at the outcome., Put your best face forward when people are mocking you. Stand up straight and try not to reveal how much their comments are hurting you. They are trying to get a response out of you and, if you respond confidently, your bullies will not get the reaction they desire., If you are being mocked, try to stay calm. With the wave of embarrassment and hurt feelings washing over you, this is probably easier said than done. However, in the moment, staying cool takes away the power of those trying to hurt you. Their goal is to hurt you and see you sad, not reacting denies them the satisfaction of knowing that they got to you.Take a deep breath and count to ten.Focus on your breathing.
Think about your happy place and concentrate on your breathing.
Think about how someone you admire would handle this situation and try to imitate that.
 If you find yourself being made fun of, and your efforts to engage with the bully have failed, walk confidently and slowly away. This will remove you from the situation and convey to those mocking you that you do not appreciate what they are saying.Stand up straight and walk slowly. Running away tells those mocking you that they have gotten to you.
 The people making fun of you expect you to react negatively by either getting angry or being sad, so laughing will throw them off. Give a big hearty laugh like the mocking is the funniest thing you have ever heard. This will deflect the attack and show how little power they have over you.Slap your knee and really exaggerate how funny you think their comments are.
Say something like “that’s a new one” or “that’s the funniest thing I’ve heard all day.”
Say something like “that’s enough” or “quit being rude.”

, In the moment, it can be difficult to focus on anything other than the mockery that is being directed towards you. However, mentally leaving the situation may help you better deal with it. Try thinking of a place that is peaceful and makes you feel happy. This will help you stay calm and not let the attacks hurt you.You can also imagine a brick wall between you and those mocking you that is deflecting their comments.
 A sick burn is a great way to turn the tables on those mocking you. This tells them that you are above their comments and makes them look bad in the process. A clever comeback sends the message that you are not an easy target and there are consequences for messing with you.Say something like “wow, did you come up with that all by yourself” or “pardon me, but you seem to think that I care.”
Try the “Yes, and…” technique. If someone is giving you a hard time about something just respond by acknowledging their teasing and then inserting a joke. For example, if someone zings your new haircut by saying “Nice haircut. Joining a punk band?” You can reply with “Yeah, and tomorrow I’m piercing lips, nose, and mouth.”, Although it might seem counterintuitive, sometimes the best way to deflect mocking is to acknowledge it. Addressing part of the bullies’ attacks takes the power away from them and puts you in control. You can then reframe their attack in a way that you want.For example, if you are being mocked about wearing a hat they consider “weird,” you can respond by saying “yeah, it looks weird but you have to admit that it’s pretty cool.”

, Blowing off those making fun of you takes away much of their power over you. This demonstrates that you are above their comments and that they have not impact on you. This not only takes you out of the immediate situation, but also undermines the bullies’ ability to further ridicule you.Try to walk away confidently and calmly. This will convey to the people mocking you that their words have not hurt you.
 It is important to remember that those who are making fun of you are doing so because they are unhappy and they want to make you feel the same way. Developing compassion for those who are mocking you will put you in a better mindset to deal with their attacks., Although it might seem like lashing out at the people mocking you is the best response, it gives those teasing you the emotional response they wanted and may escalate the situation. Remember to try to stay calm and avoid saying any mean-spirited or hurtful comments to those bullying you. Try to take the moral high ground and show that you are the bigger person.Remember that two wrongs do not make a right.
Matching your bully’s mean comments with your own can escalate the situation and lead to a fight.
 Stick with your friends and try to avoid situations where you are alone. You are more likely to be singled out for ridicule when you are by yourself than when you are with your friends. If you have good friends, they will stand by you and give you moral support if someone mocks you while they are around.If your friends are the ones mocking you, they might not be your friends. You should talk with them about their behavior.
 Steer clear of places where you know that you might be mocked. If you can avoid it, do not walk by your bully’s locker or the lunch table where the people who tease you eat lunch. Simply try to share as little space with those who mock you as you can.Learn your bullies schedule and determine routes that will keep as much space as possible between you and them.
 If you have tried everything in your power to put an end to others mocking you, report the bullying to an adult or superior. This will get you help and may make you feel less afraid. Knowing that you have someone on your side will give you some much needed confidence. Most people do not want to see you build and will try to help you in any way they can. Be sure to tell the authority figure exactly what happened. This will help them better understand how to help you out.
If you are a kid, talk to your parents or a teacher about the problem.

