 The first time you sign in you will most likely need to use your plan ID and birth date to sign in. Choose a username and password that you can use to access your benefit information.


Set up a profile, if that is required by your insurance company. This can be as easy as updating your address, email and phone number. You may also be asked to choose a general practitioner and a preferred hospital.
On most online health insurance sites, your health plan is listed in detail. You can search by the medical treatment you need to see if it is covered, and how it is covered, by your plan. Use the site so you can understand how claims are listed. In many ways, this is easier to understand than the small print in your large benefits booklet.;
, Most large companies are providing a nurse's hotline 24 hours a day. They may be able to tell you whether you should wait out your symptoms, book a medical appointment or go straight to the hospital.
 Instead of starting to use your usual doctor or 1 that is recommended, go online and find reviews of doctors. Then check to see which doctors within 1, 5, 10 or 50 miles of your home provide general or specialist services.


If your health insurance does not provide objective reviews of doctors, many online sites like vitals.com, healthcarereviews.com and doctorreviews.com will provide a better view of the complaints and praises of past clients. Pay attention to whether they have been published in journals or if they have high rankings for technical skills. Bedside matter is just a small part of finding a good doctor.
 Under the new Affordable Healthcare Act, insurance companies may be required to provide a yearly physical, flu shots and discounts for gym memberships or weight loss without charging toward your deductible.


Under many of these plans only certain vaccinations and health clubs are covered. In some cases, you may only be afforded discounts. The best thing to do if you are unclear is to call your customer service number on the back of your card or go online.
 This can include eye exams, contact lenses, gym memberships and more. These discounts may be listed in the back of your benefits booklet or available online.
 You should know exactly how much you need to pay to meet your deductible. If possible, plan to receive extra preventative or needed medical care during years where you meet your deductible early.
 Insurance laws differ from state to state. For example, infertility coverage or help to stop smoking is required in certain states.


You can go to your state's website, FamiliesUSA.org or healthcare.gov to find out where your state stands on preventative medicine and other issues.
 This correspondence will be answered and it also provides a record of your contact with your insurance company, unlike phone conversations. Make sure to use applicable dates of service, doctors' names and your insurance information so that your letter can be accurately processed.
 You may also choose to call your insurance company to see if they can find a plan with a lower cost that fits what you need. However, be careful not to sacrifice benefits like emergency room coverage, anesthesiologist coverage or hospital care.


People who have stopped smoking, lost weight or had over 10 years since a previous operation may be most likely to receive better offers from other health insurance companies. Do not cancel your previous coverage until you have become officially enrolled in a new plan.
 This group has an exemplary understanding of health insurance law and they can lead you in the right direction.

