 This method is helpful if you are buying a large appliance that must fit properly into its intended space; such as a washer, dryer, stove, or refrigerator.


Use a measuring tape to measure the width, height, and depth of the space for the appliance in your home.
Enter the measurements into a notebook, which you can refer to later when you browse online for appliances. Most websites will provide you with accurate measurements for each appliance featured on their site.;
, This will help you locate the appliance of your choice as you shop online. For example, if you want to purchase an oven that contains extra features such as a window and a self-cleaning setting, indicate these features on your list.


Enter the list of appliance features into the notebook next to your measurements, which you can refer to as you shop online.
 This will allow you to read about the positive and negative experiences other consumers have had with the same product. For example, if you want to buy a stainless steel refrigerator, but have concerns regarding how easily the surface may dent, consumer reviews for that product may reveal if buyers have had problems with dents.


Look for pictures of stars or similar icons that indicate ratings below each product name and description on the website. An example of a website that features consumer reviews is Overstock, which is featured in the Sources section of this article.
Sort the appliance search results on every website by product rating. This will allow you to review the products that are most favored by consumers; however, verify that the rating is comprised of multiple reviews, and not just reviews from 1 or 2 satisfied buyers.
 If you are looking for a specific name brand, an Internet search may display several websites that sell that particular product or brand name.


Go to any search engine and type in keywords for a specific appliance. For example, if you are looking for a specific brand and model of top-load washer, enter the name brand, model number, and the phrase "top-load washer" into the search engine. The search results will most likely display a number of online retailers selling that specific appliance.
 Some websites may or may not honor important policies; such as product warranties, returns, or refunds in the event the appliance is defective or you are dissatisfied with the product.


Look for the "Returns," "Exchange Policy," or "Terms and Conditions" sections on the website to review policy information. In most cases, this information can be found within the website's "Frequently Asked Questions" section.



Review every website to determine the cost of the appliance itself, shipping and delivery costs, sales tax, and any other applicable fees that may apply, such as warranty fees.
Write down the sum of all costs and fees associated with the appliance into your notebook to determine which website offers the best deal and pricing.

