 If you are making the patties from canned salmon, drain the liquid out of the can and set aside the salmon. If you are using fresh salmon, remove any bones or blood lines from the fish and chop the fillet into ¼ inch pieces., Take the onion and grate it against a grater until it yields ¼ cup (59.15 ml) of onion. Then place the grated onion into a medium bowl., Wash the parsley, then remove the leaves from the stems. Take a sharp knife and chop the parsley into small pieces. Sprinkle the parsley into the bowl with the grated onion.You can also add any other herbs you like paired with salmon.
 Mix in the salmon, mayonnaise and lemon juice. Stir until all the ingredients are fully incorporated., Crack the egg into a small bowl and use a fork to whip and blend the yolk with the rest of the egg. Then pour the egg into the bowl with the rest of the ingredients., Stir the mixture with a large spoon until the egg is mixed with the other ingredients. Be careful not to overstir, as this can change the texture of the patties., Scoop the patty mixture out of the bowl and divide it into four parts. Make sure that all the parts are equally sized., Take a portion of the patty mixture and gently shape it into an ovular patty shape that is about ¾ inch (19.05 mm) thick. Don’t squeeze the mixture or over handle it, as this can make the patty denser. Repeat with the other three portions of mixture., Place the patties on a plate or baking sheet, cover them in plastic wrap, and put them into the refrigerator. Let them chill for 30 minutes. Doing this solidifies the patties and makes them easier to handle., Pour the flour onto a wide baking sheet or a large chopping board. Use your hands to spread the flour until it covers the entire surface in a thin layer. Then take a salmon patty and place it on top of the flour. Since the patty is moist, the flour will stick. Flip the patty over to coat the other side. Then repeat with the other patties.Toss the excess flour.
Dredging the patties in the flour will help them to preserve moisture when they are being fried.
 Place a skillet over medium heat and heat the olive oil. Tilt the skillet so that the olive oil coats the bottom., Once the oil has heated, place the patties into the skillet and fry them for 4-5 minutes. Then flip the patties and fry them for 4-5 minutes on the other side, or until the edges are browned and crisp., Once the patties are done, serve them while they are still warm! The most popular way to eat salmon patties is inside salmon burgers. To make a salmon burger, place the patties in the middle of two buns along with lettuce, tomatoes, onion, tartar sauce, or whichever toppings you please!, Another great way to enjoy salmon burgers is on top of a bed of greens. Make a salad of spinach, arugula, or your favorite type of greens mixed with olive oil and balsamic. Then place the salmon patty on top of the greens and drizzle the patty with tartar sauce. Serve with a lemon wedge.


You can chill the patty before putting it on the salad or serve it while it is still warm., If you enjoy the taste of the patty by itself, serve in as a side in the context of a larger meal. Pair it with rice, cooked vegetables, or whatever other foods you have prepared.