 Sea races become available to all characters once you have completed the mission “Hood Safari.” This mission occurs after Franklin, Trevor, and Michael have completed their first heist together. A green F will appear on the world map, right above Franklin’s home. To begin the mission, simply head over to the green F icon.


Hood Safari begins at Franklin’s house; a cutscene ensues between Lamar, Denise, and Franklin. Trevor appears, and declares that he wants to join Franklin and Lamar on their drug deal.;
, Once the cutscene has ended, drive to the mission checkpoint. There will be a yellow path on your mini map that will guide you to Grove Street.


Once you arrive at the destination, a cutscene will begin. Lamar will interact with the dealer and sample the drugs. Right before the transaction is made, Trevor insists to see the back of the bag. A brief struggle between Trevor and the dealer ensues, revealing that the back of the package to be drywall.
The dealer sends out his men to kill the trio, and a violent gunfight begins.
 As usual, you will be quite outnumbered. Your best bet will be hiding behind the cover available and shooting the gangsters when they pause to reload.


To take cover, press the R1 button (PS3), RB button (Xbox 360), or Q key (PC).
To aim, hold down the L2 button (PS3), LT button (Xbox 360), or Right click (PC).
To fire, press the R2 button (PS3), RT button (XBox 360), or Left Click (PC).
 After you have successfully eliminated the gangsters, the LSPD will show up to stop the uprising. Follow the checkpoint on your map, and you’ll run through a narrow alley that leads to the open water.


In the water, there will be a cutscene showing 3 Jet Skis being used by a rapper and a few bikini-clad girls. Trevor will throw them off, and everyone will board the jet skis.
 Once on the Jet Ski, focus on escaping the police. To accelerate, hold down the R2 button (PS3), RT button (Xbox 360), or R key (PC). Use the toggle stick (PS3 and Xbox 360) or directional keys (PC) to steer. Simply heading out into the open water at a steady speed will eventually throw the police off your trail.


Once you have escaped the police, your wanted level stars (located in the upper right hand corner of the screen) will disappear. The quest will finish, and sea races will be unlocked.
 Once sea races have been unlocked, there will be a total of four different locations on the map where you can participate. These locations will be marked as small boats on the map.


Press Start (PS3 and Xbox 360) or the M (PC) to open the map. Here, you can see the four sea race locations—Los Santos Port, Power Station, El Gordo, and Lago Zancudo.
 Once you have decided on a race location, move your cursor to hover over its icon while on the map, then press the X button, A button, or Left click. This will mark the location as your destination.
 Follow the purple path on your mini map to reach the race. Unless you are already in a boat, you will have to swim to where the Jet Ski racers have gathered. Once in the water, use the toggle stick (PS3 and Xbox 360) or directional arrow keys (PC) to swim forward.


You can swim faster if you repeatedly tap the X or A button or press Q.
 Once you have successfully reached the racing area, swim over to the unoccupied jet ski. Once near it, an on-screen prompt will appear asking if you wish to participate in the sea race. Select “Yes” to begin.
 A countdown will now begin. Once it reaches zero, hold down the R2 button (PS3), RT button (Xbox 360), or the W key (PC) to accelerate. You can steer by using the toggle stick (PS3 and Xbox 360) or directional keys (PC).


The race consists of yellow checkpoints, which appear on your minimap as yellow dots. Drive through these checkpoints, as they mark the course of the race. The race will end when you drive through the checkered checkpoint.
Unfortunately, you do not receive any reward for winning, but you do not suffer any penalty for losing either.

