 Speak with a physician if twitching is preventing you from getting consistent rest. While you may have an idea about what’s contributing to your twitching, it’s important to rule out a serious condition that may require medical treatment., You physician may recommend a sleep study. You may even want to ask about whether or not doing so, even if they don’t bring it up. Medical professionals will monitor your body and brain activity as you sleep, which will help them determine the cause of your twitching., It can be hard to describe what nighttime twitches feel like, let alone diagnose their cause. To help you do so, it can be helpful to weigh the likelihood of different causes.Does the twitching most commonly occur in your hands, arms, legs, and face? If so, you may be experiencing sleep tremors. Talk to your doctor to ensure you do not have a neurological disorder. Meanwhile, reduce your alcohol consumption, as drinking is another common cause of sleep tremors.
 Another likely type of twitching you may be experiencing is actually a condition called sleep myoclonus. These types of twitches can appear repeatedly or singularly. Their distinguishing factor is that they occur during the initial stages of sleep. Though these types of twitches are very common, it’s important to mention them to your doctor.Since the timing of your twitches matter, get in the habit of writing down the time whenever a twitch prevents you from falling asleep or wakes you up. Share this information with your doctor.
Twitching of this sort may indicate restless legs syndrome or other sleep issues that can prevent you from getting quality rest.
 You may also be experiencing convulsions. If involuntary spasms afflict one or two limbs in particular and last for a minute or two, it is likely a convulsion. Note which limbs are affected, as well as any changes in consciousness, as well as your temperature.Convulsions may be a symptom of a serious health condition, including a head injury, heart disease, epilepsy, or low blood sugar.
 Dystonia is a movement disorder in which your muscles contract uncontrollably. It requires medical treatment to control. Some early symptoms to watch for include:Speech problems
Uncontrollable blinking
Pulling sensation in your neck
Foot cramps
Dragging your leg

, If you’re twitching during REM sleep, you are less likely to notice, though you may actually be twitching quite aggressively. This occurs when your muscles have muscle spasms, reacting and twitching in an attempt to keep up with your dreams.If you find yourself waking in the middle of night, or a partner tells you you’ve been twitching heavily at night, talk to your doctor about REM behavior disorder.

