 Anyone who has ever had a broken bone and worn a cast knows, sometimes you just can’t scratch an itch. One way to get some relief is to scratch someplace else on your body. This little mind trick relieves your body’s desire to scratch without further inflaming the mosquito bite.You can try scratching near the itch, such as in a large circle around the bite. Be careful not to touch it by mistake!
Alternatively, you can scratch someplace completely different, like the top of your head or the bottom of your feet.
Repeat this any time you feel compelled to scratch.;
, Instead of scratching, you can get some relief by gently patting the mosquito bite. A few light taps may be all that you need to sooth the itch and prevent scratching. If that doesn't work, you may try a slightly more intense pat. Eventually, you may even choose to slap the bite.


Wait a few moments after patting before you increase the intensity of your pats. It may take a few moments for the pat to work.
Repeat this anytime you feel compelled to scratch.
 One of the simplest ways to stop yourself from scratching is just to get your mind off of it. Do anything that can get your mind off the itch. The best activities will be things that involve your hands. That way, you’ll be less likely to scratch absentmindedly.Play tennis.
Do a crossword puzzle.
Bake oatmeal cookies.
 Meditation has been an effective treatment for relieving itchiness caused by psoriasis. Use it to stop scratching your mosquito bites. Instead of focusing on the itch, simply close your eyes, take some deep breaths, and try not to think about anything. Set a timer and try to do this for five minutes at a time.Look for guided meditations online, if you would enjoy some guidance.
Or put on some soothing music to help you relax.
 Putting socks on your hands is an easy way to remind yourself not to scratch. Even if you do scratch while the socks are on your hands, you won’t be able to do much damage.


You can make a sock puppet playhouse, and play with socks on your hands.
This is good for children because it distracts them from their bites and focuses their attention on the game.
 Sealing the bite off from air can help reduce itchiness. Apply a piece of scotch tape onto your mosquito bite to accomplish this. Using scotch tape has the added benefit of preventing inadvertent touching, scratching, or irritation. It will be helpful for you to clean the affected area before applying the tape.Remove the scotch tape and repeat two to three times per day.
Regular scotch tape will work best, but packing tape is a good option, too. Avoid using duct tape, as it can irritate your skin.

