 It’s critical to be aware of your dog’s tolerance for cold temperatures. While most dogs are naturally equipped to deal with cold conditions, many aren’t used to them and may struggle to cope. Especially if your canine companion is usually an indoor dog, always keep a close eye on them when they’re out in cold weather.Be on the lookout for symptoms of any potential problems, especially hypothermia. If your dog begins to shiver or whine, look like they’re weakening or slowing down significantly, take them indoors immediately.Screen your dog for frostbite by watching for early symptoms, including waxy-looking skin and blisters., Your pet will still need daily exercise, but if your dog is sensitive to cold temps, make the walks relatively short to keep the dog as warm and healthy as possible.
 Lakes, rivers, ponds, and streams can be very hazardous to your pet and you during the winter. Breaking through the ice can easily lead to drowning or hypothermia. It’s often difficult to tell if the ice covering a body of water is thick enough to support your dog’s weight, so it’s best to steer clear of it altogether., Very small dogs, like Chihuahuas, and short-coated dogs, like Boxers, are often much colder during the winter months, and may need a little extra help when they go outside. If you have a small or short-haired breed, get your dog a sweater or jacket that fits it snugly and will help them to retain their heat.These are commonly available at pet stores, or you can knit one yourself.
 If you live in a consistently cold climate with long winters or your dog’s feet are especially sensitive to salt or cold, consider getting your dog cloth or rubber booties to protect their paws.Since these are specialty items, pet stores will not always stock them, and ordering them online may be easier. If you do order them online, be sure to measure your dog’s feet and check the booties’ specific sizing chart to get the right fit. There are no standard shoe sizes for dogs, so it’s important to consult the one used by the brand of booties you are ordering.
Dog boots should fit snugly but leave enough room for your dog’s paws to breathe since they regulate heat through the pads of their feet.
It will take your dog a while to adjust to wearing shoes, so be sure to keep them on a leash at first until they’ve adapted to walking in them. If you notice that the booties are slipping off, stop and adjust the velcro straps until they fit tightly enough to stay on.
 Winter weather means that the dark sets in early. Be sure that both you and your dog can be seen by suiting up in bright or reflective clothing.Consider getting your dog a collar with lights so that you don’t lose them, and they’re clearly visible to other people, bikers, and motorists.
Put on a jacket or vest with reflective strips so that your dog and others can see you.
 Always make sure to dry your dog and clean their paws each time they come in from the snow. Besides creating a big mess in your house, paws that are left wet and dirty will sometimes start to crack or split and can become very painful., If you or your dog don’t want to go outside because of the cold, it's still important to give your dog some exercise each day. Find an area inside, like a long hallway clear of furniture, and play fetch or other games to keep your pooch fit.