 A child who is treated badly is going to have a lot of issues, including potential aggression. Keep in mind that parents are not the only ones who may be hurting the child—it may be perpetrated by family members, teachers, peers, or therapists. Many autistic people report experiencing therapy abuse in therapies such as ABA and DTT when they were younger.


Are adults regularly unkind or mean to the child?Do they hurt the child's self esteem?Is therapy compliance-based instead of cooperative?
Is the child ever grabbed or moved against their will? Are punishments harsh or painful (including sensory pain)?Does therapy involve power struggles or frequent tears?
Is the child being trained to act unnaturally (i.e., to mimic the behaviors of non-autistics)? Do therapy goals include extinguishing all stimming, hugging/kissing on command, or becoming "indistinguishable from peers?"Does the child witness or experience bullying?

, Children should be able to communicate basic needs and feelings from a young age, using either speech or AAC. If they can't communicate reliably, then they may be dealing with unmet needs and extreme frustration.


Being able to communicate well is much more important than being able to speak. Speech should not be pushed at the expense of communication.
 If the child says something that is inconvenient to the adults around them, is it respected or ignored? A child needs to be able to bring up problems, and have them taken seriously.


Do adults only listen if the child communicates in a certain manner? For example, they ignore body language but not speech, or ignore speech that isn't phrased "nicely." Sometimes autistic children are too stressed to be able to communicate with sophistication, and thus can't do it a certain way.
Are their requests for help taken seriously? (This doesn't only apply to basic needs like water or food, but also help with situations like bullying.)

, Even if it can't be honored (such as cases in which health/safety is at stake), a child needs to know that their protests are heard and respected. This helps them understand that adults will always listen to them, even in tough times.Does the child know that they are allowed to say no and "I can't"? If not, teach them how to do it.Is the child allowed to opt out of optional activities? For example, if they want to play alone, do adults force, cajole, or bribe them into playing with other children?
If they need to do something they don't like, are any explanations given? Does the adult try to make adjustments to make it better, and do they explain why it has to happen?
If something is uncomfortable or painful, do adults let them not do it? Or, if they have to do it, do adults do everything they can to make it more comfortable?

, Adults should presume competence, assuming that the child is a good and capable person. Helpful adults encourage the child's independence, and let them make choices about their lives.


Are they treated with respect, or with condescension?
Are they being forced, bribed, threatened, or tricked into doing things they can't handle or aren't ready for?
Are their strengths recognized, or are they spending all their lives working on their weaknesses?
Are they given schoolwork that is challenging enough? Autistic children, especially nonverbal or barely verbal ones, are often underestimated., Every child needs control over parts of their lives, and the ability to do things themselves. The child should be allowed some choice over their clothing, food, free time, schedule, and other aspects of life.If you notice the child struggling, don't swoop in right away. Let them try to figure it out. If they are clearly having a hard time, say "If you need help, say 'I need help.'" Then help them if they ask for it, or if they make a clear attempt to communicate with you (even if it doesn't go well).
 Hypersensitive children may find a chaotic environment frightening and stressful, and this may manifest itself as aggression. A sensitive child should be given a calm, predictable environment.


Remember that sensory pain is real pain, and children should be protected from it as much as possible. Don't try to desensitize a child without help from an occupational therapist trained in sensory integration therapy.
Don't expect your child to "tough it out." This usually makes things worse.
 Some children need a lot of activity. Exercise is often a helpful outlet, and they should consider sports, swimming, hiking, martial arts, and other ways to stay active.


Teach them that hitting, biting, and kicking hurts other people. The child might not know this, so break the news gently and firmly. Teach them to punch couches or push against walls instead of harming people.
Encourage the child to spend lots of time exploring and running around outdoors.
It may help to get some equipment such as trampolines, exercise balls, basketball hoops, swings, and other things they can use to burn off energy. If you see them getting restless, encourage them to go do one of these activities.
 Moving house, loss of a loved one (whether they died or simply left the child's life), going to a new school, divorce, trauma, and other large challenges may cause aggression and/or regression.


Is your child particularly upset about some event in their lives? Autistic children may have difficulty labeling their feelings, so notice changes in behavior and what the child talks about.
Did they have a recent change in behavior? Do you remember when?

, This can range from basic anger management skills to using calming stims. If the child doesn't know how to deal with anger, frustration, overwhelm, or other difficult emotions, try using social stories to teach strategies.


The problem may be more complicated than this. Try to work on both teaching the child and making the environment better.
 Adults need to know how to notice stress in the child, and de-escalate instead of making it worse.


Adults should be understanding, gentle, and kind when stress builds up. They should encourage the child to take a break to de-stress.
Physical activity can reduce the urge to act aggressive.
Repetitively thinking or hearing "Don't do ____" puts the image of doing the thing in the child's mind, so it can be counterproductive. Encourage the child to focus on a different action that causes no harm, such as putting their hands on their head., Autistic children often need a lot of time to relax and recharge. This time is often best spent alone or one-on-one, doing an activity of the child's choice.


Try making a calming down corner for your child, and encouraging them to retreat there when they are stressed or in need of relaxation.
Everyone needs privacy sometimes. Make sure that your child is getting enough.
Don't overdo therapy. Avoid giving them more than 2 hours per day. Your child also needs time to relax, have fun, and be a kid.

