 Visit a hardware or home and garden store to find the raw lumber required to fashion the wooden cages. For this project, you will need two 2x2x8’ boards, along with three 1x2x8’ pieces. The wood will require a few simple cuts to form the different parts of the tomato cage.Wood is generally cheaper and easier to find than other materials like concrete wire and livestock paneling.
Because it is an organic material, wood is less durable than metal. You should get plenty of use out of wooden tomato cages, but don’t expect them to last as long as cages constructed from metal wire or paneling.
 Cut each of the 2x2x8’ boards perfectly in half. You should now have four 2x2x4’ pieces. These will serve as the upright supports for the cage. Cut the 1x2x8’ boards into sections that are 18” and 19.5” long. You should have six of each of these pieces total. They will act as the rungs for the upright supports.Make all the necessary cuts first. Then, all that’s left to do is nail or screw the pieces together.
You will have some wood left over after cutting the 1x2x8’ boards. The leftover wood can be saved for future projects or used elsewhere in your garden.
 Using a nail gun or wood screws, attach three of the 1x2 rungs to two of the 2x2 legs to make a basic ladder construction. The rungs should be placed roughly 15” apart, starting at the top of the ladder and leaving space at the bottom for the supports to be driven into the ground. Repeat this process to craft the other side of the cage. Then, attach both ladders by securing three 19.5” sections of 1x2 lumber perpendicularly to the sides.The 19.5” sections will overlap the ends of the ladder construction, including the 18” rungs you attached previously.
 Position the wooden cage over a tomato plant. Press down firmly to mark where the legs are to go in the soil. Dig a small hole for each leg, about 4” deep. Set the legs of the cage down into the holes and fill in the space around them with loose soil. This process will result in a single tomato cage.If you’re planning on making multiple cages, take an assembly-line approach. Do all of your measuring and marking at once, followed by all your cutting, then screwing or nailing.
You can also drive the cage into the ground using a hammer or mallet, being careful not to damage the structure. It may help to sharpen the legs or cut them into points first.

