 Preheat your oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit or 148 degrees Celsius. Fill your cupcake tray with 24 cupcake wrappers.;
, In a large bowl sift the flour, baking powder, and salt. Sift until the dry ingredients are light and fluffy. Set aside.
 Using a hand blender or electric blender, cream the butter and sugar until it is a bright yellow and is fluffy. Try creaming on high for about 2 minutes for fast results.


You can also use a whisk to cream the butter and sugar but do note this will take longer

, One by one, crack the 6 eggs into the creamed mixture. Then add the key lime zest. Blend until well-combined.
 Pour the one-half cup milk into the creamed mixture. Blend until combined. Slowly add the dry ingredients and blend on slow to avoid flour spilling everywhere. Mix until the batter is formed and there are no flour streaks.
 Using an ice cream scoop, pour cupcake batter into the cupcake tray. Scrape the bowl with a rubber spatula to get any remaining batter.
 Place the cupcake tray in the oven to bake. The cupcakes should be lightly brown when they're ready. To test if they are done, poke a toothpick in one of the cupcakes. If it comes out dry the cupcakes should be good to go. Have them cool for about five to seven minutes.
 In a medium-sized bowl, sift the powdered sugar until fluffy. Set aside.
 In another bowl, cream the butter and cream cheese with a hand blender or electric blender. You can also use a whisk but it may take longer. The mixture should be creamy and should be a light yellow color when thoroughly creamed.
 Slowly add the powdered sugar, one cup at a time, and blend. Do not blend the 5-6 cups all at once or your blender may get stuck. After you have added and blended the cups of powdered sugar, insure there are no flour streaks in your frosting.
 For the sweet, lime taste add the lime juice zest and blend until combined.
 Using a frosting pipe, frost the cupcakes. Lay each one on a plate after you have frosted one.
 Pick a cupcake and serve it on a plate with a glass of cold milk. Enjoy!

