 The best ways to cook venison steaks are on a hot grill, or in a very hot skillet on the stove. Both methods afford the ability to sear the meat and cook it to the proper internal temperature, essential for a venison steak cooked properly.

Both gas grills and charcoal grills are perfectly appropriate, if you want to imbue the meat with that smokey flavor associated with grilling. Heat the coals for 30 minutes before grilling, or turn the gas grill onto medium.
A good cast-iron skillet is the perfect way to cook a venison steak on the stove. Heat the pan on medium-high heat, and add a tablespoon or two of olive oil before cooking. The pan needs to be hot before adding the meat, to get the right sear on the outside. Wait until the oil is just about to smoke to add the steak.
 20-30 minutes before cooking your venison steak, it's important to take it out of the refrigerator and out of any marinade that you've used to bring the meat up to room temperature, ensuring that the meat is at an even temperature throughout.

If you add a steak to a hot pan or grill grate just out of the fridge, the outside will heat while the inside will remain cold, making it very difficult to cook to the proper internal temperature without burning the outside black. Cooking room-temperature meat is much easier and more efficient, yielding a better finished product.
 Regardless of whether or not you've used a marinade, it's a good idea to sprinkle fresh-cracked pepper and salt on the outside of both sides of the steak, just before it goes on the heat. Salting the meat too early can draw some of the moisture out, making it tough, so it's better to wait until just before the meat goes onto the grill., A steak is best cooked at medium-high heat, so add your steak to a skillet just as the oil smokes, or to the grill over the hottest part of the coals. You should hear a distinctive sizzle when adding the steak, and if you don't, you should remove the meat right away and wait until it gets hotter. The meat should be cooked 3-4 minutes on each side to get a proper crust on the outside, then moved to a cooler part of the grill, or the skillet should be turned down.If you're cooking your steak in a cast-iron skillet, remember that your skillet will hold the temperature for a long time and stay hot, so after giving it a sear, it's probably ok to turn the heat off completely to avoid scorching the outside of the steak.
The length of the sear will depend on the thickness of your steak. Even steaks an more than an inch thick should only be in the pan for about 10-12 minutes at the most, though. Keep a close eye on the meat and check the underside to make sure it's not over-cooking.
Venison is done at an internal temperature of 130ʡF (54ʡC). At 150, it will start to toughen up some. Steaks more than 2-inches thick will probably need a cooler part of the grill to cook for slightly longer, or will need to have the heat turned down on the skillet to cook to the proper temperature., If you've ever wondered why your steaks at home don't turn out quite so well as steaks ordered at a restaurant, the answer is butter. After turning the meat over once, it's a good idea to brush a little butter onto the top of the meat to help keep it moist. If you're cooking the steak in the skillet, add a pat (no more than a tablespoon or so) into the pan to melt, tilting the skillet so the butter runs toward the steak., You won't have to fiddle with the steak much, turning it once and cooking it roughly 3-4 minutes on each side. Because overcooking venison is very easy and can happen very quickly, you should periodically feel the done-ness of the meat with your finger to recognize when it's ready to come off the heat and rest before eating.

For a good short-hand to steak done-ness, touch your fingertip to your thumb, and with your other hand feel the fatty part of your thumb, where it meets your palm. Meat cooked rare should offer the same resistance. Meat cooked medium-rare should feel like your thumb meeting your middle finger, medium should feel like your ring finger, and well-done like your pinkie.
 Let the steak rest on a plate or a cutting board for at least five minutes before slicing into and serving. This will allow the muscle fibers to cool down some, so the meat will retain its juices, rather than spilling them out onto the plate. The meat will also continue cooking gently, if you cover it at this point. You can serve your steaks whole, or slice them against the grain into generous-sized slices.