 First of all, fill the sink with warm water (not too hot) Then rinse your face with the warm water to open up your pores. Apply a small amount of olive oil to your hands and massage into your face for around 30 seconds to make sure the face is fully covered. Finally, rinse the olive oil with the warm water and pat dry with a towel.;
, Once you have washed your face with the olive oil, it's now time to cleanse and tone your face with green tea. Green tea is full of antioxidants which are good for the skin. I would recommend using green tea with lemon. Lemon is also great for cleansing the skin, so it's an added bonus if you get green tea with lemon. The green tea should be applied cold using a cotton pad. Using the cold green tea will close the pores, therefore stopping any dirt entering the skin and blocking pours.
 It is important that during the day you wear a moisturiser with an spf of at least 15 to protect your face from the sun. At night after you wash your face with olive oil and have cleansed and toned with green tea w/lemon, you can use a small amount of olive oil. Olive oil has amazing moisturising abilities. All you have to do is apply a really small amount to your face and in the morning wash it off before getting washed.
 Making your own exfoliant is really simple. All you do is take 1/2 - tsp of sugar and one tbsp of olive oil and mix them together in a small bowl. Again, fill the sink up with warm water, splash your face with the warm water to open your pores, then apply the mixture to your face and massage into the skin for around 30 seconds. Rinse off with the warm water.
 Again, green tea is full of antioxidants which are good for the skin and for fighting any free radicals in the body. Also, drinking 1.5 liters (0.4 US gal) of water per day will also help hydrate the skin. It is important to eat healthily for a number of reasons, but healthy eating really does mean healthy skin.
 I hope you will at least give it a go and see what you think. My skin is flawless and I have been using these steps for a few months and I rarely get spots.

