 Flat collars are the most popular types of collars for several reasons. They are strong, safe, inexpensive, often fully adjustable, and easy to take on and off. Most flat collars have either a buckle or a plastic clip. Nylon is the most common material used, though you can also get leather flat collars.Choose a flat width based on the size of your dog. Use a ½ inch collar for smalls dogs, a ¾ inch collar for most dogs, and a 1+ inch collar for large dogs. If in doubt, go with a collar with a slightly larger strap.
Get a nylon flat collar just to have for basic everyday use, such as walking. Nylon has the advantages of being machine-washable, and will hold up in water. They are the easiest to clean and maintain.
Nylon flat collars are the best choice for young puppies, as they are extremely safe and easy to adjust.
Go for a leather collar if your dog is especially rambunctious and needs a more resilient collar. Leather is durable and can last a very long time. It will soften naturally, and won’t damage the coat of long-haired dogs.;
, Use a cloth or paper measuring strip to measure around your dog’s neck. Measure when your dog is standing with his head up. The collar should be snug, but loose enough to fit two fingers between your dog’s neck and the collar.If you don’t have a cloth or paper measuring strip, find some string. Wind the string around your dog’s neck and mark the circumference. Then measure the string with a regular tape measure!
Add 2 inches to the circumference of your dog’s neck to find their flat collar size.
 D-rings are metal rings shaped like a half circle. They are often built into dog collars, and are vitally important. Hang your dog’s ID tag from the D-ring.Most importantly, always hook your dog’s leash or tie-out to the D-ring on their collar.
 Head collars will safely allow you to better control a strong or highly active dog. They feature a strap that goes around your dog’s neck, but sits high up, close to the ears. Another strap wraps around your dog’s muzzle, and is connected to the neck strap by strips on either side of your dog’s head.If your dog is especially strong or frequently jumps or pulls on walks, get a head collar. Since these collars sit higher, the dog has less leverage to pull with all of their weight.
Fitting is especially important for head collars. Since specific models vary slightly, closely follow the fitting directions that will come with the collar you choose.
Only use head collars for short periods of time. Put it on your dog to take them for a walk, and take it off when you get back home.
Never yank on a leash that is attached to a head collar. This can lead to a neck injury for your dog.
 Dogs that have naturally narrow heads, such as Greyhounds and other sighthounds, need limited-slip collars. These are less likely to allow for the collar to slip off. Martingale collars are strips of material with a length of chain and a metal ring at each end. Another loop links the metal rings, and includes a ring for leash attachment. This assembly disallows your dog from backing out of their leash.Sizing a martingale collar correctly is extremely important. When adjusted correctly, the collar will only tighten to the size of your dog’s neck to prevent choking.
Add 2 inches to the circumference of your dog’s neck to find the appropriate size of a martingale collar.

