 Discuss the matters at hand and what needs to be fixed in your town. Get the local police department involved in the meetings, if possible.;
, Block parties are the best way to know your neighbors better, to take some stress off by socializing, and to have a safe & fun time. Always plan according to the weather for that day.
 There's endless possibilities that children can do.


Go on a beach trip.
Create backyard games for them to do.
Have a block party water balloon fight.
Reserve the leftover BBQ fire for roasting s'mores.
Have a neighborhood scavenger hunt. Place the items around obvious, but safe places around streets for the kids to find.
Make child ID cards for everyone.
 Rent a projector for the day and tie up a screen on poles. Invite neighbors to join in your front yard. Be sure to have enough room for chairs or blankets and be prepared with trash bags, along with food and drinks.



Write a list of all important contact numbers, such as police, fire, ambulance, immediate relatives, close neighbors, etc. If living in an apartment structure, also list the property manager(s). Always keep the list in a clear view, such as the refrigerator.

Secure your home with deadbolts, home alarms, or home security cameras. Securing personal belongings is as important in keeping physically safe.
Never put child's names on the outside of their clothes. If needed, always write on the inside. This is to avoid any potential stranger calling your child by name. Many school field trips require a child's name tag to be attached on the inside using this method.
Discuss with your child that public places, such as malls and supermarkets aren't playgrounds and they should be with you at all times. Never allow a child to wander off by themselves.




Work together on creating a community garden. Planting and nourishing plants as a group brings people and nature together.
Plan a neighborhood cleanup. Whether it's at the beach, park, street cleaning, cleaning up graffiti, or painting and touching up on things, all hard work to make the community a better place to live pays off in a huge way.

