 If you already know which organization you would like to donate to, you simply need to phone the office and ask them about their donation procedure. However, if you're like many people, you may be unsure of which organization you would like to offer your resources to. Your first step is to start gathering information about your many options.First, spend some time learning about different types of donations. For example, would you like to donate money? Or would you prefer to donate materials, such as food or clothing?
Once you have decided on what type of donation you would like to make, you can start looking for the right place to donate.
Take notice of your surroundings. Many charitable organizations advertise in public places. Pay attention to the advertisements at the bus stop, or on the notice board at your local coffee shop.
Look for specific information. For example, if you want to donate toys, try asking a local school for information about charities. A local church can usually provide that information, too.;
, There are many worthwhile causes. Since it's not possible to help every group, spend some time thinking about what matters most to you. Is there a cause that is personal to you? For example, do you have a family member who has suffered from cancer? Consider donating resources to cancer research or toys to a children's hospital.Maybe you feel strongly that donating food to the needy is the most important use of your resources. Try reaching out to local food banks to ask them about their needs.
Think about where you would most like to see your resources at work. For example, have you seen people suffering in the bitter cold? Consider finding an organization that accepts winter coats, gloves, hats, etc.
 Once you have decided what type of donation you would like to make, it is time to think about whether you would like to donate locally or globally. If you would like to donate toys to a local school, for example, you will want to donate locally. But if you would like to donate money to a larger cause, like environmental research, you may want to look for a global organization.Giving locally is a logical choice. It is your instinct to help others around you, so don't be afraid to make that choice.
Be aware that giving globally is also a good option. People in developing countries live on much less money per day, so your donation can be stretched much farther.
When you are considering giving to an organization, feel free to ask them to provide some basic information. For example, ask what percentage of monetary donations go to people in need and what percentage is used for administrative costs.
 You want to make sure that your money or materials are actually being given to people in need. There are several questions to ask before you make a donation. For example, you can visit the Internal Revenue Service website to see whether the charity is eligible to receive tax deductible donations.Find out the full name, phone number, and address of the charity. Then, do a basic internet search to make sure that they have not been reported for scams.
If someone phones you asking for a donation, ask for more information. Then, phone the charity to make sure they are aware someone is soliciting funds in their name.
Do not send cash donations. For security and tax reasons, it is safer to donate by writing a check.
 Wherever you decide to donate, you want to make sure that you are choosing a reputable organization. That means that the money is going to help those in need. Ask friends and family if they have a charity that they support.If you belong to a church, you can ask if there are church-approved organizations you can give to.
Neighbors are also a great resource. Post a notice in your apartment building asking if anyone knows of a worthwhile local organization.

