 Visit https://www.facebook.com/ from any web browser.;
, Use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 On the upper left corner of the page, right beside the Facebook logo, is a search field. Type in “Pet Rescue Saga” there. The list of matching results categorized by type will be displayed.
 From the list of results, navigate to the Apps section, and click on “Pet Rescue Saga.” You will then be directed to the game page for Pet Rescue Saga.
 If the game isn’t linked with your Facebook account yet, you will be prompted to authorize the app to access your data. You need to allow this in order to play the game.


Review the details displayed on the window, and click on the “Play Now” button to proceed. The game will be initialized for your account.
 The game link or shortcut can be accessed from your Facebook News Feed page under the Apps section. Click on the link for the game to load it. If you’re just continuing from Part 1, the game will automatically load.
 After the game loads, you will be brought to the main game map. Select the level you want to play by clicking on it.
 A pre-game window will appear detailing the objectives to beat the level. Understand them. and click on the “Play” button. Depending on the level, you may be playing in three different game modes.


Refer to Parts 3, 4, and 5 to know more about playing in Rescue Mode, Classic Mode, and Score Mode, respectively.
 In Rescue Mode, the pets are usually stuck at the top of the columns of blocks. On the pre-game screen, you will be told how many pets you need to rescue and how many points you need to meet in order to beat the level.
 Once in the level, don’t go on attacking the board right away. Plan your moves. See how you can bring down the pets, and what you need to do to reach the required points. Don’t make any move that will leave a pet behind at the top of a column.
 Before making any move, visualize how the blocks, pets, and other items on the board will fall.
 In Rescue Mode, getting the pets to the ground is one of your priorities. Clear the paths by matching same-colored blocks from where the pets are to the ground. Take out the obstacles that may be present. Use the items and boosters available for you in the level.
 If the level provides you with a rechargeable rocket booster, use it when it’s all fueled up. Aim the rocket on a column with a hard-to-reach pet. Flying the rocket across the whole column can bring the pet to the ground in one swoop.
 Use the bombs properly. Bombs can make more impact when they’re on the ground, next to hard-to-remove blocks.
 Another priority in Rescue Mode is the score. Check your points regularly, and see how far off you are. Adjust your plan accordingly if you’re falling short of the goal.


Go for huge groups of same-colored blocks for some huge points. Use the multiplier blocks properly to get even more points. Simply bringing the pets to the ground may not complete the level just yet.
 You don’t have to use up any of your boosters unless you really need to. Don’t waste your boosters as they do cost real money to buy., In Classic Mode, there are no pets in play. Instead, you need to clear a certain percentage of blocks in order to beat the level.
 Once in the level, don’t go on attacking the board right away. Plan your moves. See what matches you need to make, and what obstacles you need to remove to get as much off the screen as possible.
 Before making any move, visualize how the blocks and other items on the board will fall.
 Match same-colored blocks to clear the blocks off the screen. Some obstacles also count towards the total number of blocks, so take them out as well. Use the items and boosters available for you in the level.


Save the rocket booster for last, as it can clear out one of the last remaining columns of blocks that won’t match. Clearing out these last few blocks can make or break your game.
 Use the bombs properly. Bombs can make more impact when they’re on the ground, next to hard-to-remove blocks.
 Most likely, levels in Classic Mode will require a minimum number of points, on top of the percentage of blocks cleared. Focus on getting huge points by combining huge groups of same-colored blocks on every move. Doing so will help you rank higher in your leaderboards.
 You don’t have to use up any of your boosters, unless you really need to. Don’t waste your boosters. They do cost real money to buy., In Score Mode, the main objective is to meet the target score within a limited number of moves. These levels may or may not have pets in play.


If there are pets in play, it’s likely that there will also be a required number of pets to rescue. Be clear on all the objectives to beat the level.
 Once in the level, don’t go on attacking the board right away. Plan your moves. See how you can bring groups of same-colored blocks together to make one big cluster. This is the best method to get high scores in the game.


Use multiplier blocks properly to multiply your points further.
 Before making any move, visualize how the blocks, pets, and other items on the board will fall.
 Focus on getting huge points by combining huge groups of same-colored blocks on every move. Use the items, and boosters to add to the points. Achieve the target score early so that your remaining moves can be used to add to the points.
 You don’t have to use up any of your boosters, unless you really need to. Don’t waste your boosters as they do cost real money to buy.
 If a level combines Score Mode and another mode, merge the plans and strategies listed in the appropriate parts above with the ones for Score Mode.


Refer to Part 3 if there are also pets to be rescued.
Refer to Part 4 if there’s a target number of points.
 You don’t have to use up any of your boosters, unless you really need to. Don’t waste your boosters as they will cost you real money.
 If a level combines Score Mode and another mode, merge the plans and strategies listed in the appropriate parts above with the ones for Score Mode.

Refer to Part 3 if there are also pets to be rescued.
Refer to Part 4 if there’s a target number of blocks to be cleared.

