 She flirts with almost every man that comes in her way. The plus point for her is that she takes great care of herself and she's gorgeous; many men don't regret beautiful women flirting with them.
She has a long 'Ex-List': She has had a lot of boyfriends (she might even be married). But she doesn't lose contact with any of the guys she played. She keeps herself in touch with the old flames while continuing to play more and more guys.
She stutters: When you talk to her, is her voice in a smooth and flowing manner? This is a sign that by stuttering, she's taking control of the conversation and the situation.
She drops sex-charged hints: Her behavior would seem more sexual in nature. A paradigm: Notice her body language. Is it sexual -- like she moves her body as she's having sex.
She's smart: Just like the Player, the Playerette is smart as well. Smartness is key for her to play men (because most men aren't as intelligent or sophisticated as she is).
She's famous: You see a lot of people talking to her, and talking about her as well. She has got glory. A lot of people like to be around her; many have temptation to give her special gifts and favors.
She earns a lot from guys. She is somewhat spoiled and wants to earn as much money as she can. This is one of the primary reasons that she walks up to guys and flirts with them -- she wants to get something from them (like money, possessions, bike-rides, dinners and so on). Basically, she does a Player-mack to guys.
She pretends to love those who love her: A Playerette has a lot of lovers (no pun). She plays along with all of them because she never knows what she might get out them.
She emphasizes you once in a while: She never comes your way; you don't hear from her for days; she doesn't even talk to you; but occasionally she puts a special emphasis on you. This could be anything -- from praising you to helping you more readily.
Just like a Player does to women, she sweet-talks people, especially guys, in order to gain something.;
, She craves more and more. She doesn't give care about what other people might be thinking/feeling due to her actions.


She craves attention: If you keep paying her attention, she'll not pay you any mind. But just when you stop devoting any attention to her, she starts realizing your worthiness. Then she comes back to you in order to get your attention back. She wants to attract every eye.

