 Take the terracotta pot out of its packaging, and put it into a bucket filled with water. The pet needs to be completely submerged. This will moisten the entire pet, and help the seeds stick to it better.;
, While the pet is soaking, put 2 teaspoons (5 grams) of Chia seeds into ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of water. This softens the seeds, and "wakes" them up. The seeds will start growing once they get wet. This will be enough for one pet. Chia pet kits often contain enough seeds for several pets.
 This will help the seeds soak more evenly.You don't need to stir the seeds again after this.
 During this time, the seeds will form a gel-like coating. This will help them stick to the Chia pet.
 After the soaking time is over, take the Chia pet out of the water. Place it on the drip tray, and fill it with fresh water. The drip tray will catch any extra water. It will also protect your desk or windowsill from getting stained.


If you don't have a drip tray, use a plastic dish or lid that is a little bit larger than your pet.
 Make sure that the seeds are somewhat sparse and spread out. You can use your fingers, a small knife, or even a spatula. Try to spread the seeds as evenly as possible; don't let them clump in any one area. If there is a hole in the top of your pet, take care to avoid it. This is where you will be pouring the water.


You may not end up using all of the seeds.If your seeds aren't sticking to the Chia pet, empty the pot, and spread the seeds over it again. Keep the pot empty, and don't water the seeds 2 days., Don't let the bag touch the actual pet, however, or the seeds won't sprout. The plastic bag will help create a mini greenhouse for your Chia pet. Take the bag off after 3 to 4 days, when most of the seeds have sprouted.If you are having troubles getting the bag to stay up, put a long stick inside the watering hole of your pet, then place the bag on top of that. The stick will prop the bag up, like a tent.
 Some gardeners will recommend waiting until the seedlings sprout before moving the pet into a sunny spot., Most Chia pets will have a hole at the top. You will need to pour the water through this hole. Try to use something with a narrow spout, such as a water bottle. If you get any water on the actual seeds, they may slide off.


Some gardeners will recommend not watering the pet for the first two days so that the seeds can stick to the pot., As you water your Chia pet, you may notice some water gathering in the tray. You should pour this water out as soon as possible, or it will become stagnant.
 This will help the seeds grow more evenly. Plants in general tend to grow towards the sun. If only one side of your pet is facing the sun, one side will be bushy and full, and the other will be sparse and thin., White fuzz is normal when Chia seeds first sprout. However, misting the seeds with water will help to reduce the fuzzy appearance, so make sure to do this daily. This fuzz is simply the root hairs, and they will disappear after the first week. If you notice white fuzz after the first week, you will need to start your Chia pet over. Scrape the seeds off the pet first, soak the pet for 30 minutes in a solution made from 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) bleach and 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of water. Rinse the pet well with fresh water, and plant your Chia seeds anew., Simply pull them off, and wash the Chia pet well using water and a scrubbing brush. At this point, you can reuse the pet, and plant more Chia seeds.Don't wait until the sprouts turn brown. They will be harder to remove.

