 Insoles can collect lots of moisture, so you should remove them before you start to clean your boots. Sprinkling them with baking soda will help dry them and remove odors. Additionally, taking out the laces will make it easier to clean and polish the lace holes and metal hardware.To clean your laces, rinse them with warm water and dish soap, then leave them out to dry.;
, Use a stiff nylon shoe brush to remove any caked dirt from your shoes’ surfaces. In a pinch, you can also use damp paper towels to remove accumulated dirt.








If your boots have stubborn salt stains, soak them in water for an hour or two., Warm water and a mild dish soap should be enough to remove most grime and stains from your boots. Scrub with a soft cloth or, for stubborn stains, a soft bristled brush. If your boots are suede, use gentle pressure so you don’t damage the material.








Use a toothbrush to scrub hard to reach nooks and crannies.
Try using a pencil eraser to remove any scuffs that don’t come off with dish detergent., After scrubbing, rinse your cloth under warm water to wash out soapy residue, or just grab a new wet cloth. Use the wet cloth to wipe soap off of the boots.









When the cloth gets soapy, rinse it under running water, squeeze it out, then continue wiping the boots until you've sopped up all the soap.
 For pesky gunk like sap, wax, or gum, put your boots in a freezer bag and place them in the freezer. Keep them inside for an hour or two, or until the sticky spot has hardened. Once it’s frozen, you can easily remove it using a blunt knife or nail file., After cleaning, the surface pores of hide-based boots (leather, suede, and nubuck) will open, making them more receptive to water. To close and protect them, you should apply a waterproofing spray labelled for their specific material.








Spray them while they’re still damp to best impregnate the material and prevent future water absorption.
Waterproof your boots whenever you wash them. To keep them in the best shape, give them a spray the day before you go hiking.
 After waterproofing your hide-based boots, you should apply a cream or conditioner, such as a silicone-based protectant, to help retain moisture. Use a care product labelled for your boots’ specific material. Apply the product to your boots just after waterproofing, as the boots should be damp when you condition them.








While too much moisture is bad for hide-based boots, the right amount will help prevent them from wearing or cracking.
It's best to condition your leather boots whenever you wash and waterproof them. Just don't apply too much conditioner at one time, or your boots will become too soft., Hardware, such as the metal around your boots’ lace holes, is prone to rusting. You can remove and prevent rust by using a cotton swab to apply a chrome polish. Apply the polish, let it sit, then wipe off excess with a dry cloth.
 Choose an open, well-aired location to air dry your boots. To prevent cracking and discoloration, find a spot out of direct sunlight.








Try sprinkling baking soda and placing crumpled newspaper inside the boots to help them dry out and remove odors. Replace the newspaper whenever it becomes damp.
 Never use heat sources like radiators, dryers, blow dryers, or an oven to dry your boots. Intense heat will cause irreversible damage to hide-based fibers, and your boots will end up dried, cracked, and ill-fitting.The hot sun will have the same effect as a radiator or dryer, so avoid leaving your boots outside to dry.
 Once they’re completely dry, re-lace them and replace the insoles, then store them in a shoe bag or box. Storing damp or wet boots promotes mold growth, so let your boots air dry for at least 24 hours. 








Try not to leave your boots in the car after using them, or you’ll end up with moldy, stained boots.

