 If you want to keep more than one hamster, Syrian hamsters are not an option unless you are keeping multiple cages as they are a territorial breed and will fight over space. Dwarf hamsters, however, can be kept in the same cage given that they are all the same sex. If you choose to keep a Dwarf hamster, keep an eye on the hamsters to make sure that they are getting along well and don't have troubles with space. Remember that bigger is better when it comes to cage size.;
, If you want a small hamster with beady eyes and limited color variety, a Dwarf hamster may suit you better than a Syrian hamster. However if you'd prefer a large hamster with a wider variety of colors and fur lengths, you may prefer Syrian hamsters. Dwarf hamsters tend to have fluffier fur whereas Syrian hamsters have fur more similar to a cat's. Given that Syrian hamsters are larger, it's important to account for more cage size and space if you choose this breed. Comfort for your pet should be the main focus point over any aesthetic preference.
 Attention is very necessary for hamsters and the amount of energy you invest in playing with them can affect their entire nature. With lots of attention, the hamster will remember you, approach you on it's own, and be excited to be held and pet by you. In general, Dwarf hamsters tend to be more timid around humans and will remember you less well if you don't play with them everyday. Plus they tend to bite if they don't remember you. Syrian hamsters, however, tend to remember their owners more and be friendlier.
 Although Dwarf hamsters are smaller and less easy to find in large rooms, Syrian hamsters are even faster and you have to keep a good eye on them when you have them out.Syrian hamsters also tend to remember what hiding spots are better as well given that their memory is better. If you aren't prepared to regularly take out your hamster and find them when they escape or run off, then a hamster isn't something you should be investing in in the first place.
 Each species has its own distinct disease that it tends to be prone to. Syrian hamsters are especially prone to a disease known as wet-tail which they tend to get when they are young due to stress. It is highly uncommon in old age. This disease tends to be highly lethal and needs to be spotted within the first 24-48 hours. It's extremely rare for the hamster to acquire the illness after the first four weeks. Dwarf hamsters, however, tend to be more prone to diabetes. This means that they will need special care in their food Occasionally the hamster will be given a small dosage of insulin, however that isn't usually administered due to the fact that mistake in dosage can result in immediate death.
 Despite the tendencies of the breed, handling the hamster themselves will tell you most about their nature. If the hamster is shaking or quick to bite, they're likely not a good choice as they will be a hassle to tame. If you're having trouble deciding between the two breeds, then choosing off of in-store personality may be the best option for you.

