 To find the right bags, belts, necklaces and other accessories for your body shape, you first have to figure out what body type you actually have. There are lots of designations for body types. Some stylists mention that there are 4 body types, other say there are more. Whatever the number of body shapes, the most important thing you should know is that body types are basically the ratio between your bust, waist and hip measurements. Once you have those measurements you can easily find out what your shape is by entering those measurements in an online body shape calculator.;
, If you’re petite, you don’t want to have accessories bigger than you, because it will make you look shorter. On the other hand, if you’re bigger, you don’t want to carry around a small bag that will just make you look bigger. It’s all about finding the right proportion for you.
 If you’re a pear shaped body type, you’re probably trying to draw attention away from your hip zone. If, for example, you are wearing a crossed over bag that will hang around your hips, that will definitely draw attention to that area. In this case, you might consider looking for satchels to carry around your shoulders to draw attention to your upper body.
 If you thought that shoes didn’t influence your overall proportion you got it wrong, because shoes can also draw attention to your legs. For example, ankle strap shoes will definitely make your legs seem shorter and wider and you’re carrying some weight in the bottom that won’t do justice for your frame. In that case, you should go for leather boots, classic pumps or ballet flats without any strong details that draw unnecessary attention to your legs. Meanwhile, if you’re petite, you should avoid wearing chunky footwear.
 Belts should we worn according to the length of your torso. If you’re petite and have a smaller torso, you should look for narrower belts that will enhance your waist without adding unnecessary attention to your smaller torso. Also, if you are pear shaped you also don’t want to draw attention to your hips with wide belts. Again, finding the right belts should meet the criteria above of “scale” and “where does it draw attention to”.
 Have slim wrists and want to show them off? Simply draw attention to that area by wearing a bracelet. Want to show off your awesome long neck? Use a pair of long earrings and balance it with a necklace.

