 In order to understand capillary action, you first need to understand adhesion and cohesive forces. Adhesion is the force that causes a liquid to stick to a solid surface, such as the edge of a glass. Cohesive forces are those that pull liquid molecules toward each other.. The combination of adhesion and cohesive forces causes a liquid to rise up the center of a thin tube.


The height the liquid rises can be used to calculate the surface tension of that liquid.
Cohesion causes water to form bubbles or droplets on a surface. When a liquid is in contact with air, the molecules feel attractive forces towards each other and make a bubble on the surface.
Adhesion causes the meniscus that is seen in liquids when they cling to the sides of a glass. It is the concave shape at the top of the liquid seen at eye level.An example of capillary action is watching water rise in a straw placed in a cup of water.
 Surface tension is given by the equation S = (ρhga/2) where S is the surface tension, ρ is the density of the liquid you are measuring, h is the height the liquid rises in the tube, g is the acceleration due to gravity acting on the liquid (9.8 m/s2) and a is the radius of the capillary tube.When working through this equation, make sure all of your units are in the proper metric form: density in kg/m3, height and radius in meters, and gravity in m/s2.
If the density of the liquid is not given, you can look it up in a reference book or calculate it using the equation density = mass/volume.
The unit for surface tension is one newton per meter (N/m). A Newton is equal to 1 kg-m/s2.To work out the units on your own, simply solve the equation with just units. S = kg/m3 * m * m/s2 * m. Two of the meter units cancel out two of the per meter units and you are left with 1 kg-m/s2/m or 1 N/m.
 Using a shallow dish or bowl, fill it with about an inch of the liquid in question. The amount of liquid added does not matter as long as you can clearly see the rise in liquid within the capillary tube.


If you repeat this with different liquids, make sure the dish is thoroughly cleaned and dried before adding the next liquid. Alternatively, just use separate dishes for each liquid.
 This is the tube that you will take your measurements from to calculate the surface tension. The tube must be clear so that you can see how far the liquid rises above the level in the dish. The tube must also have the same radius throughout.


To measure the radius, simply place a ruler across the top of the tube and determine the diameter. Divide the diameter by 2 and you have the radius.
 Place the bottom of a ruler directly above the liquid in the dish and measure how high the liquid has risen into the tube. The water rises due to the upward force of surface tension being greater than the downward force of gravity., Once you have determined all of the necessary variables, you can plug them into the formula and solve for surface tension. Remember to convert all of your values to metric so the problem can be solved properly.


For example, let’s say we are measuring the surface tension of water. Water has a density around 1 kg/m3 (we will use approximate values in this example).The variable g is always 9.8 m/s2. The radius of the tube is .029 m and the water rises 0.5 m. What is the surface tension of the water?
Plugging the variables into the equation yields: S = (ρhga/2) = (1 x 9.8 x 0.029 x 0.5)/2 = 0.1421/2 = 0.071 J/m2.

