 In Australian schools you can be suspended from school from between 1-20 days. The length of the suspension is up to the school and will be decided based on the severity of the offence, the school policies, the type of offense, your age, your grade level, if you have been suspended before and so on.


Australian schools can suspend you for misbehaviour, defiance, swearing, using mobile phones at school, not wearing our uniform, bullying, vandalism, assault, verbal abuse, smoking, drinking, taking or selling drugs, truancy, breaking the law, being charged with a crime outside of school and so on. Some offences for being suspended are very minor and some are very major.
For minor offences you are usually only suspended from school after the school has tried a number of different strategies like detention, community service, in school suspension and so on. For major offences the school may suspend you the first time you do them.
Every school is different in the way they apply suspension. Some school use suspension a lot to deal with even the most minor offences, other schools only use it for major offences. You can see which schools use suspension a lot by looking at the schools website. All schools must put their annual report on their website which will tell you how many students at the school and how many are suspended each year.
Suspensions are divided into two types, short suspension and long suspension. What is classified as a short suspension and long suspension is different in different states. In all states 4 days or less is a short suspension, in all states 11 days or more is a long suspension. But for suspensions of 5-10 days, how it is classified will vary from state to state.
A short suspension may be anything from 1-10 days. A principal can suspend a student on short suspension without approval from the director. Parents can't appeal against a short suspension. Schools are supposed to do their best to provide an ongoing education program for short suspensions.
A long suspension may be 6-20 days. A principal must get approval for a long suspension (it is almost always granted), parents can appeal against the suspension (which is almost never successful). The schools must provide a way for the student to continue their education.
If you are suspended you will be taken to the office and your parents will be contacted. If you are sent home your suspension will begin that day, if not the suspension will begin the next day.;
, Parents and students will be told the details of the suspension. Like why the student was suspended, how many days the suspension will be for, what they will be required to do during the suspension, what they will not be allowed to do during the suspension and what will happen upon return to school.
 This can include more information about what your child did, how it was discovered, if other students were involved, why this punishment has been chosen, if other consequences have been used in the past, what future consequences are likely to be and so on. Schools are usually happy to speak with you about the suspension but don't get too aggressive, they can get scared and become defensive.
 If the suspension is a long suspension, you can appeal. In most cases the authorities will side with the school. Only appeal if you have proof that your child was not involved or due process was not followed.
 If you have a right to appeal the I formation will be in the letter.
 Is there someone who does not work who can supervise the child? Don't leave the child unsupervised.
 Make sure they know what they did wrong, why it was wrong, how it could hurt them or others and what further possible consequences could be.
 Often we don't understand why they did things but they can tell us things we did not realise about they were thinking and feeling at the time. If you yell or become angry most kids will shut down and won't discuss the situation with you.
 Make a plan on how to deal with the situation of it comes up again, so it does not reoccur.
 Many kids who are suspended have underlying disabilities like ADHD, Autism/Aspergers, learning difficulties, gifted issues, vision or hearing problems, health problems, substance abuse issues, depression, anxiety, oppositional defiance disorder, conduct disorder and so on. Use the time your child is suspended to look for help or answers.
 Are they at the right school, in the right subjects and so on. It may be time for a change.
 This will help them not to fall behind in their education and help the school re-accepted them after the suspension.
 If possible contact a friend at the school to find out what the kids are working on.
 Most teens see suspension as a reward and not a punishment. Make sure there is some punishment. Like grounding, loss of privileges and so on.
 This will help to provide them with structure, discipline and control while they are out of school.
 Routine. Make sure they are still getting up and going to bed at the usual time and have a clear structure to the day otherwise it will be very difficult for them to return.
 Most schools will not allow them to attend outside school activities that are related to the school like sporting events but if your child will be involved in any of these find out if they can or not. Don't just assume. Some schools will say yes and others will say no.
 Some parents have tried to enroll their child in another school while suspended. You can't do this, you must wait until the suspension is over to get a transfer. School suspensions will not go past the end of a school year.
 Schools will require the student to go through a renters process. This is usually just a meeting. Some schools may have ongoing consequences for suspended students like not being able to participate in activities like school sports, camps etc. other schools may require them to go onto a behaviour monitoring chart, other schools will have no further consequences.
, This is not a real suspension and won't go on their permanent record, but it means they can't attend classes. They still go to school and do work under supervision on their own.

