 This may be hard if you have many other obligations, or if you tend to take your work home with you; however, sleep is one of the most important things you can do to ease the burdens of a stressful workplace. Without enough sleep, you won’t have the energy to get everything done at work.Practice good sleep hygiene and make sure your sleeping environment is as conducive to sleep as possible. Make sure it’s dark, quiet, and a reasonable temperature. Turn off the TV, the computer, and your phone to be free from interruptions while you sleep.
If you can’t sleep later in the morning, try to go to sleep earlier.
 This may seem silly, but simplifying what you wear can actually take a lot of stress out of your routine. Each morning, you won’t have to agonize over getting dressed and making sure everything matches. Choose clothing pieces that easily go together, and that don’t require too much maintenance.Choose subtle, solid colors, as they go well together very easily.
Choose clothes that fit you well and are relatively comfortable. Being stressed out and physically uncomfortable is a terrible combination.
Set out your clothes before you go to bed. This will save you time and stress in the morning.
 Dealing with emails and important phone calls may take up a lot of your day, or only some of it. Either way, it’s important to dedicate a specific time for these communications, rather than trying to squeeze them in throughout the day. For instance, returning phone calls between 11:00 to 11:30 AM and 3:30 to 4:00 PM.Some people prefer to start their day by returning all phone calls and emails immediately. Others set aside time at the end of the day.
Don’t attempt to multitask when dealing with communications. The person you’re talking to will likely notice you’re distracted, or your emails may be sloppy.
 You’re supposed to eat lunch everyday; but if you work in a very stressful environment, you may skip lunch occasionally, or just eat something from the vending machine. But lunch shouldn’t just be about cramming food into your mouth. It’s a time to take a break and breathe each day.No matter how busy and stressed you are, make your lunch break a priority. Take it at the same time each day, and use the entirety of your lunch break to refuel and center yourself for the rest of the day.
If you have lunch with coworkers, make a practice of avoiding shop talk while you eat. Make sure you don’t accidentally keep working while you’re supposed to be taking a break.
Schedule short breaks to take a walk. Adding a little exercise to your routine and getting outside of the building if possible can help renew your energy.
 Many people come to rely on coffee, energy drinks, or caffeinated tea to keep them going, caffeine adds to stress. It can elevate your blood pressure and heart rate, increase stress hormone levels and may exacerbate your feelings of stress.In addition, try to reduce or cut out tobacco use. Many people use tobacco to cope with stress, because nicotine causes your brain to release dopamine, which feels good. This is, however, a short-term response, and smoking causes an elevation in blood pressure and heart rate and reduces the oxygen available to your brain, ultimately increasing stress.