 How much you bleach your hair depends on the color and thickness of your hair. Some hair types can get very pale, while others won't. Do not over-process your hair.If you already bleached your hair, then you may only need to bleach the roots.


Keep your hair covered with a shower cap as it is bleaching. This helps make it whiter.;
, Dye is translucent. This means that is mixes with whatever color is underneath. If your bleached hair has yellowish tints in it, and you try to add pink to it, you may end up with orange. You want your hair to be as white or silvery as possible. If you hair tuned out too yellow or brassy, apply a toner to it to help neutralize it.Each bleach toner is a little different, so be sure to follow the instructions on the bottle.
 Each type of dye is different. Some recommend that you wash your hair with both shampoo and conditioner before hand, while others recommend using just shampoo. Make sure that your hair is dry before you move on to the next step, however., The most popular colors for sherbet are: bright pink, bright orange, yellow, and neon/lime green. Raspberry, strawberry, and orange is another popular combination. You can also base your hair color off of your favorite sherbet color instead.


The yellow and green should be similar in hue, otherwise the green will stand out too much. You can also just use a greenish-yellow instead of those two colors.
 If you don't have an old shirt to spare, put on a dark-colored shirt inside. Drape a towel or hair-dyeing cape over your shoulders. Consider applying petroleum jelly to your hairline and neck as well. This is not absolutely necessary, but it will keep your skin during the dyeing process., Some types of dye are ready to go while others have to be mixed in with a developer. Prepare each color separately in its own plastic bowl using a separate utensil.


Don't be afraid to mix dyes to get a specific shade., Use a rattail comb to divide your hair into evenly-sized, vertical sections that are at least 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide. Twist and clip the sections out of the way. You can have as many or as few sections as you want; 6 to 9 sections would be ideal. Have all of the sections come to the same point at the top of your head.


If you don't have a rattail comb, section off your hair with the pointy end of a dye applicator brush instead.If you don't have enough clips, use hair ties instead., Unclip and untwist the first section. Use a dye applicator brush to apply the dye into your hair. Start from the roots and work your way down., Use your fingers to massage the dye into that section of hair. Make sure that you get the dye between every strand., Wrap a sheet of plastic wrap around your dyed hair. You can also twist your dyed hair and clip it back into place.If you don't have plastic wrap, you can use aluminum foil instead.
 This is very important. If you don't do this step, you will end up transferring your first color into your second color.If you are really worried about this, take the gloves off, and put on a new set of gloves.
 Move onto the next color. Apply it using the same technique, making sure to start from the roots. Work the dye into your hair, then cover it with plastic wrap, or twist and clip it out of the way.


Do not use the same applicator for the next color. Use a new applicator.
 You will need to repeat your color order once you use your last color. Remember to wipe your hands clean between each section, or switch to a new set of gloves. Twist and clip the sections out of the way as you finish them, or cover them with plastic wrap.


Be careful not to get any dye on the adjacent section.
You don't have to go in rainbow order. Try: pink, yellow, and orange instead. If you are using green as well, consider using it as an accent color.
 This really depends on how deep you want the color to be as well as the brand. Some brands need to be left on longer than others. Check the instructions on your package of dye.Some people like to cover their hair with a shower cap to help the dye set better and keep their surroundings clean.
 Twist and clip each section out of the way as you finish rinsing it. It would be even better if you cover it with plastic wrap. This will help further prevent bleeding., Once your have gotten all of the colors out, apply a good, hydrating conditioner into your hair. Massage it in, then rinse it out.Conditioner meant for dyed hair would be the best.


Do not use shampoo.
Do not use anything with sulfates in it. It will wash the dye out.
 You can also towel dry your hair and let it air dry instead. If you want to, you can add curls to your hair using a curling iron, but be sure to apply a good heat protectant first.
 Try to limit your hair washing to once a week to help the dye last longer.Wash your hair using a high-quality, sulfate-free shampoo and conditioner. when you wash your hair. This will help further prevent the dye from fading and help it last longer.If you are taking a shower but aren't washing your hair, wear a shower cap. This will help the dye last longer.