 Being hunched over a computer can increase muscle knots. Make sure your chair has proper back support and that your desk is at an appropriate height so that you aren't slouching while working. You can also try tools such as ergonomic keyboards to assist with correct posture., Sit up straight and stand up straight to help relieve muscle knots. Make sure you are not tensing your shoulders.Don't forget to check your posture even when you're involved in a project. Activities like leaning over tables or even sitting in chairs that don't give you enough back support can create muscle knots, too., For instance, you may not notice that you normally sit at a weird angle while watching television. Maybe you slump over to the left in the car. All of these can create muscle knots in your shoulders and back, so try to pay more attention to your position., The people you love can gently remind you when they notice you're slouching or in an awkward position.
 Meditation can help you be aware of your posture, as well as assist you with relaxing.
 When you notice you are tensing your shoulders, consciously relax them. Take a deep breath in, and slowly release it while you imagine breathing out the tension of your shoulders. Repeat as necessary.
 You can use a foam roller to release trigger points, or tight muscle knots. These areas can cause pain in an area of your body or even radiate pain to other areas, but using a foam roller can help to release these knots and restore your muscles to normal.To use a foam roller, place it on the ground and rest your body on it over the area where your muscles feel tight. Then, slowly roll yourself across the foam roller to relieve tension.
 Not getting the right nutrients can make you more susceptible to muscle knots. Take magnesium, calcium, and zinc as supplements and also eat fruits and vegetables., CBT will not make the knots or pain go away. However, it can help you to deal with the pain by assisting you with adjusting your attitude. In addition, you may need more exercise, and CBT can encourage you to get moving. 