 When you do, look out at the horizon. Fixating on a stable object on the horizon and looking out the window will help your body to match the visual cues of motion with the physical cues like the vibrations.Don’t try to focus on vegetation that is whipping by on the side of the road. It will make you more dizzy.
Holding the book up right instead of putting it down in your lap will make it easier to flick your eyes back and forth between the horizon to the book.
If you start to feel ill, you may need to look out the window for a few minutes before you can return to reading.
You can minimize nausea significantly by closing the eye closest to the nearest window. This serves double purpose: To relieve your brain from processing two visual inputs of your reading material at once, and also to eliminate most of the cues of movement from your field of vision. If you have difficulty keeping it closed, cover it with your hand. Using this technique you might be able to read with no major nuisance.;
, This will help reduce the mismatch between what your body and your eyes are telling your brain. You can do this by:Sitting in a more stable part of the car. The back seat is generally more rocky than the front, so you may do best if you sit in the passenger side in the front seat.
Leaning your head against a pillow or the headrest to keep it as still as you can.
Not reading when you leave the highway and start traveling on windy back roads. Your body gets much stronger physical sensations of movement as the car turns and this will make you more prone to nausea.
 The fresh air blowing over your face as you read will help reduce nausea and prevent you from getting too hot.The fresh air may reinvigorate you.


Fully opening the window may make the pages blow around too much, but chances are that even cracking the window a bit will help a lot.
 Instead take a break from reading and focus on relaxing. You can use relaxation techniques such as: Deep breathing
Meditation

Progressively tensing and relaxing each muscle group in your body

Visualizing a calming landscape
Listening to music
Closing your eyes and taking a brief nap

, While it is enjoyable to snack on rich, junk foods while reading, getting very full can make you more prone to nausea and vomiting. Foods to avoid are:Greasy, fatty foods
Spicy foods
Alcohol

, These foods are light, easy to digest, and will reduce nausea:Dry crackers will help absorb some of your stomach acids.
Hard candies, particularly mints. But be sure to suck on them instead of chewing them.
Carbonated beverages. This will settle your stomach and provide electrolytes.
 These are cloth bands which are elastic and have a little knob on them. Position them on your wrist so that the knob presses on the inside of your wrist between the two tendons running down the middle of your forearm. Stimulating this acupressure point is thought to prevent nausea.They should not be so tight that they cause pain or cut off the circulation to your hand.
They have not been scientifically demonstrated to be effective, but some people may find that they help.
 If you start to feel nauseous you will be more sensitive to irritants like smoke. Being exposed to the smoke may make you more likely to vomit.Strong air fresheners may also have this effect.

