 Listening to and thinking about what the teacher is saying is the best way to stay engaged with class material. Active listen implies both hearing and thinking.;
, If you try to write down most of what your teacher says, you will remain quite busy and you won’t feel as bored.


You may also start doing better on tests because you are paying attention.
This approach has the added benefit of helping you when it is time to study or helping a friend who is absent from class.
 Studies have shown that people who doodle on their notes tend to pay more attention and retain the information better.Alternate between drawing and note taking.
Nonsensical doodles may be just as effective as illustrations that connect to the content of the notes.
 The time will seem to go by faster if you take advantage of the social environment of the classroom to engage with your fellow students and your teacher.Ask questions about the content. You will stay focused and time will go faster if you raise your hand and ask questions or if you answer questions that your teacher poses.
Introduce a controversial remark or idea. If you think that the content of the lecture is boring, try to find the way to introduce a controversial spin. The ensuing debate between students of differing opinions is likely to be lively and entertaining.
Play the “devil’s advocate.” Even if you agree with a point someone makes, try arguing with them.
This will challenge others to defend their positions and other classmates may join in on either side.
You can have fun playing a mental game of arguing against something you actually believe.
Arguments or debates frequently lead to fun and engaged learning and will make the time seem to pass more quickly.
 If the subject matter is boring, try listening to a lecture for other reasons. Here are a few suggestions:


Note your teacher’s annoying speech habits (like saying “umm”) and keep tally marks every time one occurs. Have a running competition each day to see if there will be more than the day before.
Try making a word cloud manually. Write frequently occurring words from the lecture in a cloud on a piece of paper, making more frequent words larger and more prominent on the page and less frequent words smaller.
Try listing only the nouns or only the verbs that your teacher uses. Then look for secret subliminal messages hidden in the patterns of her language use.

