 In a small bowl, mix together ⅔ cup (177 ml) of water, ⅓ cup (78 ml) of low-sodium soy sauce, ¼ cup (59 ml) of white wine, 2 tablespoons (16 g) of cornstarch, and 1 ½ teaspoons (7.5 g) of fresh grated ginger. Stir until the mixture is smooth, and set aside.You can also mix 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of sesame oil and/or 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of oyster sauce into the mixture if you like those flavors.;
, In a large wok or skillet, heat 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil over medium-high heat until the oil is hot and starting to shimmer, which usually takes approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Add 2 cloves of finely chopped garlic to the pan, and stir fry for approximately 3 minutes or until the garlic becomes soft.If you’re using a skillet instead of a wok, make sure that it’s fairly deep so it has similar dimensions to a wok.
When you add the oil to the pan, swirl it around once or twice to ensure that the entire bottom is coated.
 When the garlic is soft, mix 1 pound (450 g) of large, raw shrimp that have been peeled and deveined into the pan. Stir fry the shrimp for about 3 minutes or until they become pink. Use a slotted spoon to remove the shrimp, so you can place them on a plate and set aside.It’s a good idea to pat the shrimp with paper towel before you add them to the pan. Excess moisture on the shrimp can cause the oil to splatter when you place them in the pan., After you’ve removed the shrimp from the pan, add 2 ½ cups (250 g) of broccoli florets to the oil and garlic. Allow the broccoli to cook for approximately 2 minutes, or until the florets become bright green.Broccoli is the first vegetable added because it is very dense and takes longer to cook. If you plan to add or replace the broccoli with other dense vegetables, such as carrots or cauliflower, stir fry them at this point., When the broccoli has cooked for a couple of minutes, mix 1 large red pepper that’s been cut into strips, 1 large yellow pepper that’s been cut into strips, and 1 ¼ cup (120 g) of snow peas into the pan. Stir fry the mixture until the peppers and snow peas are nearly tender but still crisp, which should take approximately 1 minute.You can add to or replace the peppers and snow peas with other vegetables that are similar in density, such as green beans, if you prefer.
 Once the vegetables have all cooked for a few minutes, sprinkle the pan with salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Stir well to ensure that you season the entire mixture., After you’ve fried and seasoned the vegetables, place the shrimp back in the wok. Mix in ½ cup (118 g) of sliced water chestnuts and 4 green onions that have been chopped as well.If you aren’t a fan of water chestnuts, you can replace them with chopped nuts, such as cashews or peanuts, for added crunch in the stir fry.
 When you’ve added all of the stir fry ingredients, pour the sauce into the pan. Stir fry the entire mixture until the sauce begins to thicken and boil, which should take about 1 minute., Remove the pan from the heat, and transfer the stir fry into four bowls. Serve while the dish is still hot.You can serve the stir fry with cooked white rice, egg noodles, or rice noodles.
For a garnish, consider adding chopped green onions, peanuts, or cashews.

