 To diagnose and then treat a goiter, you must first learn what a goiter is. A goiter is an abnormal, but usually benign, growth in the thyroid gland. This may be associated with normal, decreased, or increased thyroid production.


Goiters are usually painless, but they can cause coughs, breathing problems, difficulty swallowing, diaphragm paralysis, or superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome.
Treatment depends on the size of your goiter and symptoms, as well as the reasons the goiter developed.;
, To figure out if you may have a goiter, know the symptoms. If you're experiencing any of the following, you should make a visit to your primary care doctor for an official diagnosis:A visible swelling the base of your neck, which may be very obvious when you shave or put on makeup
A tight feeling in your throat
Coughing
Hoarseness
Difficulty swallowing
Difficulty breathing

, As goiters are somewhat nebulous medical conditions — they can be caused by a number of conditions and there are a variety of options for treatment —come in with a list of questions. Questions should include:What is causing this goiter?
Is it serious?
How should I treat its underlying causes?
Are there any alternative treatments I can try?
Can I use a watch and wait approach?
Will the goiter get bigger?
Will I have to take medication? If so, for how long?

, Your doctor will perform a variety of tests to diagnose a goiter. These tests depend on your medical history and what the doctor suspects is causing the goiter.


Your doctor may perform a hormone test to see the amounts of hormones produced by your thyroid and pituitary gland. If the levels are too low or too high, this is likely the cause of the goiter. Blood will be drawn and sent to a lab.An antibody test might be performed, as abnormal antibodies can cause goiters. This is done through blood tests.In ultrasonography, a device is held over your neck and sound waves from your neck and back form images on the computer screen. Abnormalities that cause goiters can be identified.
A thyroid scan might also be performed. A radioactive isotope is injected into the vein in your elbow and you then lie on the table. A camera produces images of your thyroid on a computer screen, providing information about what's causing the goiter.
A biopsy may be performed, usually used to rule out cancer, in which tissues is drawn from your thyroid for testing.