 Ask them about their concerns and try to make compromises as, for example, not using your real (last) name, city, age and/or any pictures of yourself.;
,, If you have a computer in your room, make sure it can't be seen when you first walk in. Get a bead curtain if it's your room, a loud one. They might imagine, rightfully, that you could get yourself into to some trouble.


Alternatively, you could try to find a place that isn't connected to your parents' Internet. If you have a laptop or other WiFi capable device, try connecting to a neighbor's network. If this isn't an option, try using a computer at your public library or at a friend's house.
 Myspace is great for music and videos. Don't use headphones, you may not hear your parents entering the room and then get caught.
, If you don't, then practice. You must know how to type fast, and click fast.
, Make sure to use something innocent like "Google", "MSN", "Weather.com", or a news page. If you liked "neopets.com" when you were younger, say you still think it is fun and use that, but avoid this if you used to say 'Neopets sucks!' because that would arouse suspicion.
, Choose a plain, simple, and most importantly correctly spelled URL name. Avoid words like "heart," gurl/boi," "xoxo," "roxxer" or similar, as they are extremely lame and make you look childish, aside from the fact that you will later regret choosing such a stupid URL name. Preferably, you should exclude your name in one form or another. Avoid using your full name like "Melissa Bourne" for your Myspace name as it's easier to find you and your Myspace.
 Also add as many of your friends as possible. Try searching for them, or call them up and ask for their Myspace profile URLs. You don't have to ask every single one of your friends, since your friends will most likely be linked together.
 So just make up a clever excuse you can use.
 If your parents overhear (which they could), they will find out.
, If you do, your parents might search Myspace for your name and find your account. Unless you decide to be sneaky and use a false name such as Jane Doe for other protection purposes as well.

