 It is important to see your family doctor or obstetrician soon after finding out that you are pregnant. The doctor will most likely give you a general exam, a blood test, urine test, pelvic exam, and pap smear. These are done to check for possible complications and deficiencies, such as cervical cancer, harmful bacteria in the blood, or low iron levels. You should then expect to see your doctor every four weeks until the seventh month of pregnancy, then every two weeks until the final month, after which you should start weekly visits., If you want to have a healthy baby, you may wish to terminate a foetus discovered to have a genetic or congenital defect., Meals featuring fruits and green leafy vegetables, then secondly whole grains, light dairy, and extra lean proteins are essential to nourish your developing child while maintaining your own health.Your appetite should increase during pregnancy. Compensate by eating a full breakfast, and if you feel like snacking, try fresh fruits and vegetables instead of junk food.
For the last six months of pregnancy, your daily intake should increase by about 300 calories. And if at normal weight before pregnancy, you should also expect to gain 25 – 30 pounds.It is recommended that pregnant women eat 12 ounces of fish or shellfish per week. These are rich in protein, in addition to omega-3 fatty acids, which can aid in the baby’s brain and eye development., The following fish contain dangerous levels of mercury, which can cause birth defects: swordfish, mackerel, grouper, Chilean sea bass, marlin, orange roughy, shark, tilefish (also known as white or golden snapper), and tuna steaks (including canned albacore).


Recommended fish and shellfish with the lowest levels of mercury include tilapia, herring, pollock, whiting, anchovies, sardines, non-farmed salmon, shrimp, crayfish, and cooked clams and oysters., These include unpasteurized milk or juices, and unpasteurized soft cheeses such as feta, blue cheese, brie, queso fresco, and queso blanco. These can contain a harmful bacterium that causes an illness that pregnant women are vulnerable to, called listeriosis, which if passed on the the fetus can result in miscarriage, premature labor, low birth weight, or infant death, in addition to several debilitating birth defects., Hot dogs, deli and luncheon meats, pâtés, and refrigerated smoked seafood can all contain the bacterium that causes listeriosis. Proper refrigeration can reduce the risk, so freeze or refrigerate perishables and leftovers within 2 hours of preparation.


To ensure adequate refrigeration, make sure the freezer temperature is set at 0°F (-18°C) or below, and the refrigerator at 40°F (4°C) or below., Raw or undercooked meats — especially pork, venison, and lamb — can contain a parasite called Toxoplasma gondii, which causes Toxoplasmosis. This illness, if passed on to your baby, can bring on a number of birth defects, including brain and eye impairment.



T. gondii is also found in unwashed fruits, vegetables, and contaminated water, so be sure to thoroughly wash all produce from the store or garden, and drink only treated water.
If you've been working in the garden or changing a cat litter box, wash your hands afterwards to protect against T. gondii, which can be present in cat feces.Poultry should be cooked to an internal temperature of at least 165°F (73.9°C), ground meat should be cooked to 165°F (73.9°C), and steaks, roasts, chops should be 145°F (62.8°C).It is also important to defrost, chill, clean, and handle foods properly to avoid foodborne illness. (For instance, don't wash raw meat, as this can spread bacterial all over your skin and kitchen.)

, It is recommended that expectant mothers and women trying to get pregnant take 400 – 800 mcg (micrograms) of folic acid daily. This supplement helps to reduce the chance of neural tube defects — such as spina bifida and anencephaly — which inhibit brain and spinal cord development.


While a balanced diet should provide most of the nutrients you and your baby need, it is difficult for pregnant women to get enough folic acid from foods alone to ensure the baby's healthy development., Most prenatal vitamins will contain the bulk of the supplemental nutrition you’ll need. Regardless, make sure you’re getting these daily recommended doses in addition to folic acid:


27 mg of iron
1000 mg of Calcium (1300 mg if younger than 18)
770 mcg of vitamin A (750 mcg if younger than 18)
2.6 mcg of Vitamin B12, The recommended daily dose for expecting mothers is at least 400 IU/10mcg. Vitamin D regulates calcium and phosphate levels, aiding in the growth of muscles, teeth, and bones., Make sure your prenatal vitamin does not contain more than 5,000 IU of Vitamin A (1500 mcg of retinol, 3000 mcg of beta carotene).Also avoid fish liver oil supplements (cod liver oil), and liver products such as liver sausage and liver pâté. High doses of Vitamin A can cause birth defects., Mothers who drink or smoke during pregnancy are shown to increase the chances of miscarriage, stillbirth, low birth weight, and giving birth to children at risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).You may have heard that small amounts of alcohol from time to time are not harmful. The fact is that studies on the safety of an occasional drink have been inconclusive, so it’s best to not take the risk--go without alcohol for the sake of your baby., Drinks containing caffeine should be approached carefully, since too much has been shown to cause low birth weight and miscarriage.To help you limit your daily caffeine intake to 200 mg per day, here is a list of how much caffeine is found in the most common drinks:


2 ½ tablespoons of regular ground coffee to make 12 liquid ounces: 200 mg
Black tea (brewing for three minutes): 80mg
Green tea (brewing for three minutes): 60 mgSoft drinks and energy drinks should be out of the question, considering not only their high caffeine content but also their potentially harmful levels of sugar as well.
 Staying active by doing simple and safe activities like walking, swimming, light aerobics, pilates, and yoga can make labor and delivery more manageable.If you weren’t exercising before pregnancy, start with 15 minutes per day, working up to 30 minutes. If you were active before, try for at least 30 minutes of exercise per day.Be sure to avoid exercising or strenuous activity in hot weather, and drink plenty of water before, during, and after your workout.
Discuss with your doctor what types of exercise are best for you and which exercises you should avoid as your pregnancy progresses.
Certain exercises can help you adapt to your changing body as the pregnancy progresses. Ask a personal trainer about starting stomach-strengthening, pelvic floor, and pelvic tilt exercises.