 Love is a beautiful, joyous emotion. But it is also a powerful word, and you shouldn't throw it around with your man unless you're sure you mean it. This doesn't mean you need to write a thesis on your feelings. But you do need to ask yourself what you hope to gain by telling him you love him.


If he's already said "I love you," and you know you feel the same, feel free to come out and say it.
If your relationship is strong, and you know him and yourself well, it might be time to say "I love you."
If you're convinced you're in love, and need to tell him so, then trust your instincts and say it.
If you want to tell him just to see if he'll say "I love you" back, or because you feel pressured to say it, don't. Love is something you give to others, it doesn't expect or need someone else's response.If you're just friends, but want more, you should consider asking him out before saying you love him., Make sure you can spend quality time together before launching an L-bomb. This will also give you a great chance to gauge his own feelings towards you. More likely than not, if you love him then he will feel some attraction back towards you. Just focus on letting go and having fun -- love is not about forcing your feelings -- so take your time and build a relationship.


At the end of the day, this is about you confidently telling him how you feel. If you're not sure if he likes you back, that is okay! That's why you want to tell him your own feelings.
Is he comfortable hanging out with just you? If not, telling him you're "in love" might come off a little too strongly.
 Sometimes you just need some perspective. A big reason many people won't say "I love you" is that they're afraid the partner doesn't feel the same way. At the end of the day, it comes down to speaking your mind and feelings honestly. However, if you're a little worried:


Ask a mutual, trusted friend if they can see you two dating.
Talk to one of his friends and see if he is interested in anyone right now. If you're feeling bold, ask if he has any feelings for you., Even best friends can be taken aback by the powerful words "I love you." You might have thought about this love for months, but for him this is big, sudden news. Imagine yourself in a similar situation -- you have a friend you like who suddenly tells you they are in love. You'd be at a loss for words, to say the least. So don't jump right to love -- take your time exploring your feelings together. Test the water a few weeks in advance with:


"I just wanted to tell you that I really like you."
"I love spending time with you. This has been a great few months."
"Let's go on a few dates, just you and me for a change."

, Love: the most blissfully confusing human emotion around. If you feel overwhelmed with affection, feel your stomach flip every time you see him, and want to blurt out "I love you!" at every turn, chances are good you're head over heels in love. But, as strong as the feeling is, avoid the temptation to immediately tell anyone. Instead, sit back and enjoy the rush of love for a few days. Show yourself that this isn't just a crush, this is the real thing. If you still feel like you love him, then get ready to make your move.


If you don't still feel attached to him after the a few days than you hadn't a crush, not love. Love stays around for a long while.
 It is scientifically proven then men say "I love you" first more often than women.To make matters worst, many dating books are hard-set on the woman always saying "I love you" second. The reasons are fuzzy ("evolutionary advantage for men who create commitment early on") or made up ("women who say it first seem overly needy), but there is something to be said for tradition. Like it or not, some men are weirded out when a woman says "I love you first." This shouldn't keep you from expressing your feelings, but it is worth considering. 