 The Ellipse tool is part of the toolbar on the left side of the screen. It is a shaded ellipse. Hold down ⇧ Shift and click on the white canvas, and drag the circle to the size that you want.


Release the click on the mouse and then release ⇧ Shift to make a perfect circle.
 To place a vertical guide, click on the vertical ruler and drag right towards the circle. Place the guide over the vertical center points of the circle. To place the horizontal guide, click on the horizontal ruler and drag down toward the circle.If the guides don’t get properly placed the first time, you can click on them again and drag them into place.
 The Polygon Frame tool is located in the left toolbar underneath the Rectangle Frame tool group.Click and hold on the Rectangle Frame tool to reveal the icons underneath. The tool looks like a hexagon with an “X” through it.


Click on the Polygon Frame tool to make it active.
It will now be the icon showing on the toolbar.
 With the Polygon Frame tool selected, click onto the white canvas to open the options dialog box. Set the number of sides to 3 and click okay.With ⇧ Shift held down, click and drag a triangle that is slightly longer than the radius of your circle.


Don’t release ⇧ Shift until after you let go of the mouse click. This will ensure that you have made a perfect equilateral triangle.
 Make sure the black arrow is selected on toolbar and click on the triangle. Drag it to the center of the circle so that the bottom-left corner snaps to the center of the circle.


The right side of the triangle should hang outside the circle with the bottom and left side of the triangle intersecting the circle.
 Highlight both the triangle and the circle. With both highlighted, find the Intersect tool nested under Object>Pathfinder. After clicking Intersect, the circle should disappear and a wedge shape should appear.


This wedge is one-sixth of the circle.
 Highlight the wedge and right click. Click on Transform>Rotate. Set the angle to 60° and click Copy. Once you click copy, a second wedge, rotated 60° from the original wedge, will appear.


Align this second wedge next to the first wedge. You will start to see the circle forming.
 Using the second wedge you just made, right click again and rotate and copy the second wedge. This will form a third wedge that you can place next to the second. Repeat this with the third, fourth, and fifth wedge until you have six total wedges.


Align each wedge next to the previous one until you have a perfect circle divided into 6 equal parts.

