 Many people don’t have time to go through all their mail during the week, resulting in a rapidly growing stack of envelopes and cards waiting for your attention. Not only can this looming pile of paperwork make you feel anxious, but it can make you miss bills, government notices, and social invitations. You can start tackling this monster of a mail pile by sifting through the articles and organizing them.


Divide your mail into separate stacks: one for bills, one for promotional offers and junk mail, one for social correspondence, and one for official notifications.
 Often, the bulk of the mail dominating your desktop comes from companies hawking their products, sales, and services. While some of this mail—for example, coupons or catalogs—can be useful, you’ll probably want to chuck most of it. Just be sure to open each piece of mail to make sure it’s something you don’t need.


When you're sure you don't need a piece of mail, shred or rip up any paper that has your name, address, or other personal information printed on it. This preventative measure is fairly easy and can help you avoid the serious consequences of identity theft in the future.If you’re getting tons of credit card offers from the same company, take a look at the small print at the bottom of the offer. Many times there will be information listed as to how to opt out of further unsolicited mail in the future.Be sure to recycle any paper or cardboard rather than throwing it in the bin with the rest of your garbage.
 Bills aren’t the most fun part of adult life, but unfortunately it’s necessary to stay on top of them if you want to maintain or build good credit. After setting aside all your bills, go through them carefully and add them to your budget. Write down the amount owed, the deadline to pay, as well as any other pertinent information about the payment.


If you pay most of your bills online anyway, consider going paperless. Log into your online account where you usually make online payments and find a menu option or box that allows you to opt out of hard copies of bills and other notices in the future. You'll be reducing paper consumption for the environment as well as diminishing clutter in your personal home., Though it can seem like one does almost all official and social business online these days, there are still many important notices which are sent via snail mail. For example, governmental bulletins such as vehicle maintenance checks, parking sticker renewals, voting reminders and registration, and tax bills and information are all likely to show up in your mailbox rather than your inbox. Open these up and add them to your to-do list to make sure you don’t miss any important deadlines or registrations.


Many formal personal announcements, such as wedding invitations and graduation announcements, also come by mail, so make sure you don’t miss out on any fun just because you didn’t open your mail in time!

, Once you’ve gotten your mail under control, scan through your daily calendar. Add any items or notifications received in the mail, such as weddings, local elections, tax deadlines, or charity events, and make a note of any bills you’ve paid or other correspondence you’ve taken care of.


Keep your planner game on point by making entries as detailed as possible. For example, don’t just write, “Interview with Jacobs Company 10:00” under the appropriate date. Write down where exactly the interview is, how to get there, what person you should ask for, what to bring with you, and any other pertinent information you’ve been provided.
If your paper planner is packed and you're having trouble keeping up, consider using a digital calendar such as Google Calendar or Outlook. Not only do these electronic options present information and scheduled appointments in a clearer fashion, but they allow you to share events with other parties, add attachments, and sync your calendar with your email., Depending on what kind of a person you are, your desk might be a perfectly organized and spotless space, or a pit of despair where important and unimportant papers alike go to die. If you belong to the former group, desktop organization can seem like a mighty and daunting task. Actually, though, sorting through your unattended mail and documents was probably the hardest part. Now you just need to get rid of unnecessary clutter, file away important but non-pressing documents, and stack relevant forms and work in tidy, accessible areas.


If your desk doesn’t have much drawer space or you’ve already used up all available real estate, order a file organizer online or buy one from a local office supply store. These useful contraptions not only give you a place to store your files, but also allow you to divide them up into different categories and slots.

