 When all else fails, acting in ways that are creepy or downright startling will freak people out for sure. Use common sense here - don't do anything that will get you arrested. Below are a few good ideas:


There's always the old classic - simply hide somewhere, then pop out and scare anyone who walks by. Sometimes simple is better.
Startle people with your appearance. Try wearing a crazy amount of makeup on your eyes, but covering them with huge, dark sunglasses. Try to look sullen and silent, but not scary, or people will avoid you. If someone tries to talk to you, pull the sunglasses off and surprise your victim with your look.
Walk around with your eyes open really wide and/or smile grandly so the edges of your eyes crinkle. If someone asks why, tell them a crazy reason, like that goblins told you to.
Carry suspicious objects. For example, label a suitcase "livers" and walk around with it throughout the day.
Appear disturbed by security cameras. For instance, stand in the corner of an elevator and stare at the camera with a horrified look on your face. Keep your eyes on the camera even if people come in.
Develop a bizarre, freaky talent like kicking your own head or turning your eyelids inside out.
Eat weird foods in public. This is even better if the food has a noticeable odor. You might try olives, pickled onions or gherkins.
Name your planner/pencil/ruler/calculator/binder. Call it by its name all day. If anyone asks you why your planner has a name, give him or her a weird look.
Pretend to draw strangers into criminal conspiracies. Go up to someone and whisper, "I've got it in the truck outside. Where do you want it?" emphasizing the word "it". If they ask what "it" is, say "Sir/Ma'am, you told me not to say it out loud," then run out of sight before they can ask any questions. For added effect, you can wear a high-collared jacket and/or dark sunglasses to make yourself look shady and hard to recognize. If you're spotted later in your normal clothes, pretend not to remember ever talking to the person. For obvious reasons, don't do this near police, at airports, etc.

