 Try Dove, Neutrogena, Cetaphil, CeraVe or Basics, as these products will not cause dryness. Wash your face one to two times per day. If oil persists, use an over-the-counter medicated acne wash that contains benzoyl peroxide, sulfur, resorcinol or salicylic acid.Use warm water to wet your face. Apply a dime-sized amount of the cleanser to your fingers and lather it in your palms.
Use your fingers to massage the cleanser onto your face. Apply in a circular motion and massage for about a minute. Be sure the cleanser removes all makeup and any visible dirt or debris.
Use warm water to rinse off all the cleanser. Rinse thoroughly, as leftover cleanser may dry skin. Never blot or wipe off the cleanser, as you may leave behind dirt and oil the cleanser has lifted from your pores.
Pat dry with a clean towel. Dirty towels can transfer oil and bacteria and contribute to breakouts. Wash linen frequently in hot water with dermatologist-recommended detergent.
Apply an oil-free moisturizer with sunscreen immediately after washing. The moisturizer will trap water on your damp face and keep your skin hydrated all day. Many acne products cause photosensitivity and increase your risk of sunburn, so proper SPF is crucial.;
, If oil builds up on your face and you are unable to wash it, use these over-the-counter products to soak up oil.


Blot shiny spots on your face with pad or sheet. Pay special attention to your t-zone (your forehead, nose and chin), where breakouts are most common.
Discard pads or sheets when they appear dirty. Do not attempt to clean your face with a discolored pad; you will only transfer oil and bacteria. It may take several pads to clean your face.
If you do not have access to astringent pads or oil-blotting sheets, you can dab your face with tissues.
 The oil that is produced from your scalp and is in your hair can transfer to your face if they come into contact. Keep your hair pulled back so that it does not touch your face and be sure to pin bangs off your forehead. Make sure you are keeping your hair clean and shampooing regularly so that it does not become too greasy and contribute to your oily skin.
 Many hair products and cosmetics contain chemicals that can irritate skin and block pores. Read product labels and use only non-comedogenic (oil-free) grooming products.The following products often cause irritation and oily skin:


Hairspray
Conditioners
Gel, mouse and other sculpting products
Greasy cosmetics
Oil-containing sunscreens

