 This will launch the app. Here, you can download various kinds of productivity-related software for your Android device.;
, Here, you may choose from a wide range of applications that can be installed on your specific Android make and model.
 Tap “Categories” from the top left-hand corner of the application listing section to view it by category. Scroll down the category list and select “Productivity.” This will show you all the associated Android applications under this specific category.
 There are hundreds of productivity applications that you may download here—from voice recorders, notepads, to task managers. Each designed to fulfill your specific need.


Apps like Google Docs and Expensify are a few of the commonly downloaded productivity applications.
To download the app, select your choice from the list to open its application summary page. Inside, tap the “Install” button, accept the permissions needed, and your Android will automatically get and install that application.
 How you use the app you got depends on what it was made for. To launch the productivity applications you downloaded, just tap its newly created icon from your Android’s home screen and it will open up.


To exit out of the application, just tap the Back button of your device, and you’ll return back to the home screen.
 Just as there are apps that help boost your productivity, there those that will drag it down. If you find yourself spending too much time on applications that have nothing to do with your work—such as games and social media applications—then it may be a good idea to lose these apps.
 Once you’ve figured out the apps that you need to remove, tap “Settings” from the home screen (or app drawer) and select “Applications Manager” from the list. Here, you’ll see all the applications currently installed on your device.
 Scroll down the Application Manager and look for the application you want to remove. Tap it from the list, and its app summary screen should appear. Tap “Uninstall” inside this screen to permanently remove the application from your Android.

