 The way in which you speak and words you choose communicate a lot to others in each conversation you have. The vocabulary you use is not only a sign of intelligence in conversation but is also a major component in the measurement of your Intelligence Quotient (IQ) and education level on intelligence and achievement tests.Increasing your vocabulary will help you to improve that perception as well as:


Avoid repetition.
Express yourself succinctly.
Increase your creativity.
Illustrate your knowledge.;
, There are few ways in which you could do more harm to the perception of your education than to use incorrect grammar, incorrect phrases, or “crutch words” such as “like” or “um.” When you are speaking you'll appear more educated if you enunciate, use proper grammar, complete sentences, and correct phrasing. Some of the more common mistakes include:


"Yeah" instead of "Yes"
”For all intensive purposes” instead of “for all intents and purposes”"I could care less" instead of "I couldn't care less"”Irregardless” instead of “regardless”Should, could, or would “of” instead of should, could, or would “have”, It may be difficult to remain conversational in your speech, but you should try to limit your use of slang words or attempt not to use them at all. Be particularly careful of any slang words that may offend someone, including the use of curse words. While the use of curse words does not necessarily indicate someone is uneducated, it does impact the social perception of intelligence, particularly in conversations where you do not know the other people well.
 No one is capable of knowing everything, and those who are more educated understand that, and rarely claim to be as intelligent as they really are.Be modest and avoid the temptation to “prove” how smart you are. It will often come off to others as boastful and will lower their opinion of you.
 Sometimes, in an effort to sound educated or smart, someone can appear to be "trying too hard." If you have a habit of always trying to interject on every conversation and add your thoughts, try and step back a bit. A key to speaking intelligently includes knowing when to be quiet. Staying silent has the potential to show more intelligence, especially if the alternative is saying something you think is smart.


This will also help if you feel you are in a conversation of opposing opinions where the other person is attempting to get you into an argument. Being quiet shows you are not interested in verbal fights or arguments, but rather more educated discussion.

