 Garland pose, or malasana in Sanskrit, is a hip-opening pose that resembles bakasana but in an upright position. This asana may make it easier for you to enter crow pose if you are new to yoga or don’t have a lot of arm or wrist strength.Keep you head up and press your elbows and knees against one another. It’s important to not press your elbows against your inner thighs so that you can keep your chest area as open as possible.Don’t collapse your shoulders. Pull your shoulder blades down your back to lift your chest.Keep your gaze straight ahead.;
, From either malasna or uttanasana, place your palms flat on the floor. They should be about a shoulder width apart, or slightly wider. This will help you support your weight while performing bakasana.








Spread your fingers wide. This will provide you with more stability once you are in the pose. If it feels more comfortable, turn your fingertips slightly towards each other.Use a strap to keep your arms in line, if necessary. To use a strap properly for bakasana, make a loop and measure it so that it is approximately the width of your shoulders when flattened., The transition from uttasana or malasana can be tricky. Slowly begin shifting your weight on to your hand and lifting your sitting bones toward the sky to help you enter full bakasana more easily.








If you are in malasana, you’ll want to bend your elbows and move your chest forward while your shift your weight forward., To move into bakasana, bend your elbows slightly, lift up onto your toes and try to position your knees onto your triceps, as high above the elbows as possible. Imagine you are trying to get your knees into your armpits!







, This will give you extra height and make it easier to get your knees into position against your upper arms., One of the most important aspects of mastering bakasana is keeping your gaze forward. If you try to look down at your hands or back at your feet, you may lose your balance.


Try to focus your concentration, or drishti, in front of your hands.</ref>
If your fear of falling is holding you back, try placing a pillow or blanket on the ground in front of you to soften a fall., Shift your weight onto your hands by leaning your knees into your triceps and lifting your feet up off the floor.








Never hop into crow pose (or any yoga pose)! Gently and gradually shift your weight forward until your feet come off the ground.If you are nervous, begin by slowly lifting one foot off the ground, then replace it and lift the other. When you feel strong and balanced, try lifting both feet at the same time.Once both feet are off the floor, try touching your big toes together and tuck your heels as close to your buttocks as you can manage., Once your have achieved crow and can hold it for more than a few seconds, straighten your arms and lift your sitting bones.This will help you master the pose and cycle through a vinyasa if you choose. you can make a few adjustments in order to master the pose.









Straighten your arms as much as possible. They should not be splayed out to the sides.
Round out your spine and draw your abdominal muscles inwards and upwards using mula bandha.Gradually work towards holding this pose for up to a minute. If your wrists start to hurt, make sure that your palms are fully flat to the floor., Once you’ve finished practicing bakasana, you can either lower back to malasana or cycle through a vinyasa if you are more experienced. Remember to only do what asanas you can without losing proper form.








