 Get a planner and write down all of your obligations. Start by blocking out fixed obligations like school and club meetings. Figure out when you will work on each of your assignments and try to leave some time to relax.Try to schedule school work earlier in the day. You will find it progressively harder to concentrate as the day goes on.Schedule some free time every day. Clubs and sports can be a source of stress as much as they are a source of entertainment. You should have some unstructured time to do nothing, should you choose to.
 If you know there is a test coming up, study a little every day. Putting large assignments off to the last second is a recipe for stress. Schedule to have these projects complete several days in advance., It is important to have a place where you can work without distractions. There should be no TV, phones, and the internet should only be used for research. You might need to tell your parents to turn their TVs off too; hearing what you are missing out on in the distance is only going to make it harder to focus on work.


Your work space should also be clean and organized. You can easily lose your work in the clutter. That scenario can cost you a little bit of your time and a lot of your sanity., If you talk to your teacher, he might be able to illuminate what is going wrong in class. It is possible that he could offer you extra credit or even point you in the direction of a tutoring service.
 A good tutor will help you organize your work, schedule your time, better grasp a subject, and progress more efficiently through your assignments. Look online for tutoring services in your area or search for private tutors. If you talk to your counselor or teacher, you might find that your school has some tutors who can work with you.
 When you begin plotting out your schedule, you might find that there isn’t enough time in the day. At that point, you will need to determine what is important and start dropping things. Consider whether your sport or club obligations are distracting you from your school work. If your school work itself is too much, consider dropping some AP or Honor’s classes.Sometimes you can have your cake and eat it too by harnessing the power of summer. Over the summer, you won’t have course requirements. You can use that time for SAT and ACT prep so you don’t need to worry about it during the school year. You can also get involved in sports and other extracurriculars over the summer. You can even take a summer course at a college, so that you can pare down your AP requirements during the school year.