 Whether your business caters to doctors, wine enthusiasts, or local soccer teams, most people don’t log on to Facebook looking to buy something- they log on after a long day at work, beer in hand, to catch up with friends. Dinner’s cooking and the kids are playing tag in the den. Your tweet, ad, or blog post must compete with this ruckus. So keep it short and sweet. Run-on sentences, technical jargon, and bloated expositions have no place in this world. A catchy tweet or Facebook post can be achieved in under ten words.;
, Customer loyalty is created not by viewing ads, but by interacting with a business. A popular Florida restaurant began tweeting diners after the meal, asking how they could improve on the experience; not surprisingly, these customers were far more likely to return. A post as simple as “How’s our new Santa Fe chicken?” provides effective interaction. Just hope the chicken’s good!

, Write your tweets, blogs, and posts as if you were speaking to a client in the office whom you wanted to entertain and impress.
 Your company’s website caters to potential clients searching for your business through industry recommendations or search engines. These clients have the necessary time to read in-depth about your company. Your Facebook site, on the other hand, caters to the guy who just got home from work but saw your post about half-price.
 Social media provides a great outlet for informal, explanatory pieces which help establish your business as an expert in the field. Good examples of customer education are FAQs on a Facebook page or short, informative posts on Blogger about industry news. A successful Maryland medical technology firm distills long congressional bills into one-paragraph chunks on Blogger entitled “How This Actually Affects Your Practice.” Healthcare providers turn to this firm’s site for news- and increasingly, for new products.
 Social media’s people-centered environment lets you put a human face on your company. Many Twitter accounts use first names such as bill@washingtonelectronics, etc. If your company has a story, Facebook is the appropriate place to share it. Because people are the reason that social media sites were created in the first place.
 Using what you’ve already got by reviewing all possible sources such as blogs, photos, videos and anything on your native website as well what you’re sharing on other popular social sites like Pinterest, Tumblr and YouTube. Content is repackage-able. Not all of your fans or followers may have seen it when you posted it originally, so it’s okay to reframe it and re-publish it occasionally.
