 Your doctor may also recommend that you get hand therapy, a special kind of physical therapy that focuses solely on the hands and wrists. You will be required to go to regular sessions and perform a variety of exercises meant to strengthen your hands and reduce your pain.Your hand therapist may also request that you do exercises at home between appointments. If you want your condition to improve, it's very important that you do them as instructed.
 If you need pain relief, but you're not ready for surgery, you can consider seeing a doctor to have injections in your wrists. These normally only provide temporary pain relief.Steroid injections are commonly used to relieve pain from carpal tunnel syndrome.
Botox injections may also help your condition.
 If you're looking for a drug-free way to treat your pain, you may want to look into acupuncture and cupping. Both techniques rely on the theory that the body has multiple pressure points that can be stimulated to reduce pain.Acupuncture involves the use of small needles, while cupping involves placing a series of glass cups on the body's pressure points to create suction.
 For most people, surgery is a last resort, but if carpal tunnel syndrome is interfering with your life and nothing else is working to improve your symptoms, it may be the best option for you. Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of surgery to determine if it is right for you.Carpal tunnel release surgery involved cutting the tissue around the medial nerve in order to release the pressure.
There are two types of carpal tunnel surgery: open release surgery requires a two-inch long incision, while endoscopic release surgery requires two smaller incisions, which may reduce the patient's pain and recovery time.
It can take several months to fully recover from carpal tunnel surgery, although you may experience relief of your symptoms immediately after the procedure.
 Obesity can be related to carpal tunnel syndrome, so a structured weight loss program may improve carpal tunnel symptoms. Make sure that you discuss your options with your physician before making any drastic changes to your diet.