 There are many diseases that can cause an enlarged heart. These include heart valve or heart muscle disease, arrhythmia, weakening of the heart muscle, fluid around your heart, high blood pressure, and pulmonary hypertension. You can also develop an enlarged heart after thyroid disease or chronic anemia. It can also be due to a build up of excess iron or abnormal proteins in your heart.


Other situations have been associated with an enlarged heart. An enlarged heart can be caused by pregnancy, obesity, nutritional deficiencies, stressful life situations, certain infections, the ingestion of certain toxins such as drugs and alcohol, and taking some medications.;
, There are certain individuals who are at risk for an enlarged heart. If you have high blood pressure, blocked arteries, congenital heart disease, valvular disease, or have had a heart attack. You are also at risk if your family has a history of enlarged hearts, since they tend to run in families.


Your blood pressure must be above 140/90 for it to be considered high enough to be a risk factor for an enlarged heart., Although it is not a disease, there are symptoms that some people with an enlarged heart suffer. An irregular heart beat, shortness of breath, dizziness, and coughing are some of the symptoms of an enlarged heart. Your symptoms may also vary, depending on the underlying cause of your enlarged heart.


You should see your doctor immediately if you have chest pain, shortness of breath, or fainting spells., There are multiple complications that can arise from an enlarged heart. You can be more susceptible to blood clots and cardiac arrest. You may also have persistent heart murmurers, which are due to friction during the flow of blood and disrupt the rhythm of your heart. If it is left untreated, an enlarged heart can also lead to sudden death.


If you have an enlarged left ventricle, which is considered a severe case of an enlarged heart, you are at risk for heart failure., There are multiple ways that your doctor can diagnose your enlarged heart. The first step is typically an x-ray, where your doctor will look at the size of your heart. He may also perform an echocardiogram or an electrocardiogram if the x-ray is not conclusive. He may also perform a heart stress test, a CT scan, or an MRI.


He will then run tests to figure out the underlying cause of your enlarged heart, which will help him come up with the best way to treat it.