 In some situations, self-motivated CBT may work better for you than therapist, session driven CBT. This method is typically more affordable, may be more available, and be easier to schedule. In some studies, it has been shown that the benefits last longer because the methods are done on your own to begin with.With this type of CBT, you will have three to four in person sessions over a 12 to 20 week period. These sessions help you get the benefit of a trained therapist but makes it easier on you. You will receive materials that help lead you through your self-motivated sessions., During the first few self-motivated sessions, you will learn about your IBS. Your therapist will help you learn more about how IBS works and how your body responds to certain situations, causing the symptoms. For follow self-session, you will track your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors related to your IBS. You will look for stress that may cause your IBS and sketch of how your IBS related to stress.


During this week, you need to keep a diary of your IBS symptoms, including the severity, stress reactions, and manifestation, as well as your eating habits. Also track your IBS flare ups., Over the next few self sessions, you will analyze your symptoms to identify common triggers. These may be stress related or food related. You will learn to incorporate exercise to help with your symptoms and become more aware of your triggers and situations that cause them.


You will also learn about other natural ways to help with symptoms, such as increased everyday activity and food control. If you identify food related triggers, you need to change these eating habits., The next few sessions focus on changing your thought patterns in relation to you IBS, especially now that you know your stress triggers. You will need to identify these situations and change your perception of them. You will keep a daily thought record so you can keep track of negative thought patterns and come up with realistic alternative thought patterns.You will then use your log of your stress and IBS related negative thoughts to change these thoughts. Identify these thoughts and reframe them in a positive light, such as "I do not need to be anxious about going out with my friends tonight. I am in control of my IBS and my friends care about me." or "Going to work should not make me anxious. I am a good worker and am valued by my coworkers. My IBS does not change my ability to do my job well."

, The last few weeks of your self-motivated IBS focuses on how to manage symptoms of IBS and dealing with your stress in the long term. You will learn about relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation targeted to the abdomen and deep breathing exercises.


You are also taught how to take care of your overall health, such as improving your sleep patterns and continuing to process your emotions in a positive manner.
You will also discuss how to maintain self-treatment of flare ups over the long term, which will vary depending on your personal triggers.You will also be asked to maintain regular exercise. Exercise and activity are an important component of CBT.
You will learn how to modify “unhelpful thoughts” and change them to more constructive alternative ones.

