 Any college coaching job is going to require a Bachelor’s degree at minimum. Many coaches have degrees in P.E. or Leisure Studies. Within the structure of college sports, the top-tier sports schools are probably only going to require a B.A., but with lots of coaching and playing experience. The lower-tier schools are going to require more education -- typically at least a Master’s degree, sometimes even a Ph.D. -- because you will be asked to teach college-level courses in addition to coaching. At the top level, you will just be coaching, so the educational requirements are less, but the other parts of your resume are more important., To be a top college coach, you need to have experience as a player and as a coach. It would be best if you had college playing experience, which shows that you were competitive on a high level. To get experience coaching, you might have to start out volunteering (as was the case with middle and high school). If becoming a college coach is your goal, start working on your coaching skills early -- volunteer to coach elementary school children while in high school or college, work as an assistant to a high school coach while in college, etc. Many coaches also volunteer at their own program after they have graduated so that they can gain experience at the college level., A big part of getting a job as a college coach is who you know. Go to camps, introduce yourself to people, reach out to people you want to know on email -- create your own network. People are going to be more likely to hire someone they know and have seen over the years than someone who is unknown to them. You need to promote yourself, but in a way that doesn’t come off as obnoxious. Show that you really know your stuff, and make sure people know. Each sport has a governing body that hosts events around the country, including games, clinics, camps, and conventions. Make sure that you are a member of your sports organization and plan to attend a few national or regional events a year to meet people.Introduce yourself to people you admire. Tell them how much you like their work -- you might want to use a specific example: “I have been a fan of yours for years. The way your team came back from half time in that qualifying match in 2005 was nothing short of amazing!”
Get groups together for meals. Sometimes the best interactions at a conference or clinic come over meals. Invite people that you know and people you meet there to join you for lunch or dinner to have more in-depth conversations and help them network as well. It’s going to be for everyone’s benefit.
Make your information readily available to those you meet -- you might want to have business cards, or become part of an online business network.
 Getting a job as a college coach is incredibly competitive. It might be years and years before you’re actually hired, so be ready for a long-term job hunt. Make sure that you are coaching (even if in a volunteer capacity) at the college level while you work at a non-coaching job and search for coaching work. Keep coaching, applying, and networking, and eventually you’ll find a job.

