 Although airline programs are generally for those 11 or younger, some airlines might offer services to older children. You should call the airline and ask.American Airlines, for example, makes its unaccompanied minor service available for all children ages five to 17., When a child travels alone, he or she has to handle all of the routine hassles that crop up when adults travel: lost baggage, delayed flights, and cancellations. You will want to make sure your child knows how to handle each situation.


You could sit down with your child and talk about what they should do in each situation.
You can also write out a list of phone numbers. For example, you can give your child the phone number for reporting lost baggage, as well as the phone number to call in order to schedule another flight. You can find these numbers on the airline’s website.
Of course, you should also give your child your phone number and tell him or her to call you if anything goes wrong.
 Many teens today have phones and are more comfortable using them than their parents are. However, if your child doesn’t have a cell phone, then you might want to give him or her one for travel. If the child has problems, they can call you.


If you don’t have a cell phone to give your child, then give him or her some quarters to use in a pay phone., Children under 18 do not need a photo ID to travel domestically. However, it could be helpful if your child has an ID on them, especially if they are not travelling using the airline’s unaccompanied minor service.


Ideally, you should have an ID that does not show your child’s address. Passports, for example, are an ideal form of identification because they do not show a child’s home address., Generally, the airline will treat an older child just like any other passenger. If your child isn’t traveling under the unaccompanied minor program, then he or she will be responsible for scheduling a new flight and finding lodging, if necessary.However, some airlines might help your child book a flight. If a flight is cancelled and your child has to stay overnight, the airline might help your child get a room to stay in. It is up to the airline about whether they want to help your child.
If the airline won’t help, then your child might be released into police custody.

