 Modern motherboards can refuse to use Windows 98. In which case you may have to virtualize it. Hard disks are limited to 128 GB for IDE drives and 1000 GB for SATA drives; memory is limited to between 512MB to 1GB. Most newer peripherals may not be compatible with Windows 98 either.
 For best results, boot the installer by restarting the computer from the hard disk. You may also need the Windows 98 boot disk if your computer doesn't support booting directly from the CD/DVD drive.


If you haven't done so already, pick up a copy of the Windows 98 Second Edition setup disc. They usually sell on eBay for between $5 to $20 USD. It's strongly recommended that you use the second edition (98SE) as most updates rely on it than the original Windows 98.
If you don't want Internet Explorer on your system and/or want to make some Windows components optional, also pick up a copy of 98Liteand run its installer instead.
 Windows may install basic drivers such as a 640x480 pixel, 16 color display and keyboard/mouse drivers in order for the OS to boot. It's best to have all your updated drivers ready in an offline disk, but make sure the drivers for your network card or modem are available. You will need Internet access to download drivers you don't have.
 If you already have an Internet Provider, the easiest way to get online is to use the Internet Connection Wizard.

Click Start to open the start menu, select "Settings" then "Control Panel"






Once in the control panel, open "Internet Options".






Click the "connections" tab and then the "setup" button on top






Follow the directions in the wizard that opens.
 Internet Explorer 5 is very outdated and will not load most modern websites. The latest web browser to work on a regular copy of Windows 98 is Opera 10.63,released on October 20, 2010. It should be able to decently load most web pages. If you have KernelEx installed, you can use Opera 12.02 in Windows 2000 mode.,,, RP9 also enables cleartype and other window effects that were available for Windows XP. Internet Explorer 6 may be required for it to properly function.
 Sites like oldapps.com and oldversion.com offer older compatible versions of popular programs for download. Consider KernelEx for a better chance of software designed for newer versions of Windows to run on Windows 98.

