 This card comes with customized reporting options. You can limit the use of the card by merchant, day, time, or site. You can also add controls that ensure that your employees comply with your policies. For example, you can limit the card to be used for pay at the pump purchases.


This card is eligible for the Shell Fuel Rewards loyalty program and the Jiffy Lube discount for maintenance services.
The features of the card can be managed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by phone or online.
If you want more information on this card you can call 1-888-212-8916 or fill out an information form on the Shell website., This card has no monthly fee, annual fee, or card fee. You can earn up to 6 cents per gallon based on the amount of fuel purchased during each billing cycle (maximum rebate is $300 per billing cycle). This card allows you to generate reports to monitor your fuel purchases. Available reports include driver reports, vehicle reports, expense summary by business unit reports, expense summary by month or year reports, product purchase summary reports, service station activity reports, statement.discount reports.You can control which station your drives can purchase gas and if fuel and/or oil can be purchased. You can also limit purchase by time, day, or vehicle.
If you purchase 0 to 299.99 gallons of gas, you will receive a 0 cents rebate on your next billing cycle.
If you purchase 300 to 3,499.99 gallons of gas, you will receive a 3 cents per gallon rebate on your next billing cycle.
If you purchase 3,500 to 7,999.99 gallons of gas, you will receive a 4 cents per gallon rebate on your next billing cycle.
If you purchase 8,000 to 9,999.00 gallons of gas, you will receive a 5 cents per gallon rebate on your next billing cycle.
If you purchase 10,000 gallons of gas or more, you will receive a 6 cents per gallon rebate.
 This card has no annual, monthly, or card fee, and you can pay your balance in full or only the minimum payment. You can monitor and download your transactions online, manage your account online 24/7, and receive statements that group transactions by card ID.This card offers no rebates and is best for neighborhood and local businesses.

