 When we can't recognize social cues, it makes conversations pretty difficult to navigate through. Even if you feel you have a pretty good grasp on people, there are always times when a thought like, "Man, I wish I knew what they were thinking," crops up.


Being able to read people like the back of your hand is about as close to reading minds as we feeble humans will ever get. Think Sherlock Holmes or Simon Baker. Useful stuff!;
, The fact of the matter is that if you're a good enough listener, people won't even realize you're not really making conversation. They'll be so wrapped up in their stories and how great they feel because they're getting all the attention they won't even notice how they're dominating the conversation. That and people who stink at listening are terrible to talk to.
 Though being able to read people and listening can get you 99% of the way, why not read the article for that last 1%? Great conversations are hard to come by, but if you know your way around one like a ninja, they won't be so few and far between.
 When you're shy, working your way through social situations can be super daunting. It's not necessarily a lack of confidence, but a lack of comfort. And when people don't really understand, shyness can easily be mistaken for aloofness or for being cold. Not so! If this resonates with you, read up on being more outgoing.


Or maybe you want to be more introverted. Whatever it is, wikiHow's got your back.
 Now there's a quality that can come in handy in pretty much every scenario ever. Making people laugh can turn any situation from awkward or mediocre to memorable and fun. Wit is definitely something you can cultivate. Why not start now?

, Alright, so now you're funny, outgoing, a good conversationalist, and can read people -- but what if you have nothing to talk about? Hmm. There's a problem. Luckily wikiHow has a plethora of articles you can bring up that anybody's bound to have a response to. Here are just a few:


How to Know if You Are Drunk
How to Pierce Your Own Penis
How to Regain Control of a Spooked Camel
How to Get over Your Fear of Slenderman
How to Live on the Street

, That's a tough one, especially if everything seems to be going wrong. But that's when it's the most necessary. And at the end of the day only we have control over our thoughts. So why do we think the bad stuff anyway?


Thinking positively can change your outlook on everything. It's really the first step to change, regardless of how you're trying to improve. If nothing else, take a look at the article to see if you already do the tips it suggest!

, You know what's even better than being cool and awesome and knowing how to do everything? Being yourself. It's only when you're you that you know that people actually like you and that you can be happy doing your own thing. And how many of us are our true selves? Not many.
 Kinda the kicker -- once you are yourself, you gotta love yourself, too. No use being you if you can't stand it, you know? If you thought being yourself sounded like a challenge, try this one on for size!


Curious how loving yourself will improve your personality? You'll be less stressed, feel less pressure to conform, be more comfortable in more situations, and maybe even realize that your personality doesn't need improving.
 Okay, so being yourself and loving yourself are all well and good and the content might be useful, but it's time for real talk: Loving yourself is not something a how-to manual can really resolve. So if you're not looking for abstract ways that will leave you wondering, "...Do I love myself?" try for something more tangible, like admitting mistakes. It takes a pretty great person with a pretty great personality to do that.


You know another big one? Apologizing. Not the funnest stuff, but definitely some of the rarest.
 wikiHow has them all. If you want to be something, wikiHow can probably tell you how to do it. And if you don't find it -- well, get to writing! Here's a few to wet your whistle:


How to Be Smart
How to Be Quiet
How to Be Humble
How to Be Intelligent
How to Be Bold
How to Be Cool
How to Be Dark

, Just like those Lumosity commercials say, if you don't use your brain, you'll lose it. So expand your horizons! Research a new game that you can play with your friends. Truth or Dare and Circle of Death just aren't appealing after years and years, you know? Here are a few ideas to start you off:


How to Make Your Own Mancala Board
How to Play "Flame"
How to Play 21 Dares
How to Play Chopsticks With Your Friends
How to Play Marbles
How to Play Go
How to Play the Wiki Game
How to Play Golf (Card Game)

, Sure, sure, basketball, football, and volleyball are definitely great, but sometimes you need to spice things up. Be the one in your group who suggests something different for once or who actually knows how to play cricket. The more skills you have, the better! Here's something to get your wheels churning:


How to Play Cricket
How to Dominate at Thumb Wars
How to Play Handball
How to Ride a Caster Board
How to Take Up Archery

, If we only had the hobbies our parents showed us or forced us to do, we'd all be boy scout ballerinas for the rest of our lives. Forge your own path and find a new hobby. What's more interesting, a boy scout ballerina or a boy scout ballerina who builds battleships for fun? That's right. This should get you started:


How to Take Better Photographs
How to Paint
How to Crochet
How to Draw
How to Parkour

, Working out gets so boring when you do the same thing day in and day out. Though you may say this doesn't improve your personality, switching it up can rejuvenate you, give you more energy, and thus give your personality the boost it was looking for. Not to mention we all feel better when we're feeling more fit. If you only work one muscle group, you're not tapping into your full potential. Try these on for size:


How to Run
How to Swim to Stay Fit
How to Be Prepared for a Hike
How to Do Yoga
How to Decide if P90X or Insanity Is Better for You

