 We live in a world with endless opportunity for stimulation and distraction. From TV to blogs to instant messaging, not to mention friends, family and pets, it is so easy to spend just a minute on this and a minute on that and find the whole day lost. Don't let that happen! Keep your eyes on the prize by removing as many distractions and opportunities for distraction as possible.


Close your email and social media sites. Turn off any notifications that will interrupt your work. If you must, budget a few minutes into your day to check your inbox and updates for anything important, but having them open while you work is sure to lower your productivity.
Use browser extensions to block time-wasting websites. The Internet if full of interesting pictures, .gifs, videos and articles that will eat away at your day if you aren't mindful. Install a browser extension like StayFocusd, Leechblock or Nanny that will limit your time on distracting websites or keep you from checking them for certain periods during the day. Do whatever you can to put the temptation to check the news, browse your favorite blogs or watch cat videos out of reach.Turn off your phone. Don't answer calls, don't check text messages, nothing. Don't keep it near you. If it is important, whoever is calling will leave a message. If you are worried about emergencies, set aside one minute to check your phone every hour.
Tell friends and family not to interrupt you. Keep your pets out of the room if they are going to be a problem.
Use background noise to block out annoying noises and distractions. Constant background noise such as white, pink or brown noise but also natural noises such as the sound of rain or a river can help you to stay focused and boost your productivity. Use tools like Noisli

Turn off the TV or radio. Depending on you and the nature of your task, a little background noise might by fine—especially music without lyrics—but any kind of media on around you will usually lower your productivity if your task requires mental focus.
 It's a common misconception that multitasking can make you more productive. The truth is we can only really do one thing at a time, and when we try to multitask we are just switching back and forth between different projects. Every time you make that switch, you lose time and focus. To be truly productive, pick one task and work on it until completion, then move on to something else., Yes, cleaning up all the time takes time and effort, but a big mess can be distracting and you may end up losing more productivity than you saved. Keep your desk, house or workspace neat and organized, without clutter and with a minimum of loose objects to catch your eye.

