 Many people, including myself, prefer to use a computer, but notebooks and folders work great as well!;
, You will refer back to this page very often. Include very detailed descriptions and anything that inspired you.
 This will help you determine the genre of your story. Don't feel like you must be restricted to one genre. If you have an idea for a Sci-fi story with Fantasy elements, by all means DO IT!

, The purpose of pre-writing is to organize all your ideas BEFORE you write.
 Theme is almost like a moral to your story. It's the message you want to convey to your reader.
 This is especially useful if your characters will be traveling. If the story takes place in the real-world, use a map of the area when writing your story. If the land is made-up, create your own map of the area. It does not need to be very detailed, but it must include information you will need for the story.
 Some people argue that setting is the least important part of a story, but the truth is, setting MAKES your story. For example, take this scenario: A teenage girl embarks on a quest to search for her parents, who mysteriously vanished several years earlier. Now imagine this story taking place in Medieval times. How would that story differ from a story taking place 1,000 years from now? See my point? Research the culture, customs, geography, EVERYTHING about where and when your story takes place. If you are creating the setting, pay special attention to these things. How will they affect the characters? How will they affect the plot?

, Create a page about each one so that you can refer to it later on. Include information such as their name, physical appearance, favorites, motivations, fears, goals, and a short bio about them. If you can, include a picture of them. You can draw a picture, clip one from a magazine, or make one of your lame friends dress up as your character.
 Write all the events you have thought of so far in order.
 Conflict creates plot. Remember not all conflicts are between characters. Conflict can be character vs. environment, character vs. society, or even character vs. self. Knowing your character's motivations and goals can help you figure out what kind of conflicts will arise during your story.
, Now is time to Brainstorm!!! This is the fun (and challenging) part!!!

, Think about people you know. Would your boss make the perfect antagonist? Write down all the traits of theirs. Some might include being shy, controlling, moody, whatever! Now repeat this with other people you know. You should end up with a long list. Mix and Match these traits, and you should come up with some good ideas for characters. One important note: STAY AWAY FROM STEREOTYPES!!! Everyone has heard of the nosy next door neighbor, the boss whose only goal in life is to make your life pure misery. If your character shows any signs of being a stereotype, add some traits that make them unique, and make sure your readers are aware of these traits.
 This should give you ideas regarding conflict and plot.
 You should now begin to see your story unfold.
 Do you need to create another antagonist? Does your plot need work? Should you research your setting? Write a To-Do list for your story, and try to accomplish at least one thing a day, depending on how large the task is.
 How can you show that theme throughout your story? DO NOT COPY OTHER STORIES. It is fine to have the same theme, but do not use the same scene or plot to prove it. Not only is this annoying for readers, it is ILLEGAL. Make sure your story is not a reincarnation of another story.
 Are you happy with the result so far? If you read your story back then, would you have enjoyed it? What would you have changed? Now is your chance to edit your story.
 Use your timeline as a guide. By now you should be able to play your story in your head like it was a movie.
 You can finally write your story! I recommend writing it on a computer just because it is so much easier to correct mistakes. However, when you write your rough draft, turn off the spelling and grammar check. These will probably distract you from writing your thoughts down. When you finish your rough draft, let it sit for several days before you begin editing. Give a copy to someone good at editing, but also make sure they won't want to steal your story. Be sure to get their opinion and accept feedback. Not all of it will be positive, which is why it helps to have several critique your work, that way you can hear several opinions about your novel.
 Now I use the term "final" very loosely, because chances are, you will write hundreds of drafts before you come up with one you like. Remember, always do your best when writing a story. Write like nobody is reading!!! (Okay, even I admit that phrase is rather lame)

