 And just like you do not know what you want sometimes, they don't either. Thus, women are not "all knowing beings". In addition, all women are different. Just like all men are different. Only with time and effort you will be able to better understand women.;
, Use both your ears and all other senses and pay attention to a woman. She might tell things to you in words or by body language. You will need to understand what her words mean and also how she expresses herself.
 They might not always give you a fair answer but you can always try. Women are very sensitive so be comforting and sweet, they don't want a huge jerk of a boyfriend.
 This is one of the most important things if you want to know what women want. Because, when a woman feels comfortable with you, she will be more likely to open up and dare to speak her mind. You are less likely to hear the truth from a woman who does not feel safe with you.
 Also, avoid the urge to look around. When you do, it makes her feel like insecure and like you are looking for someone else. Make sure you lean in when talking to her and pay attention to what she is saying. If you are in a loud place, use this as an opportunity to lean in.
 Everyone likes to be complimented every once in a while. If this is not something you are used to doing, start by saying something about her outfit or her hair. As you become more comfortable, you can complement her features. Women love to hear that they have beautiful eyes, kissable lips, soft hair, and a nice figure.
 Women want a man who is presentable and looks good. This means nicely combed hair, a well-kept mustache or beard, and free from acne. A woman wants a man who she is proud to introduce to her girlfriends and family. She wants a man whose arm she is proud to hold onto during social events. This does not mean wearing designer clothing, but it does mean dressing nicely. No holes, stains, or dirt marks allowed.
 There is nothing sexier than a man who knows what he wants and isn’t afraid to go for it. When a man has goals, it shows that he has a life outside of the relationship. This is a good thing. Women do not want to feel like a man's life revolves around her. It can feel smothering and be stressful. When a man has goals, it shows ambition, strength, and determination.  It shows a woman that he is a good man that has life by the horns.
 A man who remembers little things is the man who remembers birthdays, anniversaries, important holidays, or the day you met each other. It also doesn’t hurt if you remember she’s allergic to chocolate or peanuts. Really, the important thing here is to show her that you care enough to remember.

