 Many children occasionally have trouble falling asleep or staying asleep. However, a child who routinely lies awake 20 or more minutes each night, or who wakes up many times in the night, may have a sleep disorderInfants who have passed the age of night feeding (6+ months) and still cannot sleep 11 hours at night may be showing early signs of a sleep disorder.
Toddlers 1-2 years of age need 11-14 hours of sleep each 24 hours. This is an age known for nighttime awakenings, sleep resistance, and nightmares. If your child is sleepy or misbehaves during the day, they may have a sleep disorder.
Children aged 3-5 should sleep 11-13 hours in a 24 hour period, with naps completely tapered off by age 5. Difficulty falling and staying asleep is common at this age, and this is a peak moment for night terrors, sleepwalking, and nightmares.
Children aged 6-13 need 9-11 hours of sleep. Screen time and school stress can cause sleep disorders, leading to moodiness, attention disorders, school issues, and misbehavior. If your child shows signs of mood disorders or ADHD like symptoms, be sure to check for a sleep disorder.
 Sleep disorders that manifest in sleepiness for adults often manifest as hyperactivity and inattentiveness in children. While ADHD can cause disordered sleep, a sleep disorder may be misdiagnosed as ADHD.If your child is disciplined in school for "not paying attention," gets bad grades on class participation, and reports trouble concentrating, they may be suffering from a sleep disorder.
 Sleep disorders such as restless leg syndrome are strongly associated with depression and anxiety disorders.If your child is moody, and shows other symptoms of sleep deprivation, such as inattention, daytime sleepiness, or hyperactivity, consider that the root cause may be disordered sleep.
 All children have occasional nightmares and night terrors. However, if they occur regularly or disrupt your and your child's sleep, they may be considered a sleep disorder. They may also be a sign of injury, illness, or another serious sleep disorder such as sleepwalking or pediatric obstructive sleep apnea.


Take your child to the doctor if your child has frequent nightmares or night terrors that persist over time, if your child is afraid of sleeping, or if your child shows moodiness, exhaustion, and other signs of sleep deprivation.
Night terrors are distinct from nightmares in that children who suffer them tend not to remember them at all during the day.
Night terrors may lead to dangerous behavior or injury in children, who may leave bed and run around the house., Loud snoring in small children is a common sign of a serious condition called pediatric obstructive sleep apnea, a serious breathing disorder that can affect every facet of your child's wellbeing. Enlarged tonsils and adenoids are the most common sign of this condition.Shine a flashlight down your child's throat and ask them to say "ah."
Occasional snoring is not necessarily a sign of a sleep disorder. Loud snoring that takes place several nights a week, however, should not be ignored., Bedwetting is not considered unusual in the first years of a child's life. If bedwetting persists beyond age 6 or 7, consult a doctor. If your child wets the bed after sleeping "dry" for months or years, there may be something wrong. Stress can cause a child to regress, as can constipation or urinary tract obstruction., Disorders such as narcolepsy and pediatric obstructive sleep apnea may manifest as childhood obesity. Parents aren't always able to recognize the obesity of their own children, so be sure to weigh and measure your child regularly and ask your doctor about your child's Body Mass Index (BMI).Calculate your child's BMI with a BMI calculator: https://nccd.cdc.gov/dnpabmi/calculator.aspx

If your child is obese and shows other signs of sleep deprivation, consider having them checked for a sleep disorder.
 Almost ¾ of children who report headaches are suffering from a sleep disorder.If your child suffers headaches, discuss possible vision and sleep issues with the pediatrician.

