 Pump or hose replacements and fluid exchange (no flush) can be performed at home if budget restraints prevent a full overhaul. A vehicle-specific repair manual should be consulted prior to repairs in order to verify that the service procedures do not require special tools or equipment.


The manual will also give you some idea of the time it will take to make this repair.
 Each power steering system is unique, and component locations vary. Depending on engine configuration, some vehicles require a service facility with certified technicians. High pressure (HP) hoses that leak should be repaired with the engine off, vehicle raised and fluid drained.


If home service is possible, a vehicle-specific repair manual is necessary to understand specifics. A service manual identifies the following important information: pressure relief procedure, specific fluid type used, special tools needed, draining and refilling precautions, air purge instructions, and information on safety precautions and disposal.
Pipe fittings are constructed of soft metal or brass and use compression fittings which have a locking effect when tightened at the factory. Leaks caused by loose fittings are rare, due to their nature. Using a pair of line wrenches to tighten fittings (procedure described in the next Step) will temporarily slow or stop most leaks.
 When the faulty hose is identified, lift your vehicle and place a drain pan under the hose end. Disconnect the fitting that covers the hole where the hose drains, using two line wrenches. To do this:


Prevent the rack or gear box receiving nut from moving with one wrench and loosen the hose nut with the other. Fluid will drain out once the fitting is removed. Allow the fluid to drain completely into an appropriate container for proper disposal. Once all the fluid is drained, remove the opposite hose fitting and remove the hose.
 Attach the new hose to the fitting from which you removed the old hose. Once the hose is in place, tighten the fittings firmly, using the two line wrenches.


When the hose is fully installed, lower the car and add new hydraulic fluid to the power steering reservoir.
 Fluid needs to fill the system and bleed out any air bubbles. Bleeding is accomplished by starting the engine and turning the steering wheel from lock to lock (far left to far right). Recheck the fluid level and add more fluid until it reaches the fill line on the dipstick.


The purging procedure will normally take a few attempts in order to purge all air from the system. When air is completely purged, test drive the vehicle and recheck for leaks. Also recheck the fluid level.
 Leaky steering racks and gearboxes not under warranty should be repaired by a certified technician. Modern pumps can be repaired with a seal kit and require prior knowledge of hydraulic and mechanical gear operations. Rebuilding with a seal kit is a job for experienced technicians. Pump replacement is usually the preferred method if you're going to do it yourself. Since most power steering pumps and racks or gear boxes are located under the vehicle and require many special tools to service, home repair is not recommended.


An industrial lift, a flush/evacuate machine, pullers, presses and approved fluid disposal are needed to make repairs to pumps, steering racks and gearboxes. High pressure hoses that are leaking must be replaced.
 Every component should be serviced all at the same time in order to save money on near-future repair costs. The entire system is under extreme pressure and leaks are not only inevitable but difficult to service. Complete service in one session is highly recommended, because it can get expensive if you have to tear into the system several times to service or replace various components separately.

