 If you had CAD but your blockages were not sufficient to require intervention, you may simply receive suggestions for avoiding further episodes. You may have undergone intervention with angioplasty with blockages less than 70% or you could have had surgery to replace some of the arteries to your heart. In either of these cases, follow your doctor's recommendations about recovery. Make sure to avoid stress and focus on relaxation when trying to physically recover from a heart attack.
 There is significant research that we can lower the risk of heart attack with aggressive cholesterol management.This can be accomplished with medication and lifestyle changes, such as a adopting a healthy diet., Blood pressure is a primary risk factor for CAD. In patients with known CAD, a drop in Systolic Blood Pressure (the top number) of just 10 mm/.Hg decreased cardiovascular events by a full 50 percent.There are several classes of drugs, from beta blockers to ace inhibitors, that can help patients lower their blood pressure.
Contact your medical provider for suggestions, and a prescription, for a blood pressure medication.
 It is very important to lower your risk of having another heart attack. While this can be helped with medication, it is also your responsibility to make changes to your lifestyle that will lower that risk. Some important changes you can make include:


Adopt a low-sodium diet: Adopt a low-sodium diet. This means that your should be eating less than 2 grams of sodium per day.
Focus on stress reduction: Some people relax via meditation, a supervised exercise program, and others use hobbies, such as reading or yoga. Music therapy is another suggestion.
Lose weight: Get your BMI below 30 via healthy and balanced diet. Consult with a nutritionist or dietician to create a diet that will work well for you. However, with any suspected CAD get your healthcare provider permission prior to starting any exercise program, as exercise may precipitate a heart attack
Stop smoking: This is the single most important thing you can do. Cigarette Smoking contributes heavily to coronary plaques and atherosclerosis. It increases your risk of heart attack by between 25 and 45% according to the Framingham Heart Study for primary and secondary prevention, respectively.

