 The most straightforward way to sell advertising space on your car is to sign up with one of the specialist companies that act as go-betweens for businesses and drivers. To do this, you will first need to ensure that you meet the essential criteria required by the company. The conditions may vary somewhat, but in general you should:


Have a clean driving license.
Own your own car.
Have full and active auto insurance.
Be an active driver who makes frequent journeys.Note that companies often prefer drivers who are in high-traffic urban areas.;
, If you are confident that you meet the eligibility criteria, it’s time to look for some companies that can help you get paid for advertising on your car. Start by searching online for car wrap advertising and advertising on your car. There are a number of national companies, which will provide you with more information about what they do on their websites., Before you sign up, it’s sensible to research the going rates for vehicle advertising. The rates you are offered will not necessarily be negotiable, but it’s a good idea to have a clear picture of what you can expect before you progress too far with the application.


The rates will depend on your location and the visibility of the ads, but you can expect about $300 to $600 per month.The amount you get will depend on the size of the wrap.A truck or trailer can bring in much more money in advertising revenue.
The company that wants to advertise on your car may require you to install a GPS system on your vehicle to make sure they are getting the expected exposure.
 Once you have found one or more companies, you can simply sign up through their website. You need to provide some personal details, and information about your car and your driving habits. After you have completed the form, you should will be contacted by the company who will tell you whether or not they are interested in advertising on your car.


It is free to sign up for most of these companies, but make sure you understand the terms and conditions.
There are potential scams out there, so pay close attention to the website and be confident before you sign up for anything. Some companies will charge you to become a member of their scheme.
Look at forums and online reviews to check the companies.
 When you have signed up, it is a matter of waiting until you are selected or made an offer to apply an advertising wrap or decal to your car. Signing up to more than one company may shorten the amount of time you have to wait before you get an offer.
 Once you are selected, you will be presented with a formal contract. The document should provide the details of the arrangement, including the distance you will drive daily or monthly, and where you will park the car. Make sure you know what kind of ad you will be obligated to put on your car before you sign


Car ads can be anything from a window sticker to a full-car wrap. The rates you earn will vary, but you should ask to see some pictures before you agree.
If you think you will not be comfortable having your entire car covered in a wrap, speak up before it is installed.
 In most instances the company will install the wrap on your car themselves. You will take your car to a designated space, where the advert will be stuck onto your car. How long this takes will depend on how large the advert is.


If you opt for a small ad, such as an ad that only goes over the back window, you may be required to install this yourself.
If this is the case you will be given full instructions on how to do it., Now the wrap has been applied, your job is just to drive as normal and as per the agreement you have made with the company. You will likely have a GPS installed to monitor your driving to ensure that you are driving the required amount and in the required areas. As long as you were honest in your application, this shouldn’t be a problem.


Fulfill your obligations and after a month, or however long your contract is for, return the car and have the advert removed.
If you have an accident, or the advert gets damaged in any way, contact the company immediately so they can replace it if necessary.