 Set small goals for yourself that you can obtain within a week of exercise, and reward yourself for achieving that goal. If you're just starting out, you may even want to reward yourself just for showing up.For example, you may enjoy flavored lattes at your local café. Tell yourself that you can only get a flavored latte if you exercise that day. Find something that will motivate you, and keep in mind that you may have to change up your rewards from time to time as they start to lose their motivational pull.
Try not to reward yourself with food or drinks, especially if you're exercising to try to lose weight. Think of other small things you enjoy, such as buying a book or a new T-shirt, or going to a movie. Take a long candlelit bath, go to a sports event or treat yourself to a movie you want to see.
 What you wear when you exercise can make your workout more enjoyable, particularly if you choose clothing that you like and that makes you feel comfortable and confident.If you're exercising in old, baggy sweats, your workout attire probably isn't doing anything to motivate you. While you don't have to spend a fortune on an entirely new exercise wardrobe, buying a few pieces can help entice you to work out – if only to wear that cool new outfit.
Choose items of clothing that make you feel good about your body, and that are flattering. If you feel good when you put on your exercise gear, that good feeling will persist as you work out.
 People who care about you can serve as great motivators to help you meet your goals. Pairing exercise with social time can help make your workout more enjoyable because you'll look forward to spending time with your friend or loved one.Planning a regular workout with a friend or family member also makes you accountable to someone other than yourself. You'll be less likely to skip an exercise session because you don't want to let that person down.
You also might find an activity that you want to learn, then do it with a friend who has experience in that activity and can coach you and motivate you. That way you get to learn a new skill while also spending time with your loved ones.
 Exercise causes your body to release endorphins, feel-good chemicals that will give you a natural high. If you're working hard enough, those endorphins will both make you enjoy your exercise and give you something to look forward to with each session.If you're not getting this natural high after exercising, that may mean that you're not pushing your body hard enough to release those endorphins.
Once you get to the point where you're getting that natural high, the exercise itself becomes its own motivation, because you'll want to feel that rush of endorphins again.
Keep in mind that over time you'll gradually have to up the intensity of your workouts to continue feeling the endorphins kick in.

