 Does your dog get nervous every time you put him in the car? Does he know it’s grooming time when you take out the brush or shampoo? Does he bark when the groomer shows up at your door? To change your dog’s response to grooming, you’ll need to know what triggers the anxiety., Calming aids are pills or medications that help reduce a dog's anxiety temporarily. They can generally be purchased over-the-counter at a pet store. One good calming aid is melatonin, which is a natural calming aid that works for dogs.Do this at a time when you don’t actually plan to groom your dog.
You want your dog to be conscious, but in a relaxed state. Avoid heavy sedatives, such as anesthesia provided by your vet.
Teaching your dog to enjoy being groomed is going to take weeks or months, so be prepared to be patient. Begin this process well before you plan to actually groom the dog.
 If the sight of the brush makes your dog anxious, take the brush out from the cabinet so she can see it. Make sure she sees it, then put it back in the cabinet. If the car makes her nervous, bring her to the car but don’t drive anywhere.If the sight of the groomer is what scares your dog, it may not be possible to practice this technique, since you’ll need to repeatedly expose your dog to the trigger for short periods.
 This will help create positive associations with grooming. You can also pet your dog and give him praise for acknowledging the trigger object.If your dog runs away or barks at the trigger object, don’t give treats. This sends the message that running away is a positive thing.
 She will begin to see that the trigger object is not necessarily threatening. She will also associate the trigger object with food, which is a positive thing for dogs.Your dog may seem sheepish about approaching his food bowl at first. Don’t worry. She will eventually be hungry and curious enough that she will eat.
Repeat this step for several days.
 Once your dog has gotten used to seeing the object near his food, try using it on your dog. Don’t attempt a complete grooming, though. For example, run the brush over your dog’s coat once. Turn the clippers on and bring them near your dog’s coat for a few seconds.If the car is what triggers your dog, you can take him for a short ride. You can drive to the groomer’s and give him a treat. Then simply turn around and go home.
 After you’ve used the trigger object for short moments, increase the duration. You can brush your dog for a minute or two. Try clipping part of her coat, or putting her completely in the bathtub.If your dog begins to get anxious at any step, simply reassure her and stop for the day. Try again tomorrow, and give her a treat at the beginning of the process.
You can now increase the amount of grooming until you can fully groom your dog without incident.

