 Whether you live together or not, spending time apart is necessary for maintaining your independence within any relationship.If you can’t stand to be away from each other for a few days, you are probably too dependent on each other for your own happiness and feelings of self-worth. Remind yourself that you are a valuable person and you don't need someone else to give your life meaning.Try saying something like, "I am a valuable person and having alone time is healthy for me."
Being apart gives you a chance to miss your partner, and that reminds you how important they are to you. If you are never apart, you might start taking the little things that you love about each other for granted., If you find yourself obsessing over what your significant other is doing without you—whether it’s something as small as watching an episode of a show you usually watch together, or being unfaithful—you might be masking your own fears of abandonment or getting hurt. Redirect your thoughts to what you can control: how you are spending your time.


It’s natural to worry sometimes, but being preoccupied with these thoughts is a sign of attachment anxiety. People with this problem expect the worst behavior from their partners or are always waiting for the relationship to end., If you are too far away to see each other in person, scheduling a time to talk on the phone with your significant other can give you something to look forward to. It’s also a chance to connect with each other while you are apart, and have a real conversation.


Make sure not to call or text too often. Evaluate your relationship, how long you will be apart, and how often you usually talk or see each other.If you know your significant other is busy, send a personal message through email or Facebook instead of texting, or call your significant other's voicemail directly and leave a sweet message. These forms of communication won’t interrupt your significant other while at work or a family event, and will be a nice surprise.
Try to set up a special time for each other, such as watching a favorite show at the same time while your significant other is away. You'll feel closer knowing your significant other is watching the same thing as you, it will also give you both something to discuss other than how much you're missing each other.
 When you do get to see each other, and even when you are able to talk on the phone or through an internet video call, make sure you aren’t always doing/saying the same things. Plan different types of activities for date nights. Talk about new topics you haven’t discussed before, or want to use to learn more about each other.If your conversations become stagnant, bring up a news item or interesting topic you’ve recently heard.
Talk about your childhood. What did you want to be when you grew up; what was your favorite fun activity as a kid; what was your favorite Halloween costume ever?
Look in local newspapers or on websites for ideas about new activities to try. Ask friends and co-workers who have significant others what they do together for more ideas.
 Include new activities you have never done as a couple or have talked about trying. Or, plan your day together on your own as a surprise and include something your significant other has always wanted to do. Use your imagination! Consider planning a whole day around one theme, like a romantic movie (When Harry Met Sally), or a pretend visit to Paris.


Get croissants and sit at an outside café for a couple hours, walk across the prettiest bridge near you, and visit your city’s art museum.
Visit a public garden for a picnic lunch, stop by a plant store on the way home to pick out a few of the flowers you saw earlier, and plant them together when you get home.
Stick to a “water” theme and schedule a visit to an aquarium or science museum, find the biggest public fountain in town and bring some change to make wishes together (make sure it is allowed first!), and end the day with a walk along a nearby canal or beach.
Plan a scavenger hunt to do together. Write clues that will take you to different places that remind you of each other or surprises you know they would love.
 The best way to cope with separation and keep your relationship strong is to communicate with each other about your feelings. When you talk, tell your significant other that you miss him or her. Ask about what your significant other is doing and tell your significant other about your day to feel more connected. Remind your significant other how grateful you are that he or she is a part of your life.

