 There’s no concern of starting too early, but there is a point at which your baby is better able to start picking up what you’re putting down. The best benchmark is your baby’s ability to sit up without use of their hands. At this point, they are able to begin reading and processing the concept of signing, and may even be able to start copying the signs you make.For some babies, this will occur as early as six months. Many babies will begin reading and using signs at around nine months old.
Look for signs your baby is already making. Chances are, your baby has learned a sign without your intentionally teaching it – most commonly, waving hello or goodbye to people is something babies simply pick up. If this is occurring, take it as a sign your baby will be especially receptive to sign training.;
, Lots of children will begin showing interest in regular things you do. For instance, if they start to coo or wave their arms around whenever you start running the bathwater, recognize that they are excited by the action and are trying to communicate. Know that babies will also want to sign about things they are excited about, in addition to their more basic needs.Take these signs of increased interest as indication that your baby will be receptive to training about how to communicate.
 Before you begin attempting to teach your baby to sign, make a list of the words you would like to teach. Shorten this list by choosing only the words or ideas that would be the most useful to be able to mutually convey to one another. These should be the basic and most important signs, such as "eat" and "drink.", While there are lots of sources of booklets and examples of signs that could work, the most reliable and useful are likely those inspired by American Sign Language (ASL). Michigan State University's online ASL database provides the necessary material to learn more words than you could possibly learn, let alone teach to your baby!You can also make up your own signs, or adapt ASL signs into simpler versions, especially for basic activities such as eating.
For instance, pinch your fingers and thumb together and touch your lips while saying “eat” to sign for eating.
 Practice signs yourself. Be sure you know a sign and are able to execute it clearly before using it with your baby. Once you have it down, start using the sign in front of your baby. Initially, the goal is simply conveying the concept that certain hand signs indicate certain things.Right before you nurse your baby, sign “milk” – or before feeding, sign “eat.”
Sign in the air, on whatever you’re signing, or even right on the baby.
For instance, if signing “milk”, sign with your hand right in front of your breast or bottle.
 You’ll start with the most basic and common parts of your baby’s life, most likely having to do with eating. Expect to incorporate new signs slowly, and keep new signs simple too. Include fun signs and signs for important humans too.It’s especially satisfying to teach your baby a sign for “mom” or “dad.”
Know that no sign is too simple. Even informal gestures that might not even be considered “signs” can provide a helpful way to increase communication with your baby, including simple pointing.
 Use a sign every time the associated action is performed. Eventually, your baby will start to use these signs as well! Don’t stop using a sign your baby has learned. They’ll actually pick up new signs more quickly as they become familiar with the process of learning new signs.The key to helping your baby pick up a new sign is showing them that they can get their needs met by using the sign. Accordingly, be disciplined about always associating signs with the corresponding behavior.
 Conceptualize your signing as a physical emphasis of the word you’re speaking. Your child will eventually transition from signing to speaking, and speaking while signing will help this transition go more smoothly.Know that signing will not postpone or otherwise detrimentally affect your child’s verbal development in anyway.
 It may take months for your baby to make a sign back at you. However, know that a baby’s lack of signing does not mean they are not learning the meaning of the signs and words you’re saying with them. They simply may not be able to perform the physical act of signing yet.Know that your baby is probably trying to sign at you before they’re able to do so.
The ages at which babies are able to physically execute specific signs caries widely. Some babies may not be able to sign until they’re a full year old – this does not indicate slow development in any way whatsoever.
Once your baby begins to sign, they will likely begin to use a flurry of different signs if you’ve been consistently associating different signs with different things.

