 If you have a dominant color in your photograph that you really want to stand out, adjust the levels of hue and saturation. For example, to make your greens pop more, if you have a photo that takes place outside, increase the hue to add a bit of blue to make your greens pop out more and turn your saturation up. This will add a more vibrant color to your green. Because green and blue are primary and complementary colors, adding a hue of blue to your green will enhance the vibrancy of the green, making it richer. By saturating the hue adjustment you bleed the colors together more creating a vibrant blend.
To make any photo pop more, adjust the hue and saturation of the most dominant color in your photo.
 A lot of professionally edited photos will employ a radial blur which keeps the focal point in your photo in focus while gently blurring out everything outside of the radius.The radial blur is great for photos that focus on a person’s face, because it will keep the face in crystal clear focus and blur everything around it gently, creating a nice effect and professional looking photo.
 A major factor in editing photos like a professional is editing your subject’s face to remove bumps and blemishes, creating beautiful smooth skin. There are a number of ways to do this on most programs, and not every program allows for comprehensive editing.


In applications like Picasa or Apple Photos, you can use the Retouch Tool. Select a radius size for your brush that is small enough so that you don’t retouch areas that don’t need it. On software like these, retouching essentially works by blurring and blending the pixels together to make the area look smooth.
In more advanced software like Photoshop, you can do more intensive retouching. Use a Quick Selection Tool to select the area of skin that you want to edit. Create a new layer with a Layer Mask so that you don’t affect your original layer in case you mess up. Then go to your Filter option > Blur > Surface Blur. This will smooth out the selected area much like the retouch tool works on other programs.Then, use a Spot Healing Brush Tool and click on your small selections of blemishes that still show up. The spot healing brush will perform a similar task as the blur, but instead of applying the effect to a larger area, you can pinpoint it to smaller, more specific areas.
 The Patch and Fade Tools are great for fixing larger areas like bags under the eyes. The Patch Tool works by selecting one area and then another. The first area gets patched to look like the second area.The Patch Tool is great for skin because instead of just blurring an area of skin to smooth it out, it makes a patch that’s taken from another area.
To smooth out any weird or uneven edges that you may get from the patch tool, use a Fade Tool that fades a patched selection and blends the area.
Try to match the skin texture on an area you are working on. For example if you are patching an area around the nose, don’t draw a patch from the forehead as those areas might be too dissimilar, especially in certain lighting.

