 Lemons have a natural calming effect which can relieve nausea and leave you feeling clean and refreshed. Try nibbling on a fresh slice of lemon, squeezing some lemon juice into hot or cold water before drinking or simply sniffing on a freshly cut lemon for some citrus-y relief. You may also find it helpful to keep a stash of lemon candies nearby at all times.You may also find lemon-scented candles or lemon essential oils good options for surrounding yourself in a fresh, lemon scent.
Other citrus fruits, such as grapefruit, orange and tangerine may also help.
 Ginger has been used to relieve nausea for centuries. Try drinking ginger ale (made with real ginger) or make ginger tea by adding a thin slice of fresh ginger into hot water. If that doesn't float your boat, snack on some ginger cookies or gingerbread, or grab a handful of crystallized ginger candy., Peppermint relieves feelings of nausea and reduces the stomach's gag reflex. Make a peppermint tea by adding a few fresh leaves to some boiling water and leaving to infuse for a few minutes before drinking. You can also try sucking on some peppermint candies., Brew yourself a cup of red raspberry-leaf tea. This herb is popular for a number of pregnancy problems, including morning sickness, and has been shown to relax the smooth muscles of the uterus. Add 1 to 2 teaspoons of the dried herb to a cup of hot water before drinking.


However, you should check with your doctor before taking this remedy as there is some evidence that raspberry leaf can cause uterine contractions., Battle unpleasant odors by arming yourself with a small satchel stuffed with dried herbs. Lavender and thyme are particularly appealing since both have soothing and therapeutic scents. Keep the satchel near the nose and breathe in deeply when odors turn your stomach sour., A number of physicians recommend taking a supplement of this vitamin -- the usual dose is 10 to 25 milligrams three times a day -- to combat the nausea of morning sickness. Talk to your doctor before trying a supplement, however, and be sure not to exceed 75 milligrams of the vitamin each day., Adding a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar to some hot water before drinking has been known to help with nausea. Try adding a teaspoon of honey for sweetness, if desired.
 Having some cooling, fruit-flavored popsicles at hand can help to keep morning sickness at bay, while also helping to keep you hydrated.
 Chew on some anise or fennel seeds, which are known to soothe upset stomachs.