 Also, the authorities may choose to have an F-1 stamp on your Visa.


These documents are very crucial in ensuring that you travel from one point to another using buses, subways, air, or ports. Transportation in the US is always coupled by delays since extensive document verification is always mandatory therefore as a student you should be prepared to such inconveniences.
Be sure that you always know where these documents are.;
, Maintaining your health in the U.S. is normally the responsibility of the students (University of Washington 1). Since payment of health services is usually expensive, international students are advised to purchase medical insurance. The premiums of the common U.S. insurances range from quarterly to annual payments. However, certain universities cover the health of their international students.
 Checking accounts are necessary for a student’s need of managing finances for daily up-keep. To have a bank account, a passport, I-94, address, and contact information is mandatory. Therefore, international students should apply for address at the WEBSIS portal so as to have one. The U.S. authorities mainly use the address for sending parcels, shopping and even paying bills. The university usually organizes accommodation for the new students but after a year students can freely choose where to live. Further acquire of electronics such as a computer and phone is crucial. Certain universities issue computers to the international students. Phones help in management of mails which help in contacting with family.
 In order for a student to be issued with social security number is, they must be eligible to work in the United States of America. In addition, students with J-1 and F-1 holdings can work within America whereas the dependent F-2 cannot be issued with social security since they do not have the right to work in US. Employment is defined by the offer of services in exchange of compensation such as: finance, rooms, or other favors as agreed (Lipson 23). Self-employment for students is forbidden. Therefore, employment in form of giving services such as baby-sitting is recognized.
 To drive in the U.S requires one to possess an international passport and pass driving test. With the address and bank ATM one can buy food in the stores and the supermarkets anytime. Moreover, housing is very necessary. The housing can be college dorms, off campus apartments or houses or living with an American family.


To live outside campus which is commuting needs transportation. Some universities have buses and subways and other requires to a car, which the student might consider to buy. In my opinion, the international student should try to get his personal transportation like buying a car or a motorcycle. In that way, he can transport from one place do many other different places.
 Furthermore, education wise, the international student should always try to reach for help in education wise such as, if the student does not understand the material in class and need some help since English is his second language. The student should go to the tutoring center to get help or meet the instructor of the class revise whatever was discussed in class from topics to achieve the academic requirements as being an international student. In addition, international student should always try to make new friends in college to get a diverse knowledge and to strengthen the language. The student should never be shy to ask about something he does not understand because in this way he will never get the help that he or she needs.
 On the other hand, the international student should always explore new places in America, therefore, it is interesting to travel across the country to meet new people and learn the country’s culture also nature and other interesting attractions. Searching the web is a good idea to find those places and also a good way to find out how to reach a certain destination.
 It is very common that the international student usually gets the feeling of homesick and anxiety. Being away from the family, relatives and friends back home is hard and stressful. The best advice for that is, the student should try communicating with other students. Moreover, the international student should try to join groups with other students from their country, which in this way they will not be feeling left out, alone and sad.


Participate in extracurricular activities such as, going to the university gym to work out which is a good way to meet new people. Joining other sports likewise, soccer, American football, hockey and other different sports that the university has. These kinds of activities are very beneficial for staying sharp, healthy and creating optimism. This is how the international student should cope and settle in the United States of America by interpreting how to make his life much easier and less stressful to maintain a successful academic future. Education is a great notion for the human being thus the international student has so much potentials of getting the right education, experience and a bright knowledge. The world is changing and education is a must have and it is also a way of fulfilling the expectations of future career.

