 Click on the "Add New Business" link from the Google Places home page. You will have to provide the following information about your business in order to establish a listing:


Contact Information. This includes your business phone number, business name, address and website.
Business categories. Google allows you to choose up to 5 categories to place your business in. Choose categories that are most likely to attract web searchers looking for your specific product or service.
Hours of operation. You may opt out of this information, if you so choose.
Payment options. Click on the types of payment your business accepts.;
, Take the following steps to optimize your listing:

Upload photos and videos that speak for your business. You may choose to highlight your products or services, give visitors a tour of your business location or introduce yourself and other employees.






Write a compelling business description. Your Google Places listing is often the first impression web users will have of your business. An effective business description should tell potential customers about your business's mission, convince them of why and how your business stands out amongst the competition and include a call to action that inspires visitors to convert to customers.






Use search engine optimization (SEO) techniques to attract more visitors to your link. SEO involves including keyword-rich text in the content of your page so that search engines give it a higher relevancy and rank it above competitors' lower ranked pages.
 Remember to include your Google Places page link in your business website, your blog, your email signature, industry/trade forum posts and on every social media or networking site you use to promote your business.
 Through Google Places, you have a variety of both free and paid advertising options:


Free advertising. Free ways to advertise include updating your Places page with real-time information about any specials, coupons or promotions your business is running, setting up separate Places pages for each business location (if your business is a branch-based company), requesting your customers post their reviews and testimonials and embedding your Google Maps code on your website.
Paid advertising. Google AdWords is a form of pay-per-click marketing that displays your business link in a designated area above Google search results, based on the keywords you use in your page. Google Tags is a simple form of Google Places advertising that involves paying a flat monthly fee in exchange for a yellow tag marker next to your listing in business in Google Search results. Google Boost is another keyword-based advertising method, which displays your Place page link alongside Google Search results. Access the Google family of paid advertising through the Google home page.

