 How long you cut the chicken wire depends on how wide and how tall you want your arch to be. If the chicken wire is very wide, you may want to cut it narrower. This will make it easier to bend and curve it into an arch shape.
 It can be a perfect arch or a warped one. If you need to, loosely crumple or fold the wire in half lengthwise to make it thinner., You can do this with nails, thumb tacks, or pushpins. Start at one end of the chicken wire and work your way upwards to the peak, then work your way back down to the other end.The arch does not have to be perfectly symmetrical. Try a warped arch for a more organic design.
 For a more interesting design, blow up balloons in different sizes and colors. Try some water balloons, regular balloons, and jumbo balloons. You can also blow up regular balloons with varying amounts of air.Do not use a helium tank for this.
You can blow the balloons up with your mouth, but your lungs may get tired.
 Place a glue dot to the tail end of the balloon, just below the knot. Wrap the tail behind the wire, then press it against the knot. Hold the tail and knot together for about 10 seconds before letting go. This ensures a secure bond.You can find glue dots in the scrapbooking section or an arts and crafts store. They are dots of glue that come on a strip. Peel them off one at a time as you use them.
 Make sure that you place it close enough to the first balloon so that they are touching. Find the spot where the two balloons touch, then place another glue dot between them., Create clusters of balloons. Start with the larger ones first, then work your way towards the smaller ones. You can even place smaller balloons over larger ones using glue dots., Dried or fresh flowers work especially well for this, but you can use fake ones too. You can also tuck some colorful ribbon in between the balloons instead. This is also a great way to hide any gaps and give your balloon arch a more organic feel.


Secure the flowers to the chicken wire with glue dots or string.Make sure that the flowers don't have any thorns. If they do, cut them off with a crafting blade.

