 If you want to impress a guy, then you have to make him feel that you care about who he is as a person -- just not too much. When you do start talking to the guy, you should talk about the things he likes to do, what he's interested in, and just generally the things that intrigue him. This doesn't mean you should interview him or ask him too many questions, but it does mean that you should be attuned to the things he wants and cares about.


Let him open up little by little, as you reveal information about yourself too. Don't bombard him with personal questions.
Keep it light. Talk about his dog, his best friends, or his favorite sports teams -- you can get to the serious stuff later.
Ask his opinion on a variety of subjects, from current events to the Super Bowl.;
, Once you've talked to the guy for a while, you should be able to find a few things that you have in common, whether it's your loyalty to your families, your love for the beach, or your mutual obsession with travel. It may not feel like much, but you should build on the interests you share to develop a connection. This will give you more to talk about, and will make the guy more impressed by you.


If you know the guy is really crazy about the Mets, it wouldn't hurt to look up some information on the team so you can impress him the next time you talk. You don't have to become an expert on the subject, but it would give you something to talk about.
You may not have many similar interests, but you may share similar personality traits -- maybe you both have a silly sensibility or a sensitive side. You can build off of that, too.
You can even find common ground by finding something you both dislike or want to laugh at, whether it's Justin Bieber or your sixth period chemistry teacher.
 A guy will be much more impressed by you if your body is in an "open stance," and says that you're ready to talk and have a good time. The first thing you should do is smile to show the guy that you're disarming and ready to have fun. Then, you should work on using your arms to gesture or keeping them at your sides instead of crossing them over your chest, and turning your body toward him, so that he knows he has your attention.


Make eye contact when you talk to the guy so he feels special.
You can play with your hair a bit or lick your lips occasionally if you want to be flirtatious.
 If you want to impress a guy, then you have to be a fascinating conversational partner. Though giggling and flirting and showing him you like him can get you far, he has to also enjoy talking to you and find you a stimulating and engaging conversationalist. To do this, you have to be able to keep a conversation going, to go beyond the small talk to the depth of a matter without being overwhelming.


If you've read something fascinating, don't be embarrassed to mention it. The guy will appreciate your insight.
 You don't have to tell him that you're the star of your track team -- he can figure it out. Just talk about how much you love the sport while being modest, and maybe he'll come see you in a race or hear what a great runner you are. Talk about the things that you excel at or the things that really make you shine, and he'll see that you're a unique individual worth pursuing.


You can share the things that make you unique without bragging. Maybe you're special because you have a twin, because you have five kittens, or because you love walking on your hands. Find a way for him to find out how unique you really are.

