 If you have a teacher that is oblivious or that does not care if you have cellular devices visible, this whole process will be a lot easier. With other teachers that are more strict, it can be a better idea to not even embark on this endeavor.;
, Have it in an easily reachable, yet not obvious, place on your person. Put it on vibrate (or preferably, silent) so it will not be seen or heard.
 Make sure nobody is watching you, student, teacher, or otherwise. All of your other efforts will be fruitless if you cannot follow this first step. Try to see if your teacher is looking away, preoccupied with something else, sleeping, etc. Sitting in a strategic location (i.e., in the back row where it is hard to see you) can also work to your advantage.



Is it loud in the class?
Is nobody watching?
Is your phone on vibrate or silent?
Will your phone make a minimal amount of noise when you're texting?

, If not, wait for a proper opportunity.
 Make sure that it is not obviously visible. Some strategic locations to place it include behind a binder or book, under your desk, or under some papers. Do not set these up as vertical barriers or walls around you - this will make the act obvious. The key is to look as natural as possible. Try the following methods prescribed by high school students:

, Hold your phone and envelope your entire hand into the sleeve. Then use the other hand to pull on the piece of the sleeve facing you so you can see the screen and buttons.
 It helps if you can text without looking.
 You can still hear it. Especially if the class gets really quiet.


Use the small part of the table in science classes.
 Use props such as your pencil case, sit the pencil case on your table and in the bottom pocket place your mobile. You can easily slip your hands in and use the top half of the pencil case to hide your mobile when you are texting and be able to look up a the appropriate times.


Don't use your backpack... That's how everyone gets caught. Sometimes being more open is better then being sneaky - you could text all the time with my phone on your desk and kids who did it in their purse would get yelled at... Don't look like you're being sneaky. The best thing to do is learn to text with out looking at your phone, keep it at level with your desk or just below, that way you're looking up constantly except for a few seconds... Also if they notice you can easily drop it into your backpack or whatever.
 Make sure you will still be able to receive and send messages easily.

