 An important measure of how much a company wants to hire you is whether or not they try gauge your interest. If they really want you, they are going to try to figure out how much you want them. If this is asked directly, or even indirectly, it may be a very good sign.For example, an interviewer might ask, "What did you think when you first learned about this position?" This is an indirect way to gauge your enthusiasm.
Alternatively, they may ask "What attracted you to this job?";
, Discussions of salary, initiated by the company, usually do not emerge unless the prospect of hiring you is realistic. If your interviewer brings up the subject of salary, it can be a sign towards the positive.This is particularly true if they are extending a salary offer.
Before your interview, spend some thinking about what level of salary you will bargain for. You can review salaries for similar positions at sites like PayScale, Glassdoor, and Monster.
 One nearly indisputable sign that you are in the running for the job is a request for second interview. Many times this will occur at the end of your interview, and other times they will call and set it up later. In any case, a second interview insures that you have made it to the short list for this job.A second interview means that they have narrowed it down to a few strong candidates who will be interviewed again.
You will want to be as prepared as you can for your second interview (do some research on the company, prepare some good questions to ask, and try to anticipate what they might ask you).
By the second interview, you should have previously reviewed the company through Internet and social media searches. However, you need to review their previous information and check for any news since the first interview.
 Often times, interviewers will not ask for references unless they actually intend to contact them. So a request for professional references can be a very good sign!That said, many HR departments have already received resumes with references, so a lack of questions is not a negative signal.


Be sure to have a list of references ready when you head to your interview.
Type up your reference list and bring it along with another copy of your resume.
 In most cases, the interviewer will have asked more in-depth questions about your current job, past experiences, and/or education. Your answers should have tied these experiences to the duties and competencies required of you in the new job. It is a particularly good sign if the conversation moved to a problem that the company has and how your experience and skills can be used to solve it. This means that the interviewer can imagine you filling the position.


If this come up in the interview, remember to reinforce the idea in your follow-up correspondence., Once again, a truly interested employer will be working to gauge your interest in the position. As such, they may come right out and ask you about any other job prospects you have in the works. This is an excellent sign that they’d love to have you aboard!For example, an interviewer may simply ask, "Have you interviewed for any other positions?"
If asked this, it is best to be honest. Depending on your answer, you may come off as someone in high-demand, or someone truly dedicated to this job opportunity, and either one can be good.
However, there is no need to talk about rejections or interview processes that did not work out.
After you respond, notice whether or not they try to sell you on this job. This is a particularly good sign.

