 This can be done by either double-clicking the GTA: San Andreas icon on the desktop if it is installed there, or by following this Start Menu sequence: Start button >> All Programs >> Rockstar Games >> Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.
 Press Enter repeatedly to skip through the pre-game animations till you arrive at the Main Menu. Click “Start Game” and then “New Game” to start GTA: San Andreas from the beginning, or click “Load Game” to load a previously saved file and continue from there. This will enter you into the game world.
 Most, but not all, of the properties/houses that you buy in GTA: San Andreas have garages. Three of the easiest properties to find that have garages are at these locations: Mulholland, El Corona, and Doherty.


The first step is to find these properties. Bring up the game map by pressing Esc to open the Main Menu and then clicking “Map.”
On the map you will notice lots of green house icons; these represent properties that you can buy. Hovering your mouse over different parts of the map will display the names of the locations at the bottom right of the screen. Note the location of the property in any of the above three locations in relation to your current location (which is represented by a white, star-shaped, blinking icon).
Press Escape twice to exit the Map and return to the game world.
 Walk (use the W, A, S, and D keys to control the character) to the nearest car you can find, enter it (F or Enter key), and drive to the property. You can bring up the map and check your location at any time while driving. This will help you not get lost.


The property will have a green icon of a house in front of it and a price indicated on top of the icon.
 Once you arrive at the property, get out of the car by pressing F or Enter and then walk and stand in the green icon. A message will appear on the top left hand corner of the screen instructing you to press Tab in order to purchase the property for its price.
 A message and an animation will be played on the screen to confirm that you have purchased the property. The money will be deducted from your in-game cash, which is displayed on the top right hand corner of the screen.
 Explore the property to find out where the garage(s) is. You can store a car in there by driving it in, then exiting the car and walking out of the garage.

