 Make sure that when you are done, that you give the child your full attention. Children learn by seeing so show them to respect others by respecting them.;
, Place the forks on one side of the plate, and the spoons and knives on the other. Add a napkin and a glass, and place them in their proper position. Use the proper utensils as needed, as well as the napkin. They will follow your lead and will make you proud when you take them out to eat at a fancy restaurant.
, No matter how young they are, never forget to say thank you to them each time they hand you something, even if it is their bottle.
 Children learn by what they see and hear by their parents. A hug and kiss by you, will make sure that they always remember to say that word. .
 Explain that they can look, but not touch!

, Children copy what they see and hear so make it a point to always use those words often.
 Show by how you hold the door open for others, allowing them to walk in first-instead of having the door slam in someone's face- and they will learn to do the same.
 Boys should wear a tucked shirt, maybe a tie and a blazer, dress pants and leather shoes. If you go to Church together, then make sure you say good morning to each person you see, and watch and notice your children do the same. If an older person is standing, while you are sitting, stand up and offer them a seat. Your children will notice, and learn, and follow your example.
 Point out how it can be interesting to see how different families do different things such as rituals or traditions.
 Each time you start yelling or losing your temper, you may lose a little of your child's respect.
 There is a great difference between childish provocation and childish behavior such as forgetting to feed the dog and so forth. Some errors are child appropriate and come with the perils of growing up, while others are simply a test of what the parent may or may not allow.
 Explain why the behavior is punishable and how the child may avoid this in the future. Hug and comfort them after the incident has passed as this will foster love and trust.

