 When you are considering getting a pet, there are a lot of factors to take into account. One of the first things you should do is to figure out why you want a pet. Your motives can help you figure out which pet is right for you.If you are looking for a companion, you have several options. Cats and dogs provide a lot of emotional comfort and can also be very entertaining. They are very intelligent too.
Rabbits can also be wonderful companion pets. They are intelligent and social and enjoy affection.
Birds can also be good company. Parrots in particular are very smart and talkative.
If you are looking for a pet for your kids, you also have a lot of options. Dogs are a very popular choice. If you want to teach your children responsibility, you can have them help walk the dog and feed it.
If you want more of a trial pet to see how things go, fish are a good option. They are low maintenance.;
, It is important to think about how much time you want to devote to your pet. Some, like dogs and horses, require a lot of attention and care. With large animals like those, you will need to spend time exercising them each day.Cats require less time on a daily basis. You won't need to walk your cat, but you should spend time playing with it and giving it affection each day.
Ferrets are a popular pet choice. Be aware that ferrets require social interactions with their humans each day. You will also need to spend time cleaning their cage each day.
If you are thinking about getting a parrot, make sure your daily schedule has some free time in it. A parrot needs interaction for about 2-3 hours each day.
Whatever pet you get will need some of your time. Take into account how much time you will need to spend each day on feeding, cleaning, and socialization.
You should also consider how long of a commitment you are willing to make. For example, cats typically live for 15-20, while rabbits could be with you for 7-10 years.
 When you are considering a pet, you need to think about the financial costs. Some pets, such as horses, are very expensive. Others, such as fish, are extremely affordable.Do some research on how much pets cost. Visit a pet store to get an idea of how much things like food, toys, and cages cost.
Take adoption fees into consideration. If you are going to find a pet at a shelter, there will be feeds involved.
Think about health care. Like people, pets need regular check-ups to keep them healthy. Figure out how much trips to the vet will cost on average.
Consider costs of housing. Ferrets, for example, need large cages. Horses often need to be boarded at a local stable.
 Think about what your daily lifestyle is like. Do you work from home? Then maybe you have more time to devote to a pet. But if you regularly find yourself stuck at the office late at night, it might be hard to make it home in time to feed a dog.Think about how often you travel. If you are frequently out of town, do you have someone who can look after your pet?
If you are hardly ever home, you should consider a pet that doesn't need a lot of socialization. Fish or a hamster might be a good choice.
Think about your physical habits. For example, if you are a runner, consider getting a dog that can accompany you. Huskies, collies, and labs will be happy to go for a jog.
 If you live alone, you really only need to consider your pet preferences. But if you live with other people, it is important to talk to them about their feelings towards animals. For example, maybe your partner is not found of rodents. That means a ferret is not the best choice.It's important that everyone in your family is open to getting a pet. You don't want to bring an animal home to a negative environment.
Discuss care giving. Have an open conversation about who will be responsible for cleaning the cage or feeding the animal.
Consider allergies. It's important to choose a pet that will not cause health problems for your family members. Many people are allergic to rabbits, for example.
Have each family member meet the potential pet before bringing it home. This will help you see if there are any negative reactions.
 Talk to a veterinarian before you bring a pet home. A vet can tell you about behavioral characteristics of the pet you are considering. For example, an expert will know that large dogs can often unintentionally knock over small children in your house. A vet can also give you a good idea of the time commitment involved with each type of pet. For example, a vet can talk to you about how to make a good environment for ferrets.
A vet can also talk to you about costs involved with many different types of animals. For example, if you are considering adopting a senior cat, you might be looking at frequent trips to the vet.
Perhaps you are considering getting an unusual pet. If you are considering bringing home a pot bellied pig, make sure there is a local vet who has experience caring for those types of pets.

