 Whether you just want to learn something new, take better pictures of your kids, get more interesting photographs, or get a new hobby, you must have a desire to learn.;
, Anything that can take a digital picture can be used for digital photography: a cell phone camera, a $20 mini camera from Walmart, a simple point and shoot, or an advanced DSLR. It doesn't matter what you use to get the shot, you can get good pictures with anything.
 Know how to use most, if not all, of the features on your camera. Most cameras offer a "full automatic" mode, which is great for those beginning into digital photography. Just compose the shot and take the picture. As you become more advanced, you can start to try out the other various modes on your camera.
 There is a plethora of information about photography on the internet. Search for articles on the basics of photography, such as exposure, rule of thirds, and light. The more you learn, the better at photography you will become. Never stop searching for new information.
 You won't get better at anything without practice. Take your camera with you wherever you go, and always be ready to take a picture. While you are out, try out new techniques or ideas that you have come up with. Try to get the picture that you can visualize in your head beforehand.
 The two major programs are Adobe Photoshop and GIMP. These can be extremely complicated, technical, and hard to use, but once you master the basics you will be very happy that you took the time to learn. For beginning photographers, GIMP is perfect because it is completely free. It is similar to Photoshop, but a little bit less daunting and much less expensive. Start by reading a few articles on how to use GIMP, then spend time experimenting with your own images. There is an excellent video podcast on how to use GIMP called Meet the Gimp.
 Join an online community, like Flickr, and post some of your best images. Join groups pertaining to you and your photos and submit your images to them. Join a beginning photographers group and ask any questions that you have. Look at other people's photographs, analyze them, try to duplicate them, and then apply what you have learned to your own photography.
 These will help you learn new techniques, see professional work, etc. Some good ones include: Chase Jarvis Photography, D-Town TV, Photography 101, The Art of Adventure Photography, and The Art of Photography.
