 Marriage is not on the cards on the first date and it may never be. Viewing yourself as "Mrs Jones" before you even know the other person is obsessive. Avoid trying to rush things too fast, avoid less-than-subtle mentions of biological clocks and how much you'd love to have children some day soon, and avoid making hints about getting engaged or what you'd wear at your dream wedding. For the sake of your relationship's healthiness, let it unfold in good time without the expectations of "forever". For all you know, it might turn out to be forever but equally, it might just be a wonderful relationship for this point-in-time; either way, trying to move things too fast will easily destroy it.


Be careful about giving gifts and when you give them. Gift giving can give the impression of an attempt to tie someone down if it occurs too early in a relationship. Moreover, giving something expensive too early can make some one feel uncomfortable and "bound" to you, and giving gifts which may be inappropriate will simply be embarrassing.
 When obsession drives you to keep calling and texting 24 hours a day, checking up on your partner, you've turned jail keeper and your lover is imprisoned. It's okay to call once and see how his or her day is, but if you're calling every couple of hours, this could reinforce his or her belief that you have nothing else going on in your life and surely you don't want to seem like you have nothing better to do? People are attracted to interesting people, not those at a loose end. If it becomes clear that the only thing you've got going in your life is him or her, then he or she will lose interest; it's too big a responsibility to make up for someone's lack of self-esteem. So, turn off that phone, shut yourself out of the email and IM, and find something else to occupy yourself with, like going for a walk, catching up with friend or family member, taking a nap, doing a workout or learning something new (see above).
 A lack of trust coupled with obsessive neediness might compel you to tail your lover. Nothing is more likely to turn him or her off you than this sort of behavior and if it seems threatening to your lover, you could find yourself being charged for stalking. Don't follow your partner anywhere that he or she claims to be going to––you will be noticed eventually and it sends an instant message that you don't trust him or her. For most relationships, stalking is the death knell.
 This is simple and very effective. After asking for time apart, set up a time and day to reconnect. For instance, if one of you wants to hang out with friends for the day, suggest that you meet up later for dinner. Or, suggest a time the following day, and an activity, in which the both of you could get together. This gives both people in the relationship permission to enjoy their time apart, while also giving each of you a grounding point, or rather a reassurance in knowing you will see the other person and they wish to see you.


Make sure that your desire to spend time apart does not turn into an argument. Spending time apart can turn into a sensitive topic, especially if the other person feels that it's an attempt to detach for good. Make it absolutely clear that this is about ensuring that both of you have time to enjoy as an individual so that time spent back together is refreshed and renewed.
 Surround your date time with activities either side, as well as regular commitments. This way you are restoring the balance to the time spent together rather than letting yourself just hang around endlessly, ignoring the things that really do need your attention. For instance, say you want to hang out with your date during the afternoon. Suggest a time and ask that your date drop you off at your house after the outing, making it clear that you've something else to be doing by that time. This prevents the date from running into overtime and lets both of you have freedom to do something more. It also allows each of you to open the dialogue about spending longer dates together where appropriate should the times you're setting seem too short. The best thing about endpoints is that neither of you end up feeling trapped but can actually look forward to the next time you'll spend together.

