;
, It is used very commonly in the Southern United States.
 It is one of the less invasive species of mint.
, This variety is popular in fresh salads and drinks., Mint does not germinate from seed too easily, so only the most experienced gardeners should start from seed. Plant directly into potting soil or compost after you bring it home.


A garden store will have more varieties of mint; however, you may be able to find mint seedlings and plants at your local farmer’s market and supermarket.
 Ask a friend if you can harvest from an existing mint pot or find one in a local garden. Cut approximately one cm above a stem junction with sharp scissors.
 It is not guaranteed that you will be able to grow a plant from each cutting, but it is a good way to use leftover mint if you are willing to experiment.
 Place freshly cut sprigs in the glass to grow new roots. Keep it in a warm, sunny place and wait for white roots to grow out of the cut stem.


Add water as needed to keep the glass full.
 They can even extend to the bottom of your pot depth.
 A mint plant needs plenty of space to grow.
 A mint plant thrives in well-drained soil. Purchase a saucer to place below the pot to avoid staining your windowsill or patio.
 You can submerge the whole 12-inch pot in a larger pot, next to other herbs. Keep in mind that many species of mint will still find a way to take over the entire pot through the holes in the bottom of the mint pot.


If you want to plant it with other herbs, you will want to separate the herbs later in the season.
 You can also combine potting soil with rich compost. Mint plants need rich and well-drained soil to thrive.
, Curl the roots if they are too long for the pot.
 Pack the area just enough so that the mint stands on its own.
 Then plant the entire pot into the garden soil, allowing the pot to extend five inches above the surface of the soil.If possible, avoid planting it in the garden. Place it on a patio or on a windowsill to avoid spreading the mint plant.
 These can be removed when the plant is thriving.
 Water it whenever it is dry for the first year. It should always have moist soil.


If you experience hot weather, you may need to water it several times per day.
 It does best with six or more hours of sunlight, but also likes to be shaded from hot afternoon sun. If you have very little sunlight in the winter, it may die back.
 Once it is doing well, frequent cuttings keep the plant full and the leaves strong in flavor.
 Cut one cm above a stem junction and below any flower buds. Don’t cut more than one-third of the leaves at one time.Never allow your mint plant to flower. It will put the nutrients into flower production and slow down leaf growth.
 Cut the soil into fourths, and then plant each section into a new 12-inch pot. It would be best to give them room. If you don’t divide it, the plant will suffer and the leaves will not grow steadily.

