 You'll need to make an extra effort to prove your trustworthiness to your partner. Communicate your plans and respond to your partner's requests for information and reassurance.


Note, however, that your past history of cheating does not completely eliminate your right to privacy. Be mindful of your partner's need for information, but do not feel compelled to provide a full list of your cell phone and social media passwords or to account for your whereabouts at all times. Such practices perpetuate mistrust rather than allowing you to rebuild your shattered relationship., Do not expect forgiveness -- least of all on your schedule. Your partner will need to learn he or she has reason to trust you.


Take a "time out" if you find that emotions are running high. Your partner may need some physical or emotional space to process his or her feelings. Politely leave the room, go for a walk, or give your partner the freedom to distance him or herself for a period of time.Consider scheduling specific windows of time to process difficult feelings. You might set an egg timer for half an hour, for example, and use that limited span of time for discussion. Doing so provides structure and predictability; you can both focus upon the subject at hand without having the conversation degenerate into "venting" or other unproductive behavior., Forgiving yourself does not mean you're off the hook for the consequences of your behavior, nor does it exempt you from the hard work of taking steps to change your behavior. Rather, forgiving yourself frees up your mental and emotional energy to move forward. You can then work on healing your relationship and changing your habits.Each day is a new day. When you wake up each morning, remind yourself of your decision to move forward and focus on repairing your damaged relationship.
If you find rituals helpful, consider taking a symbolic step such as (carefully) burning or shredding a paper labeled "cheating." Remind yourself of this action when you're tempted to dwell upon your past behavior. You've burned your bridges, literally or metaphorically, and have committed to move forward.
If you find yourself wallowing in regret, brainstorm a productive action you can undertake instead. You might consider sending your partner a loving text, performing a chore around the house, or working on a new hobby that helps you constructively redirect your behavior.

