 On sturdy paper, trace 20 hexagons and 12 pentagons. To make sure that they are all identical, use a template. You can either create your template by drawing the first one, or you can use a pre-made template.If you draw your own, make a template with each side measuring 2 inches (5 centimeters).
You can find templates for your geometric shapes at http://gemsclub.org/yahoo_site_admin/assets/docs/buckyball2.43131957.pdf.
If you want a different size sphere, change the size of your geometric shapes, making sure that all the sides are equal in length.
 Use your scissors to carefully cut along the lines that you traced. The shapes need to be the same size, so make sure that you perfectly cut along the lines., Lay one pentagon flat on your working surface. Line up one side of one hexagon to one side of the pentagon, and tape the edges together. Repeat the process for the other four sides of the pentagon.You will use a total of one pentagon for this step and five hexagons.
The edges of the hexagons and pentagon must be side by side without any gap in between them. The sides should not overlap.
If you don’t have tape, you can glue on a connector piece. Use a 1-inch x 2-inch slip of paper as your connector. Add a thin strip of glue along each side of the paper, then attach it to the geometric steps.
 Using your tape or connector strips, attach the hexagons to each other. Once this step is complete, you will have a shallow paper bowl., Turn your pentagons so that one point is at the top. Fit this point into the crevice between two of the connected hexagons that form your bowl. Apply tape or a connector strip to the touching sides. There will be a flat hexagon side in between the pentagons.Each pentagon used in this step will lie adjacent to two different hexagons. Make sure that you tape both connecting edges in place.
 The space between the pentagons will look like half of a hexagon. Fit your hexagons into these spaces, attaching with tape or connector strips.Each hexagon used in this step will lie adjacent to three other edges in the structure. Tape all three edges down.
Your sphere will be half complete.
 You will notice that your bowl has nooks in the shape of a half-hexagon rather than a point, so you will add additional hexagons. Fit your hexagons into the crevices created between the last five hexagons.During this step, you should notice the sphere beginning to curve inward. You are completing the closed top portion now.
 There should be five open nooks. Slide a pentagon into each one, taping or connecting the sides in place.This time, each pentagon will have three edges that lie adjacent to other edges in the structure. Tape all three down.
 Slide one hexagon into each of the five nooks created by the last step. Apply your tape or a connector piece to secure the edges in place.The hexagons you just added will have edges that touch each other, so you will want to tape these down, too.
 There should be a single pentagon shape left open in your sphere at this point. Rest your remaining pentagon on this spot and tape all five sides in place.