 Trying to get your friend’s older brother to think of you romantically without letting your friend know can cause problems between you and your friend.You don’t have to ask their permission, necessarily, but you should let your friend know what is going on.


Once you realize you want your friend’s older brother to think of you romantically, you should go ahead and let your friend know.
You might say something like, “Hey, Stassi, I’m starting to have feelings for your brother and want him to think of me romantically.”
Or you could try, “Derrick, I’m interested in your older brother and want him to think of me romantically.”

, Your friend may be excited about you possibly starting a relationship with their older brother. Your friend might also have some good reasons why they don’t want their older brother to think of you romantically.When you talk to your friend about your feelings for their older brother, take the time to listen to what your friend has to say.


For example, your friend could know that their brother is already in a relationship with someone.
Or, for instance, your friend might know that their brother isn’t really good in relationships.
When you tell your friend how you feel, listen if they say it’s not a good idea. Your friend could be trying to protect you from getting your heart broken.
 Don’t let your efforts to make your friend’s older brother think of you romantically cause you to neglect your friendship.Continue doing the things that you were doing with your friend before you realized you had feelings for their older brother.


Let your friend know that even though you want their brother to think of you romantically, you don’t want things to change in your friendship.
You could say something like, “I don’t want my feelings for your brother to change anything between us.”
Make sure that when you talk to your friend, you talk about things other than their brother. Talk about the things you all always talked about.
 You may want to ask your friend to help you convince their older brother to think of you romantically. But, you should leave your friend out of it. It could make your friend uncomfortable. Your friendship will go much better if you don’t put your friend in the middle of things.Make sure you aren’t using your friend just to get close to their older brother. Don’t just hang out with your friend to be around their brother.
It can also be really awkward for your friend if things don’t work out between you and their older brother.
If things don’t work, don’t say bad things to your friend about their brother. They could get mad at you and you could lose a friend.

