 Place two tablespoons (about 30 ml) of unsalted butter in a large microwavable mixing bowl and heat it until it is completely melted. Stir to break down any remaining unmelted lumps. Be careful removing the bowl from the microwave—it will be hot.Melting the butter, as opposed to whipping it cold, will help make the finished cookie a little more crispy.You may also be able to do this in a large measuring cup for a fast and easy cleanup.;
, Add the white granulated sugar, brown sugar and a couple drops of vanilla extract to the melted butter, followed by one whole egg. Use a metal whisk to beat the butter, egg, sugar and vanilla until they take on a whipped, fluffy texture.It may be necessary to whisk quite vigorously to ensure that the sugar granules dissolve properly. Otherwise, your cookie make come out with a gritty texture.
An electric hand mixer can greatly simplify this task.
 Measure out the dry ingredients and stir them together lightly. Dump them in with the whipped dairy and whisk again for 1-2 minutes. As you continue mixing, the ingredients will begin to set up into a thick dough.Stir from the bottom, turning the dough over on itself as you mix.
 Pour in a couple tablespoons (roughly 20 g) of semisweet baking chips (or more, if you’re a chocolate lover). Use a spatula to distribute the chips throughout the cookie dough. You should now have a little ball of batter that’s the perfect size for a single-serve cookie!If you’d rather wait to bake the cookies, place the dough in an airtight container or cover it in plastic wrap and stick it in the refrigerator until you need it. Use the cookie dough within 3-5 days to ensure that it stays fresh., Set the oven to convection and let it start heating up as you transfer the cookie dough into the ramekin. Make sure to space the racks so that taller ramekins will have plenty of room to rise without sticking.If you have access to one, you also have the option of using a toaster oven. Toaster ovens are the perfect size for baking ramekin cookies., Grease a 6 ounce oval ramekin with cooking spray. Scrape the cookie dough into the ramekin, using the spatula to push the dough to the edges and smoothing it on top. Leave about half an inch of space at the top of the container for the dough to rise as it bakes.No matter what type of ramekin you use, make sure you only fill it about ¾ of the way full to give the dough room to expand.
Store leftover dough, or use it to make more cookies!

, The ramekin will get extremely hot in the oven, and its small, oblong shape might make it hard to handle on its own. An extra baking sheet will make it easier to take the cookie out without accidentally burning yourself.The ramekin you use should be made from an oven-safe material such as metal or ceramic.
Arrange multiple ramekins near the center of the baking sheet, leaving a little room between each for heat to circulate.
 Slide the baking sheet onto the oven’s center rack, with the ramekin in the middle. Set a timer and watch the cookie closely as it bakes. When the top grows firm and turns a dark golden-brown color, the cookie is done!For gooey cookies with a hot molten center, bake for 12-15 minutes. For firmer cookies baked all the way through, drop the temperature to 325 degrees F (162°C) and increase the bake time by 2-5 minutes.Because of the thickness of ramekin cookies, they tend to have more of a cake-like consistency than thinner, crispier cookies.
Depending on the size of the ramekin you use, your cookie may need a little more or less time in the oven. Keep an eye on it and use your best judgment to decide when it’s ready.
 There's nothing better than a fresh-baked cookie straight out of the oven. The outer crust will provide a crisp first bite, while the chocolate chips inside will be gooey and decadent. Give the cookie a minute or two to cool, then dig in!


Reheat leftover cookies for a couple minutes in a conventional or toaster oven, or for about twenty seconds in the microwave.
 Plop a scoop of vanilla bean ice cream on top of the ramekin cookie and enjoy the two together. The combination of warm, chewy cookie and cold ice cream is a match made in heaven. Drizzle with chocolate syrup and top with whipped cream for an even more indulgent dessert.A deep ramekin makes the perfect vessel for holding cookies and ice cream together.
 Include half a tablespoon of walnuts when you’re folding the chocolate chips into the cookie dough. The little nibbles of walnut will give the cookie a pleasant crunch, while their sharp notes will help offset the sugary sweetness. The result is an extra chunky treat.Pulse whole walnuts in the food processor to reduce them to an edible size.
If you’re not a fan of walnuts, try it with pecans, macadamias or even pistachios., Use half the prescribed amount of chocolate chips and supplement them with caramel chips, then finish with a dash of coarse ground sea salt or kosher salt. You won’t believe how well the sweet and salty flavors go together, especially when paired with an ice cold glass of milk.Dust on a quarter teaspoon of fleur de sel prior to baking to give your cookie a seductively salty crust., Rather than limiting yourself to the semisweet morsels that the recipe calls for, make way for rich white or bitter dark chocolate chips. You could even mix-and-match your chocolates to take the flavor to a whole new level.Play around with other flavors of baking chips, as well, such as mint chocolate chips, peanut butter chips and butterscotch.
Substitute hard-shelled chocolate candies for traditional baking morsels.