 For surface stains that cannot be scrubbed away with a cloth, like ink stains, rub the stain with a cotton swab soaked in rubbing alcohol.Many surface stains, like grease stains, will be removed when you clean the entire surface of the bag with soap and water later on.
Dip the cotton swab into the rubbing alcohol, then rub the surface of the bag with the swab until the stain disappears. Focus on the area of the stain only.
When finished, let the bag air dry.
 When you are dealing with a stain that has set deeply into the material, use a paste made from cream of tartar and lemon juice.


Deep stains can include blood, wine, and many food or drink stains.
Combine one part cream of tartar and one part lemon juice, mixing until a thick paste forms. Apply a generous amount of this paste to the stained area of the bag and let it rest for 10 minutes.
After the paste has had a chance to sit, wipe it off with a clean, dry rag.
 Combine 2 cups (500 ml) of warm water with just a few drops of mild, dye-free liquid soap.


This soap solution can be used to clean light dirt from a leather bag, or from a bag with leather components, as often as once a week.
Use the mildest soap possible to minimize the risk of dehydrating or damaging the leather.
 Dip a soft, clean cloth in the soapy water. Wring out the excess moisture, then gently wipe away all the dirt and grime from the bag.


Use this solution to clean the outside and inside of the bag. Make sure that everything in the bag has been removed before you clean the inside, however.
Only allow the leather parts of the bag to get slightly moist. Do not soak or submerge them.
 Use a dry, soft cloth to lightly buff the surface of the bag while it is still moist. Continue buffing until the surface feels dry.


After drying the bag with a cloth, allow it to continue air drying for an hour or so, especially if you cleaned the inside. The inside of the bag should be thoroughly dry before you return anything to it.
 To prevent the leather parts of the bag from drying out and cracking, you should condition it. You can make a conditioning paste from white vinegar and linseed oil.


A conditioner will also make the leather more stain resistant in the future.
Mix one part white distilled vinegar with two parts linseed oil until well combined. Dip a clean, soft cloth into this solution and rub a generous amount over the entire surface of the leather bag. Work in small, circular buffing motions.
Allow the solution to soak into the leather for 15 minutes.
After the solution has rested, buff the leather of the bag with a dry, clean cloth.

