 To build this love fort, you will need the following items: 5 sheets, a few blankets, one pole, 4 screw hooks, 1 spool of twine, 4 large safety pins, lots of pillows, a tape measure and scissors.If you don’t have a pole, substitute an old shower rod or broom stick.
You can also substitute large pieces of fabric or sarongs in place of your sheets.;
, Pick an area that is fairly large and clear of furniture (you may have to rearrange your furniture to make this work). If you want people to see your fort, pick a high traffic area, like your living room.If you prefer to make your fort more private, you may choose to build it in your bedroom.
This fort does not lend itself well to being built outside.
 Measure the pole. Screw two of the hooks into the ceiling so they are the same distance apart as the length of the pole. Cut two 3-foot long pieces of twine and use this twine to hang the pole from the screw hooks.Use the twine to tie a knot around one of the screw hooks. Then tie the other end of twine around the pole.
Repeat this for both sides of the pole.
 Beginning with the heaviest sheet, layer the sheets and fabrics over the pole, creating a tent-like shape. When all the sheets are layered, measure 2 feet down from the front of the pole and safety pin all the sheets together.Make sure to safety pin the sheets on the other side of the tent as well.
If you'd like the fort to be a little more private, add additional sheets and blankets to fill in the walls.
 Cut two pieces of 3-foot long twine and tie a piece to each of the two safety pins. Screw the two remaining hooks into the ceiling about 2 feet from either side of the pole.Tie the two pieces of twine attached to the safety pins to the two new screw hooks in the ceiling.
This will help redistribute the weight of the fort, plus it will give it some more of its shape.
 Fill your fort with pillows and blankets for coziness. To make your fort more romantic, add chocolates and champagne. Make a heart garland by cutting heart shapes out of newspapers and using a needle and thread to string them together.Hang your garland over the sides of your tent.
Try making a pom-pom garland by stringing pom-poms on a fishing wire, using a needle. Layer your pom-pom garland over your newspaper garland.

