 Use tap water and fill a kettle to the minimum fill line. You only need ½ cup (118 ml) of hot water to test the baking powder, but filling the kettle to the minimum fill line will ensure the heating element doesn’t overheat. Turn on the kettle and bring the water to a boil.Don’t use more water than you need, otherwise the kettle will waste energy heating the extra water.;
, Measure 1 teaspoon (4.6 g) of baking powder into a heat-safe bowl, glass, or dish. Once the water has boiled, you'll pour it over the baking powder, so it’s important to use a dish that can withstand the heat.


You can actually use this same method to test the potency of baking soda as well., When the kettle boils, pour some of the boiling water into a half-cup measuring cup. Slowly pour the boiling water from the measuring cup over the baking powder.

To test baking soda instead of baking powder, add 1 teaspoon of white vinegar to the hot water before pouring it over the soda. The acid in the vinegar will react with the baking soda and activate it if it’s still good., Baking powder that’s still fresh and good to use will immediately start to bubble and fizz when you pour the boiling water over it. Fizzing and hissing means the baking powder is fresh and can be used as a leavening agent in baking.


The more bubbles the baking powder creates, the fresher it is., Baking powder is actually just baking soda mixed with a dry acid, so you can make your own baking powder in a pinch if what you have on hand isn't fresh. To make 1 tablespoon (14 g) of baking powder, whisk together 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda and 2 teaspoons (7 g) of cream of tartar.

To make larger quantities of baking powder, mix baking soda and cream of tartar at a one-to-two ratio and store extras in an airtight container., Another acid you can use to convert baking soda into baking powder is buttermilk. To make baking powder this way, combine ½ teaspoon (2 g) of baking soda with ½ cup (118 ml) of buttermilk.This baking powder alternative is best in recipes that already call for the buttermilk, such as:

Pancakes
Muffins
Biscuits
Waffles
Breading or batter
Doughnuts

, Both lemon juice and vinegar contain acid that will help activate baking soda and turn it into baking powder. To make this alternative, combine ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of baking soda and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of lemon juice or vinegar. This yields 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking powder.When making baking powder with a liquid plus baking soda, reduce the amount of other liquids in the recipe by the same amount. For instance, if you made 2 teaspoons of baking powder made with lemon juice and baking soda, reduce the milk in the recipe by 2 teaspoons., When stored properly, baking powder will last for 18 months or longer. One of the most important factors when storing baking powder is to keep it in an airtight container that doesn’t let in any oxygen.Good containers include:

Mason jars
Glass or plastic containers with tight-fitting lids
Metal or ceramic baking canisters with sealing lids

, When baking powder mixes with moisture, it clumps together and becomes less effective. Dry places to store baking powder for an extended shelf life include in a pantry, cupboard, or other moisture-free area. Don’t store baking powder in damp basements, under sinks, or in areas that are prone to spills or leaks.

The moisture found in the air contains water, yeast, and other elements, and all of these will change the chemical composition of the baking powder. Eventually, the baking powder will become unusable if it’s exposed to moisture., Another way to get the most life out of baking powder is by storing it away from heat.High temperatures may activate the baking powder, especially if it hasn’t been stored in a dry enough location. Pantries and kitchen cupboards that aren't near the oven are ideal for baking powder.