 Many people who track their food intake are more effective at losing weight than those who don’t. You don’t even have to do it each day. Tracking food a few times each week or month can help you stay on track and lose more weight.Tracking your food helps you get a realistic picture of how much you eat each day. To get an honest assessment, make sure you weigh or measure your food at first instead of eyeing portion sizes.
Knowing where your calories and nutrients come from can help you make better choices. Identify calorie dense or sugar heavy foods and think of alternatives for the future.
If you are following your diet diligently and getting exercise, then you should be losing weight. If it is not working, then take two weeks of your food diary to your doctor and ask for a referral to see a registered dietitian.
 Many people think that dieting means that you can’t eat anything that tastes good or that you enjoy. This is incorrect. The word diet can be a misnomer that should be replaced by “healthy eating.” There are many ways to eat healthy, stick to your “diet,” and enjoy your food. You just have to change your mindset and allow yourself to not look at all food as the enemy and enjoy what you eat.For example, we usually think of hamburgers as being unhealthy. Cook it with low fat, grass-fed, antibiotic and hormone free meat, like 90/10 or 93/7. Place a piece of cheddar on it with ketchup, lettuce, tomato, onions, and even mushrooms on a whole wheat bun. You can eat a healthy hamburger!
Cooking with spices and herbs can enhance the flavor of plain chicken breast. Consider making a sauce for the chicken with low-fat sour cream and herbs or tomatoes and cilantro.
Don’t eat foods you don’t like. If you hate Brussel sprouts, don’t eat them. Eat green beans, broccoli, and kale instead. As long as you are eating healthy foods, it doesn’t matter if you eliminate foods you hate.
Look online or buy cookbooks to learn how to cook tasty, fulfilling food in healthy ways so you don’t lose flavor in favor of health.
 Many people will cheat or have a diet slip up with one food and think the day is ruined. Because of this, they eat whatever they want all day, which accumulates significantly more calories than one slip up. If you have one cheat moment, get back to your diet the rest of the day.One cheat moment won’t totally blow your diet. However, a day of splurging and eating unhealthy can hurt your diet.
Also, keep in mind that one cheat day won't totally destroy your diet. If you have a bad day, then learn from your mistakes and start back in the morning.
 Track your weight every day or every week by weighing yourself. You can also look for signs of weight loss, such as your clothes feeling looser.