 Before you do any stretching or strengthening exercises, you should always warm up with some cardio exercise. Go for a ten minute walk on the treadmill or a ten minute spin on an exercise bike. Take a quick walk or light jog around the block for five to ten minutes. This will help to warm up your muscles and prevent injury.Doing a warm up before your workout can ensure you do not develop sore knees or pulled muscles, as your muscles will be warm and prepared for stretching or strengthening.;
, Leg raises will help to strengthen your quadriceps, the muscles located on the front of your thigh, without aggravating your knees. This is because the exercise is non-weight bearing, meaning it won’t put much strain on the knee joints.To do leg raises, sit down on an exercise mat. Bend your left knee and place your foot flat on the mat. Keep your right leg straight and raise it to the height of the opposite knee.
Repeat the leg raise 10-15 times for three sets, resting for 30 to 60 seconds between each set.
 People with knees issues often have weak hamstrings. Hamstring curls can help to strengthen these muscles on the back of your thighs, thereby helping your knees feel supported and strong. You can do this exercise lying flat on your stomach on an exercise mat.Lie down on your stomach, with your chest on the mat and your hands under your chin or by your sides. Inhale as you raise one leg up and out behind you with your toes flexed. Bring your heels as close to your butt as you can and hold the position. Exhale as you place your leg back on the mat.
Do this exercise 10 to 15 times on one leg and then switch to the other leg. Repeat for 2 to 5 sets.
 Wall squats allow you to strengthen your thighs and your glute muscles while keeping your lower back straight. Maintaining a straight lower back will ensure your knees are well supported and not at risk of injury.To do wall squats, stand with your back against a wall. Place your feet on the floor about shoulder-width apart. Be sure that your feet are also in line with your knees, about a thigh-length away from the wall. You should be able to see the top of your shoes at all times during the exercise.
Slowly bend your knees, keeping your back and pelvis against the wall. Only bend until you feel a slight stretch in your thighs. Do not bend too low, as this can hurt your knees.
Hold the squat for five to ten seconds and then rise back up slowly, keeping your back flat against the wall. Repeat this exercise 10-15 times for a set, working up to 2 to 3 sets.
 Step ups are a great exercise for strengthening your leg muscles and to get your heart rate going. You can do step ups using a low exercise bench, a low platform, or the lowest step on a staircase.Place one foot on the step with your pelvis level. Bend your knee and slowly lower your other foot on the floor. Touch your toe to the floor and then raise it back up.
Repeat these movements 10-15 times on the same side. Then, switch legs. Make sure you inhale and exhale with each step.
 Strengthening your thighs is good because the thighs control the inward and outward motion of the knee during movement. Working these muscle groups may help keep your knees better aligned.

An inner thigh exercise can help prevent your knees from splaying outward. To work this area, stand about a forearm’s distance away from a sturdy chair or counter-top, holding it with your right hand. Position your feet hip-distance apart with your toes facing forward.
Then, place a soft ball or pillow between your thighs. Lift your heels, stand on the balls of your feet, and slightly lower your knees about an inch while pressing your inner thighs on the ball. Hold for a few seconds and then raise yourself and bring your left arm overhead. Repeat for reps before switching sides.
Try a standing side leg raise to work your outer thigh muscles. These help to prevent the knees from collapsing toward each other (knock knees). To do a standing side leg raise, stand next to a chair that you can hold for support. Stand on one leg – this is your starting position.
Keeping your leg straight, slowly raise it out to the side as far as you can and then swing it back down, crossing the opposite leg. Repeat this movement 5 to 10 times, increasing the range of motion as you do. Switch to the other side.
 Once you have done several leg strengthening exercises, you should always finish with leg stretches. Stretching your legs after doing a leg workout can help ensure your muscles do not tighten – tightness that can contribute to knee pain.Do a butterfly stretch. Sit on an exercise mat with the bottoms of your feet pressed together. Your legs should form a diamond shape. Hold your feet with your hands and inhale. Exhale as you slowly lean your upper body forward, keeping your lower back straight. Hold the stretch for up to one minute.
Try a hamstring stretch. Place your leg on the lowest step on a stairwell or on the curb of a sidewalk. Then, stretch your opposite arm toward your knee or your ankle. Hold the stretch for 20 to 60 seconds and then repeat it with the other leg.
You can also do hip flexor stretches. Lie on your back with arms at your sides, your feet on the floor, and knees bent. Your fingers should almost touch your heels. Then, press your heels down and lift your body up at the hips. Hold this for a few seconds and return to the resting position. Repeat a few times.
Finish with an IT band stretch. This targets the ligament along the side of your knee. To stretch the IT band, cross your right leg over the left while standing and lean to the right (toward the back leg) till you feel a stretch on the side of your left leg. Hold for about 20 to 60 seconds and repeat 2 or 3 times, then switch sides.

