


More specifically, you need about 3.5 oz (100 g) of cheese per guest when used as an appetizer and 7 oz (200 g) of cheese per guest when used as a main meal.
Most find that the best flavor results when multiple cheeses are mixed together.
Cheeses that usually work well for fondue include Swiss, fontina, gruyere, emmentaler, cheddar, and monterey jack.
 An acidic ingredient is necessary because it breaks up some of the stringiness of the cheese, thereby making it suitable as a dip. Wine is the standard acid of choice, and you usually need about 1 cup (250 ml) of wine per 1 lb (450 g) of cheese.


Dry white wine is ideal. A few good options include Chenin Blanc, Dry Vermouth, Muscadet, Pinot Blanc, Pinot Grigio, Sauvignon Blanc, and Viognier.
For a non-alcoholic option, substitute the wine for milk and add 2 to 3 Tbsp (30 to 45 ml) of lemon juice.
 Flour and cornstarch are the most common options. Add about 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of your chosen thickener per 1 lb (450 ml) of cheese.


Whisk the liquid and thickener together over low heat on the stovetop to combine. The liquid should be smooth and without lumps.
 Even though you might be able to melt the cheese in your fondue pot, melting it on the stove will make it smoother.


Shred the cheese before you melt it. Doing so will speed the process up.
Add the cheese to the thickened liquid in your saucepan one handful at a time, stirring with each addition. Do not let the cheese boil or simmer.
 Cut a clove of garlic in half and rub the exposed inside around the bottom and sides of your fondue pot.


Rubbing the garlic on the pot will add extra flavor and aroma to the fondue without creating an overpowering garlic taste.
 Pour the cheese into your fondue pot, scraping the sides of your saucepan to get as much of the liquid cheese out as possible.


Light your fondue pot using an alcohol or gel fuel.
 Cheese fondue goes great with a variety of foods, included cubed bread, lightly steamed cauliflower or broccoli, or chunks of fried potatoes. You can also use fruit like apples or grapes.


For fruit and vegetables, prepare enough for 1 to 2 pieces of fruit per person.
For bread, prepare 2 to 3 servings of bread per person.

