 Who doesn’t love to be serenaded? If you are musically inclined, pick up a guitar (or banjo, or mandolin..etc.) and create a short song that ties in your prospective dates name and the big prom question.Get a band involved. If you’re in a band, even better. You can write a song together to serenade your prospective date with. Another option is to bring your band mates to your prospective date’s house. Have each band mate hide behind a tree. Ring the doorbell and make sure your prospective date is the one standing at the door. If you play an instrument, begin playing and singing your song. One by one, have each band member step out of their hiding places so that eventually your prospective date has an entire band on his/her doorstep.
 Animals are cute and make every situation more awesome. If you have a pet that will let you do this, tie a sign around his/her neck with the word ‘Prom?’ written on it. You can take your pet to your prospective date’s house and stand on the doorstep with a bunch of roses/chocolates etc. beside your pet. Your date will be so overloaded with cuteness she/he will have to say yes.


Another option is to take a picture of your pet wearing the sign and email/text/Facebook the picture to your prospective date. This method is best if your prospective date is super allergic to animals.
 Over a pizza with pepperoni on it. Move the pepperonis around so that they spell out the word ‘Prom?’ If you don’t have enough pepperonis, buy a separate pack and add as many as you need. Double check that your prospective date is home, either by calling the home phone or getting a friend to text your date, asking what he/she is up to. Go to your prospective date’s house, ring the doorbell, and pretend that you work at the pizza delivery place. When your date says that he/she didn’t order anything, say something like, “oh let me just check…” open up the pizza and show him/her the pizza (with the words.), Buy a piece of cardstock (colorful cardstock is a nice touch.) Write “Dear -date’s name-, will you go to prom with me? From, -your name-” on the cardstock. Cut the cardstock up into puzzle pieces. Put the pieces in a box and give the box to your prospective date.