 The phrase is an admission that the case, outcome or state of being presented to you, the consumer, is not a standard result. The advertiser has taken a particular instance of incredible success as a result of using their product, service or scheme and has made a big deal out of this one success for the sake of the advertisement.;
, You are not getting to find out some rather important information, such as:


Just how many people do get the advertised results?
How many people fail to gain the phenomenal success the non-typical example is espousing?
How much effort of my own is needed to get to the same standard?
How much of my own resources (generally financial) do I need to put towards even having a hope of getting the non-typical results?

, How realistic do the claims made seem to you? If it seems too good to be true, then it probably is. If it seems like the person in the advertisement was paid to say what they've said, was given some bonus or happens to be associated to the company through relationships or employment, then be ultra wary.
 People who have tried the product, service or scheme may already have left their comments (be they complaints or praise) in a consumer forum or somewhere else online.
 If you have a sense of uncertainty about buying into the advertised item or service, talk to people you trust about it and get their opinion before spending (and potentially wasting) your money.
 There is no harm asking questions of the seller. The answers (or lack thereof) can tell you a lot about the integrity of those in the company. Things to ask might include:


Can you please tell me exactly how many people have lost 50 pounds/earned $50,000 a month 12 months in a row/trained their baby to sleep at the click of a finger using your program/item/scheme/service, etc.
What additional costs can I expect to have to pay besides the joining fee shown on the advertisement?
I can't see any costs advertised. What costs am I likely to incur if I join this scheme?
How many hours of effort/work/trialing will I have to put in to get the results that are advertised?
And so forth.
 Whenever something sounds too good to be true or leaves out too much information about costs and efforts, it's probably best to keep away. On the other hand, if it is a product/scheme/service where the results can be achieved through consistent dedication and hard work and you're prepared to put this in on top of whatever you have to pay, then it may just be successful. But do your background checking and homework first. If it's fishy, leave it well alone and keep your money for something trustworthy.


If you don't get answers to your questions above, walk away.
If you get answers that are indirect, hedge around the issue or sound downright false, walk away.

