 This simple shelf is made from a picture frame. You can often find suitable, inexpensive frames at thrift and secondhand stores. Prioritize thick frames, as these will better hide the wooden 1x2 ledge you'll adding behind the frame. Including these, you'll also need:1x2 boards (equal in length to the outside perimeter of your frame; thinner boards can be used for thinner frames)
2-inch screws
Drill
Glue
Level
Picture frame
Saw
Wall anchors (x2)

, You're going to need to cut your 1x2 boards to the dimension of your picture frame, so you'll want to choose a work area where you can easily clean up sawdust, like a place with a hard floor. You'll also want a wide, sturdy, flat work surface, and a surrounding area clear of obstacles and tripping hazards.


If you don't have a hard floored work area available to you, you can cut down on cleanup by making a backyard work bench. Lay a wide, flat board between two saw horses on a flat stretch of ground and you're good to go.
 Your 1x2 boards will follow the entire perimeter of the back of your picture frame, creating a ledge on which you can place your pictures. However, your 1x2 frame should be slightly smaller than the outer perimeter of the picture frame, but bigger than its inner perimeter. Cut your boards to the dimensions of your picture frame using your saw.


Since you have chosen a thick frame, the outer perimeter around the outside of the frame will be larger than the inner perimeter on its inside.
A 1x2 frame smaller than the outer perimeter but larger than the inner will allow part of the frame to extend beyond the 1x2 frame, hiding it, while the inner perimeter will extend beyond the frame on the inside to create a lip., The unpainted wood of your 1x2 frame can be made more appealing many ways. For example, you might add a coat of paint the same color as the wall on which you plan to hang your shelf, or you could stain the wood.


It'll be easiest to paint your 1x2 boards before they're assembled into a frame or attached to your picture frame.
When painting and staining, follow the label directions carefully. Different brands may have special procedures or techniques to improve the outcome.
Allow sufficient time for your decorations to dry before putting together your 1x2 boards into a frame.
Paint and staining can give off harmful fumes. Work in a well ventilated area when doing either to prevent the injury or death., Lay out your now cut 1x2 boards so each board corresponds to and forms a similar shape to your picture frame. Use your drill to connect each board to its neighbor with at least two screws.


Before you fasten together any boards with screws, take your picture frame and place it atop your 1x2 frame. If the width of the picture frame extends beyond the 1x2 frame inside and out all around, your 1x2 frame has been cut correctly., Depending on the kind of picture frame you've chosen for this project, the glue you use to fasten your picture and 1x2 frames together may vary. Lay your 1x2 frame so it stands on its long, narrow edges and:


Apply your glue to the entire upward face of the long, narrow edges. In most cases, your picture frame will be wood, and a general purpose wood glue will be most effective.
Carefully lower the back of your frame onto the adhesive so the inside and outside perimeters of the frame extend beyond your 1x2 frame. The long edges of both frames should be parallel.
Follow the instructions on your glue to determine the length of time you'll need to wait until it is dry. Working on your frame before it has dried could cause it to fall apart., Because of the way the wood is positioned, it may be difficult for you to hang your picture frame shelf without wall hangers. These should be screwed into place on the back of the 1x2 frame, in the upper left and right corners., For most medium sized frames, you should only need a single stud to mount your shelf sturdily to the wall. Large to very large frames might best be supported by two studs. Measure and mark where on the wall's stud(s) you plan to hang your shelf, then:


Align your wall hangers with the marks you've made to indicate the placement of your shelf on the wall. Check the shelf with a level and adjust it until it is perfectly flat.
Use your drill to fasten the first wall hanger to the wall with a screw. Re-check the levelness of the shelf, and then fasten the final wall hanger with a screw.