 If you want to buy Type EE bonds or Type I bonds electronically, you must purchase them through the Treasury Department’s website. You’ll need to set up a TreasuryDirect account, which will allow you to purchase and manage your savings bonds.You can set up your account at http://treasurydirect.gov.You must be at least 18 years of age to open a TreasuryDirect account., In order to open your account, follow the prompts on the Treasury Department’s website by clicking on the tabs to open a TreasuryDirect account. You’ll also need to have some basic information available to purchase the bonds online. Following the prompts and having the proper data can help you to effortlessly purchase your bonds.You need your Social Security number or taxpayer identification, the savings or checking account number from which the Treasury Department can withdraw the funds, and your financial institution’s routing number.If you are buying the savings bonds as a gift, you’ll need the recipient’s Social Security number., You'll be required to provide several pieces of personal information to set up your account. Enter your Social Security Number, a valid United States address, driver's license or state ID number, United States bank account and routing information, and email address. Enter this information will allow you to fully set up and manage your account., You’ll need a password that you can easily remember in order to buy and manage bonds. Construct a password that is simple enough for you to know but secure enough to prevent hacking.Consider using a mix of letters and numbers for the most secure password.
Write down your password and keep it in a safe and easily accessible place for when you need it.
Select a reminder from the list the Treasury Department provides to help you if you forget your password.
 Once you’ve finished following the account setup prompts, the Treasury Department will email you your account information. Click on the link provided to confirm your account so that you can start buying savings bonds as soon as you like.
 You’re now ready to buy bonds with your TreasuryDirect account. Log in to your account with the information you provided to start the process of purchasing EE or I bonds.
 Your TreasuryDirect account will prompt you to choose who will own the savings bond. You have the choice of buying the bond for yourself or for someone else as a gift.You have the option to purchase as “sole owner” or a recipient who will own the bond.If you are giving the savings bond to someone else as a gift, the recipient must have a Treasury Direct account. You will need to indicate the recipient's full name and Social Security Number or taxpayer ID number. You can keep the gift bond in your account until they set up a TreasuryDirect account., You can decide which bond series to buy after you’ve designated the owner. Choose either Type EE or I bond based on the type of interest rate you want to accrue.Both Series EE and Series I bonds are sold electronically at face value and require a $25 minimum purchase. You can purchase bonds electronically in any dollar amount, however.
 Make sure to review your savings bond purchase before you send the final request. This can help ensure that you haven’t purchased too much—or too little—in savings bonds.


The Treasury Department will deduct the dollar amount of your bond purchase within five business days of your purchase.Confirm your purchase by checking your account. A record of the bond will be in your TreasuryDirect account. If it doesn’t appear within one business day, you can email the Treasury Department for help at treasury.direct@bpd.treas.gov. Include your account number and daytime phone number, but no personal information.Remember that you will not receive a paper bond if you purchased online.