 This page will automatically tell you which version you have and whether or not it needs an update.


This page can be found at: http://helpx.adobe.com/flash-player/kb/find-version-flash-player.html

Chances are, if you are wondering about how to update your version of Adobe Flash, the issue has been brought to your attention because your Internet browser notified you that a new update must be installed to view certain content. If this happens, you can probably skip this verification step. If the alert box has a button that reads "Download Flash", click on that button to continue.;
, Close all open windows and applications to prevent anything from interfering with the download and installation processes. The only window you should have open right now is your Internet browser, and you should not have any tabs open within the browser other than the tab used to download the installation file.


You might be able to get away with keeping other applications, folders, and files open, but since the installation process will be making a few changes to your computer, it is always recommended that you close out of everything not needed to complete the process to avoid any loss of information or installation errors.
 Go to the Adobe Flash Player download page to download the most updated version of Flash for your machine.


Access the page at: http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/

Choose your operating system and and the version of Flash you want to download for your machine from the corresponding drop-down menus on the page.
Click on the "Download Now" button to begin the download.
 After the installer downloads, it might open automatically. If it does not, navigate to the location of the downloaded installer file on your computer and double-click the file to start the installer. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the update.


To minimize clutter and installation time, un-check any extra toolbars offered along with the Flash installation.
Read over any terms or conditions presented and click on the "Agree and install now" button to begin the installation.
If asked to choose your update method for further Flash updates, consider choosing the "Install updates automatically when available" option. This option will cause your browser to automatically download future updates so you will not need to go through this process in the future.
 Once the process completes itself, you should restart your browser by closing out of it and opening it back up again. You can check your version to verify that the update took hold by visiting the same “Find Version” page listed earlier in these instructions.


Note that in some rare cases, this process will not work. If the update fails, you should try a clean update of Adobe Flash, in which you will uninstall any old version manually before re-installing a new version.

