 When you have depression, there may be certain situations or circumstances that make it more likely that you’ll have a depressive episode. You may be able to prevent relapse early on if you learn the people, places, experiences, and other things that may trigger an episode for you.Use your journal to identify situations, people, or places that seem to trigger a relapse. For example, you might notice that before your last relapse you visited your hometown. The visit may have been a trigger.
Make a list of the things that seem to lead to a depression relapse for you. For instance, you might write: a bad evaluation at work, relationships ending, and spending lots of time alone.
 Once of the best things you can to prevent a future depressive relapse is to be proactive.Having a plan in place to recognize and manage a depression relapse will reduce some of the stress and uncertainty that depression may cause. It will also help your support team know what to do in the event that you have a relapse.


Include a list of your personal triggers and signs in your plan. This may help you and your support team recognize when you may be having a depression relapse sooner.
Make a list of important contacts. For example, you may want to include your physician’s contact information, along with that of your therapist, and your school counselor.
Outline coping strategies and treatments that may help you during a depression relapse. For example, you might include exercise, sticking to a schedule, and attending therapy as ways to address a future depression relapse.
 You may not need to continue therapy, medication, or other treatments at the same intensity or frequency that you do during a depressive episode. However, continuation treatment can help prevent a future relapse by providing you with ongoing support after you have had a major depressive episode. Maintenance treatment, on the other hand, can provide general support, even when you haven’t recently had a relapse or major episode.Continuation treatment generally lasts about five months and may be in the form of medication, therapy, another treatment method, or a combination of treatments. It is usually less intense than regular treatment.
Maintenance treatment may also take a number of different forms, but is less intense than either regular or continuation treatment. It can also last as long as needed – sometimes for life.
 Because depression is affected by your health and can also affect your health, it’s important that you do things to take of yourself.Maintaining your health will give you the energy, focus, and nutrition you need to try to prevent a future depression relapse and manage one if it occurs.


Aim to get 6 – 8 hours of sleep each night. Too much more or less sleep can leave you feeling sluggish, unfocused, and cranky.
Participate in physical activity on a regular basis. For example, try cycling, swimming, a team sport, yoga, or martial arts.
Eat meals and snacks that are nutritious. For instance, snack on fruits and nuts instead of a candy bar.
Drink about 64 ounces of water each day. Try to have fruit juices and tea instead of soft drinks and caffeinated beverages.
Avoid illegal substances and keep nicotine and alcohol use to a minimum. It may seem that these things help you manage depression, but they can cause health problems and even make depression worse.
 Whether it is mindfulness meditation or simply trying to be more mindful in everyday life, this practice can help you prevent future depression relapses. Being mindful allows you to be aware of how you are feeling which can help you recognize the subtle signs of a relapse before it becomes full-blown.Try to focus on doing only one thing at a time. Focus your thoughts and sense on that activity. For example, if you are taking a walk, notice how the wind feels, the air smells, the sky looks, and what your neighborhood sounds like.
When you are practicing mindfulness meditation, find a comfortable place where you can relax and focus on your breathing and your emotions.
 Well there are some coping mechanisms that have been found to be effective for managing depression, you may have some way of coping with it that are specific for you. Go beyond the stress management techniques that you already know and explore new ways to manage your depression.


For example, going for a drive through the countryside might be a personal coping mechanism for you.
Or, for instance, you might try alternative forms of yoga, such as hot yoga, or even different forms of meditation.

