 Eid al-Adha is celebrated directly after the Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. This is usually on the 10th day of the Islamic lunar month Dhul Hijjah, but this can vary based on the practices of local religious authorities.Muslims everywhere celebrate this holiday, even if they did not perform hajj this year.


Because the holiday is determined by the lunar calendar, it does not fall on the same date on the Gregorian (Western) calendar each year.
 As described in the section on Eid al-Fitr, Muslims, or sometimes only the men, usually attend an Eid prayer followed by a sermon early in the morning. Everyone does their best to dress up and look presentable, showers or bathes in the morning, and wears new clothes if they can afford to purchase them.


Unlike Eid al-Fitr, there is no special focus on sweets or breaking your fast.
 Each individual or household who can afford to do so should sacrifice a sheep, cow, goat, or camel on Eid al-Adha, to commemorate the animal God sent to Abraham to replace his son Ishmael as a sacrifice. The animal should be healthy, and halal must be followed when slaughtering the animal.
 The meat from the sacrificed animal is cooked, using any method you prefer. One third of it is eaten by the household or group that sacrificed. One third of it is given to extended family and friends, often at a separate feast. One third of it is given to poor or hungry people.


People often gather in groups to hold a barbecue, or to eat the meat that's been cooked in a pit oven. Other foods are usually eaten as well, but there are no special requirements apart from following halal.
 Many Western countries ban the slaughter of animals outside a slaughterhouse, and in some cities finding an animal can be difficult. In these situations, Muslims rely on a couple options:


Money can be sent to contacts in another country or region, who will sacrifice the animal and distribute its meat on your behalf.
Muslim butchers may provide a location and assistance so sacrifice can be made legally and in accordance with halal.

