 Some people think wit means being mean and sarcastic. While it’s true that there are plenty of examples of witty remarks made at the expense of others, being witty doesn’t have to mean being cruel.That said, there is a time and a place for backhanded comments and cutting rejoinders. A good rule to follow if you’re going to take shots at other people is to take at least as many shots at yourself. Tempering sarcastic comments about others with self-deprecating jokes will make you seem more fair, and less like an insult-machine. After all, if you alienate people, there will be no one to appreciate your wit.
 Of course, genuine confidence is always preferable to feigned confidence, but there are plenty of witty people who are plagued by self-doubt. If you fade into the background, however, or seem not to believe in your own jokes, it will be hard for other people to relax and appreciate your wit. It is certainly possible to be off-puttingly over-confident as well, and there are a number of witty people (like Woody Allen, Mitch Hedberg, and David Sedaris) who cultivate a persona that takes advantage of their neuroses for comedic effect. Even these people, however, know how to present their jokes with enough confidence that their audience is not too worried for them to laugh, or made uncomfortable by their discomfort. If you are not a very confident person, don’t fear. There is a lot to be said for faking it till you make it; if you present the appearance of confidence, you may find yourself becoming more genuinely confident with time. Stand up straight, speak slowly and clearly, and smile. This can go a long way toward making people receptive of your jokes.
 Perhaps history’s most famous quote about wit comes from Shakespeare’s Hamlet: “Brevity is the soul of wit.”The contemporary writer George Saunders elaborated slightly on this theme when he wrote, “Humor is what happens when we’re told the truth quicker and more directly than we’re used to.”The best witty quips are short and pithy; don’t belabor the point. Your wit should be a pleasant addition to a conversation, not its primary focus.
 A large part of being witty is the appearance of cleverness; improving your vocabulary can only help in this regard. There are a number of “word a day” style apps for your phone that can help with this. Alternatively, flip through a dictionary and make a list of words you would like to add to your active vocabulary (“active vocabulary” refers to words you use in your day-to-day speech, as opposed to “passive vocabulary,” which refers to words you recognize upon reading or hearing, but do not personally use) and make flashcards to quiz yourself.

