 Averting your eyes signals to the other person that you are not interested in a conversation. Even if the other person has already engaged you, a slight diversion in eye contact can signal to them that you do not want to continue the conversation. The rest of your body language can also play a part. Angle your body away from the person and cross your arms or look down.
If you're with a friend, turn and engage in conversation so you can avoid looking at the person you don't want to talk to.;
, Acting as if you are alone in your environment makes people want to leave you alone. If there's something about you that stands out, it can act as an unwanted conversation starter.


Clothing can help you blend in or stand out. If you want to blend in, try wearing jeans and a dark-colored top, with plain shoes.
In the summer, wear sunglasses; in the winter, wear a big coat with a hood.
 Sometimes averting your eyes isn’t a strong enough cue to signal to the other person that you do not wish to talk to them. Instead, draw your attention toward something in your environment. Changing your body language is a strong indicator that you do not have time to converse.


Rummage for something in your bag, if you have one.
Stop, and look at something around you. Try window shopping if you are on the street, or read a sign that is posted in the hallway.
Pretend as if something is wrong with your shoe, and stop to fix it.
 You do not have to actually use your phone, just pretend to be speaking to someone. Turn slightly away from the person watching you and begin a one-sided conversation; they'll be none the wiser.


Pretend to answer a phone call. Keep talking as you walk away from the person you want to avoid.
Make sure that your phone is silenced or on vibrate; it would be a dead give-away if you were to receive a call while you are pretending to talk on it!

, Wear headphones or earbuds so it seems as if you are listening to something. Pretending to listen intently can signal to the other person that you do not want to be disturbed. If you seem to be lost in what you are listening to, you can even get away with not acknowledging the other person.
 Even before you are close enough to converse with someone, you can nonverbally signal to them that you are too busy to talk. Check your watch often and look like you're in a hurry. Tell them "I'm sorry, I'm running late," if they try to engage you.
 There are many apps in the works now for smart-phone users to help them avoid others they don’t want to see. uses location-tagged social media (like facebook, twitter, and Instagram) posts to help you avoid large crowds . and work similarly by helping you find out the location of a specific person, if you would like to avoid someone in particular .

