 After a fight with your parents, take some time to process your thoughts. Go to your room, go sit outside, or go for a walk if you can. Get away from the situation so you can think clearly.Close your eyes and think about what caused the argument. Are you actually mad at your parents, or is there something else causing stress in your life? Take some time to work through your thoughts and find the reason why you're upset.It could be that your parents are the reason why you're upset, and you're not just taking your anger out on them. Think about what they did, and why it upset you. Try to understand their perspective as well.;
, After a fight, your heart is pounding and it's hard to focus. Deep breathing is one of the best ways to relax after a tense situation.Try the "Four Square" method of breathing. Four Square breathing breaks your breath down into four steps all set to a count of four. Take a deep breath for a count of four. Then, hold your breath for a count of four. Exhale for a count of four, and then rest for a count of four. Take a few normal breaths, and then repeat the process until you feel more relaxed.Meditating may also be helpful. Meditation requires a lot of patience, but practicing can help combat stress and anxiety. To start meditating, find a quiet place and sit with your back straight. Make sure you are comfortable. Take a deep breath through your nose and fill your lungs completely. You should feel your chest expand. When you exhale, push the air out through your mouth. Try to get every bit of air out of your body. Continue to breathe this way and work on clearing your mind., Writing can help you put words to your feelings, and gives you an opportunity to see what's really going on. Write as if you're talking to your best friend. Just get the feelings on paper.You may find it more helpful to write about something other than your feelings. For some, writing stories can be an outlet. You can write whatever you'd like if it helps you calm down., At some point, you'll need to talk to your parents again. Try not to put this off for too long. While it's important for both you and your parents to calm down after a fight, the quicker you can get back on good terms, the better.If you still have some things you need to say, make sure you do it in a respectful way. Be assertive, but make sure you're not making things worse. Organize your thoughts, and let your parents know exactly how you feel., Not every conversation with your parents has to be an argument. Try talking to your parents about non-controversial issues. Tell them how your day was, and ask them about theirs.The more you talk with your parents, even if it's about trivial matters, the easier it gets. Talking with your parents will help you form a bond with them, and may make things easier when you disagree.If you have a rocky relationship with your parents, start slow. It is not too late to start talking to them. Spend time with them and try to build trust. Show them that you want them to be a part of your life., At some point you will have to have difficult conversations with your parents. Before you start talking to them, take some time to organize your thoughts. By knowing what you want to say, you can communicate to your parents what you need from them.Planning the conversation is also a good way to calm yourself down, especially if you have to deliver bad news.If you just want your parents to listen to you, make that clear before the conversation. Tell them about your problem, and let them know that you just need someone who will listen to you., Some topics, such as sex or personal feelings, can be awkward to talk about with your parents. Don't let feelings of embarrassment or shame keep you from talking with them. Be up front with them, even if you think they'll be mad.By recognizing how you feel, and telling your parents, you may be able to ease them into the conversation. When it comes to topics such as a failing grade or a speeding ticket, ask that your parents listen to what you have to say.Try saying something like, "I need to talk to you. I have some bad news, and I'm worried that you'll be upset, but I have to tell you. Will you listen to me?"You could also say, "I'm a little embarrassed about something, but I need someone to talk to you.", Try to think about how much time you'll need to talk with your parents. Look for times when they aren't busy with other things.If you can't find a good time, tell your parents that you need to talk to them, and ask them when they have some spare time.Don't try to break bad news to your parents right when they get home from work., When you get into a disagreement with your parents, it can be tempting to defend yourself. While you should make sure you have a chance to say your piece, you should also give your parents the same respect.Avoid interruptions. Give your parents the opportunity to say what they need to say before responding. While your parents are talking, give them your full attention. Don't let your mind wander, and don't think about how much you disagree.When responding, repeat a few key points they made to show that you listened. Tell them what you disagree with, and why., If things get heated between you and your parents, don't insult them. Avoid making sarcastic remarks or calling them names. This will not help you resolve the conflict.Rather than get angry and resort to personal attacks, let your parents know why you disagree with their rules. Explain your feelings. They may not change their rules, but by being civil with your parents you may earn more trust in the future.
 Lying to your parents will keep them from trusting you. Avoid hiding information from them, even if you know it's likely to get you in trouble.Let them know you understand where they are coming from, and try to offer an alternative solution. Maybe you want to stay out an hour later one night. Try saying something like, "I know you want me home early because you care about me and want me to make it home safely. But I think I'm old enough to stay out a little bit later. Maybe we can try it for one night and see how it goes?"Honesty is about more than telling the truth. If your parents do something that bothers you, be honest with them. If what they do is hurtful to you, tell them., Your parents may want to make a deal with you to end the disagreement. Or, perhaps you have an idea for a trade-off. In any case, if you make a compromise with your parents, stick to it.If you make a compromise and fail to deliver on your end of the agreement, it will be much more difficult to reason with your parents in the future.
 If you want to have a better relationship with your parents, do not ignore them. When they try to get in touch with you, respond. The more your parents trust you, the less likely they are to try and impose restrictions on you.If you get a phone call from your parents, answer it. If they text you, respond. Your response doesn't have to be lengthy, just let them know you are available., When your parents ask you to do something, do it. Even if they didn't ask you to do anything, do something to help around the house.Don't brag about helping, or they'll suspect you want something. Chances are, if you start helping around the house and paying more attention to the things they ask of you, your parents will notice., Building trust takes time, even if you haven't done anything wrong. If you feel like your parents are being unfair, or overly suspicious, talk to them. Make sure you are clear with them about what you want.If you have a history of breaking household rules, don't expect your parents to easily give in.
 Until you are an adult and living on your own, you have to play by your parents' rules. The easiest way to build trust with your parents is to respect them as the leaders of the household. Acknowledge their rules and don't argue with them.Try to see things from their point of view. Your parents have your best interest at heart, even if it seems otherwise. While they may not always be right, they probably have good reasons for their rules.Continue to talk to your parents. Express your opinions and let them know your needs. Don't shut them out of your life simply because you don't agree with everything they say. Treat them with respect, and you'll likely get respect in return.