 Starting a paper is a big job. You want to make sure that you are going to produce a quality product. Take some time to research all aspects of journalism.Collect examples of different types of articles. Then share these articles with your news staff members.
Look for examples of news stories, features, and editorials. You can also collect examples of photojournalism.
Read a variety of newspapers. Collect issues of your local paper and also national publications. You will have a wide variety of examples to inspire you.
 Like most things in life, a school newspaper costs money. Before you produce your first issue, you will need to figure out some financial details. Ask your faculty adviser to help you create a budget.Write down the costs of all of your materials. For example, you will need basic office supplies.
Don't forget to factor in major expenses. You will need to pay your printer or publisher.
Ask your school administration for funds. Most school can offer some money to student organizations.
Start selling ad space. Visit local merchants and ask them to advertise in your paper. This revenue will help cover your costs.
 You will need a place to work. Your workers will need a place to write and to put together the layout of the paper. You will also need a site for staff meetings.Ask the administration at the school for classroom space. You will need to secure a dedicated room where you can store your materials and meet.
If an entire classroom is not available, ask for storage space. You can at least get some storage lockers where you can securely keep your supplies.
If necessary, you can hold meetings in the library. Just make sure to also book time and space in advance.
 Before you can print your paper, you will need to get some basic supplies. Most layouts are done on computers. Make sure that you have access to some design software and can use your school computers. You will need Adobe InDesign and Adobe Photoshop.You will also need cameras. Try to purchase at least 2 digital cameras for your photographers to use.
A scanner is a necessity. This will be used to scan artwork into your paper.
Make sure to include all of these items in your budget. Remember that most of them will be a one time cost, but that you may need to make repairs or upgrades in the future.

