 Let it get nice and hot before adding the sausage, as this will quickly brown the sides. A thick or heavy-bottomed pan will hold its heat even as you add cold ingredients, leading to a better final consistency. Arrange your ingredients near you and cut open the package of sausage, waiting to add until the pan gets hot.









Let the milk get to room temperature as well -- it's best if it warms up on the counter a bit before adding it, so don't leave it in the fridge because you're worried it might spoil. It won't.;
, Using a spatula, pull the pork apart into nickel-sized chunks, breaking it up so that it cooks faster and is easier to eat later. Keep separating it while it cooks, moving it around so that no one side gets too brown.
 Gravy is just cooked flour in a fat, and that fat can be animal fat, butter, or both. But you can't have a completely dry pan or there will be nothing to absorb the flour and make a gravy.


Butter isn't strictly necessary, but it helps if you're using a lower-fat sausage, like turkey or chicken sausage.
 You need to do this slowly, as the flour wants to be incorporated evenly into the liquid. The best way to do this is to break the 1/3 cup of flour into three parts, adding and stirring each one in individually. Keep the whisk moving, breaking up and clumps and stirring until none of the flour is at all visible.
 In a pinch, 2% will also work, but don't use skim -- you need the fat to help bind the gravy. If you can, measure out the milk ahead of time and let it warm slightly towards room temperature. You need to add the milk slowly because you don't want to rapidly change the temperature of your gravy. Pour a bit in, stir and let it simmer, then add some more.









While you need to add the milk slowly, you don't want to dilly-dally. Add about a 1/2 cup, stir until simmering, then add more.
Add more milk for a thinner gravy, but know that you can always thicken it if you add too much., A classic sausage gravy is spiced only with ground black pepper and the seasoning already on the sausage. You can use as much as you desire to get your perfect sausage gravy. Recipes range from 2 teaspoons to 2 whole tablespoons, so add it bit by bit and taste to get your desired amount.









A pinch (1/4 teaspoon or so) of nutmeg is also added frequently., As it cooks, the liquid will evaporate off and leave a thick, delicious gravy. You can stop the process at any point, knowing that it will thicken a bit as it cools, but most chefs like to cook for at least 5-7 minutes.
 This gravy is best right off the stove, and it tends to thicken too much and congeal after the first day. Enjoy it hot and fresh, preferably slathered over fresh biscuits.







