 Add a dab of plain white toothpaste to a toothbrush, dip it into a cleaning solution of warm water and a touch of gentle dish soap, and scrub away at stains or scuffs. Wipe away the excess with a clean, damp cloth, and repeat as needed.You can also make a paste by putting a few spoonfuls of baking soda into a bowl, then stirring in a small amount of water until you reach a toothpaste consistency.
Pick out pebbles or dirt caught in between the shoe treads with a toothpick and/or a stiff, dry brush.
 Clear surface debris away from the leather with a dry cloth or soft brush. Wipe the leather with a clean cloth that is lightly dampened with plain, warm water.Add a small dab of plain white toothpaste to the fingertips of your first and middle fingers, then dip them in warm water. Rub the leather in a circular motion, then wipe away the toothpaste and dirt with a damp cloth.
Dry the surface with a clean cloth, then let the leather air dry overnight.
 Basketball shoes with uppers or components made of canvas or similar absorbent materials can be cleaned in much the same way as any other pair. Use warm water and gentle soap, clean them with soft cloths or brushes, and allow them to air dry.You can, however, get canvas a bit more wet and scrub it a bit more aggressively if needed to remove stubborn stains.
If the canvas gets saturated, blot or squeeze it with a dry towel, stuff newspapers into the shoes, and let them dry overnight.
 You can’t fully clean either the shoes or the laces if you don’t separate them. Once you remove the laces, you can dampen and scrub them with the same gentle cleaning solution as for the shoes. Or, you can toss them in the washing machine.If the shoelaces are frayed or overly worn or dirty, it’s best to just replace them., Remove insoles/inserts and clean them in the same fashion as the shoes. Allow them — and the shoes — to dry completely before reinserting them. For odor control, try sprinkling a bit of baking soda on them before putting them back in.You could try throwing them in the washing machine, but you run the risk of them being damaged; hand washing is safest.
For overnight deodorizing, you can also dry putting a dryer sheet inside each shoe.