 Try to be as busy as possible during the day and night. Keep your mind focused on activities that do not stimulate your sexual fantasies. This will vary in each person.


Some examples of positive or distracting activities you can try are: playing video games, watching a movie (non-sexual), going for a walk, going window shopping, playing with a pet, reading a book, playing an instrument, creating art (painting, coloring, sculpting), and writing in a journal.
 Our obligations can help us focus on what is necessary (money, food, shelter, education, etc) rather than what is not essential for daily life (masturbation). Having less free-time overall can decrease your desire and actual ability to masturbate because it becomes an impractical part of your day. If you don't have time for it, you might not do it.


Make a list of the things you need to complete each day. This list might include things like: complete work or school projects, go shopping, clean bedroom, pay bills, practice the guitar, and exercise. Keep this list handy. When you have the urge to masturbate, look at your list and tell yourself, “I don’t have time to masturbate right now. I need to get all of this done today.”
Get a job if you are old enough. A job is a good distraction and can help you structure your schedule. Not to mention you'll have money to spend on activities that can distract and entertain you!

, Sometimes your environment (being home alone, or in your bedroom) can increase your desire to masturbate. Since masturbation in public is most likely inappropriate and illegal, changing your environment may help to reduce your urge to masturbate.If you have the urge to masturbate, take a walk outside or go for a drive. If you are in public it may prevent you from masturbating. Additionally, it can take your mind off of your desire to masturbate.
Ask a friend to hang out or spend time with your family. It will likely limit your ability to masturbate if you are in front of other people.
 Exercise may help reduce sexual desires.If you masturbate to reduce stress at times, exercise is a healthy alternative because it releases endorphins in your brain which make you feel happier and less stressed.


Try fun aerobic or exercise activities such as: skateboarding, swimming, hiking, biking, bowling, jumping-rope, dancing, aerobics, or yoga.
 One way to distract yourself is to remind yourself of or visualize the possible negative effects of excessive masturbationsuch as: impaired sexual function, depression, dissatisfaction in relationships, high blood pressure, increased prostate cancer risk in males, and swollen and painful prostate.Excessive vibrator use in women may result in side effects such as genital numbness, irritation, or cuts or tears.Identify the personal negative consequences of your habit of masturbating. This list might include things like difficulty completing work or school tasks, and disruption in personal relationships.
 If you really do not want to masturbate, try to focus on avoiding it when it is inappropriate to do so. This includes when you and your spouse/partner have planned intercourse soon, when you are not totally in private, when you need to be productive doing something else, or when you must save sperm for a medical test.


Set goals that are specific to your personal needs. Some individuals may want to avoid masturbation altogether for religious or cultural reasons, while others may want to reduce the amount of time they spend masturbating overall.
It is easy to lose your sense of time while masturbating. Be sure of how much time you have until your next obligation, such as work, school, etc. If you do not have enough time until your next obligation, consider putting off masturbation until later.

