 Some painkiller medications, including commonly used over-the-counter medications, can cause gastritis. They are responsible for 15-30% of ulcers.Always discuss any changes in medications with your doctor before making them, including changes in over the counter-medications. If your doctor thinks switching may be helpful to you, acetaminophen (Tylenol) is less likely to give you gastritis than:Aspirin
Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, etc.)
Naproxen (Aleve, Anaprox)

, These medications, such as Tums, neutralize your stomach acid, making it less acidic and less irritating to the lining of your stomach. They are fast acting.


They can be purchased at your local drug store or grocery store without a prescription and taken as needed.
Side effects can include constipation or diarrhea.
 If your doctor expects that an H. pylori infection is causing your gastritis, you may be prescribed antibiotics to kill it. Always take the full course of antibiotics even if your symptoms subside. This is important for not creating strains that are resistant to antibiotics. Your doctor will most likely prescribe these three medications for H. pylori:


Clarithromycin
Amoxicillin OR metronidazole OR levofloxacin, depending on if you are allergic to any specific antibiotics
Omeprazole or another PPI

, These medications lower the amount of acid your body releases into your digestive tract. This helps to alleviate discomfort and let inflamed tissues heal. These medications are available by prescription and as over-the-counter products. Note, however, that these do not work immediately. Their mechanism of action is to reduce the amount of acid pumped in the stomach (at the molecular level). This can take 3-4 weeks, and if the drug is stopped, the effect can be lost. Common ones include:Ranitidine (Zantac)
Famotidine (Pepcid)
Cimetidine (Tagamet)
Nizatidine (Axid)

, These medications reduce the amount of acid your body produces and are more effective than H2 blockers. These medications are available over-the-counter and in prescription strengths. If you take them for long periods of time you may need to take calcium supplements to reduce your risk of hip, wrist, and spine fractures. Common proton pump inhibitors include:Omeprazole (Prilosec)
Lansoprazole (Prevacid)
Rabeprazole (Aciphex)
Esomeprazole (Nexium)
Dexlansoprazole (Dexilant)
Prantoprazole (Protonix)

