 Do you struggle to get out of the bed in the morning or do you wake up energized and ready to go? Are you a night owl and never get to bed before midnight?Once you establish what your sleep tendencies are, you will have a better idea of when your body is most inclined to exercise.


If you are not a morning person, do not schedule an early morning workout. You are more likely to hit the snooze button instead of getting a workout in.
Sacrificing sleep to get a workout in can result in poorer performance and make it difficult to develop a consistent routine.;
, When are you the busiest? When do you tend to schedule your most important tasks? Try to fit in your exercise before or at least around these events if possible. Some people would prefer to get it out of the way first thing, while others prefer to put it off until the end of the day when they are all caught up.


If you tend to have a lot of activities after work, you may want to exercise in the morning.
If your mornings are hectic and you have trouble making it out of the door on time, an evening workout may be best.
An afternoon workout may be good if you have time on your lunch break and do not want to sacrifice your evening or morning time.
 Are you trying to lose weight? Are you trying to improve your performance? Are trying to develop a consistent exercise routine? If you are trying to develop a routine, you may want to exercise in the morning. People who exercise in the morning are more consistent. You may not feel like exercising after a long day of work, errands, or being out on the town.If you are trying to improve your performance, afternoon or evening exercise may be best. You may experience less fatigue, quicker reaction times, and more strength and flexibility in the evening.If you are trying to lose weight, you may want to exercise in the morning before you have eaten. When you exercise in a fasted state, your body is more likely to use fat instead of carbohydrates for energy., Your house provides the most flexible time options if you own fitness equipment, but if you have a gym down the street or along the route home from work, that will make it more convenient to squeeze in a workout.


If you have an onsite gym at your job or school, afternoon and evening workouts may be most convenient for you.
Fitness DVDs and videos are other convenient at-home options.
 Start by working out at different times of the day to see how you feel and find the time that works best with your schedule. Keep an exercise log to help you evaluate each time. Ask yourself some questions such as:.


How did I feel?
Did I have trouble falling asleep?
Am I tired throughout the day?
Do I perform better in the morning or at night?
Do I feel more energized? Am I sluggish?

