 Play live as a whole band with the structure all worked out.;
,


Set the drums up and clip mics onto the snare, PG 57s, rack tom and floor tom.
Place a mic into the bass drum and put two overheads above the kit; one directional (a Shure SM57), one condenser (a Rode MT1).
Set up your laptop with Logic and a Swamp Industries 12-channel mixer with six inputs.



Pad the bass drum. Put a sheet or towel inside it. Put a pillow between the bass drum and the mic to reduce extra reverberation, such as if you have new skins.
Each person who records will listen to the guide tracks on the headphones. When listening back after recording, listen through studio monitors.
Record as few as three takes, however, give yourself as many takes as you need to get it right. After running part-way through the song a few times, stopping, getting annoyed, restarting and eventually finding your groove, you will eventually record the best take. Some takes will be accurate, but the end result will have more feeling and gusto. It will feel right.
Sit and listen to all the drum tracks as a band. Move on once you agree the tracks are complete and to standard.



Record the bass with one microphone input into the mixer from the bass cabinet and one output going from the amp head into the mixer.
Play the bass along with the drum track. You may or may not need to hear the click and the guide track. After a few takes you will get it right. Soon you will have the drums and bass locked in, creating a tight rhythm section.



Put one microphone in front of the guitar amp.
Record as many takes as you need. Play along with the guide track, or just the drums and bass tracks. You might want to play through a clean amp, or try some effects, such as fizz, overdrive, etc.
, Carry out several vocal warm-ups before doing this. You could record the vocals in as few as three takes.



Record lead guitar, backing vocals, tambourine, glockenspiel, extra guitar tracks, keyboards… Anything else you want to add.
Take this time to re-record parts if anyone feels that they could have played them better. For example, the guitarist might think a track needs less Big Muff fuzz than he or she had used in the previous take. Play around with it until you get the right sound.
 Zoom in on all the tracks and look for all the quiet spaces, such as big section of no playing or singing. There may be some noise on these parts, such as breathing and background noise. You mute all these segments.
, They may email you samples back to listen to, or just email you the finished product.

