 The abstract is a very short summary of the paper, usually no more than 200 words. This will allow the reader to see in short form what the results of the experiment were and its significance. The purpose of this short summary is to provide the reader with enough information on the experiment, so they can see if they want or need to read the entire report.
One of the first things researchers do is to do a quick search of similar research projects. Abstracts make it possible to determine which reports or articles are relevant.
The structure of an abstract very closely follows the structure of the report itself.
Devote a sentence to describing the purpose of the project and its significance.
Then very briefly describe the materials and methods used.
Follow up with a one to two sentence description of the results of the experiment.;
, This should outline what the experiment is, why it was done, and why it is important. The introduction of a lab report or scientific paper is to provide the reader with two key pieces of information: what is the question the experiment is supposed to answer and why is answering this question important.This usually begins with short outline or review of literature or other experiments that are related to the subject. You should outline or summarize the theoretical background to the issue as well.
You should also include a statement about the problem or question that this research has raised.
Summarize the project briefly and discuss how it addresses the problem or question.
Briefly explain what your experiment is and how you are going to conduct it, but save the details of this for the materials and methods or analysis section of your paper.
You should also explain what you expect the results of the experiment to be in this section.
 This is an educated and well articulated explanation of expected results of your research known as a hypothesis. Your hypothesis should go into your introduction, near the end.
A research hypothesis should be a brief statement that pares down your problem that you described in your introduction into something that is testable and falsifiable.
Scientists must create a hypothesis from which an experiment can reasonably be designed and carried out.
A hypothesis is never proved in an experiment, only "verified" or "supported".
 You should start with a general statement about your expected results and build upon it to make it testable. For example "Fertilizer affects how tall a plant will grow".
Then expand upon the idea to give it more directionality. For example "Plants grow faster and taller when they are given fertilizer".
Finally, add enough detail to explain your ideas and make your hypothesis testable. "Plants which are given a solution with 1ml of fertilizer grow faster than plants without fertilizer because they are given more nutrients."

, Sometimes this is titled "Procedure" or "Materials and Methods". The purpose of this section is to provide your reader with exactly how you conducted your experiment.
You should detail all of the materials used and the exact procedure used during the experiment.
The goal here is to make your procedure clear and followable. Someone should be able to repeat your experiment exactly from reading this section.
This section is an extremely crucial documentation of your methods of analysis.
 This can simply be a list or a few paragraphs of description. Describe any lab equipment used such as the size, brand, and type.
Explain what you used as your research material.
For example, if you were testing how fertilizer affected plant growth, you would want to state what brand of fertilizer you used, what species of plant you used and brand of seed.
If is often helpful to include a diagram of how these materials were set up.
Make sure you include the quantity of all objects used in the experiment.
 Write this in terms of detailed steps. Remember all experiments involve controls and variables. Describe these here.
Write down, step by step, a set of detailed instructions on how you did the experiment.
Include descriptions of all measurements made and how/when they were recorded.
Describe any steps you took to reduce experimental uncertainty. This could be the use of extra controls or restrictions, or precautions.
If you used a published laboratory method, be sure to provide a reference for the original method.
Remember the goal of this section is so the reader can repeat exactly what you did in your experiment. No detail should be left out.
 This will be the bulk of your report. In this section you should describe the results of both qualitative and quantitative methods of analysis.
Quantitative data is anything that expressed in terms numerical forms such as percentages or statistics. Qualitative data is derived from broad question and is expressed in the form of word responses from study participants.
Include any statistical tests and their results in this section.
Make sure data is both graphed or diagrammed as well as described. All graphs and diagrams should have a number and title.
For example, if if you are testing the effect of fertilizer on plant growth you would want a graph showing the average growth of plants given fertilizer vs. those without.
You would also want to describe the result. For example "Plants which were given a concentration of 1ml of fertilizer grew an average of 4 cm taller than those that were not given fertilizer."
As you go along, narrate your results. Tell the reader why a result is significant to the experiment or problem. This will allow the reader to follow your thinking process.
Compare your results to your original hypothesis. State whether or not your hypothesis was supported or not by your experiment.
 This is where you discuss the meanings of your results in depth. Address whether or not your expectations were met in the experiment.
In this section, the author can address other questions such as: "why did we get an unexpected result?" or "what would happen if one aspect of the procedure was altered?".
You can also address why your results did not verify your hypothesis.
This section can also serve for the author to present or compare their results to those of other studies or to suggest further avenues of research into the problem addressed in the experiment.
 This summarizes the experiment and what your results told you about the problem the experiment addressed. Explain what the experiment told you.
Summarize the problem the experiment addressed and the researched questions which framed the analysis.
Briefly describe any pitfalls or challenges that occurred during the process and suggestions for further research.
Be sure to link back to the introduction and whether or not the experiment addressed the goals of your analysis.
 If you have referenced any research or ideas other than your own, make sure they are properly referenced.


You can do this in text with a mention of year and author in parentheses.
Include full bibliographic reference in a works cited section at the end of the document.
You can use software such as EndNote to help you cite and build a properly referenced bibliography.

