 Wrap the cable up and use twist ties to firmly hold the cord looped around. Make it an absolute hassle to unravel it and put it back.


Every time you give in and do unravel this cord, be sure to restore the cord to its tied-up position again. This will form aversion training, as you'll get sick and tired of the tying up and unraveling each time and will soon feel disinclined to sneak in any more TV watching.;
, If it's likely that you'll feel tempted to keep watching a range of missed episodes, interesting movies, sports events and other things if you have cable TV, consider unsubscribing for summer. Removing the temptation might be the push you need. You'll be left with free-to-air, and that's a fairly daunting prospect during the dead summer season, helping you to stay away.
 This is key to surviving a summer with the TV turned off. Draw up a schedule of things you'd love to be doing. Make sure to add these things into all the slots when you'd be tempted to watch TV. Examples of activities to escape into include:


Walk through your cityscape and local parks
Have evening and weekend picnics
Take up new sports or rediscovering old ones
Go to outdoor cinema events or foreign language film festivals
Spend time volunteering with the homeless, a hospice, an animal welfare shelter or in the local soup kitchen
Start a new website, app, online venture
Plan and start a new business
Write a book or a series of short stories or poems
Research something you want to know more about
Take up cooking, baking or mastering chef standard recipes
Invite friends over for parties, conversations, pole dancing, a swim, a beer tasting night or a gaming event
Help your family renovate their house or renovate your own
Look for a new job by doing work experience in the evenings
Go for long strolls, plan hiking weekends away
Start a political campaign
Exercise more, join a gym, get super fit
Make crafts or do artwork
Pursue a hobby
Spend more time with people you haven't seen for ages
Completely change your soft furnishings for new ones; spend summer planning and looking for new items
Read lots of books, magazines, poems, studies, etc.
Join a drama group and be part of a summer play presentation
Travel; go somewhere far away and keep away from TVs
Get another job and earn extra cash for something you've really wanted
And many other things!

, Make a bet to see who can stay off TV the longest over summer. Wager with money, a favorite item or something else that will be hard to part with!

, Throw something over it so that it is no longer prominent in your room, like a scarf, cape or blanket. Or, hide it behind cupboard doors or put it somewhere else completely, like up in the attic. Getting it out of sight might reduce the desire to watch it.
 If you still find yourself watching pointless local TV stations, sell or give away your TV. By parting ways, there is absolutely no way you will be able to watch TV over summer. Just be sure to have the cash to buy a new one when the season changes. Although, by then, you might be a whole new person who isn't keen on TV at all!

