 Once you have identified your problems, decide which one creates the most frustration. Isolate that problem and focus on fixing it. This will dramatically reduce your frustration and let you move on to the next problem more effectively.For example, if you are frustrated because you want to be healthier, you could first focus on controlling your urge to snack on junk food in the office.
Alternatively, you could start by eliminating the easiest problems. This could free you up and give you more energy to focus on harder problems later.
 While you are working on these goals, it can help to remove sources of negativity from your life. These distractions can keep you from achieving your goals, and they can make you frustrated over time.

Try to avoid cynics, naysayers, and other toxic relationships, as they can reduce your motivation.
Learn to say no to obligations that you cannot handle. Keep a healthy work-life balance so that you can pursue your own hobbies and reduce stress.
Try to identify how your environment stresses or distracts you. You might try to reduce noise while you work by buying sound-cancelling headphones, or you might turn off your phone while you're trying to relax at night.
 A role model can be anyone that you find inspiring. You can have different role models for different parts of your life, and they can be real or fictional characters. Look to your role models as examples of how to work through frustrating issues.For example, if you are frustrated by your physical fitness level, you might look to a professional athlete as a role model. While you probably can’t follow their workout routine to the letter, you could adopt their dedication to physical health.
 An accountability partner or coach is someone who makes sure that you come through on your goals and promises. This can be someone you know and respect or a hired, professional motivational coach. Ask them to check in with you from time to time to see how you are doing on your goals. They can give you advice, talk you through your struggles, and keep you on track for reducing sources of frustration in your life.

They should know exactly what your goals are and how you are hoping to achieve them.
Together, you should set-up a schedule for when your partner or coach checks in on you. This will help you stay on track., Rather than jumping in blindly, you will need well planned solutions to some problems. Use the internet or library to research solutions to your particular problem. Look for articles written on the topic and stories detailing how other people conquered the same obstacles. Draw from all of this information to help you formulate a strategy for beating your obstacle.For example, if you are frustrated because you lack focus on your studies, you should do research on effective study habits and make a list of strategies that you want to try.
You can also consult experts in the field to gain valuable insight into your problem.
 A common source of frustration is the inability to do something that you want to do. Unfortunately, there is rarely a quick fix. You will have to practice repeatedly to gian the skills that you need to be successful.For example, if you research a study strategy and it doesn’t work the first time, you may need to continue building your study skills. It may take several tries with a good strategy before you see real improvement.
 Emotional chain reactions can happen as a result of being overly frustrated. The frustration causes you to think badly of yourself, and then you apply those thoughts and feelings to the next thing you do. To stop this reaction from happening, stop the frustrating activity and do something that you know you can do well.Doing something well builds your confidence and helps to break the negative emotional chain.
Surrounding yourself with positive, affirming individuals can also help you build confidence. Choose people who will value you and support you even when you are feeling down.
 If your frustration levels are going down, then you are implementing a good strategy. However, if you remain frustrated, you might need to revisit your approach. Try making your action steps smaller and less time consuming to reduce your frustration. Also, try to make time to do things that you enjoy., Meditate daily to keep your mind centered on the present. This will reduce feelings of depression, anxiety, and frustration. Implementing the practice will also count as a positive thing that you have achieved, which will help to decrease your overall frustration level. As little as fifteen minutes of meditation per day has been shown to be physically and mentally beneficial.

When meditating, try visualizing a positive and calm scenario. This could your ideal situation for the future or simply an affirming, calm place that makes you feel better in the moment.

