


Start out by placing a print ad in your town's Sunday paper. Newspaper advertisement returns have been on the decline for some time, but ad space can be relatively inexpensive depending on the paper.
Increase your ad space if you get a number of calls after your first attempt. This larger ad should provide an exemplary photograph and a range of contact information.;
,


Design eye-catching loose-leaf advertisements for placing within newspapers and posting throughout your city. Include stunning photos from your portfolio.
Post flyers in grocery stores, floral shops and cafes to promote your business.



Create a Facebook page dedicated to your photography business. Upload galleries of your wedding photos and tag the customers within them. This will post the photos onto the customers' Facebook profile, which will allow their friends and family to see your work.
Establish a photography website. In addition to a Facebook page, you might consider designing a whole website for hosting your images and advertising your services. The link for your website could be placed on business cards, flyers and in your email signature for easy access.
Advertise your services on your city's Craiglist forum. Explain your rates, upload example pictures and link to your wedding photography website. Sites such as Craigslist are free to use and can be highly effective.



Do not underestimate the power of referrals. As soon as you obtain one client and provide them excellent service, the odds they will sing your praises to their friends is very high.
Offer a 5 to 10 percent referral bonus to each client that refers another client. While this might cut down profits at first, the effect is a rippling one, and you might soon have many clients. You can always stop the referral offer once you have created a reputation in your community.



Network with florists, bridal shops, cake designers, hairdressers, hotels and videographers to share clients and advertising tips.
Work with these various vendors to promote each other's business. For example, if a cake shop allows you to post a flyer in their window, perhaps you can suggest that shop to one of your clients in need of a wedding cake.
Add links to fellow wedding vendors on your website and have them do the same.

