 Sexual abuse is sexual assault, rape and incest. It is also any type of sexual contact that is harmful to a child's physical, mental, or emotional welfare and when there is inequity in age, understanding, size or power.


Sexual abuse doesn't require force or threats. It can also result from tricks or bribes
Making a child feel responsible for what has happened is another tactic used by abusers.;
,

Physical signs can include difficulty sitting or walking, itching or swelling in the genital area or frequent urinary infections.
Behavioral signs can include inappropriate sexual knowledge or behavior, bedwetting, sleep and eating disorders, school problems, suicide attempts or overly protective behavior for younger siblings.



Pick a place and time where the child is more likely to feel comfortable.
Never talk to a child about abuse in front of a possible abuser.
Ask a child if anyone has been touching him or her in ways that make him or her uncomfortable.
Ask a child if anyone has been asking him or her to keep secrets. Tell a child that it's not right to ask someone to keep secrets.
Phrase questions in a non-judgmental way. Victims of sexual abuse are never "asking for it."
Phrase statements and questions using "I" instead of "you." For instance, "I am concerned because..."

,


If you are under 18, the police will also contact a child protective service. Their job is to be your advocate and keep you safe.



An adult or other friend can report abuse to the police or child protective services on your behalf.
Sometimes the people you tell about incest or sexual abuse won't believe you; if that happens, keep trying until someone does believe you.
 All states in the U.S. have passed a mandatory child abuse and neglect reporting law and, by keeping quiet, you may be found guilty of civil or criminal liability .


In particular, teachers, other school personnel and healthcare providers are required by law to notify the police or child protective authorities.



A hotline crisis counselor can give you the number in your community to call.
A hotline crisis counselor can also make a three-way call and stay on the call with you while you report abuse.

