 Toward the end of fall, take your car to the shop to get a routine check up and make sure everything is in working order. The last thing you need in icy conditions is for your car to break down while snow piles up on the windshield. When you take your car to get winterized, have the mechanic check the following, and replace anything that isn't working properly:


Tires and tire pressure
Battery
Belts and hoses
Radiator
Brakes
Exhaust system
Heater
Oil
Lights
Ignition system
Wipers
If your area is ice all the time,install spiked tyres. They will puncture the ice,which will boost your friction greatly.
 Even if your mechanic thinks you have some life left in your tires, if you're heading into an icy winter, you might want to think about getting new ones. The biggest hazard in winter driving is sliding on ice due to poor traction. It's a safety risk no matter what the state of your tires is, but if your tread depth is getting low you're at greater risk of wiping out.


The tire-industry standard for good snow and ice traction is a 6/32-inch tread. Make sure the tires you pick out will do an adequate job in the conditions you'll be facing. Tires designed for high performance in summer don't do well on icy roads.If your facing a long, harsh winter, you might want to invest in winter tires. They're designed with a deeper tread that works well in icy and snowy conditions.
 In cold weather, tire pressure naturally drops. Tires that aren't fully inflated can have a slower reaction time when you're trying to steer, which could be dangerous when there's ice on the road. Check your tire pressure every few weeks to make sure they're fully inflated.To check your tire pressure, use a gauge to determine the tire's pounds per square inch (PSI) of pressure. See whether it's lower than the recommended pressure for your tires.
If you need to adjust the pressure, find a source of air (gas stations have them, as do body shops) and fill the tires one by one, checking the pressure frequently to make sure you don't overfill them., Snow chains and other devices designed to give the tires more traction on ice are good to have in the trunk in case a blizzard blows in. The chains aren't difficult to fasten around the tires, and you take them off as soon as the roads are dry again. Talk with your mechanic about which type of device is best for your vehicle.


If you live in a region with steep hills and lots of ice, or in a place where salt trucks don't routinely come by to treat the streets, get top-of-the line snow chains that are easy to take on and off when visibility is low.
If you're traveling through notoriously icy terrain, you might see signs specifying that snow chains are mandatory. If you're on a trip and you didn't buy snow chains beforehand, you can pick them up at most stores that sell auto parts.
 The most important thing about driving in harsh icy and winter conditions is to always be prepared. In the winter months, this means you should have jumper cables and an emergency driving kit stored in your vehicle's trunk. Just in case you get stranded for several hours, it's a good idea to have a supply of food, water and blankets as well.


Always bring along a cell phone when you go out in icy driving conditions. Fender benders and more serious accidents are extremely common when there's ice around, and you want to be able to call for help right away.
You might want to look into getting a AAA membership or having a local tower's number handy as well.

