 When the medication is doing little or nothing to help with your anxiety, provide your doctor with a list of what the drug does and does not do. If it takes the edge off of your jumpiness, but increases your distress during a panic attack, mention that. By taking note of how the drug is affecting you, it will help the doctor determine which anti-anxiety medications to prescribe you.


Carry a journal with you so you can take accurate notes on how the drug is affecting you.
 Contact your doctor to set-up an appointment. Bring your journal with you so you can tell your doctor how the medication is affecting you. Your doctor will re-assess your symptoms and propose other medications that might work for you.
 There are no official guidelines to switching medications, and your experience with your current medication will affect the process of switching to another medication. You and your doctor will need to create a plan to switch medications that is unique to your situation. However, the general course of action that doctors take is to gradually wean you off one medication over a week, before beginning any new medication.


For example, if your current medication is improving your symptoms, but the side effects are unbearable, your doctor may gradually reduce the dosage of your current medication while gradually increasing the dosage of the new medication.
On the other hand, if your medication isn’t improving your anxiety at all, and the side effects are intolerable, your doctor may stop your current medication at a quicker rate, and start you on a new medication.Switching from one medication to another in the same drug class can occur at a quicker rate than switching from one medication to another that is of a different drug class.
 It is important to never suddenly stop taking your medication. The withdrawal symptoms can be worse than your actual symptoms, and many people mistake their withdrawal symptoms for a worsening of their anxiety. Always speak to your doctor first before taking any drastic actions, it is not worth it. You and your doctor will be able to come up with a way to safely wean you off any medication.Side effects that can occur if you suddenly stop taking a medication are increased anxiety, restlessness, shaking, insomnia, nausea, stomach pain, depression, confusion, panic attacks, pounding heart, sweating, and even seizures in severe cases., Compare the results of the second anxiety medication to the first one. This will make it easier for your physician to narrow the selection further in the event that you do not respond well to that second drug.

