 The WhatsApp icon looks like a green speech bubble with a white telephone in it.
 This button looks like three vertical dots in the upper-right corner of your WhatsApp Home screen. It will open a drop-down menu.


If WhatsApp opens up to a conversation, the three dots button will work differently. In this case, tap the back button to go back to your CHATS screen, then tap the Menu button.
 This will open your WhatsApp Settings menu.
 This option is next to a green bell icon on the Settings menu. Here, you can customize all your notifications and turn off the ones you don't find useful.
 Disable all conversation tones by unchecking this box at the top of your Notifications menu. This option will stop playing the chat sound when you receive or send a message in a conversation.
 Under the "Message notifications" heading, you can turn off or change your Notification tone, Vibrate option, Popup notification, and Light notifications. These settings will apply to all your personal chat conversations.


Tap Notification tone, select None and then tap OK to turn it off. Your device will now stop playing a sound when you receive a notification.
Tap Vibrate and select Off to turn it off. When you turn this setting off, your notifications will not vibrate your device.
Tap Popup notification and select No popup to turn it off. This way, you will not see a popup notification on your device's Home screen when you receive a new message.
Tap Light and select None to turn it off. This way, your device's notification light won't blink when you receive a new message.
 You will see a separate section to customize your group chat notifications. You will have the same four options as your "Message notifications" in this section to turn off or change your Notification tone, Vibrate option, Popup notification, and Light notifications.
 You can turn off or change your Ringtone and Vibrate settings for calls you receive on WhatsApp.


Tap Ringtone, select None and then tap OK. Your Ringtone option will now be set to Silent. Your device will not ring when you receive a call on WhatsApp.
Tap Vibrate and select Off to turn it off. When you turn it off, incoming WhatsApp calls will not vibrate your device.

