 Before you assume the Pisces will want to go to a three-day music festival based only on the person's sign, ask the person some questions about what they really enjoy. This will help ensure you both enjoy yourselves. If you want to take the person to a museum, for instance, ask if there's a museum they particularly enjoy or have wanted to visit. Though a classic Pisces might want to spend hours at the art museum, another Pisces might prefer to check out the natural history museum — or they may no be into museums at all! Do a little digging to learn more about the person and their interests before you make assumptions about what they like.
 Pisces are considered a very artistic sign, so feel free to express yourself through your clothing choices. Pisces are very accepting, so dress in whatever makes you feel comfortable. A classic Pisces might have a flowy, vintage vibe, but don't feel you need to change your own style or match this. Being authentic and true to yourself is more important to a Pisces than how you dress.


As a water sign, a Pisces may be drawn to blues, violets, and greens.If your clothes have a story attached to them (the skirt you're wearing belonged to your mother and she wore it to Woodstock, for instance), it’ll make for good conversation if there’s a lull in the seduction process.
 Because a typical Pisces will likely be very into music, live music may be the perfect date. Find out what type of music the person likes, then buy tickets to a concert. If your Pisces loves Motown, see if there's a bar or club that has a special Motown night and take them out dancing.


When you dance together, you’ll have a chance to engage each other physically and emotionally. Try to feel the tempo of the music, and really move with the person's body and the beat. Doing this will ensure that you will connect with one another on a higher level.
If live music isn't your thing, try inviting the Pisces over to listen to music. Or put on a favorite album while you are hanging out and ask the person to dance with you.
 If your Pisces fits the bill of an artistic dreamer, they will likely be thrilled to join you at an art museum. See if there are any interesting exhibitions featuring artists or styles that the person might enjoy. If you're not really into art, that's okay and you don't have to force it, but this may be an opportunity for you to broaden your interests a little.


Other possible dates that would interest a classic Pisces might include tickets to the ballet, going to see an arthouse film, a poetry reading, or a gallery opening.
 Continue to appeal to your Pisces' artistic nature by planning an unusual, romantic date, like taking a pottery class together. After the class, take your Pisces to a rooftop picnic you've planned, complete with candles, blankets, wine, and rich foods. Or take turns painting each other's portraits and then go out for an intimate meal at a tiny bistro.

