 Once refugees arrive in the sheltering country, they will need more help. Governmental offices, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations), and charitable organizations keep track of the benefits and aid that refugees are eligible to receive. Working with these refugee organizations will allow you to safely and effectively help refugees. These groups help connect refugees to things like:Cash support
Food assistance
Language training and interpreter services
Job training and placement
Transportation
Child care
Citizenship classes

, Sometimes the simplest ways to help, like giving someone a ride, make the biggest impact. Ask refugee organizations in your area if you can help by picking up refugees at the airport when they arrive, or by giving them rides to meetings with governmental offices, to job interviews, or even just to the store to get basic needs like food and clothing., Some refugees enter a safe country with children, or have them after they arrive. If you are comfortable taking care of children, talk to refugee organizations in your area about serving as primary or backup childcare. Looking after the children of refugees while they are busy doing things like looking for jobs, finding housing, or going to meetings can make a world of difference.


In some cases, refugees are eligible for childcare services provided by government agencies., Depending on their situation, refugees can have widely varying levels of education or experience. Regardless of their background, however, many will need assistance getting around in a new country and language, and earning permanent resident or citizen status. Talk to refugee organizations in your area about ways you can help educate refugees on the skills and knowledge they need to thrive in a new nation. You can do things like:Offer to teach or tutor English to non-English-speaking refugees, or volunteer as a conversation partner.
Mentor refugees on adjusting to life in your country (learning customs, finding a job, understanding laws, etc.)
Teach citizenship classes to refugees (these typically require some knowledge of a country’s history and government)

