 There are three basic skill levels of snowboarding: beginner, intermediate and expert. A pro might also be considered a fourth level in terms of experience. Many snowboards are made for specific experience levels and the description will usually tell you which level the board is made for.


Beginner snowboarders are those who have never snowboarded previously or are still moving slowly down a run.
An intermediate snowboarder is one who is more solid on their feet, can ride toe and heel edges, might be starting to ride switch and might be beginning to ride a little in the park or advance their riding in other ways.
An expert snowboarder will have strong confidence while boarding, can adapt to elements and conditions and can ride the steepest terrain while maintaining control.
A pro is someone who has been snowboarding so much that they are more comfortable on a snowboard than they are walking on their two feet.
Factor in your progress when purchasing a snowboard so that you do not progress past that experience level too quickly.;
, Types of snowboarding styles include freestyle, freeride, all mountain, powder riding and backcountry. The style of riding has a major effect on the type of snowboard that should be purchased.


Freestyle riding includes tricks in the terrain park or on the mountain such as jumps, riding rails and boxes and the halfpipe. Freestyle boards will be a bit shorter with a soft flex.
Freeride means snowboarding around the runs with long, deep carving, higher speeds and natural terrain. Freeriders will typically choose a positive camber board for more edge control and a board with a directional shape.
All mountain riding is freestyle and freeride combined. Boards for all mountain riding should have a twin directional shape, a 5 flex and length according to which style of riding you do more often.
Powder riding is for those snowboarders who hike in the backcountry to find big mountain lines. This type of riding is done only by experts or with the supervision of an expert. Boards for powder riding will be stiffer and longer with different cambers specifically designed to get better float on top of the snow and for more control.
Split boards  are designed for backcountry use because they break down into two separate halves for touring and uphill travel but can be reconnected for normal downhill riding. They require special bindings., There are four types of shapes of snowboarding boards: twin, directional, twin directional and tapered. The shape descriptions are based on the length and width of the nose and tail.


Twin boards are symmetrical on each end of the board, meaning that the nose and tail are the same length and width. They are designed for beginners and freestyle riders because they can be ridden in both directions, or regular and switch. These will also be good for kids.
Directional boards are for one-way use with a longer and wider nose than tail, giving more suspension and performance in that direction. This type of board would be more useful for a freerider.
Twin directional boards are a mix in terms of shape between twin boards and directional boards. They are designed for all mountain freestyle riders because they provide stability at higher speeds and for carving but also allow for switch riding and freestyle terrain use.
Tapered boards are more extreme versions of a directional board. The nose will be much wider than the tail in order to give the board more float in powder. This type of board is designed for powder riding.
 Flex is what determines the softness or stiffness of a board. The correct flex for your board depends on your ability and riding style. Flex is measured on a scale of 0-10 scale with 0 being very soft and 10 being extremely stiff. Some boards will also have variable flex throughout the board for particular uses.


Beginners (including kids) and freestyle riders will use a board with a softer flex because they are easier to press and will not catch edges as quickly. They will be more responsive to your body movements, making it easier to switch edges and control your board.
All mountain riders will use a board with a mid-range flex for all types of snowboarding.
A stiff board is useful for high-speed snowboarding, freeriding, powder riding and in the halfpipe. They are used for greater stability, preserving energy on powder, higher speeds and big air maneuvers.
Freestyle boards will sometimes have more flex in the center of the board with more stiffness at the nose and tail.
Freeride boards will sometimes have a stiffer tail to help the rider through uneven terrain and give the board a little pop. The same is true for halfpipe boards.
 Boots are the most important aspect of your snowboard in terms of comfort. They are also designed for performance and can enhance your riding if you choose the correct ones. Boots vary according to their flex and are chosen according to your riding ability and style.


Soft flex boots are the most flexible boots and are perfect for beginners and kids because they are easy and comfortable.
Medium flex boots provide more power in turns and quicker reaction times so they are better for more experienced riders.
Stiff flex boots are used in the halfpipe and by freeriders for carving fast and hard. They provide excellent turn initiation and extra power and protection for use in the halfpipe.
 Boards are measured in length from tip to tail and this length has a big effect on performance. In general the height should be between your shoulder and nose when standing. There are a few characteristics that determine the exact length your board should be within this range.


If you are a heavier person, you should choose a board that is a bit longer. If you are lighter then you should get a shorter board.
If you are a freestyle rider, a beginner or a kid then you should choose a shorter board because they are easier to control, spin and turn. A shorter board would come up about to your Adam’s apple.
If you are a free-rider  or powder rider then you should choose a long board that comes about to between your chin or nose. Some might even choose longer boards. A longer board will give more stability at high speeds and more surface area on top of the powder.
Shorter boards are better for kids because they are easier to control. However, kids are also always growing so it may help to choose a board that is a bit on the longer size for their height so that they can grow into it instead of growing out of it too quickly. For kids, choose a board that is closer to the chest for those who are beginners, are cautious, are lightweight and/or like to make short quick turns without riding fast. Kids who are riding fast and aggressively, weigh more for their height or are growing quickly should choose a board closer in length to their nose. Do not choose a board longer than this or it can hamper their learning and the amount of fun they have.
 Once you have your boots you can determine the width of board you would need. Ideally your shoes should extend over the edges of the board by ½-1 inch (1-2.5 cm). This way you can control the board easily when changing edges but will not have your toes and heels dragging in the snow as you carve.


Most people with a US men’s size 10 (Euro size 43) will be fine with a regular width board.
Those wearing US men’s size 10-11.5 (Euro size 43-45) will probably need a mid-wide board.
Those wearing US men’s size 12 (Euro size 45) or larger will probably need a wide board.
If your feet are US men’s size 14-15 (47-48) then you will need an extra-wide board.
 A snowboard plus boots and bindings will cost from $450-$1000 and up depending on the style, materials and design. The cost of your board will depend on your budget and ability level so it is a good idea to figure your budget out before heading to the store.


Entry level boards will cost in the range of $150-$250, with boots costing around $140 and bindings costing around $150.
Mid-range boards will cost between $250 and $450, with boots costing around $200 and bindings costing around $200.
Top end boards will cost $450 and up, with boots costing $300 and up and bindings costing $250 and up.
Kids boards can be purchased used to save on costs but the board should be good quality without nicks or damage.
 Most snowboards are made out of wood, although some high-end boards are made of synthetic materials such aluminum, honeycomb or fiber base. The wood core will then be surrounded by fiberglass and topped by a sheet containing the graphics.


Cores can be constructed in different ways with higher quality boards using several layers of wood to strengthen them. The core can also be made with wood grain running in different directions in different areas of the core to increase strength and promote edge grip. All cores are vertically laminated and most are laminated from tip to tail. However, some less expensive boards will use plastic spacers at the tip and tail instead of having wood go all the way through the core.
The fiberglass surrounding the core determines the stiffness of the board. Beginner and freestyle rider board will have a single layer of fiberglass weaved in a single direction for more softness and flex. Stiffer boards will have fiberglass laid in multiple angles to increase stiffness and durability. Higher quality fiberglass will also be lighter weight than lesser quality fiberglass. A snowboard should be as lightweight and strong as possible.
The top sheet contains the graphics and can be made out of wood, fabric or a material made out of beans. They can protect the fiberglass and core from damage but should not be integral in your choice of a board., Snowboard bases are either extruded, meaning the polyethylene pellets have been melted down before being forced together under pressure, or sintered, meaning the polyethylene pellets are forced together under extremely high pressure without being melted first. The graphics can be applied to bases using screen-printing, sublimation or the die-cut method.


Beginner, intermediate and freestyle boards will usually use extruded bases because they are cheaper and easier to repair in case of damage. Extruded bases can be waxed using rub-on wax or a hot wax every 8 times out on the mountain.
Sintered bases have pores in between the pellets, meaning they can absorb more wax and are therefore much faster. They will need to have hot wax applied every 3-5 times out on the mountain. Sintered bases especially need to be waxed often to maintain their performance.
Screen-printed graphics have been applied directly onto the base in layers from the bottom up to the core. This is usually used on extruded bases.
Sublimation is when the graphic is printed onto paper and then uses heat and pressure to transfer the ink from the paper to the base. A second layer is then applied in the same way and then the base is attached to the board with epoxy.
Die-cut is when the colors are cut out and inlaid next to each other. Because there is no ink added this makes for a lighter weight board and crisper graphics.
Most boards will have a number assigned to the base indicating the number of pores per square inch. These can run from 500-8,000 with more pores meaning a faster board that needs to be waxed more often.
 This is the amount of curve in the board between the nose and the waist and differs by brand to brand. Side cut is measured in meters by the radius of the circle that would be created if it were continued all the way around.


Freestyle riders and beginners may want to choose a board with a lower side cut measure (deeper curve), which affords greater ability to turn quickly.
A larger side cut measurement smaller (more shallow) is best for longer, slower turns and provides more surface area on the ground, making it better for freeriders and powder riders.
There are many new side cut technologies that offer bumps or areas in the side cut that offer additional contact points to grip better in the snow. These are good for icy hard-packed terrain.
 Side walls are the edges of the board between the base and the top. They hold the board together and protect the edges of the core from damage. They can be made with a cap construction or sandwich construction.


A cap construction is where the top sheet wraps over the edges of the board and will hold better in icy and hard-packed conditions. They are more durable but more difficult to repair.
A sandwich construction is more common and easier to produce, making it cheaper and easier to repair. This is when a sidewall is inserted at the sides to protect the core. The side wall is sandwiched between the top layer and base of the board.
 A camber board is one that has an arch at the center with the nose and tail being the main contact points of the board with the ground. The other type, a rocker board, is the reverse of the camber.


Traditional camber has been around since the beginning of snowboards and provide more pop for freestyle riders, more responsive edge changes for all mountain riders and a smoother ride through uneven terrain because it can flex more. They hold their shape and flex for locker than rocker boards.
Rocker boards are liked by freestyle riders because they won’t catch edges on rails, by backcountry riders because they float over powder and by beginners because they make it easier to roll from edge to edge.
Some boards will simply be flat, which is in between a camber and rocker board, providing better turning ability than a fully camber board and more precise edging capability than a fully rocker board.
Different brands have different versions of camber and rocker boards so read the descriptions to see what that particular style was designed for.
Some brands are now experimenting with mixing the rocker and camber arches together on boards. For example, a board might have rocker in the center and camber at the nose and tail or camber in the center and rocker in the nose and tail. These are designed for different purposes and have a wide range of opinions.
There are no rules in terms of camber or rocker. Choose the version that works best for you., Some boards will have a particular layout of binding attachments for mounting the bindings to the board. In general most boards and bindings will be interchangeable but there are some that will not work together. There are four different types of mounting patterns: 2x4 disc pattern, 4x4 disc pattern, 3D pattern (Burton) and the channel system (Burton).


The 2x4 disc pattern has two rows of holes 4 cm apart. In each row the holes are separated by 2 cm. this allows for many different options when mounting bindings.
The 4x4 disc pattern has two rows of holes 4 cm apart and within each row the holes are separated by 4 cm.
The 3D pattern has holes shaped in a kind of a diamond pattern which are compatible with most bindings but offer more limited options in terms of stance. This pattern is common for Burton boards.
The channel system is a rail that allows the rider’s feet to have an extremely close connection to the board for a better feel on the board. These are common on Burton boards and it is best to use EST bindings by Burton. These bindings have many stance options. You can purchase a special plate to use non-Burton bindings on a board that uses the channel system.
 Choose your bindings according to both your boots and your board. They should be able to mount to your board and fit your boots inside. They come in three sizes (small, medium and large) and two different styles (strap-in and rear entry). They also differ according to flex, the straps, the highback and baseplate.


Choose your size by trying on the bindings with your boots. You can also check the manufacturer’s binding chart for the different sizes that will fit with small, medium or large bindings.
Strap-in bindings are the most common and have two straps, while rear-entry bindings have a highback that drops down to allow you to slide your boot in. Strap-ins offer the ability to make many adjustments for support and cushioning while rear-entry bindings make it very quick to bind your boots and go. Rear-entry bindings are usually preferred by more comfort-oriented riders.
The flex of a binding can vary between 0-10. Freestyle riders will choose a more flexible binding with a flex of 1-2 for greater room for error, easier landings and the ability to tweak grabs. All mountain riders will choose a medium flex of 3-5 for all types of riding while freeriders will choose stiffer bindings with a flex of 6-8 for better response and energy transfer to the snowboard.
Strap-in will generally have a toe strap and a larger ankle strap over the ankle. The toe strap can either be a traditional toe strap over the toes or a toe cap strap that goes over and in front of the toes for gaining more response from the board. A one piece strap will be one strap over the foot that is most common on rear entry bindings.
The highback is the plate from the heel cup to the lower calf and controls the heelside edge of your board. Softer and shorter high backs give more flexibility and ease to freestyle riders and beginners while stiff and taller highbacks give greater control and speed. Your highback can also be adjusted at an angle according to your preferences.
The baseplate is your connection between the binding and the board and are made of different materials. Higher-end bindings will have stronger and more flexible baseplate materials to optimize board flex, power transmission and durability. Some baseplates are also tilted at a slight angle (called canting) to angle your stance and knee position slightly forward for a more natural feel.
Kids may get frustrated by bindings that are difficult for them to secure. Step-in bindings or rear-entry bindings are often easier for kids to use but strap-in bindings may be ok as well. Have your kid test out securing the bindings while wearing boots and a snow jacket to make sure they can use them properly.

