 Before you can create employee efficiency goals, you need to identify any gaps or issues in employee efficiency at your company. If you have several departments in your company, you may want to try to identify at least one to two efficiency gaps in each department.For example, you may have an efficiency gap between employee hours and completed projects. Though your employees seems to be working full workdays, projects are not being completed and profit margins are not being met. You may then analyze how your employees are working. Perhaps they do not have access to the latest technology, leading to slower work processes and a failure to meet project timelines. This may then be one efficiency gap for your employees: a non productive work environment.
Another example you may notice is that your employees do not seem as motivated or energized in the workplace and as a result, client relationships are suffering and projects are not going as smoothly as they should. You may then identify another efficiency gap: low motivation and incentives for employees.;
, Many employee inefficiencies, like miscommunication among employees and clients, poor employee performance, and missed deadlines, can be traced back to a poor internet network. You can address this inefficiency by making sure the company’s building has a secure and robust internet network that can keep up with the company’s workload. This is especially important if your employees use the internet to communicate with clients and with each other. A slow or faulty network can lead to missed emails, failed client communication, and delayed feedback from clients, thereby slowing down your employee’s productivity.
 As an employer, it is also essential that you provide a productive working environment for your employees to make sure they are being as efficient as possible. This could mean ensuring they have access to the latest desktops or laptops and well functioning electronics like printers, scanners, and fax machines. You should also make sure there are fully functioning conference phones in each meeting room and provide mobile phones for company use if your employees are often on the go.You may want to also make it easier for your employees to share information among each other by using Google Drive or another file sharing program. This way, important documents do not get misplaced or forgotten, allowing your employees to use technology and file sharing in the most efficient way possible.
Switching to online file sharing will also cut down on the amount of paper waste your company produces every year, thereby eliminating inefficiencies like high waste production and money spent on recycling and reducing waste in the office.
 Another possible cause of employee inefficiency is a lack of competitive compensation. If you are underpaying and overworking your employees, this could lead to resentment, low motivation, and high stress levels among your employees. Make sure you are providing salaries for your employees that are competitive based on the market and include full benefits, such as healthcare and a 401K or another employee retention program.Most employees will work harder and better if they know they have job security and stability and can rely on their employer to provide a fair, competitive wage. Healthcare and a retirement plan are also big incentives for employees to work efficiently and can help you keep your employees for a long period of time. This will then reduce the need to spend money on hiring and training for new employees.
 Travel on company time and company expense can lead to reduced operational efficiency and wasted resources. Focus on reducing the amount of time your employees need to travel to get to a client or to a job site. If possible, rely on video conferencing and email as much as possible to reduce the need for employee travel and only allow employee travel when it is absolutely necessary., Make your employees feel they are essential to your company, and necessary for improved efficiency in the company by creating an employee recognition program. Designate a supervisor or lead from each department to choose one employee who represents hard work, diligence, the company culture, and/or operational efficiencies.


The program could then reward recognized employees with a bonus, a name entered into a draw, or even a shout out of social media. The reward does not need to be expensive or lavish. Rather, it should spotlight the employee and ensure they feel recognized by the company, other employees, and clients.
 To keep up to date on employee efficiencies, you could encourage supervisors or leads to form an employee efficiency committee. Try to have a representative from each department or area on the committee so it is well rounded. Schedule monthly meetings to discuss how to improve the employee efficiencies and ensure at least one to two efficiency goals are created each month.

