 These programs allow you to download torrent files, which is a form of peer-to-peer file sharing. Torrent files are very small, but point to larger files on your hard drive that you are sharing with others. Popular torrent clients include:


uTorrent
BitTorrent
Vuze;
, There are a variety of places you can look for torrents online, but none can be linked to here. Make sure that the torrent has positive comments, as this increases the chances that you're downloading a working copy without viruses.


Try to find a torrent that has a lot of "seeders". These are the people that are sharing the files, and the more you can connect to, the faster your download can go (up to your connection's limit).
 Torrent files are very small, and usually download in a couple seconds. This is because the torrent file doesn't actually contain any of the game data. Instead, it lets you connect directly to other users to download chunks of the game which are stitched together once the download is complete.


Most torrent clients will be set to automatically open .torrent files. If it doesn't open in the torrent client, select your newly-installed client from the list of programs.
You can only legally download torrents for games that you own.

Click here for detailed instructions on downloading torrent files.
 This may take a while, especially if the game is very large or there aren't many seeders. Click here for tips on speeding up your torrent downloads.
 Many torrent downloads come in RAR (.rar) format. These are archive files that need special software in order to unpack. The most popular free option for opening these files is 7-Zip.
 There are two main formats that your downloaded game will be in: EXE or ISO. The EXE format means that you can run the setup file and everything will be installed from the installer. An ISO file is an image of a physical disc, and needs to be either burned or mounted on your computer in a virtual drive.



Click here for detailed instructions on burning an ISO file to DVD.

Click here for detailed instructions on mounting an ISO file in a virtual drive.
 Most torrent games come with a text file with specific installation instructions. This is very important to read, as many games have certain tasks that need to be accomplished in the right order for the installation to work correctly. Always defer to the README file instructions over this guide.
 This will vary significantly depending on the game, but generally you'll need to either run the EXE file or mount/burn the ISO file and run the installer from the disc. You can usually run the installer like you would if you had purchased the game, but make sure you're following the instructions in the README file.
 Most games that you download have some form of copy-protection. In order to bypass this, you will need to enter a CD-key or run a crack program. Most torrents should include these with your install files, but the process will vary from game to game. Again, refer to the README file.


Some games require you to replace the main EXE file in the installed game's folder with a cracked version. You'll then run this replacement EXE file every time you want to play the game.
Some games require you to run a key generator program that will provide you with a working CD-key.
Some games have a simple EXE file that you will need to run once in order to unlock the game.
Rarely you may be asked to edit configuration files in order to play the game. You'll find the instructions in the README file.
 Use whatever method the README file dictates to start playing the game. You may have to run the game's configuration program the first time you start to set your graphics options.

