 Use the Internet or word of mouth to find some places that you want to visit. Before booking an appointment, look on their website to get an idea of their general price range. This can help you to eliminate shops that may be outside your budget. There are some chain bridal shops, such as David’s Bridal, that have a very wide selection of dresses at low prices.
Boutique bridal shops are small, independently owned shops that generally have a smaller range of dresses at higher prices than bridal chains. However, the quality of these dresses are usually better, and they may offer styles that would be hard to find elsewhere.
 You want to give yourself enough time to find the right dress. While there isn’t a set time when you must start looking, it may be wise to start about nine months before your wedding. You search will involve visiting several different stores and boutiques, and also possibly getting your dress altered. This is why starting far in advance can be helpful.Starting early is also a good idea because will cut down your stress level. You will be glad to not have to stress about your dress when you are coordinating all the other factors of your wedding.
 After you have found several shops you want to visit, call them to set up an appointment. Before making the appointment, tell them your budget and a rough idea of what kind of dress you are looking for. If they say that they have dresses that fit your preferences, go ahead and schedule an appointment. , Make sure to wear the same kind of undergarments and shoes that you plan to wear on your wedding day. Also make sure to take a little time on your appearance. This will help you be able to really envision how you will look on your wedding day., You want a couple people to come with you to dress fittings, whether it be friends or family. Sometimes you can get overwhelmed, or fall in love with the style of a dress without realizing that it doesn’t fit you right. This is why having someone at your appointments is so valuable. Try not to invite too many people. Their conflicting opinions could be more confusing than helpful.
 The stores may have already set aside some dresses for you if you told them what you were looking for when you called to make the appointment. Show them any pictures you’ve brought with you, and make sure that they know what your budget is. This can save you a lot of time when you are picking out dresses., Don’t consider dresses that are too small for you with the assumption you can lose weight before the wedding. Make sure that the dress you pick out is your size, and that it will be your size even if you gain a couple pounds before the wedding.


Keep in mind that wedding dress sizing is usually larger than the sizing of regular clothing. Even if you are size 6 in dresses normally, you may be a larger size in wedding dresses., If you find a dress that you love, take photos from several angles, including close-ups. Also consider taking a video of you turning in the dress and walking in it. This will help to jog your memory and to be able to compare the dresses to one another., Even if you find a dress you absolutely love at the first store, make sure to go to several places. Your never know if you will find a better option after you see more dresses. If you are done shopping and you think you have found the dress for you, sleep on it for a couple days just to make absolutely sure it’s the one for you.


Do not go to more than two or three appointments per day. Wedding dress appointments usually last around one and a half hours, so you don't want to make yourself too tired or overwhelmed., If you want to forgo the process of going to multiple stores, think about shopping online for a dress. You may find options that better suit your budget and personal style. Just like with dress fittings at dress stores, make sure to get the input of family or friends.