 You do not want to be rushing through every airport procedure; this is likely to upset your child, and stress you out. A general rule of most airports is that you should allow yourself at least two hours to get through security; depending on your child, you may want to arrive earlier than that.


Make sure your child has things to do during the ride there. Some airports, such as LAX, can take a long time to commute to. You don't want a bored child sitting in the car while you're driving.
 With the stress and crowds, your child may have a hard time, and not be as capable as they usually are.Your child may move more slowly, struggle with skills like talking or self-calming, and temporarily "revert" to younger behavior (especially if they have a developmental disability).


Be patient, and accommodate your child's extra needs. Remember, this is temporary, and they'll go back to normal once they can unwind. They aren't doing it on purpose.
Be especially careful if your child is epileptic and is prone to seizures. Sometimes, the stress and excitement of the airport can cause your child to have a seizure., Since airports are likely new to your child, it's important to make sure your child understands what's going on. Explain each step as it comes up.


Preparing a picture schedule may be useful.
 Many airports have a short line for passengers with disabilities, so there is less waiting involved. Also, it makes it clear that your family might need some extra patience and assistance.
 Oftentimes, you'll need to wait in long lines to get to airport security, unless you're able to access a security pre-check line. If you can't use a pre-check line, you're going to need to make sure that your child doesn't get bored, overstimulated, or wander off while waiting.
 Once you've arrived at airport security, it's important to let the TSA officers know that you are traveling with a disabled child, especially if it's not immediately obvious (e.g. your child is physically disabled, but doesn't use a wheelchair or walking device). Talk to the TSA officers that are there and discuss how to best help your child through airport security. Some examples of disability accommodation are:Children with intellectual and developmental disabilities (autism, Down Syndrome, etc.) can be permitted to stay with the person or people they're traveling with, rather than getting separated.
Blind or visually impaired children can be assisted through security.
Deaf and hard of hearing children do not have to remove hearing aids or cochlear implants, and can proceed through security like normal.
Physically disabled children that require a device to move around will not be removed from their device. For example, if your child is in a wheelchair, TSA agents will not lift the child out of their chair to get them through security.
A child with a prosthetic limb can get a private screening of their prosthetic if necessary, or have the prosthetic removed and put through the X-ray machine. However, you should only remove the prosthetic if your child is okay with it.
In the case of any disabled child, you may be permitted to carry your child through security if it will make the process easier on your child. However, this may only be feasible with smaller, lighter children.
Be sure to let the agents know if your child has a special device for their disability that may set off the metal detector.
 Sometimes, things don't go as planned, and your child will need to undergo more screening. This can include a pat-down, which can be very upsetting to some disabled children. If you're permitted to, stay with your child during the process, and ask the TSA agent to warn your child of anything they're going to do in language that's possible for your child to understand.
 Put this list with child's medications in a small tote bag with a zipper, in the same bag. The medications must also be in a plastic ziplock sealed bag.


Medications are often not questioned if they are in pill form.
 tag or medical bracelet around the child and have them wear that so it is visible for the attendant to see. This can help cut out all the unnecessary verbal explanations about your child. You can also inform the officers, but the less the better when it comes to airline officials.


If they have a shirt about their disability, like "Autistic Cutie!" or "Diva with Down Syndrome," have them wear it.
Script a quick explanation, such as "My daughter has Down Syndrome and can be frightened in crowds and new situations. Holding her bunny helps keep her calm."

, If there are several adults in the group, you don't want each person to think that someone else is looking after the child. It can help to explicitly assign someone to the child for each leg of the trip.


One teen or adult should walk at the back of the group, to make sure that no one lags too far behind and gets lost.

