 The newest version can always be found online. Bookmark it if you need to.;
,


Under Character, Realm, and Server Set type in the obvious here. Make sure that you type your server name exactly as it is in-game.
Depending on what version of Microsoft Office you are using, you might see a bar near the top of the spreadsheet telling you that some of the content has been disabled. Click this banner and indicate that you want the macros to be able to run. Otherwise Cheeky's won't work.
 It really doesn't matter what the name of it is--it's just to help you identify it. You can change more than one of these profiles, allowing you to create custom gear sets and wish-lists, as well as compare talent specs with different gear. Use these to your best advantage! Sometimes it helps to have 4 or 5 different profiles for various scenarios and "dream gear" setups.
 From the "Profile" drop-down list, find the one that you defined and then choose the race of your character and then click the button in the top-left that says "Load Profile."


In the top-right corner, if the name and server match your character, go ahead and click "Load Gear from Armory."
You will notice that if you change Profiles the stats do not change immediately. By either clicking the "Load Profile", or clicking "CalcAttributes" after loading talents and gear will you see these numbers change.
After you have set-up your profiles, you should click the "Save Profile" button so the data is stored for later use.
Then you can just select the profile you want to view and load it up.
 On this screen you could now choose the gear you are looking to upgrade to and see how it would affect your DPS. For example, you could select Pauldrons of Primal Fury as the piece of gear you would like to get and then see what it does to your DPS, hit rating, attack power, etc. You will notice that it will automatically gem them for you with some predefined gems. You can change which gems it will automatically put in different color gem slots back on the "Settings and Result" tab. If you have access to epic gems, such as the through the Gem Vendor, you might want to have the Spreadsheet automatically populate red sockets with Spinels rather than Living Rubies.
 Once we define all our variables, we can go through our talents and adjust them, just like we can do to our gear, to see how it would affect our DPS. For example, you could remove the talent points from Ranged Weapon Specialization and put them into Combat Experience and re-calculate your attributes and see what the effect was.


Remember, if you change your spec, ranged weapons, or any number of talents, it is important to have the spreadsheet rebuild your shot rotation so it reflects your current stats. Putting points into Serpent's Swiftness for instance will make a huge difference. Or switching from BM to Survival and still having it calculate a 3:2 rotation will yield unexpected DPS numbers.
The "Buffs" tab is pretty self-explanatory. Similar to the character profile, you can define a Buffs profile on the "Settings and Results" tab that will allow you to define a preset load-out of buffs to see what it does to your DPS. For example, if you give Khagan Blessing of Kings, you'll gain 8 DPS overall. When he has Blessing of Might, the DPS jump is almost 40. Information like this is great to know when it comes time for those raid buffs.
 This tab does exactly what you would guess. It helps generates the ideal shot rotation for your spec and gear. For example, when you get to that tab and press the "3:2" button, it populates that field with a 3:2 shot rotation, as well as updates what the DPS would be, and then states how long it would take to go out of Mana as well as the total damage you would end up doing. Of course, you need to know what shot rotation is ideal for your talent choices.
 Do you feel that you are shooting too fast and think a 3:2 rotation would be better than your current 1:1 rotation? Theorycraft it with the click of a button.
 What kind of gear do you have access to? Are you just starting Karazhan? Leave only that box checked and click the "Sort" button. Just choose all the locations in which you can currently go so the spreadsheet knows what gear lists to generate. The second thing we need to decide is how it calculates hit rating for us. We have two options in this case: "based on current +hit" and "based on 0 hit rating." What exactly does that mean? Well, if you select "based off 0 +hit" the spreadsheet will attempt to calculate what kind of DPS increase an item would provide you if you had no additional hit rating. So if two items with the exact same stats except one has 20 hit rating, the one with hit rating will rank much higher because of the DPS increase the hit would provide.
 If you want to put together a wish-list of gear, or are curious on seeing how your DPS will look with the best items, gear in the drop-down lists are now organized by either DPS increase or alphabetically, based off how you choose to sort it on the Gear Planner tab.



The IAotH and DST tabs allow you to take into consideration the talents for Improved Aspect of the Hawk and the Dragonspine Trophy proc on. In most cases, when these items proc, a 3:2 rotation is quickly dropped dropped down to a 1:1 rotation due to the speed increase. These tabs will allow you to summarize how you should adjust your shot rotation when you gain these haste effects.
The "Pet" tab is also very useful. It let's you define your pet, what skills it has, and see what kind of DPS your pet will theoretically do when you use certain skills. For example, does your cat do more damage only using Claw, or does Bite really provide an increase? Choose your pet class, and use the drop-down lists to define what you have specified your pet into.
The "Custom Gear" tab can be used for a variety of things. If you happen to have a piece of gear that's not in the spreadsheet currently or are curious what a bow would do DPS-wise if it was a really wacky speed, you can create an item by inputting the stats you want it to have on the appropriate row and then selecting "Custom" on the gear drop-down list on the Gear tab.

