 Border Collie puppies are very active and have a lot of energy. As a breed, they were originally bred to be working dogs so they have a strong drive to follow directions and to work. While it is ideal to exercise your puppy outdoors, you may have to exercise them indoors during inclement weather. Regardless, puppies need daily exercise.Border Collie puppies tend to have a lot of energy and can exercise for an hour or more a day. There isn’t a set amount of exercise they need, but a good rule of thumb is that your puppy needs five minutes of exercise per every month of age twice a day. So a 3-month puppy needs 15 minutes of exercise up to twice a day., Border Collies are known for their agility and athleticism. Border Collies are well suited to the agility sport and this is a great way to stimulate your puppy mentally and to provide the exercise that they need and crave. Enrolling your puppy in an indoor agility class, held by a local instructor or training center, will teach your puppy to follow your commands and give them an outlet to expend their energy.Agility can also become a lifelong pursuit for your Border Collie as they grow into adulthood. Many Border Collie owners who enroll their dogs in agility classes end up having their dogs compete in agility tournaments or events.
 Some pet stores, gyms, or training centers allow dogs to play and exercise at their indoor facilities. There are even dog fitness centers where trainers can help your dog learn new games and new commands. Since inclement weather can prevent outdoor activities, having an indoor space as a backup will ensure your puppy gets the activity that they need. You can also exercise your puppy indoors by playing ball games or by making an indoor obstacle course.


You can make an indoor obstacle course by marking small hurdles or obstacles that your puppy will go around. Try putting a blanket over two chairs to make a tunnel for your puppy to go through or use a plastic hula hoop for your puppy to jump through. 