 Many people keep their record on the turntable platter throughout the cleaning process as it provides a secure and stable location. If you do this, make sure to move the tonearm aside, to prevent any accidental scratches. You’ll also want to use only minimal force against the record or you could damage the balance of the platter., You can buy a container of canned air at any office supply store. Follow the cleaning instructions on the can being careful to not get too close to the record. Gently puff air onto the record until the surface appears clean and free of dust. Repeat as necessary.


Canned air can sometimes release condensation as well. If this happens, make sure to wipe up any liquids from your record using a clean, soft cloth.
 Invest in a medium-sized, good quality microfiber cleaning towel. Gently rub this towel in small circles over your record. You can purchase microfiber cloths at most hardware or general home stores. These cloths are good because they will not scratch your record and will pick up dust easily., Look for a brush that is made specifically for cleaning records. You can find these at most audio or music stores. Place the brush gently down on top of the record. Start to spin the record slowly, guiding the brush fibers into the grooves. You can also make gentle sweeping motions from the inner to outer rings of the record.It is a good idea to brush your record first, even if you plan to proceed to a wet cleaning method. Dry brushing will remove some of the particles that could scratch your record if paired with liquid.Keep an eye on your brush and get a new one if the fibers appear bent or aged. Also, keep a brush specifically reserved just for your records., This is an attachment that sits above the record and gently applies a small cleaning brush to the rotating record. The brush should remove dust, debris, and static from the record all at once. This type of cleaning method can also help to keep your stylus free of dust as well.You’ll also want to clean the stylus if you notice dust accumulation on it. Stylus cleaner usually comes in a small bottle with an applicator brush or tip., This is a small, plastic gun that cleans your record by removing static electricity from its surface. Follow the directions of the packaging and aim the gun directly at the record without touching. The gun will then neutralize the static electricity, making your record less likely to attract dust.If your record ever makes a crinkling, crackling, or light crunching noise when being placed in, or pulled out, of its sleeve then it likely needs cleaning by an anti-static device.
 You can buy a roller online, or at a music store, that is specifically designed for record cleaning. Pull the roller along the grooves of the record. It will attract dust to its surface. You can either wash the roller or remove the top layer for a future cleaning.Just make sure that the roller does not leave any residue behind on the record. You may want to do a single test swipe just to make sure.

