 You may want your desktop background to change from one picture to another after a given time interval. The “Slideshow” option lets you do this, but first you must create a folder containing the pictures you want to include in the slideshow.


Open a file explorer and click/tap the “Pictures” folder at the left pane of the file explorer. At the ribbon on top of the window, click the “New Folder” button. This will create a new subfolder in the “Pictures” folder. Rename the new folder “Desktop Slideshow” (or any other name you prefer) by typing over the highlighted “New folder” file name.
Once you’ve got your slideshow folder, transfer or copy as many pictures as you want to it.
 Open the context menu of your desktop by right-clicking an empty space on the desktop. From the menu, select “Personalization.”

, The “Background” section is usually highlighted when the “Personalization” menu is opened. If the “Background” section is not highlighted, click/tap on it.
 The Slideshow options will appear below the “Background” choice box.
 Right below the “Background” choice box is the section labeled “Choose albums for your slideshow,” and below this is the “Browse” button. Click/tap the “Browse” button to open the “Select folder” window.


Locate the slideshow folder you created, and click/tap on it. Then click/tap the “Choose this folder” button located at the bottom right portion of the “Select folder” window.
After you click/tap “Choose this folder,” the “Select folder” window will close and the name of the folder will appear on the placeholder above the “Browse” button. The slideshow picture also appears in the Preview pane indicating that you have successfully chosen your preferred slideshow folder.
 Below the “Browse” button is a choice box labeled “Change picture every...” Clicking/tapping this choice box gives you options on how often the slideshow picture changes (1 minute, 10 minutes, etc.). Choose a time interval by clicking/tapping on it.
 At the bottom of the right pane of the “Background” section is the “Choose a fit” choice box. Click/tap on the choice box to select one of the five options available on how your slideshow pictures will fit into your device’s screen: Fill, Fit, Stretch, Tile, Center, and Span.
 After you have chosen the slideshow folder, determined how often the slideshow picture changes, and how your slideshow pictures will fit into your screen, close the “Personalization” window by clicking/tapping the “Close” button (×) at the upper right-hand corner of the window. That’s it. You now have a slideshow for your desktop background.

