 If you see qualities or successes you like in another person, try striving to admire the person rather than be jealous of them. In other words, use their success as a way to set a goal for yourself, rather then letting it turn into envy.When you start feeling jealous, which can lead to competitiveness, think about all that person did to get where they are. Admire their hard work and determination. You can even ask them how they achieved what they did, so you can learn from them.
For instance, maybe a friend is getting a book published, a long time dream of yours. You could choose to be jealous, and turn that jealousy into competitiveness. On the other hand, you could choose admiration. Your friend has accomplished something amazing, and you can use that to inspire you to finish your own novel.
 If you're competitive, you may have problems reveling in other's success. Learning to be non-competitive means learning to celebrate those successes with your friends, family, and co-workers. If you see someone doing something great, compliment them. You may not always feel the sentiment, but just voicing it can help you work towards being genuinely supportive.For instance, if you notice your co-worker has done an excellent job on a project, you could say, "Thanks for putting all of this together, Janine. You're really great at organizing!"
Don't limit yourself to people you know. If you read an article online that you love, tell the author. If you notice someone doing a good job at a store, tell them. It never hurts to make someone's day better.
 When you want to compete with others all the time, you likely see them as outside of your experience. You may not see the trials they go through to get there, making you feel like a failure. Therefore, acknowledging your own pain as something that's common can help you see where others work hard, too. You're not alone in your experiences, and therefore, you have people to take the journey with, not just compete against., A competitive nature often comes from counting other's blessings more than your own. Then you end up feeling jealous and wanting to get ahead. Instead, learn to be grateful for what you do have by incorporating gratitude into your everyday life.Try thinking about all the things you're grateful for before you get out of bed in the morning.
You could also try a gratitude journal. Take the time to write down 5 things you're grateful for every day. You can do it in a private journal, or you can even do it on social media, making a post each day about the things you're grateful for.

