 Rumination is the process of replaying painful or disappointing events in your head in a cycle that makes it difficult to counteract. Rumination cycles are often unproductive and negative in that they do not help to solve problems or move forward.Rumination takes your focus off problem solving. Consciously distracting your thinking to stop the cycle of rumination is one of the most common methods of avoiding it.


Research has also shown that those who ruminate and talk about their situations over and over often drive away friends and family who could have acted as a social support.Mindfulness is the most common way of distracting yourself from ruminating. It involves turning your attention to your immediate surroundings, the sounds around you, or the sensations in your body., Negative experiences can often become echo chambers of feelings of fault or guilt. Reframing your experiences means looking at them from a different light.By reframing your thoughts, you can strengthen your senses of problem solving and confidence.For instance, to reframe a poor mood after a hurtful situation, you can think about what you have learned about yourself and your relationship.
As another example, if you are dealing with the uncomfortableness of embarrassment, you can try to find the humor in the situation and learn to laugh at yourself to feel better and move on.
 If you begin journaling or talking to trusted friends and loved ones regarding what’s affecting you, then look for patterns. Are you consistently writing or talking about the same issues? If so, what can you do to make changes at the root of the problem rather than simply venting the emotional impact of it on a regular basis?This can also mean taking a stark look at your relationships to determine if a toxic relationship consistently brings you down. Toxic interpersonal relationships can be the chronic source of anxiety, depression, stress, and other negative emotions.If the consistent source is related to your job, then what changes can you make to your work environment? If you can’t change your work environment to suit your mental well-being, then it may be time to consider a job change.
 Taking regular steps to improve and maintain your physical health also leads to an increased sense of mental well-being. Not only does exercise release endorphins to improve your mood, but it also gives you achievable goals to work toward with regard to your fitness. Joining a gym or a fitness group through another organization—such as your church or at work—also expands your support system., Feeling good about your contributions can go a long way to help with your self-worth and self-esteem. Try volunteering at a shelter, helping with a food drive, or finding another cause about which you’re passionate to donate some of your time., One of the harder and more important aspects of maintaining emotional well-being is to remember that difficult situations that lead to emotional turmoil are a normal part of life, that we learn and grow through these experiences, and that surmounting trouble can be a source of pride. Remember that you can overcome the source of your emotional distress and that how you deal with those emotions and move on without letting them interfere with your daily functioning is the important part., If despite your best efforts to feel better about your experiences you still feel overwhelmed by stress, anxiety, frustration, or depression, then consider making an appointment with a counselor or a therapist. A professional can help you increase your inventory of tools to deal with the situations affecting you. A professional can also recommend medications, support groups, or other resources that you might not otherwise be able to tap into.

