 Exercise combats depression and elevates mood. If you find yourself feeling down or discouraged, make an effort to spend at least twenty minutes a day on exercise. If possible, go for a walk or jog outside in the fresh air and sunshine., If you are feeling discouraged at work, seek out the mentorship of a senior colleague. Your mentor should be someone who is positive and willing to work with you. Avoid trying to force a mentor relationship. Be sure to Find a Mentor with whom you think you will work well.


For example, if you are a new teacher and feel overwhelmed, ask a friendly colleague how they dealt with stress and discouragement when they were just starting out. Their wisdom and experience will be helpful, in addition to letting you know that you’re not alone in your feelings.
 Documenting goals, setbacks, and feelings will help keep you aware of how you’re progressing. Being aware of your feelings and how certain situations affect you is key to achieving balance and avoiding discouragement.


For example, did a setback at work make you especially discouraged this week? Did you ace a test that you studied hard for? Note good and bad feelings and experiences in your journal.
A gratitude journal is a great way to stave off discouragement. Start a Gratitude Journal and try to journal each day about something that went well for you or that you’re grateful for.
You can download journal and gratitude journal apps onto your phone, tablet, or computer, if you prefer. Otherwise, an old-fashioned notebook will work just as well.
 When you work hard on something and you achieve a goal, celebrate it! Go out for a nice meal, get a pedicure, or simply plan alone time for yourself to relax at home. No matter how small the goal, if you set a goal and accomplished it, it’s important to reward yourself., If you are trying to change your outlook from one of depression and discouragement, then you must surround yourself with others who express positivity and encouragement. Spend time with friends who support you and don’t question you for trying to change your outlook or accomplish your goals. Especially avoid those who belittle your goals and try to drag you down., Despite our best efforts, sometimes enlisting the help of a mental health professional is necessary to help us overcome feelings of discouragement and sadness. Therapists are trained to help you identify your stressors and can be invaluable for overcoming discouragement.


If you feel overwhelmed and discouraged and don’t think you are improving on your own, a licensed therapist will be able to encourage you and help you have a more positive outlook.