


Visit https://facebook.com and sign up right on that page by filling in the fields it requests.
Confirm your email address so that Facebook can verify your account.
Follow its prompt to help you find friends via your email address, if you would like, or you can skip this step until you are ready to add friends at another time.
Add a profile photo, if you would like, or skip this step until later.
 Then you can share photos directly to Facebook from your smartphone.


Search for the app in the App Store, if you have an iPhone, or in the Play Store, if you have an Android phone.
Once the app is downloaded, open it and log into your account.
 This includes uploading them and editing their descriptions.


On your Facebook home page, look to the navigation bar on the left and find “Apps.” Underneath that header, you will see “Photos.” Click that link.
On the Photos page, look for the button that says “+ Create Album” and click it.
A pop-up window will appear with your computer drive. Find the photo folder you need to upload the photos you want to share.
You can upload one photo at a time, or you can upload multiple photos at once. If you are using a Windows PC, then use Ctrl + click to highlight more than one photo. If you are using a MacBook, you can use Command + click to highlight multiple photos. Click “Open” when you have highlighted all of the photos you want to upload.
While your photos are uploading, you can give your new photo album a title and a description on the left side of the screen. You can also tag where the photos were taken. In addition, you can allow friends to upload to the album and make them higher quality, if you would like.
Give your photos captions to help your friends better understand what was going on in the photos. Underneath each one is a box that says, “Say something about this photo...” Click in that box, and you can type your own caption.
Tag friends in your photos. Click anywhere on each photograph, or click on each specific person, to tag them. When you click, you can start typing in that friend's name, and when it comes up, you can select it.
 Now other people can see your photos.


Do this by clicking the blue button that says “Post.”
You may want to decide if you want your photos to be public or only viewable to certain people. To the left of the blue “Post” button is a white button that says “Friends.” Click on that to change who can see your photos. Remember that if this is set to public, then anyone who finds your profile can see those photos. If it is set to friends, then only people on your friends list can see them.



Open the app and tap the button that says “Photo” in the navigation bar. It should bring up your photo gallery.
Select the photos that you would like to upload and tap “Done” in the top right corner.
Add captions to your photos, if you would like. You can also tag friends, add the photos to an album that you already have created or create a new album, and tag where the photos were taken.
Determine with whom you want your photo to be shared, either publicly or with your friends list. Tap where it says “Friends” just below “Update Status” to change this privacy setting.
Share the photo by tapping “Post” when you are ready.

