 The method above isn't the only way to bleach a white shirt — you can also use bleach during a normal cycle of your washing machine to whiten your clothing with minimal extra effort. To begin, if your shirt has any stains on it, use a paper towel, a spoon, or any other tool you have handy to remove any excess spilled material from the shirt. The earlier you can remove the sources of your stains, the better the shirt will look in the long run.









For ground-in stains, try making a paste of baking soda and water and brushing it into the stain. The baking soda should gradually absorb some of the staining materials, after which it it can be brushed away.
 Next, pour a tiny spot of liquid laundry detergent directly onto any stain remaining on your shirt. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush (one you don't intend to use for your teeth again) to scrub the stain clean. Leave the scrubbed-in detergent in the shirt before you wash it — allowing it to set helps loosen up the stain, leaving you with a whiter shirt in the long run.









If you don't have liquid laundry detergent, you can mix a small spoonful of powdered detergent with water and use it in precisely the same way.
 Next, put your pre-treated white shirt (and any other whites you're washing) into your washing machine. At this point, you can add your bleach. The precise way you'll do this will vary based on the type of washing machine you have — directions for the most common types are below:








Machines with bleach dispenser: Pour bleach into the bleach dispenser tray, filling it to the indicated line. The washing machine will automatically release the bleach into the load at the appropriate time.
Machines without bleach dispenser: Start the wash cycle, then add detergent and 1/2 cup of bleach to the water, then, finally, add your clothing.
Very large machines: Use bleach dispenser as above if available. If the machine has no bleach dispenser, add 1 cup of bleach to the water after the wash cycle has begun.
 You're all ready to start your washing machine! For the greatest cleaning and whitening power, use the hottest temperature setting allowable for the fabric of the garments in the wash. Consult your garment's care label if you are unsure of how hot it can safely be washed — in general, tough fabrics like cotton, denim, and so on can take hot wash temperatures, while many more fragile or manmade fibers can only withstand warm heats., When your washing machine is done, remove your white shirt and any other whites you washed with it. Dry as you please — for most, this will usually mean using a dryer, though you can also save energy by air-drying if it's sunny outside.









For particularly stained or soiled white shirts, you may need to repeat this cycle several times to restore them to their original brilliant white. For the very best results, try pairing this normal washing technique with one of the others described in this article.

