 Kneel on the ground with your left elbow tight against your side and your right arm bent at a right angle with your hand in front of your face. Place your hands on the ground and keep your left elbow tucked under your hip bone. You want your weight to be mostly distributed over your left forearm.









Straighten out your legs behind you and hold your body weight with your left forearm. Raise your left leg up and bend your knee.
Kick up your right leg, simultaneously swinging your left leg under your right leg. As you complete this move, push off the ground with your hands and roll over your left shoulder onto your upper back. Make sure your chin is tucked in toward your collar bone during this step to avoid injury.
Return to your home position with your arms on the ground supporting your legs in the air. Now your hands will be on the right side of your body.
Now complete the push off and leg swing on the other side of your body, swinging your left leg under your right and rolling over your right shoulder onto your upper back.
Continue this transfer of momentum from left to right using your entire body, and you've completed a windmill power move!

, In order to perform a headspin move, you must first be able to hold a headstand for several minutes and move your legs around without falling over. Once you're able to perform these tasks, you're ready to try a headspin move. Put on a beanie or a bandana to aid your spinning motion.









Cross your legs and alternate swinging them in a circular motion keeping your upper body in one place to get the feel of the movement. Keep your hands on the ground when just beginning to learn this move.
When you're comfortable with that, begin to let your hands lift off the ground as your legs uncross to allow yourself to spin slowly. Be ready to return your hands to the ground and catch yourself if you need to. The wider you spread your legs, the more momentum you will gain, causing you to spin faster.
Concentrate on keeping your back straight and your neck safe. If you start to feel neck pain, take a break immediately.
 If you have a strong core, you can learn the jackhammer, though it's not an easy move. Balance your body on your two bent arms, with your elbows hugged in at your hips and your feet flared out behind you.









Then try to release one hand and spin on the other, using the free hand to aid you in your spinning. Once you can spin without difficulty, you can move on to the hop.
Place both hands back down on the ground and incorporate small hops into your spin motion. You will now be rotating in a circle as you balance on two hands and hop slightly.
Now take one hand off of the ground and push with it as you spin yourself with the other. Shift all of your weight over to the balancing hand and place your pushing hand behind your back. Bounce on one hand while spinning and you've completed the jack hammer!
The jackhammer is an extremely hard move that takes a lot of strength, so don't be discouraged if this move takes months to get down.