 Explain to them why you like it and how you'd like to adopt certain aspects of it. Make it clear that there are ways of adopting this style that are not permanent and that won't interfere with your school uniform presentation or other things that might worry them.;
, Try to work out in advance what is likely to worry them and have good, sensible solutions to offer them. Don't backchat or dismiss their concerns though; be open to discussion and ask nicely.


Your parents might be worried about what being scene means. You will need to explain this clearly to them. Perhaps use internet resources to help you explain it better.
Your parents might be worried about hair dyeing. Inform them that there are ways around this, such as using colored extensions or temporary solutions such as chalk or wash-out color spray.
Your parents might be worried about the cost of clothing. Reassure them that you can make your own or repurpose thrift store finds.
 If they say no outright, ask that they think about for a while and that you'll ask again later. If they're unsure, don't badger them. Instead, occasionally raise the matter again, asking them if they've had a chance to think about it.
 You can use these suggestions to explain what you can do to turn scene without permanent changes, high costs and major changes. Some of the suggestions can also be implemented as a way of getting around parental disapproval but be aware that this carries a risk of getting into trouble.
 One day wear a scene top, (a bright shirt with a simple slogan on it is good), then the next day maybe wear converse sneakers or high-tops.
 While, most scene girls get off with band tees and such, Hot Topic can be expensive. You can definitely get away with any shirt that isn't name-brand. Walmart? That works. Goodwill? Even better.


Avoid wearing band shirts featuring grotesque graphics, considering your parents don't necessarily support the change.
 If for some reason, you can't get skinny jeans, try to go for a dark boot-cut jean.
 Can't forget the shoes: ballet flats, Converse or sneakers.
 If your parents don't want you dyeing your hair, try colored hair extensions. Find these in the dollar stores or cheaper beauty outlets for a low cost. Use colored hair chalks as another alternative or in combination with the hair extensions.
 At least you can have the hairstyle.
 If all else fails, use hair accessories as the last option. These can also be worn with a change of hairstyle and in extensions.
 If you honestly can't convince your parents to let you get a cool side fringe, ask for straight-across bangs then let them grow out. By the time they're straight across your nose, you should be able to push them to a side and you'll have cute scene bangs.
 If your parents object to you wearing darker colors like black, simply go lighter. Go with colors like blue, purple or green, for that bright and colorful look. Those are colors they might let you wear. However, if your parents don't really let you wear makeup, you could probably get away with a doll-like look: just do a light shadow, a little mascara, and a touch of lip gloss.
 Start by using one shade of green or purple or something, then two shades, then three. Stop at three. Don't go thick with the eyeliner at first. And if you use colored liner, don't use shadow. Use clear lip gloss, or pink.
 Got kids at school who are rude or mean to you? Saying you're stupid? That's not true. If people call you that, just think to yourself that people that are mean are just trying to cover up themselves.
 Because everyone else is already taken.


If you are shy or rebellious or anything else, enjoy it. Don't change yourself just because that's what someone else is.
Be nice and friendly.
 It'll make people think you are a poser.
 Some examples are Cameron Catastrophe or Daniella Disaster. Some good ideas for for the last part could be Cannibal, Crisis, Killer, Venom, Beastly/ Beast, and Horrible. You could take one of these or make up your own but it can't be like say your name was Hannah. It couldn't be Hannah Happy. Or something bright sounding.
 Be sure you're well-balanced in music tastes and when you talk to people about music, be sure to tell them you like everything and that you'll check out any band they mention when you get home.
 Write down what you like about each scene girl: maybe you like her haircut? Maybe there's a certain outfit she has that you think you'd look stellar in? You're not copying unless you do everything the same as her; you're experimenting.

