 The best way to reheat macaroni and cheese and other creamy pasta dishes on the stove is in a double boiler, or bain-marie.A double boiler consists of a saucepan that stacks on top of another pan filled with water. The stacked pans are put on the heat, and the water in the bottom boils, releasing steam that gently heats the food in the top part of the pan.


If you do not have a double boiler, it is easy to make one. Find a metal or glass (preferably pyrex) mixing bowl that fits on top of your favorite saucepan. Add water to the pan, but not so much that it touches the bottom of the bowl. Add your food to the bowl, and place the pan with the bowl on top on the burner over medium heat.If a double boiler is not an option, use a regular saucepan; just be careful not to scorch your macaroni and cheese!

, Only reheat the amount you want to eat. The quality will definitely suffer after a second reheating.
 This helps restore the moisture of the sauce, and the original creamy texture. Begin by stirring in about a tablespoon of milk per cup of macaroni and cheese. You may add more milk as the macaroni and cheese heats if it begins to look dry or sticky.


Adding a half a tablespoon of butter to the macaroni and cheese will improve the taste and texture even more.
You may also substitute half and half, or even cream for the milk for a richer texture.
 Keep a close eye on your pan and stir frequently until the macaroni and cheese reaches the desired temperature and texture. Depending on your stove, this could take 3 to 10 minutes.


Be patient and try not to overheat your macaroni and cheese, or you run the risk of it separating and becoming oily.
If the macaroni looks dry as it heats, stir in some additional milk, one tablespoon at a time.
 Even the most lovingly reheated macaroni and cheese can lose a bit of flavor. Consider stirring in an ounce of additional shredded cheese or a few teaspoons of grated parmesan as it reheats. You might also add some garlic powder or a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper to give it a little extra zing.

