 If you find out someone has been practicing mind games on you, or someone you know, and has done it well, figure out what made that person so successful. Study their mannerisms and words to figure out their technique.
 Be sure to study the person you are trying to play a mind game with, so that you know how that person thinks. This will allow you to take the best approach for getting this person to take part in your game.
 A lot of people are easily responsive to emotional situations and hardships. For sympathetic and empathetic people, you will want to play to their emotions by having them feel bad for you. This will lead them into helping you however you say you need it., This tactic requires you to gain the sympathy of the other person. You need to act like you are a perfect, moral person who keeps being victimized by the evils of the world, and you just don't know why. This will make someone feel obligated to give in to any requests you may have.


Simply pretend to be ignorant, and say, “I just don’t know what I keep doing wrong. Why do bad things keep happening to me?" Pretend like you are genuinely confused as to why things never work out for you.
 When you know that someone is sensitive to guilt, be sure to play on that weakness. Guilt can weigh very heavy on a lot of people, and they will do their best to avoid that feeling. When you go to ask for a favor that someone may not want to do, you can attempt to guilt trip that person into doing it. Here are some things you can say if someone turns you down:


"I knew you would let me down."
"I am not surprised that you won't do it, I am used to it.", If you find someone who goes by fact, and does not believe in something unless there is evidence to back it up, then you need more than emotions to mess with this person. Figure out a way to back up what you say with reason or logical benefits to be more convincing.For example, if you want someone to eat more healthy, explain how unhealthy food leads to health problems, and that vegetables can add years to your life. This may convince someone to healthier foods.