 A thigh gap as wide as a supermodel's is not normal by any means. While many women—and men—could stand to lose a little leg fat, some will never see a wide gap between their thighs even after shedding excess pounds.


Genetics and body structure play the biggest role in whether you can gain a thigh gap. Simply put, most women have hips that are set too closely together for there to be a large gap between their thighs, even with very little fat on their legs. If you have wider set hips, however, a thigh gap might actually be possible while maintaining a healthy overall weight.;
, Dieting and exercise will not give you a thigh gap overnight — it is a long-term lifestyle change, not a quick fix. Physical results could take as long as three to four weeks to start showing. Even then, some girls' genetics keep them from achieving a thigh gap, no matter how skinny they are. Whatever the case, it is not healthy to achieve a thigh gap by skipping meals or by exerting yourself to exhaustion.


Stay motivated by noticing the ways in which a healthy diet makes you feel better, instead of simply looking better. You might have more energy, or notice that your clothes fit in a more flattering way. It may not be what you wanted, but learning to be happy with who you are is a skill you will need to develop whoever you are.
 Getting a thigh gap has become the Holy Grail for some. They need it or they feel inadequate. In serious cases, people focus on it so much that they begin to lose perspective about other important things in life, like health or maintaining social relationships. A troubling number of teens and young girls are treating a thigh gap in an unhealthy way, fasting and possibly developing eating disorders.Don't let the prospect of a thigh gap make or break you. Your thighs do not say anything about you. Do not let anyone tell you what to do.
 If you are after a thigh gap, but the only way you feel you can get there is starving your body of the nutrients it needs to stay healthy, please ask for help. Anorexia, bulimia, and other eating disorders are serious to your physical health and mental well-being.


Especially during your teen years, not getting enough food can have serious health consequences. It affects brain development, heart function, and even reproductive health in a bad way.Pay attention to these signs that your eating may be turning into a disorder. Do you feel powerful when you skip meals? Do you lie about how much you eat? Are you deathly afraid of gaining weight? Is your self-worth primarily derived from your body weight?If you've answered "yes" to any of these questions, see a medical professional or talk to someone who can help you right away.
 If your hips are wide set, you're more likely to be able to get a thigh gap.If you happen to be one of the many girls whose hips are not wide set, exercising or diet may not make a thigh gap possible. However, exercise and diet do, to some extent, have an effect on your thighs; the influence of genetics in relation to thigh gap is not as irreversible as its relation to bone structure.
 Try to slowly chip away at any excess weight through a combination of diet and exercise until you hit your doctor-recommended BMI. If you still have not gotten a thigh gap, it may not be possible given your genes and bone structure.


Even with exercise, it's impossible to target just one area on your body, such as your thighs. This myth is called spot training.Targeted training, say in your thigh area, does work, by taking flab and turning it into muscle, but you'll also be losing flab in other areas as well. You cannot tell your body to burn fat from a particular area on your body just by working it out.
 Instead of restricting your intake, try focusing on eating healthy items that fuel your body (and do not satisfy your sweet tooth). Consider cleaning these items out of your diet:


Trans-fats: These sneaky fats contribute to heart disease and high cholesterol, and are abundant in fast food, processed snack foods (such as potato chips), fried food and shortening or margarine. If you are not sure, check out the nutrition facts.
Sugar: Processed sugar packs many calories without much nutritional benefit. Do not use artificial sweeteners like sucralose, aspartame or saccharine in your beverages, as some recent studies have shown possible dangerous side effects of these products e.g. some artificial sweeteners found in Diet drinks can increase your risk of a heart attack. Instead, try substituting unsweetened applesauce for sugar in recipes., Not only is fiber good for you, it takes a while to digest and will fill up more space in your stomach, resulting in feeling less hungry.Try these sources:


Fruits and vegetables: Common choices include celery, apples, spinach, cabbage, berries, carrots, pears and oranges (and many others!).
Whole grains: Reach for brown grains instead of white ones: whole-wheat bread, brown rice, wheat tortillas, and wheat pasta.
Eat nuts and beans. Try black beans, almonds, pistachios, pecans and lentils.
 The jury is still out regarding the effectiveness of superfoods regarding weight loss, but many of these foods are part of a healthy diet, anyway, so you do not have much to lose by choosing them over other higher calorie alternatives.


Superfoods that might be worth adding to your diet include:

Apples, goji berries, blueberries, and pomegranates
Eggs, lentils, almond butter, salmon, and sardines
Oats, buckwheat pasta, and quinoa
Kale, chiles, tarragon, and avocado
Low-fat plain yogurt, and parmesan cheese
Olive oil



, If you are eating a healthy diet, but still feel like you are not quite where you would like to be, review what you are consuming every day. Even small restrictions, like eating 200 fewer calories per day, can lead to safe, gradual weight loss.


Keep a food diary. You can write it down the old-fashioned way and look up calories online, or use an app like MyFitnessPal or Spark People. Whatever you choose, try to be consistent.
Figure out your basal metabolic rate (BMR). This will tell you how many calories per day you burn simply by existing. To lose weight at a safe pace, try cutting back your diet to 200 or 300 calories less than your BMR. 3500 calories is equal to 1 pound, so by cutting out 300, you should be dropping 1 pound every 11 days.

For more help, see How to Calculate How Many Calories You Need to Eat to Lose Weight.


Move past mistakes. If you give in to temptation, do not be discouraged! Everyone slips up once in a while. Simply resolve to get back to your healthy diet.
 Sit down on the floor, with your back straight and upright. Bend your knees outward, and put the soles of your feet together. Draw your feet as close to your pelvis as you can without straining, and try to lower your thighs so they are parallel to the ground. Hold for five to 10 seconds.


You might need to hold your feet with your hands to do this stretch. That's OK!
Be gentle. You may have seen people doing this stretch by flapping their knees vigorously up and down, like butterfly wings, but that is a quick way to injure yourself. Instead, aim to keep your movements slow and precise.
Do a butterfly stretch before you start working out your thighs — it'll help loosen them up and prevent muscle tears.
 Lie down on your left side, with your head either resting on your left arm or supported by your left hand. Bend your right knee, and lift it over your left leg so your right shin is resting on the floor. Keep your left leg straight as you breathe out and lift a few inches, and then inhale as you lower it. Do three sets of 10 repetitions on each side.


Try to keep your torso as straight and still as possible as you lift your legs.
Move slowly. You will notice the slower your movements are, the more they will work your thighs.
If you have a back injury, clear this exercise with your doctor before doing it.
 You can do this exercise sitting at your desk, or try a more complicated version on the floor:


Sitting press: Sit up straight in your chair, with your back straight and your abs pulled in. Place a towel, pillow, or other small object between your knees. Squeeze it between your knees as tightly as you can, and hold for a few seconds. Do 20 repetitions.
Bridge press: Lie down on your back, with your knees bent and your feet flat on the ground, hip-width apart. Put something like a pillow, towel, or other soft object between your knees. Lift your pelvis until you are in bridge position (that is, the line running from the back of your knees to your shoulders is as straight as possible), and squeeze the object between your knees as tightly as you can. Do 20 repetitions before lowering yourself back to the ground.
 You should aim to get 30 minutes of moderate to intense aerobic exercise at least 3 days a week. Not only will these exercises keep you healthy and help you slim down, they will also tone up your legs in the process.


Running, walking briskly, climbing stairs, biking, swimming, and dancing can all help you slim down your legs.Find an exercise that you enjoy and stick with it. If you enjoy your workout, you will be more likely to do it regularly.
 These include squats, lunges, leg curls, and calf raises, among others. While these exercises are great for building muscle and toning up, they will not slim your legs down or help you achieve a thigh gap.


You don't have to avoid these exercises, but do them in moderation. Focus instead on cardio exercises that work your entire body.
 If you need a thigh gap by tonight, then your best option is to try on thigh-slimming shapewear.


Your best options are a good pair of tights with a control top and a snug body shaper. Make sure that any body shaper you buy extends far enough down to cover the entire thigh.
 These creams and cosmetic ointments claim to get rid of unwanted cellulite with consistent application. Since much thigh fat tends to be cellulite, some products could potentially prove helpful.


Many of these creams contain caffeine. Caffeine stimulates blood flow and may help burn off cellulite, so applying an anti-cellulite cream with caffeine in it to your thighs might help reduce any cellulite clinging to that area of your legs.
 This process involves brushing your thighs with a specialized brush to stimulate blood flow and speed up fat loss.


Use a special dry brush designed for this technique. These brushes are available from many health and beauty stores. Do not use a standard hairbrush.
Dry brushing helps exfoliate dead skin and, theoretically, improves circulation while tightening your skin.
 While self-tanner may not be able to give you a thigh gap, if you need to show off your legs in a swimsuit or mini-skirt, you can use self-tanner to create the illusion of slimmer thighs and toner legs.


Spray a self-tanner or bronzer over your legs from top to bottom. You might be tempted to only apply the tanner to your thighs to create the illusion of shadows, but the difference in hue between your thighs and calves will usually look unnatural, so you'll need to cover the entire leg.
 If an elegant thigh gap picture is what you are after, you do not necessarily have to starve and put your body through agony. By trying this simple trick, you could get the look you are after with a whole lot less work.
 Pretend they are stiff as straw and hard as rock.
 Not too much, or what you are doing will become apparent. A little goes a long way here.
 Tip the back part of your heels apart, making sure to keep the front part of your toes together. Remember to do this subtle or it will not look natural or believable.
 If your camera is facing a downward angle, all the better. You should have recreated the thigh gap without much fuss and with minimal effort. Use this pose to enhance your thigh gap if you naturally have one.
 The surest way to a thigh gap, regardless of weight, is widened hips. If you're not quite through puberty, it's possible that your pelvis simply isn't wide enough yet. Most girls finish developing around the age of 16 or 17, but puberty can continue into the later teens in some cases. . Try to be patient!


Don't resort to starving. Puberty involves much growth and change, and you need plenty of nutrients and calories to pull it off. If you deprive yourself, you will stunt the development of your figure.
Accept that puberty takes years, not months. You might have a sudden growth spurt over a summer, but the physical transition from childhood to adulthood takes years. Try not to be discouraged if your development is taking longer than other girls you know.
 If you are 15 and have not menstruated yet, consider seeing a gynecologist . You might have another health condition that's delaying puberty.


If you suspect that your hormones are seriously out of balance, make an appointment with a gynecologist or reproductive endocrinologist. A simple blood test can tell you a lot about what is wrong, and your doctor can prescribe the appropriate medications from there.

