 Because their knowledge and experience are limited, children often approach activities and situations with a beginner’s mind. You can use this same concept when perceiving the world around you.Open yourself up to new ideas and beliefs by viewing your surroundings through a fresh lens. For example, instead of assuming that you know what someone is about to say, listen actively until their entire message has been delivered.
Let’s say, you are a seasoned horseback rider. It could help to retake lessons or observe a novice learning how to ride. You will undoubtedly learn something new yourself.;
, Adults live by routines, but so much structure can limit your opportunity for growth. Shake up your routine each week by challenging yourself to do things differently.For instance, try to walk backwards. Have dessert for dinner. Eat with the opposite hand. Watch TV in another language. Or, instead of dropping on the couch right after work, do something else like walk your dog or phone your mom.
You can also try a new hobby or a creative activity. Try out something that you might not be good at naturally.
 Some kids have a knack for talking to anyone and everyone. For this reason, they typically don’t have much trouble making new friends. Adults might shy away from conversing with people they perceive as different. Be aware of this shortcoming, and open yourself up to talking to the people around you.For example, start a conversation with the person behind you in line at the store. Ask a retail representative for their advice. Compliment someone on a fashion choice and ask how they would describe their own style.
After you interact with someone new, try asking yourself questions to check in with yourself, such as “How did that go?” and “Did I learn something new?”

, One strength of childhood is no caring if you’re wrong. As you get older, you start to care what people think. As a result, you try to limit your mistakes. However, mistakes help you learn and challenge yourself.Do something without caring about the outcome. Ask your teacher or boss a question without concern about whether you look stupid.
In addition, try taking a course in which you have little knowledge on the subject. Think about something you have always wanted to do but didn't because you worried about your skill level or abilities. Sign up and let go of your worries. If you feel embarrassed about taking a class, then look into online classes.

