 Creating a gold eyeshadow look is easy if you have the right makeup and tools. To create a gold eyeshadow look, you will need:








eyeshadows in white or nude, light brown, soft black, black, and gold
black eyeliner
a liner brush
a blending brush
a Smith 220 brush or a similar wide flat brush
a Sigma 232 brush or similar small fluffy brush
a crease brush
black mascara
false eyelashes (optional);
, Apply some nude or white eyeshadow to your eyelids. Make sure that you apply the eyeshadow to your entire eyelid and all the way up to your brow line. Applying a base first will help to ensure that your color looks even and stays on longer.








You can also apply primer to your eyelids before you begin for even more eyeshadow staying power.Choose a color that is similar to your skin tone. For example, if you have fair skin, then a white or light nude will work well, but if you have bronze or olive skin, then choose an eyeshadow that it about the same color.
 Use your crease brush to apply a light brown eyeshadow color to the crease of your eyelids. Keep in mind that this color should be a few shades darker than your skin, so you may need to go with a darker brown if you have darker skin.








Blend the light brown eyeshadow into your creases and make sure that you apply enough eyeshadow to provide good coverage.
 Applying a base of soft black before you apply the regular black eyeshadow will help to ensure that you do not have any major mistakes to clean up. However, if you do not have a soft black color or do not want to apply two layers of black, then you can just apply regular black eyeshadow in place of the soft black.








Use your Smith 220 brush or a similar flat brush to apply black eyeshadow to the lower lash lines of your eyes.
After you finish with your lower lash lines, switch to your blending brush and apply soft black to the inner and outer corners of your eyes. Blend the edges well.
 Next, switch to a liner brush to darken the lower lash line with a true black eyeshadow. Then, use a blending brush to darken the areas on the inner and outer corners of your eyes with your true black eyeshadow.








Try to extend the eyeshadow out from the lower lash line a bit to create a slight winged effect. You can use a liner brush to do this.
Keep layering black eyeshadow on your lower lash line and the inner and outer corners of your eyes to deepen the color as much as possible.
 After you have finished deepening and blending the black eyeshadow, you can add some highlights to your brow bone. Take a blending brush and your white eyeshadow and apply it to your brow bone, just below your eyebrows. Focus on the outer edges of your eyebrows.








You can also apply some white eyeshadow to the inner corners of your eyes.
If white eyeshadow looks too dramatic against your skin, then try a champagne or nude color instead.
 Use a Sigma 232 brush or similar small fluffy eyeshadow brush and use it to pat gold eyeshadow in the centers of your eyelids and your lower inner tear duct area. Keep patting gold eyeshadow onto these areas until the color is even and provides good coverage.








If you have two different shades of gold, then you can layer them. For example, you can start with the lighter shade of gold eyeshadow and then apply the darker shade over it.
 To define your eyes a bit more, you can apply some black eyeliner. Apply a thin line of black eyeliner to your upper and lower waterlines and to your upper lash line.








To ensure that the eyeliner will stay on your waterline, dry off your waterline with a cotton swab before you apply the eyeliner.
Use waterproof eyeliner if you have it. Waterproof eyeliner is less likely to smear on your waterline than the non-waterproof kind., To complete your look, apply some mascara to your upper and lower lashes. Make sure that you use black mascara and not brown or some other color. Black will provide the most dramatic effect.








Curl your lashes with an eyelash curler before you apply the mascara. Curling your lashes will add volume and definition.For even more striking lashes, apply some fake lashes to your upper eyelids.
 Lipstick can intensify this look even more or it can ensure that your gold and black eyes will be the center of attention. Decide how you want to wear the look and choose a lipstick to help create the desired effect.








To make your eyes the center of attention, apply some nude lipstick. This will ensure that people will be looking at your eyes more than anything else.
To intensify the look, try wearing some bold black lipstick with a bit of gold eyeshadow pressed into the centers of your upper and lower lips.

