 When you want to appeal the denial of public benefits (e.g., Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families), you will be required to ask the appropriate state agency for a "Fair Hearing". When you are denied benefits, the appropriate state agency will send you a notice of decision, which will explain why your benefits application has been denied. The notice should also explain the appeals process.Read this notice carefully because each state will do things differently. Follow the instructions on the notice and contact your state agency if you have any questions.
 Most states will make a form available to you that you can fill out to request an appeal. For example, in New York, you can download a request form online. The form will ask you to provide the following information:Your personal information
Whether you need any special accommodations throughout the appeals process (e.g., an interpreter, whether you are homebound)
A copy of the notice you received
An explanation of why you want a hearing

, Once you fill out a Fair Hearing request form, you need to file it in a timely manner. Different states will have different requirements, and different benefits may even have different requirements. For example, in New York, if you were denied welfare, you will have 60 days from the date the notice was mailed to ask for a hearing. If you were denied food stamps, you will have 90 days from the date the notice was mailed.

In addition to time constraints, you also need to make sure you file in an appropriate manner. Each state will have different requirements. In New York, you can file your request in person, by fax, by telephone, or by mail., Within two weeks of sending in your request for a hearing, you will get a response from your state agency. The first letter you receive will be an acknowledgement letting you know the agency has received your request. The second letter you receive will be a notice of fair hearing. This letter will tell you when and where your hearing will be held., In the time period between receiving your notice of fair hearing and the date of your hearing, you can try to work out your dispute with the state agency. Contact your agency and ask to speak with someone who has authority over your case.

Even while you are talking with the state agency, do not withdraw your hearing request. Your hearing will be necessary unless you get proof, in writing, that all problems associated with your case have been resolved., While you are attempting to resolve your dispute, you also need to be getting ready for the hearing. To prepare adequately, you need to collect evidence, prepare witnesses, and organize your arguments. In a public benefits case, evidence might include letters from professionals, receipts, court papers, rent receipts, and welfare papers. When you get witnesses, ask anyone who can help make your case. Any witness you ask to come will be questioned by the judge and the opposing party. To get organized, write down what you want to say, which papers you want to show the judge, what questions you want to ask, and what sort of relief you want., When you get to your hearing, check in with the receptionist and wait for your hearing to be called. While you wait, review your case and prepare. When you walk in to the office where your hearing will be held, the judge and the opposing party will be there. The judge will run the hearing and will record everything. The state agency will get to present its case and then you will have your opportunity., After your hearing, you will get the decision in the mail. In New York, it takes about one month to get a decision back. If you lose the appeal, you will have four months to appeal the decision in a state court. If you do not already have a lawyer, you should consider hiring one before filing your lawsuit.