 Use a large bowl or your bathtub to soak your foot. This will help reduce swelling and tenderness. Soak it for about 15 minutes. Repeat 3-4 times per day.Add Epsom salts to the water. Epsom salts are widely recognized for their ability to reduce pain and swelling. These will also help soften the toenail. Add 1 cup of Epsom salts to a bathtub filled with a few inches of water or a foot bath.
If you don't have Epsom salts, you can use plain salt. Salt water will help reduce the growth of bacteria in the area.
Gently massage the affected area. This will help water soak into the ingrown toenail, which will help clear out bacteria and may relieve swelling and pain.
 After you soak your foot, the toenail should be softened. Carefully work a piece of clean dental floss under the edge of your nail. Lift up the edge of the toenail gently so that it does not grow further into your skin.Try this approach after every foot soak. Use a clean length of floss each time.
Depending on the extent of your ingrown toenail, this might be a little painful. Try taking a pain reliever to ease your discomfort.
Don’t dig too much into your toenail. You can cause more infection, which may require medical intervention.
 An over-the-counter pain reliever can give you some relief from the discomfort you’re experiencing. Try a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) such as ibuprofen, naproxen, or aspirin. NSAIDs can help relieve pain and inflammation.If you cannot take NSAIDs, try acetaminophen instead.
 An antibiotic cream will help fight off infection. This type of cream is readily available at drug stores and grocery stores.Antibiotic creams also can have topical anesthetic such as lidocaine. This will temporarily relieve the pain in the area.
Follow application instructions on the cream’s package.
 To protect your toe from getting further infected or caught on your sock, wrap a bandage or bit of gauze around your toe.
 Give your feet some extra room by choosing to wear open-toe shoes, sandals or other loose-fitting shoes.Tightly fitting shoes can cause or exacerbate an ingrown toenail.
 Homeopathy is alternative medicine that relies on herbs and other natural ingredients to treat various ailments.To treat ingrown toenail pain, try one or more of the following homeopathic remedies:


Silicea Terra, Teucrium, Nitric Acid, Graphites, Magnetis Polus Australis, Phosphoric Acid, Thuja, Causticum, Natrum Mur, Alumina, or Kali Carb.