 You should ask your veterinarian to determine if your dog is overweight and if they have any specific medical conditions that impact the joints. As your dog ages, they are more at risk of developing joint problems such as osteoarthritis and hip dysplasia. Hip dysplasia is seen commonly in German shepherd, golden retriever, and Labrador retriever breeds. Osteoarthritis is seen a lot in older dogs and can impact any joint in the body. If your dog is overweight, they will suffer even more from these or other joint conditions. As such, it is necessary to tackle joint problems holistically in relation to both weight and illness.


If your senior dog becomes overweight, their joints will suffer.;
, As your dog ages, they have less energy requirements and are more at risk of getting overweight. As such, it can help to feed them a low calorie diet.You can purchase a senior dog food formulation with appropriate nutritional content at most pet food stores.Ask your veterinarian if there is an appropriate diet that is well suited to your dog’s weight loss goals.


Make sure your senior dog gets plenty of water.If you feed your senior dog snacks, they should be healthy, low-fat, and low sodium treats., Glucosamine is the nutritional building block for cartilage, which is a crucial part of your dog’s joints. To improve the health of your senior dog’s joints, you should supplement your dog’s diet with extra glucosamine chondroitin.These supplements can help with joint inflammation, which is also important if your senior dog has arthritis. They come in a variety of forms such as chewable tablets, mini pellets that you put in their food, or as a syrup.


Use canine-specific glucosamine supplements. Although it is possible to use a human glucosamine supplement for a dog on the condition that there are no other ingredients in it, it is generally better to use the canine version. Canine tailored supplements are more digestible for your senior dog, whereas a human supplement may not be absorbed at all.Glucosamine chondroitin supplements derive from shellfish, so avoid this supplement if your dog has a shellfish allergy.Side effects are rare but you should watch for any symptoms of an allergic reaction to the supplement such as vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or appetite loss.Disguise the supplement so they eat it. If it is pellets or a syrup, you can mix it into their food. If it is a chewable tablet, you can wrap it in a treat.
 Green lipped mussels are native to New Zealand, where Maori Indigenous groups have used them for a long time. Recent studies have shown the efficacy of feeding dogs green lipped mussels, with joint health and inflammation significantly improved for those who took the supplement.You can purchase a variety of green lipped mussel supplements for dogs, which should help with their joint health, mobility, and any arthritic conditions.


Use a green lipped mussel supplement designed specifically for canines, as opposed to human versions of the supplement.
Retailers like Pure Pets, for example, sell a green lipped mussel supplement., You can find a variety of combination supplements for senior dogs with joint issues. These supplements typically combine glucosamine chondroitin with MSM, a sulfur for connective tissue, and other ingredients to improve the digestibility of the supplement. For example, Krill oil may be used. You can find combination supplements in a variety of forms such as pellets, liquids, or chewable tablets.


Natur vet combines glucosamine, chondroitin, and MSM in a chewable tablet.Grizzly Pet sells a joint aid for dogs that combines glucosamine, chondroitin, MSM, hyaluronic acid, and krill oil. It comes in pellet and liquid form.