 If your lampshade is a very dark color and you are planning on using a lighter color of paper or fabric, you might want to paint the lampshade white first. You can apply white acrylic primmer with a paintbrush or a foam brush. You can also spray the entire lampshade using a white primer spray paint., If there are any wrinkles in the fabric, you will need to iron them out. If you don't do this, the wrinkles will show up in your finished piece., Use straight pins, and stick them straight down into the lampshade. You can also tape the tracing paper to the lampshade., Trace over the top and bottom of the panel. Also, trace over the left and right side seam., This will be your template., Leave a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) seam allowance all the way around the template., You can use regular fabric scissors or pinking shears. Be sure to cut the rest of the panels out of the fabric. For example, if your lamp has six sides to it, then cut six panels., Use straight, even strokes. Also, try to overlap each stroke by a little. This will prevent any gaps. When spraying the fabric panel, make sure that you are spraying the wrong side of the fabric., Each panel will overlap by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) at the seam. Make sure that there is ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of extra fabric at the top and bottom of your lampshade. You will be folding this excess fabric inside your lampshade., If your lampshade has a scalloped bottom, then you will need to cut little nicks into the seam allowance to get it to curve right. If there are any metal bars, you will need to cut little nicks into the fabric as well, so that the seam can lay flat against the inside, to either side of the metal bar., Take a piece of ribbon and cut it so that it is 1 inch taller than your lampshade. Run a line of hot glue or fabric glue down one of the vertical seam on your lampshade (right where two panels join. Press the ribbon down onto the glue so that it covers the entire seam. There should be ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of extra ribbon sticking over the top and bottom of your lampshade.

Repeat this step for the rest of the seams.
 Place a drop of glue on the end of the ribbon and press it down into the lampshade. Repeat this step for the rest of the ribbons.