 You will find a new hairstylist sooner than later. Finding new friends is admittedly harder. Allow yourself to miss the people that had made your life so comfortable before you moved – and recognize that there will not be perfect equivalents for those people anywhere else in the world. Don’t let this diminish the quality of your life in your new home.


Recognize that a new city offers not only new friendships, but entirely new networks and communities to dive into. Don’t hesitate to do so. If you’re missing one or two people in particular, call them in the evening to share stories about your day with one another. You’ll find that you have more to talk about – and more positive, mutually enjoyable conversations – when you have new, exciting experiences to talk about!

, Though it may not feel like it, there are groups of people wherever you’ve moved that will be thrilled to meet you. Whether based on a shared history or shared interests, seek out those that congregate according to criteria that you also share. For instance:


If you went to a large university and have moved to a big city, there are probably alumni meetups. If a quick search doesn’t bring any hits, contact your alumni center and they’ll know if there’s an organized alumni group in your new city.
If you’ve moved to a new country, seek out those that have also moved there from the country you left behind.
Go out on a whim. There are some great websites designed around organizing meet ups based on similar interests or even just casual social interaction. Check out Meetup and Reddit, which both have platforms to meet people in cities around the world.,, If someone invites you out, go! Don’t worry about immediately becoming friends with everyone you meet. You’ll likely meet plenty of people that you don’t develop a relationship with. You can still enjoy the interaction, and the more people you meet the more comfortable you’ll be putting yourself out there., Here’s a great to both provide yourself with some familiar aromas and flavors from home, and develop genuine relationships with people in your new life.Friendship based on breaking bread together is older than the written word. Invite the people you want to know better to share in a meal that means something to you. Speak of your prior home in the home you’re developing now.
 Volunteering will immerse you in a new community, leading to new social connections and providing you with a sense of place in a new city. Whatever your interests are, you can find a volunteer opportunity that you will enjoy, and meet people interested in contributing to the world in a similar way.
 Be around other people. There are plenty of ways to increase your social interactions in simple and casual ways. If you’re a college student, know that this is the time in your life in which you’ll have unlimited opportunities to meet people and get involved in new communities. For help considering your options:Look up a list of student organizations. Universities make these readily available on their websites.
Look up a campus calendar. Chances are, you’ll soon be attending events of the sort you never knew existed. Universities are incredible places to experience all sorts of creative expression, from music to comedy. There’s will almost always be something going on that interests you.
Join a recreational league. This will immediately immerse you in a new community, and will likely lead to new friendships.
When you’re eating, especially in a space where others are in a similar situation (such as a mess hall or dining hall), ask to sit at an occupied table with an open chair and say hello to those already there.

