 Begin by spending some time imagining the type of job you hope to gain. (Will you work in a hospital or a fitness centre? Would you like to work with athletes or individuals with injuries? Is there anything you'd like to specialize in?) Once you have a clear image, you can look for an undergraduate program that will suit your needs. Read over the websites and credentials of different programs to determine what they focus on. When you have selected the right program, complete an application.


A strong program will have a good job placement rate for graduates.
Look for a program that offers hands-on course work.
Look for a program that will provide work experience, such as an internship in a fitness centre or the opportunity to work in a rehab facility.
Any good program will have ASEP accreditation.;
, ASEP stands for the American Society of Exercise Physiologists. Any strong undergraduate (or graduate) programs in exercise physiology will be accredited by ASEP. Such accreditation attached to your degree will make it much easier for you to find work after you finish school., Exercise physiologists can be employed in hospitals, fitness centres, physical therapy clinics, cardiac rehabilitation facilities, and other places. Where you hope to work will determine what level of education you need, as well as which programs will be a good fit for you., In general, a master's degree in exercise physiology is required for most professions. However, you may only require an undergraduate degree (a BS in physical education, exercise science, or health science) to work for a community organization or at the community level. If you hope to be a researcher or work at a university, you will need a PhDDetermining what level of education you ultimately hope to seek will enable you to choose the right program.
Some programs will be designed to lead into graduate programs, while others will be designed for you to head into the workforce.
 Once you have been accepted to a program, you will need to spend roughly four years completing it. As an exercise physiology student, you will learn about science and exercise, covering topics like athletic training, exercise science, physiology, kinesiology, nutrition, and others. You will also do some clinical training, giving you hands-on knowledge and experience.

