 The body scan technique is a mindfulness practice that brings awareness to the sensory experiences of your body. Doing this when you first wake up allows you to start the day feeling grounded in your body. Plus, because you will carefully move through different body parts, you will notice if you are holding any tension in certain areas.


To perform the body scan, you can listen to a guided video or simply lie down on your back in your bed. Ask yourself, “How does it feel to be lying here?” Become aware of your breath as you inhale and exhale. Notice how it feels. Bring your mind’s eye to your toes, observing how they feel. Are there any sensations present? If not, notice what the absence of sensation feels like. Slowly let your mind’s eye travel up your body. If your mind wanders, don’t judge. Just bring your attention back to your body.Keep in mind you can do this at any time during the day, whether you are brushing your teeth or eating your lunch or just have a few minutes before a meeting. The simple act of focusing your attention on the present moment, and on yourself, can have beneficial effects on your mood throughout the day.;
, As you welcome a new day, hydration is important. Drinking water first thing in the morning sets the intention of making healthful, nourishing choices throughout the day. In addition, that first glass of water jumpstarts your metabolism and gets the ball rolling on your daily goal of eight or more glasses per day.Add a little lemon juice to your water for additional health benefits, including aiding in digestion, increasing your metabolism, and adding vitamin C and potassium to your diet., When you’re flying by the seat of your pants in the morning, you may not take the time to fuel your body with healthy foods. A part of starting your day with intention is making sure you are consuming nutrients that provide energy and concentration to go about your daily activities.


Choose foods with a good dose of protein and fiber to stabilize blood sugar and support memory and concentration. Think an egg and spinach omelet or a bowl of oatmeal and berries.Instead of scarfing down your food as you run out the door, make time to sit down and eat your breakfast mindfully. Fully chew your food and experience the smell, taste, and texture.
 Many people set a daily intention of exercising, but this goal falls to the wayside once the demands of the day start taking over. By scheduling a workout at the beginning of your day, you prioritize a healthy habit that benefits your health and well-being long after you’ve showered and dressed. Morning exercise may also help you sleep better and help with weight management.Do a series of stretches immediately after stepping out of bed to get your blood pumping and wake your body up. Complete a yoga sequence before breakfast. Or, lace up your sneakers and go for a run in a nearby park., Most people spend the hours of their days sitting in cubicles in steel and glass buildings and going home to veg out on the sofa. Being intentional about your day means you are including practices that nurture your mind, body, and spirit, which means you should be communing with nature.


There are many benefits to spending time outdoors, including reducing depression, fighting stress and preventing illness.Choose to spend just a few minutes looking at the sky, listening to the birds, or feeling the cool morning breeze on your skin before dashing off to your many responsibilities.