 Don't start responding to the requests until you've read all of them completely and can understand each of them, both individually and in context of the lawsuit. If there's a question or request that you don't understand, you may want to consider consulting an attorney.If a request seems vague or broad, you can object to the request. However, keep in mind that if you object you typically must explain why the request was improper.
You also can object to the request if responding to it would require you to violate some privilege, such as attorney-client privilege, or it involves private or confidential information.
For example, if you are a small-business owner and a former employee has sued you for wrongful termination, it wouldn't be proper for them to ask you for personnel files for other employees who also were filed (unless those other employees also are parties to the same lawsuit). Those files contain confidential information and it would be illegal for you to disclose them.
In that example, you also would have an objection on the basis that the request is not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, since confidentiality would prohibit such information from non-parties being disclosed at trial.
 Before you start your formal responses, it's a good idea to jot down some notes regarding how you intend to respond to each question or request. Make notes to yourself if there's information you need to look up to write a complete and accurate response.Even if you plan on objecting to a request, at this stage you still should draft a potential answer you would give. Keep in mind that for some objections, you still have to answer the question – to the extent it isn't objectionable – even if you assert an objection to the question.
While you're drafting your responses, you'll also want to look at the court's rules to determine what objections you're allowed and how you should formulate your answers.
You also can do research at the public law library in the local courthouse to learn more about objections.
 If you have requests for production, you must provide the other party with copies of the documents or other evidence requested in addition to your written responses.The requests may specify the format requested, particularly if the requests concern electronic files.
If paper documents are requested, you must make copies of the documents and have them sent to the other party (or to their attorney) along with your written responses.
 You don't have to file your responses with the court, but they still must follow the formatting guidelines and other rules established by the court and laid out in the court's procedural rules.The first page of your responses must include the caption for the case at the top. This heading provides the name, court, and case number, and is exactly the same on every document related to the case.
Court rules typically require you to copy the interrogatory or request exactly in your response, and then type your response.
For requests for production, your responses typically will be less lengthy than for interrogatories, while responses to requests for admissions will be the shortest of all. Unless you have an objection, a request for an admission typically can be answered in one word (either yes or no).
If you've produced a copy of a requested document, you typically only need to type "Attached" as your answer. If the request instead involves allowing the other party to inspect certain premises or areas, give permission as requested and provide the specific dates and times the requested areas will be available.
Keep in mind that responses to discovery requests typically must be verified, meaning you must sign them in the presence of a notary public.
 Once you've finalized your formal responses, you must send the originals to the other party by the deadline established by the court – typically 30 days from the day you received the requests, but sometimes sooner.Be sure to make a copy of your responses before you send them, and mail your originals using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
When you get the green card back indicating that your responses were received, attach it to your copy of the responses and file it with your other documents related to the case.

