 Although this particular step can be challenging, once you have the training to do so, you should try making your own music. In order to submit material to a label, you need to have content to display to them, but generally speaking it needs to be material that is unpublished, completely original, and uncopyrighted.Your demo should have no more than three tracks to it.
 You need to get constructive criticism on how your demo has turned out once it's completed. You need to find out if the sound is good, what can be improved, and get advice on how to go about that. Family, friends, and fans are not good sources because they want to be supportive and not hurt your feelings. You should instead seek to have your mentors, teachers, and any industry connections you have listen to your music and tell you their honest thoughts.You do not have to change everything that is suggested to you, but multiple people pointing to the same thing(s) is a sign that something really does need to be changed.
Do not take people's criticism personally. It is not an attack on you, or to say that you are untalented or unskilled. If anything, people who offer you truthful advice are doing so with the intention of help you be the best you can.
 After you've received your criticism, it's time to make the changes that you agree need to be made. You also have to polish things by mixing and mastering your music. The idea here is that you want it to be as professional sounding as possible., If you really want to be signed by a record label, then you have to understand how they work. These are businesses, and they have to make money to cover costs; the bigger a fanbase, the better your music, and the more dedication and marketing you've already put into yourself, the more certain they will feel that you are someone they can make money off of signing. Good labels receive dozens if not hundreds of demos all the time. In order to stand out, you need to find a way to be truly unique and catch or have a lot of attention already.Some labels will not even accept submissions unless the artist is already entirely self sufficient.
It is because of how difficult it is to get noticed and accepted by a label that it is extremely important that you follow as many of the steps in Making Yourself Visible as possible.
 Pick five labels to send your demo to, but only send it to one label at a time. Send your demo to the appropriate demo submission email address, or a contact at the label that you have hopefully developed a good relationship with. You will need to upload the tracks to either Dropbox or Soundcloud first and make sure they are set to private so that only the person you have sent the link to can listen to them. Make sure that your email is short, to the point, and polite.If you don't hear back from them after a week, send a follow up email to ask them if they have received your email and had a chance to listen to your music. Remember to always be polite. For every week you don't hear back, you can send another email.
If you haven't heard back after a month, or they say no, it's time to move onto the next label.
 If the label decides that you have the sound and presence that they're looking for, they'll contact you with more information about drafting up a contract. Although it might be tempting to sign one right away so that you can begin reaping the rewards of all your hard work so far, be careful. Record deals have a reputation for being very limiting for the artist, so you'll want to be sure you have your parents and maybe even a lawyer involved in reviewing and negotiating the contract.