 Your preteen may not know how to process the emotions they are experiencing, which can make matters worse. To help your preteen, help them learn how to identify and process their emotions in a healthy way.Advise your preteen to name the emotion. Is it anger? Fear? Sadness? Worry? Ask you teen what it is that they are feeling.
Ask your teen to express acceptance of the feeling. For example, your teen can say something like, “It is okay to feel sad.”
Teach your teen how to express the emotion in a healthy way. For example, your teen can express the emotion by crying, writing or talking about it, exercising, or doing something creative such as painting or playing an instrument.
Encourage your teen to do something kind for themselves. Ask your preteen what would help them feel better. For example, your preteen might feel better after a hug, a relaxing bath, a walk, or after watching a favorite movie.
 Your preteen needs to learn healthy ways to cope with stress, anger, and anxiety. Some of these ways are very simple. By providing them guidance with this, and setting an example, you can help them understand what are healthy and unhealthy ways to let out anger or stress.Make sure that they get a good night's sleep. Sleeping well will help them function better.
Make their diet a priority. Avoid too much sugar and caffeine. This may make them crash after a sugar or caffeine high. Make sure that they aren't filling up on junk food on a regular basis.
Focus on exercise. When your child has a tantrum, they may need to release excess energy. Have them go outside and run in the back yard, or get them to do something physical that doesn't hurt others. Maybe you have a punching bag in the garage or some other exercise equipment that they can use.
 If you're yelling or swearing, and one of your rules for them is "no swearing," then you may not be providing a good example to your child. If it is other people in the house that are acting inappropriate such as a spouse or older child, include everyone in the household about the house rules for appropriate behavior.Though your preteen may not admit it, they look up to you and other adults for guidance and understanding. Make sure to treat them as you would like to be treated--with honesty and respect.
Teach them how to make decisions about the way they act. Explore how they feel when other people yell, scream, or manipulate. See if they think that other people's tantrums are appropriate. While they may not fully understand, this is an opportunity for them to reflect on how their actions are part of the larger family or group.
Avoid throwing tantrums yourself. If you struggle to control your emotions, then your preteen may be learning this behavior from you. Make sure that you are setting a good example for your preteen by expressing your emotions in healthy ways.
 While it may be tough to spend time with a child who acts like you're the last person they want to be with, it matters that you keep your connection strong with your child. Quality time is key to a healthy relationship with your kids. You may be able to decrease these tantrums in the long run.


Set aside one-on-one time with your preteen. Do something together that doesn't involve electronic devices and other distractions. Make this a time to connect and share with your child.
Have regular family meals and family activities. Create a schedule for these times if it's hard to make this happen every night or every week.
Consider having some one-on-one time when your child is getting ready for bed. Sometimes connecting with them during these quiet moments can be meaningful even if it's just a brief talk and a hug.

