 There are a number of effective nonprescription products on the market. including Abreva, Viractin, Zilactin, and Herpecin-L. These creams can speed the healing process of cold sores – and they may even be able to prevent an outbreak, if you apply them soon enough. Look for cold sore treatments online or at a drugstore.Docosanol 10% (Abreva) is one of the most widely-trusted products on the market. Use the cream to stave off the first tingle of a cold sore outbreak. Abreva was the first nonprescription medication that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved to reduce the duration and severity of cold sore outbreaks.Tetracaine (Viractin) and lidocaine cream (Zilactin-L) are topical anesthetics. Use them to ease pain and itching. Spread these products onto your cold sores as often as six times a day when you're in the midst of an outbreak. Pain and itching usually subside within two to three days after you first use the product.Benzyl alcohol gel (Zilactin) helps soothe cold sore pain. It may also help your sores heal more quickly. As with most treatments, it will be most helpful if you start using it as soon as you notice a budding cold sore.Use dimethicone with sunscreen (Herpecin-L) to moisturize your lip area and reduce the damage from UV rays. This product may help ease pain and itching. It can also help keep cold sores from coming back, particularly when the sore was caused by overexposure to the sun.
 Menthol and phenol are common ingredients in lip balms and ointments. They should help soften your scabs and keep them from cracking. Be aware of the limitations: even though these chemicals can soothe or moisturize your cold sore, they are not clinically proven to heal it., Prescription cold sore creams may shorten the duration of an outbreak by a day or two, and they may even be able to prevent an outbreak if you time it right. These drugs are more powerful than home remedies and over-the-counter treatments, and they may have adverse side-effects – so only go this route if your problem is especially bad.Look for acyclovir (Zovirax), famciclovir (Famvir), and valacyclovir (Valtrex). These oral antivirals work best if you begin using them within 48 hours of noticing an outbreak. Valacyclovir is the most expensive of the three, but it is easier for your digestive tract to absorb – and thus more effective.