 A minimum of five people is best.;
, Good weather is always best, because people won't want to get their cars washed on wet days. Weekends -- especially Saturdays -- are good, because most people have time off from work and school.


Make sure this day will work for everyone in your group, because you're going to need all the help you can get.
You can also have people sign up to work in shifts.
 Parking lots work best.


Let the property owners know you'll be working for charity or school, and they'll be more likely to let you have the space.
Make sure that the date and time you've chosen is good for them, too.
Choose a location on a busy road or near a busy intersection. More people will see you and your signs. Try to be near your own neighborhood, however, for the sake of convenience and safety.


Some car washes simply ask for donations. This can sometimes result in more revenue than if you sell tickets.
 You get the money up-front. Many of them will just buy a ticket as a donation, and not even show-up for the car wash.
 Include your price, and make sure to say why you're raising money. People may be more willing to get their car washed if they know that the money is going to a good cause.
 Have people stand on street corners with their signs, so everyone can see what you are doing.
 Try to keep the washing under 15 minutes for the convenience of the driver.

Rinse the car using your hose.
Soap up your sponges and wash the entire car, including wheels, windshields, and license plates.
Rinse the car again.
(Optional) Wax and buff the car.
 Cleaning agents that wash off into storm drains are not filtered out and go on to pollute lakes and rivers. There are steps you can take to conserve water and protect our natural wetlands.


Wash with just water. Most cars are just dusty and need a good rinse. You can use a sponge or towel if it needs a little scrub.
If you must use soap, wash in a grassy area instead of on pavement. The grass will help to filter out detergents before they mix with groundwater.
Fit your hose with a spray nozzle. These are inexpensive and allow you to wash more cars with less water.
 Remind them that all proceeds go to the charity or school.

