 There are two different ways to become a kidney donor. The first is known as deceased donation, which means that the kidney is harvested from your body after your death. If this is the type of donation you are considering, it is very simple to register. You can visit the website Donate Life America to register, or you can declare your intentions to donate organs on your driver's license.A living donation is when you are still alive and healthy and choose to donate a kidney. Most of us have two kidneys, and it is possible to live an entirely healthy life with only one healthy kidney.
Before committing to living donation, consider the physical, emotional, and financial implications. The following information is intended for those considering living donation.;
, If you are contemplating making a living donation, you will need to think about who you want to receive your kidney. Many people choose to donate a kidney to a loved one who is suffering from a kidney ailment and needs a transplant. The most common kidney donations are made to a child, spouse, or sibling.You can also choose to donate your kidney to a distant relative, friend, or even a co-worker in need.
Anonymous donations are becoming more and more common. This is known as a non-directed donation, which means that your kidney may be given to anyone on the transplant list.
 Not everyone is eligible to become a kidney donor. If you are not healthy enough to survive a major operation, or if your kidneys are not strong enough, you may not be able to donate. In order to determine your eligibility for living donation, you will need to have a doctor perform a thorough physical evaluation.As a potential donor, you will undergo blood, urine, and radiology tests. Your doctor will analyze all of the results to determine your eligibility.
If you are making a personal donation, the blood test will determine whether your kidney is compatible with the intended recipient's physical makeup.
Before surgery, the doctor will order thorough x-rays of your kidneys to ensure that they are sufficiently healthy.
 During the initial consultation, your doctor should talk to you about the many possible risks that go along with kidney donation. You will want to carefully think about all of this information and how it could impact your life. You should discuss possible outcomes with your close family members.Some potential long-term side effects are nerve damage, chronic pain, and intestinal obstruction.
Donors are also at higher risks for health concerns such as high blood pressure, and reduced kidney function.
 Donating a major organ can be a very emotional experience. When you are considering making a living donation, there are several questions you should ask yourself. For example, spend some time thinking about why you want to make the donation.You should ask yourself how you will feel if the recipient does not act grateful, or if your relationship becomes strained. Will you be able to handle that?
You also need to recognize that your kidney may not function properly in the recipient's body. Consider how you will feel emotionally if the kidney fails.

