 Don't worry about work while you're at school, and vice versa. Focus on one thing at a time. Don’t bring your books or notes to work and don’t bring work stuff to school. The time you are at each place is dedicated to that endeavor. If you work hard at work, you shouldn’t feel guilty for focusing on school when you are at school.
 Give yourself time to collect yourself when you need it the most, so you can return to work/school with a clear head. Go for a walk. Read a newspaper. Make some tea. Try to take breaks every couple of hours, but limit them to 5 to 10 minutes. You don't want to turn them into time wasters.


Avoid indulging in guilty pleasures too often during your breaks. Everybody has them, whether it's MTV, getting lost in idle chit-chat with your neighbor, or scanning Facebook for hours on end. If there's an activity that you tend to get caught up with, but that negatively affects your work-school-life balance, avoid it like the plague. And certainly don't turn to them during your brief breaks., Stretch. Swim. Run. Lift. Maintaining a healthy lifestyle helps relieve stress and you'll find that the more you get out and exercise, the easier work and school will seem. Exercising is commonly known to reduce stress. Scientists have shown that regular participation in aerobic exercise leads to decreased stress, elevated and stabilized moods, improved sleeping habits, and increased self-esteem., Make time in your schedule to sleep. Studies have shown that sleep increases your memory capabilities, improves your overall mood, and helps you stay attentive. All three of these will positively affect your stress levels. Staying up all night studying may be necessary on occasion, but don’t make it a regular thing. If you become sleep-deprived, take a short nap (15 to 30 minutes) just to give your brain a little boost.
 Eat high-fiber, carbohydrate rich foods. Scientists believe that carbohydrates cause the brain to produce elevated levels of serotonin, a hormone with relaxes us. Eat lots of fiber to regulate your system. Eat fruits and vegetables that are high in antioxidants to boost your immune system. Citrus fruits provide plenty of vitamin C. Acorn squash and carrots are great sources of the antioxidant beta-carotene. A balanced diet will lead to a healthier school-work-life balance.Avoid fatty foods, excessive caffeine usage, and sugary treats. Meats or cheeses contain light levels of fat, which thickens your blood and leaves you feeling lethargic. Caffeine probably seems like a necessity, but consume it responsibly and don’t let it affect your sleep schedule. Lastly, sugar is simple carbohydrate that will give you a momentary high, only to leave you with a “crash”. Choose complex carbohydrates instead like pasta, beans, and lentils.