 Blood tests can increase your stress level or anxiety when you are nervous about the test. Unfortunately, becoming stressed increases your blood pressure, constricts your veins, and makes getting your blood drawn more difficult.Knowing how to reduce your stress can help improve your preparation for the test and increase the likelihood that the phlebotomist will find the vein the first time.
You could try deep breathing exercises or repeating a calming phrase, such as "This will be over very soon. Plenty of people have blood drawn. I can handle this." Look at the "Stress Reduction Techniques" section of this article for more tips.
 Before you go to the doctor to have your blood taken, recognize that you might be anxious about having your blood drawn. You may also have a fear of needles. Between three and 10 percent of the population has a fear of needles (Belonephobia) or a fear of all injections (Trypanophobia).Interestingly, 80% of people with a phobia of needles report that they have a first-degree relative also has a strong fear of needles. It's possible this fear is partially genetic.
 If you have had your blood drawn before and know that it is particularly painful for you, ask your doctor for EMLA. This is a topical anesthetic which is put on the draw site between 45 minutes to 2 hours before the blood draw to numb the area.


If you know that you are susceptible to pain, ask if EMLA is an option for you.EMLA is commonly used for children, but it is much less common for use by adults because it takes so long to work.You can also ask about "Numby Stuff," a proprietary topical preparation that includes a combination of lidocaine and epinephrine and a mild electrical current to numb an area. It works in about 10 minutes., To feel better mentally about having blood drawn, you need to understand the procedure. The phlebotomist will wear gloves to reduce exposure to your blood. She will usually place an elastic band around your arm above the elbow and have you make a fist. During a typical blood test, blood is usually drawn from a vein in your arm or a finger prick.


The elastic band expands the amount of blood in this area of the arm as blood is able to come into the arm through the arteries which are deeper in the arm, but not as much blood is able to be pumped out of the arm. This increases the size of the veins, making them easier to find and stick., The blood is drawn in similar ways, no matter where you get it done. A needle will go into your vein, which is usually attached to a small tube. When there is enough blood the tube, the tube is taken off, which seals automatically.


If more tubes are required, the needle remains in place and another tube is put on the end of the needle. Once all the tubes needed for your blood tests are filled, the phlebotomist will remove the needle and put a small gauze over the area. She will ask you to put pressure on the area while they prepare the tubes to go to the laboratory.
You may have a band-aid placed over the gauze to help the area to stop bleeding.
The whole process usually takes 3 minutes or less.