 Make sure that your computer supports the version of USB that piano uses.
 Set the right tempo of the song (look for a box or slide that says: bpm or tempo). Create 4 tracks, and name them "leadtrack", "chordstrack", "drumstrack" and "basstrack"., Select the leadtrack and start recording using the digital piano. Listen and adjust notes. "Nudge" and "Transpose" are two time-saving commands. (When creating classical songs, "pianoleft" hand should be placed in a separate track named "pianoleft")., Go to “Score”-view and select the text tool. Click the first note that shall have a lyric and insert the first lyric text. Make sure the lyrics checkbox is checked in the “Parts-box” (in Logic). Press "Tab" to get to next note and continue until finished.

Select all notes of the track (Select the first note and select all the following notes with Shift+F, or Cmd+A (Mac) Ctrl+A (PC)) and set channel nr 1 (this is done by opening the "List Editor" or "midi-events" window, then - with all notes selected - writing the channel number under "Ch" in any of the marked notes).
Note: In Logic Pro X: To enter lyrics, press "A" under "Part box customized" then "Lyric" and simply click-and-drag to the first note that is sung with lyrics, enter the first lyric text and then continue to the next note by pressing "tab".
 Select the "chordstrack" and start recording. Play the chords using one finger. Play D for all variants of D chords. Select equal chords and move them up/down according to the translation picture below. (Advanced: Repeated chords are displayed as strumming. Even velocity in the midi (e.g. v=100) shows strum up. Odd velocity (e.g. v=101) shows strum down.) Select all notes of the track and set channel nr 2.
 Select "loops" and filter so you only see drum loops for the right signature (4/4 or ¾). Select a drum loop and drag it to the drumstrack. Double-click the track to open up all the notes in edit mode. Adjust notes to get your personalised drum pattern and "repeat" so it covers the whole song. You may want to add some flavour by adding fills.

Recommended drum numbering: Kick 36. Snare 37 (or 38, 40). Hi-hat 42 (or 44, 46). Tom3 41 (or 43). Tom2 45 (or 47). Tom1 48 (or 50). Crash 49 (or 57). Ride 51 (or 59). Select all notes of the track and set channel nr 10.
 Select the basstrack and start recording using the digital piano. Play a typical bass pattern. Review and adjust. Insert a Program change before the first note (0 PrCh ch=3 p=33) to make sure the final sound will be a bass sound (this is also done in the "midi-event" or "List Editors" view). Select all notes of the track and set channel nr 3., Select all the tracks and export as midi file to your InstrumentChampSongs directory ("downloads" standard folder)., Upload to a midi web archive and make sure to write somewhere "InstrumentChamp”, “midi” and the name of your composition so other people can Google it.