 If your research methods include interviewing participants, it is important to acknowledge that the participant’s own answers may be inaccurate. People often structure responses that will make them seem more likable, and they may be less inclined to give a truthful answer on controversial topics. Combat this by asking indirect questions and asking them to think about what a third party would do in a particular situation.If you are interviewing a coworker or a colleague, avoid asking directly if they are unhappy in their current job. Reframe the question so that it is not as direct. “What do most of your coworkers think about the management in your office?”This indirect question about a third party can foster a honest response from the participant.
 Asking participants open-ended questions will allow you to gain a better understanding of the scope of your research topic. These types of questions allow additional information to flow freely, which may reveal emotional responses and attitudes toward the topic that you may not have considered before.Include these types of questions in your survey, questionnaire, or interview to collect more meaningful data.


Don’t ask a participant a close-ended question that they can answer simply. Instead of asking someone who they voted for in the last election, ask them to describe how they felt about each candidate.
If you are trying to gauge if a new workflow process in your office is helpful, ask employees how the process has influenced their work. “How has this process helped or hindered your workflow?” This question will reveal more than simply asking whether or not they like the new process.
 Maintain a neutral and impartial stance on everything from the subject matter to the sponsor of the study. If a participant can sense that you or other researchers feel a certain way, they may tailor their answers to conform to your expectations. Or, if a particular company or institution is sponsoring the study, a participant may be influenced by the sponsor’s reputation, mission statement, or overall impact in an industry.


Try to remove any trace of the sponsor from the interview or observation, and do not express your own personal feelings or opinions.Do not add your company’s logo or your school’s seal on materials provided to the participants.
If a person is being polled on how they feel about the efficiency of a particular school, for example, they may provide a biased answer if they suspect or know if that institution is performing the research. If you are collecting opinions regarding the admissions process from current students, do not let the participants know if you work in the admissions office or sit on the admissions committee.
 Acquiescence bias describes someone’s inclination to be positive and agreeable to avoid conflict. It is also an easier response since it takes less effort to agree and move on than to provide thorough, truthful feedback.To prompt meaningful responses, avoid developing questions that ask someone to agree or disagree, and remove any yes or no and true or false questions from an interview or a survey.Instead of asking a respondent to agree or disagree in a customer satisfaction survey, ask item-specific questions.Form a more direct question instead of asking a participant to respond to the statement, “My experience in the store was satisfactory. Agree or disagree.” Ask a participant, “How was your overall shopping experience at this store? Excellent, good, fair, or bad.”

