 In the United States, federal law requires individual transition plans to be created for students with special needs, including autistic teens, when they reach 14 or 16 years of age.Even if you don't live in the U.S. or the child isn't going to public school, an individual transition plan still can be beneficial for the child. In other countries, talk to teachers or professionals to find out if there are similar legal requirements.
Creating an individual transition plan involves bringing together a team of people who are responsible for the child's well-being. This could include not only the parents and the student, but also teachers, counselors, health care providers, coaches, and even employers (if the child has a part-time job).
You may want to start this plan (or at least start thinking about it) before the child starts high school, so their high school studies and activities can be coordinated from day one depending on their strengths and interests.
 The child's strengths and special interests can pave the way to a fulfilling career and successful transition into adulthood. The child's educational and vocational plan should focus more on strengths than on overcoming deficits.For example, an autistic child who is good at math and memorizing computer codes might want to become a computer programmer. Many certification tests can be taken without completing a traditional university course of study.
If the child is a visual thinker who excels at photography or other artistic pursuits, a plan can be developed that takes those strengths into account, such as becoming a photojournalist or special events photographer.
Once you identify the child's strengths, you can work from their to determine what accommodations the child will need to pursue those strengths.
 Extra-curricular activities in high school not only help a child become more knowledgeable in an area, they also build social skills. Activities based around the child's special interests make it easier to meet others who share that interest.If the child is interested, consider school sports for physical activity. Autistic children may be more interested in individual sports, such as running, than in team sports.
Volunteer work also can allow the child to interact with people who share their interests while working for a good cause. For example, if the child has a special interest in animals, they might volunteer to work with the dogs at the local animal shelter.
If the child is interested in computer programming, math, or science, consider getting the child involved in math or science clubs at school.
 A good career often intersects with special interests that have grown and persisted since childhood. Cataloging these special interests, along with what type of work environment would be beneficial for your child, can help narrow down options. A career counselor can help you with this process.Typically, the autistic person will need to start at the entry level and work their way up. Most autistic adults don't have the social skills to sell themselves in an interview, so they need to gain experience that will help them move up the career ladder over time.
For example, a child who is a visual thinker may enjoy a career in drafting. As they gain experience, they may be able to move into architectural design.
A child with a special interest in animals can easily start as a dog trainer, groomer, or veterinary assistant.
If your child is enrolled in community college or a university, career counseling may be available to them for free. If not, your insurance may be able to help you find an occupational counselor.
 Getting a college degree may be good for teens who want a more specialized field. In some trades, while a college degree isn't necessary, it can provide a more stable footing in the field.The child might want to enroll initially in a community college, where they can take basic courses before moving to a larger university.
Some autistic students may only be able to handle part-time schooling, while others benefit from the routine of a full-time university schedule.
If the student plans on living at home, look for schools nearby that offer the types of degree programs the student might want. If they want to live in a dorm, look for schools that have robust support programs and services where the student can get reliable assistance.
 Once an autistic child is out on their own, they must be able to tell others when they need certain accommodations or when something is bothering them. You can help the child transition to adulthood by teaching them how to effectively advocate for their own needs, and giving them guidance to find their own solutions, rather than telling them what to do.Talk to the child about how to ask for help if they need it, and how to communicate their needs to others. Keep in mind that the child may not be able to recognize when they need help.
You may be able to work with counselors and health care providers to create social stories to help younger children understand how to recognize when they need assistance and when they can do things on their own.
Taking into account when surroundings may be overwhelming, teach the child to speak up for themselves rather than relying on you or another adult to do it for them. For example, at a restaurant you might say "tell the server what you want to eat and how it should be cooked."
The Autistic Self Advocacy Network (ASAN) hosts an annual summer leadership conference (the "Autism Campus Inclusion Summer Leadership Academy") that helps train students on effective campus-based advocacy and self-advocacy skills and techniques.