 Sore knees can also be caused by weight gain, as your body has to support more weight and this can lead to pain in your joints. You should try to follow a healthy lifestyle to prevent sore knees and other health issues. Commit to a weekly workout routine and stick to it so you can be healthy and at a fit weight.You may create a schedule for your workouts so you never miss one. This could be a weekly schedule, with time set aside specially for working out.
 Some basic first aid and home care can help you manage your knees, reducing soreness and inflammation and chance of injury. This can include rest, cold, compression, or over-the-counter meds.Rest sore knees. Take a few days off from your normal activity to avoid putting too much strain on the joints. Give your knees time to heal.
Apply ice. Cold will reduce pain and inflammation, so try putting a bag of frozen peas wrapped in a towel over your knees. Just be careful – don’t put the ice directly on your skin and don’t keep it on for more than 20 minutes at a time. Longer than that can damage nerves and skin.
Use a compression bandage. Look for compression bandages at your local drugstore. These fit right over the knee and help to control fluid buildup. They might also give you better knee alignment and stability.
Elevate. For soreness and swelling, try propping your injured leg up on a pillow or cushion. Gravity will help keep the swelling down.
Over-the-counter meds like acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) can also help manage pain. Some people find relief with numbing creams such as lidocaine, too.
 As part of a healthy lifestyle, you should also follow a healthy diet. This means having balanced meals that consist of fruits, vegetables, grains, dairy, and protein. You should try to prepare healthy meals at home, as eating out can lead to poor food choices and meals lacking in vitamins and nutrients., To maintain a healthy lifestyle, you may trying taking an exercise class at your local gym or community center. You may look for a class that focuses on strengthening your leg muscles, as this can help to improve the health of your knee joints.You may also try taking up swimming or water aerobics. Doing exercises in water can lessen the weight your knees have to bear when you are moving, making you less prone to sore knees.

