 Your photographer can make or break your chances of making a name for yourself, so it's important that the photographer you've chosen is talented, reliable, and professional.


Do your research; ask other friends in the modeling community if they have any recommendations.
If you can't afford a professional, find a trusty friend with a great camera.
 It's important to take it easy on the day before the photo shoot so you look your best when the time comes. If you look tired or indisposed, your photo shoot will fail, no matter how much you've paid your photographer.


You should drink lots of water and avoid alcohol the night before so your face looks healthy and doesn't have that tired, hung-over look.
Avoid salty or greasy foods so your skin doesn't look greasy.
Get plenty of rest the night before so you don't have bags under your eyes. You don't want to look like you had a hard night of partying just because you only got four hours of sleep.
 Avoid dramatic changes in makeup, hair, or clothing. It's important to emphasize what already works for you--so you can work it for the shoot!


Show up with a garment bag of trusted outfits you've worn before--which you're confident make you look your best.
Bring a few props you've worked with--a phone, a bouquet, but nothing too distracting.
Keep your makeup natural. Even if you've been dying to experiment with your new pink eyeliner, it's best to save your project for another night. Current trends in modeling and fashion lean toward more natural looks. Wear the minimum amount of makeup to make yourself look good, hide blemishes, and accent features. You're selling yourself, not your brand of eyeliner or lipstick!

, The background should emphasize your best attributes.


If you're indoors, find a white wall--or a brightly colored one.
If you're outside, pick a place without distractions and color. It's important to make sure you stand out--not the weird lamp lurking in the background.
 This will make your features and figure look their best, and will add a gentleness to your expressions.


If you're indoors, try to position yourself by a window.
If you're outside, shoot early in the morning or late in the afternoon so that the sunlight isn't stealing your show.
 Agencies want to see that you're capable of trying on many different roles. You should show that you can adapt to any situation or environment to avoid getting typecast.


Show off a range of expressions, from playful to sultry. Avoid having the same goofy high-school-yearbook smile in every photo.
Wear a range of outfits. These can also show off different aspects of your personality.
 Though you should have fun during your photo shoot, this is ultimately a career move, just like typing up your resume. Remember that your goal is to get hired, not to get asked out for a drink.


Don't show too much cleavage or expose your bra-straps or underwear. While you can look cute when you show a little skin, you may give the wrong impression if you look too hot to handle.

