 Hashtags are the main way people browse accounts on Instagram. Making use of popular hashtags means other users can find your posts. If users like what they see, they may decide to follow you.Popular Instagram hashtags include things like #love, #ootd (outfit of the day), #photooftheday, and #instagood.
You should also use hashtags related to your personal brand or your company's brand, For example, if you're a comedian, use hashtags related to the comedy scene.
Pay attention to what's trending. If something recently occurred in the news, for example, people may use a hashtag to discuss the matter.;
, Interactions are one of the best means to get followers on Instagram. To increase your following, like random photos you find by clicking on hashtags. Comment on other user's profiles with thoughtful observations. This may encourage other users to follow you in return.Avoid posting what can come off as spammy comments. People may get annoyed if you post things like, "Hey! Cool pictures. You should follow me!" Instead, say something related to the picture and let the user decide for themselves whether to follow you. For example, "Really cute cat. I love calicos!"

, If you're popular on other social media accounts, link these up with your Instagram. If you have a large Twitter following, make sure to cross-post your Instagram pictures on Twitter. You can use the Instagram app to link your Instagram and Twitter, Facebook, and other social media outlets., Research shows content posted during these times get the most likes and attention.To maximize how many people see your posts, use popular hashtags during these times.
 You can include hashtags in your bio. This way, your profile will show up more often while people search hashtags. Hashtags should speak to how you're trying to market yourself. For example, if you're a comedian based in New York City, write something like, "Living in #NYC and working the #standup scene.", Instagram will only verify your account if they trust the account is legitimately operated by you and not an impersonator. To increase your likelihood of verification, post things that can prove the account is actually you.Link to your other social media accounts, especially if they are verified. If you frequently post your Instagram photos on a verified Twitter account, for example, this helps prove your identity.
Post pictures that are likely to come from you. Generic photographs of landscape could come from anyone, so upload some personal content to help with the verification process.
 Facebook verification for your company or yourself can increase the likelihood of Instagram verification. If you have a fan page for yourself or a general page for your company, go to the "settings" tab on Facebook. Click "general" followed by "page verification" and then "get started." You need to give Facebook your number so they can send a verification code you will then type into the site. After this, Facebook will begin processing your request for verification.As with Instagram, post legitimate, personal content to show your account is legitimate.
 Instagram does not verify just anyone. Usually, someone has to have some status as a celebrity or Internet personality to be verified on Instagram. For companies, your company must be relatively well-known to get verified. Try building a following outside Instagram. The more recognizable you or your brand are, the more likely verification is.Sites like YouTube allow you to upload your own video content. Try posting shareable video content, like lists and product reviews. If you're working with a company, start a YouTube channel to help bolster name recognition.
If you're a performer, like a singer or comedian, upload videos of you performing to YouTube and promote your shows on sites like Twitter. This can increase your following on these sites, leading to more recognition.
 Instagram is unlikely to verify your account unless you're a public figure in some respects. Individuals and businesses are less likely to be verified. If you find Instagram will not verify your account, take other measures to show your audience your account is authentic.Link your Instagram account to your personal website or your company website.
Cross-post Instagram posts with other social media sites like Twitter and Facebook.
 There are sites that allow you to buy fake followers to instantly increase your following. Instagram is careful with its verification process and can easily recognize bought followers. While you may see buying followers as a shortcut to verification, Instagram is unlikely to verify your account if your followers are not legitimate., Fake accounts sometimes randomly follow real accounts and may post spammy, computer generated comments on your pictures. These comments may reflect poorly on your account, as they can make it look like you bought followers even if you did not. If you notice any spammy comments from obviously fake accounts, delete them right away.Spammy comments are often generic. You may notice comments like, "Sweet pic!" or "Nice!" showing up repetitively from the same accounts. These are likely spam accounts, so it's a good idea to delete such comments.
 Instagram is unlikely to verify accounts that do not follow community guidelines.Read the guidelines carefully and make sure not to post any content that could potentially violate guidelines and land you in trouble.Only post and share videos you have the right to share. Do not post information that's subject to copyright.
Avoid sexually explicit content or things like nudity.
Do not post anything illegal.
Leave respectful, meaningful comments on other people's posts.

