 The only tools you should ever use to remove snow from a car are tools specifically designed for this purpose. Other tools, such as a shovel, could potentially damage your car. Purchase a foam brush at a hardware store or online., A foam brush works best if you pull the snow rather than pushing it. Moving in a straight line from the top of the car, pull the snow forward across the car. You will be pulling backwards across the top of your car, drawing a vertical line through the snow.Eventually, snow will start to spill from your car from behind and off the side as you move your brush along in a series of straight lines.
 Keep making straight lines with your brush, moving from the front of the car backwards. Using this method, the bulk of the snow will eventually fall off the sides and back of the car., The only snow you should remove is snow that poses a safety risk. Snow on the roof, which could blow off and obstruct other drivers' views, and snow on the windshield should be removed. If there is stuck-on snow on the car, avoid trying to scrape it off. Stuck-on snow usually does not pose a risk, unless it obstructs visibility, and scraping can damage your car., Turn the heat setting up as high as possible. Turn off the inside air circulation and, if possible, crack open the windows slightly. This should help the ice melt faster., For best results, only use a commercial de-icer, as it's safer and more effective than using home methods. Spray your de-icer on your windshield. Start at the top and work your way down. Use a scraper after the de-icer is applied to gently scrape the ice off your car.Use broad strokes and move across the glass completely. You should not just clear of the driver’s side, as leaving the passenger side covered inhibits visibility.
 Mix a three-to-one ratio of vinegar-to-water in a spray bottle. Mist this onto your windshield. Use a scraper to move across the windshield in broad motions, gradually removing ice from your full windshield., Mix a third cup (80 mL) of water and two thirds a cup (160 mL) of rubbing alcohol in a spray bottle. Mist this solution onto your windshield. Then, use your scraper to make broad strokes, removing ice from the full scope of the windshield., Many people pour hot water on the windshield as a means to remove ice. This is very dangerous as the shock of the hot water can easily cause your windshield to crack. Never pour hot water on an icy car., Things like credit cards and other sharp objects should never be used on your windshield in place of a scraper. Not only could these objects be damaged, they could scratch up your car or windshield. Only use a car scraper to remove ice from your car., If you simply remove ice from your car and then park it as usual the next day, more ice will probably accumulate in the morning. To prevent a reoccurrence, soak a towel in water and table salt. Place it over your car window before bed. In the morning, less ice will have built up on your car.