 It can be tough to find enough time during the day to spend together with your spouse. To help create some alone time, try setting an early bed time for your children. By sending your kids to bed earlier than you were, you and your spouse will both be able to enjoy some quiet time together.Your children don't have to be sleeping. However, they should at least be in their rooms during bedtime.
Work with your kids and your spouse to determine a fair bed time.
 As your children grow a bit older, they will be able to help out around the house. Asking your child to help with daily chores can be a great way to buy you some extra time with your spouse and can allow your child to feel more independent. Whenever possible, try having your children help with tasks they are capable of to win you and your spouse some free time.For example, if you have an older child, they could get breakfast ready for their siblings in the morning.
You might ask your child to start picking up after themselves, saving you a few minutes of time in the evenings.
 Although you want to give your kids the best, signing them up for too many activities can be a drain on you and your kids. You and your spouse may find that you are spending an unrealistic amount of time on your children's activities. Take a look at how much time per week your children's activities are taking up and decide if you want to cut back.For example, your children might have baseball, basketball and karate class. But maybe your children might not like or love all of them equally. You might talk with your children to learn which activity could be cut.
 If you find that your children often interrupt you and/or your spouse when you are talking, then you might want to teach or reinforce some of their conversational manners. Letting them know when it is polite to talk will help them develop good conversational skills and can give you and your spouse some uninterpreted time to chat.Keep in mind that teaching manners to a teenager will be different from teaching manners to a toddler.
Younger children will be more likely to interrupt conversations.
 Although watching your child grow into an adult can be a wonderful time in life, it can also be incredibly challenging. For this reason, it's a good idea to keep in mind that your child will grow up one day and you'll have plenty of free time to spend together with your spouse when they do. Focusing on the fact that childhood is only temporary can be a big help when going through a difficult time as parents.