 There are a number of ways that your friends can step out and scare your guests. Here are a few things they can do:


After a bout of silence, a spooky ghost can jump out and scare your guests. Try having the ghost pop out of a closet.
Have a volunteer grip guest's shoulder. Have him do this slowly so the guest thinks it's just another guest at first.
Bring your guests in a dark room. Have your volunteer turn on a flashlight under his face and laugh maniacally.
Have one of your volunteers get in line behind a pack of guests, and wait for them to slowly realize that he is there.
Have one of your guests dress up like a famous horror film character, such as Jason, or Freddy.
Have a door that your guests have to go through that is difficult to open. The guest will try the doorknob again and again, and just when he gives up, a ghost will open the door and pop out.
Gory things do not scare people, while surprising things do. Gore is too overdone, and seeing some fake blood on the floor of your haunted house will provide no reaction from the guests other than a yawn. However, if you place a "victim" who is actually playing dead beside the blood, your guests will be scared out of their wits if he jumps out at them!

, If you want your haunted house to be a bit less terrifying and more fun for your guests, you can arrange to have a different spooky activity in different rooms. Here are some activities to try:


Have a tub of cold water with fake snakes slithering in them. Place some coins on the bottom. Tell your guests they can't move on until they reach down and find a coin.
Instead of bobbing for apples, carve apples to look like skulls and play bobbing for skulls!
Peel the skin off a bunch of grapes and put it in a bowl. Cover the bowl and tell your guests to put their hands inside and tell you what they feel. Correct answer: eyeballs!
Put cold spaghetti in another bowl and have your guests grab them without seeing what they're touching. This time, you've created a bowl of worms!

, Here are a few ways to scare your guests even more by tricking them when they least expect it:


Try the mirror trick. Have your guests open a room where there is nothing but a full length mirror covered in cobwebs. Give them a few seconds to stare at the mirror and then have a goblin or ghost jump out at them!
Have a room with a closed coffin in the center. Have a few activities or surprises to keep the guests busy in the room. Then, right before they leave the room, have a "skeleton" jump out of the casket!
Set up a few fake dummies throughout the haunted house. Have your friends blend in with the dummies, and then jump out at your guests when they least expect it. This will work especially well at the entrance or exit of the house.

