 Even if you didn't check any bags, this is how you leave the airport. If someone is picking you up, they should wait in or just outside the baggage claim. There should also be signs for ground transportation including taxis and buses, so if you plan to use one of these methods of transportation, follow signs to pick them up.
 There will likely be separate lines for citizens and foreign visitors; make sure you're standing in the right one. Note that if you are traveling to the EU, you can go through the EU line if you hold an EU, Swiss, Norwegian or Icelandic passport. Have your passport and immigrations card ready to show to the immigration staff at the desks. Once you are called over to a desk, the immigration official may ask you some questions as well as check your passport. This may seem intrusive, but the immigration staff are there to protect borders from illegal entry; co-operate with them and answer questions politely. It might be a good idea to have names and addresses with you to give to the immigration official, such as the address and phone number of where you are staying and the names of any people you know. 

, If you checked any bags, head to the baggage claim. Find the right belt where your luggage will be coming through once the plane is unloaded. Your flight number should be displayed above the belt where your luggage will be placed, so look for that on TV screens displayed nearby or above the belt itself. When collecting luggage from a moving conveyor belt, make sure it is your luggage you are taking off the conveyor belt, not someone else's. Look for luggage tags with your name, or personalize your bags so they're easily identifiable.
 Customs officers are there to protect their communities against any illegal, dangerous or prohibited goods from entering the country.  A customs officer may call you over and ask you to open your luggage for inspection.  You should make sure you have no illegal or prohibited items either on your person or in your luggage. Smuggling is a serious offense and can land you with a heavy fine and even a long prison sentence.


Before you travel, look online to find a list of prohibited items for the country you're entering. These items will include illegal drugs, explosives or guns, prohibited foods such as agricultural products, and items from endangered animals like ivory or fur.
 Find your preferred method of transportation - taxi, bus or train, or a friend who is picking you up - and depart.

