 You'll want to use a plastic hanger that will not easily snap. Wire hangers should be avoided, as these will easily bend out of shape and will not likely hold up well as a bow. Test the strength of your coat hanger with your hands by tugging on it various directions. If it feels brittle or like it might break, another coat hanger might be better for your bow.;
, The traditional shape of a bow is a smooth arc. To make this, you'll need to remove all hooks from your hanger with a sturdy pair of scissors or a sharp, durable knife. Then, if any sharp edges remain, use a file to blunt the edges.


For stubborn plastic that refuses to cut, you may need to notch the plastic with your knife first, and then cut it with your scissors.
For more authentic bows, you might also remove the plastic connector running between the ends of the arc of your hanger., Take your duct tape and wrap it smoothly around your coat hanger until all surfaces are covered. Be sure your tape is wrapped thickly enough so that no edges of plastic protrude. Colored duct tape can be used to add a personal touch to your bow.


Silver, gold, black, and brown duct tape are good duct tape colors to consider for giving your bow some character.
 The string of your bow should be made of thick, sturdy rubber bands. Depending on the length of your bow and the size of your hanger, three to five bands should be enough to make your string. Cut each in half with your scissors and tie the ends together with simple knots.You can strengthen your bowstring by doubling or tripling the single string with more bands.
 Now that you have your bowstring made, you can tie it to the end of the arc of your coat hanger to complete the bow. If you find that the bowstring doesn't stay in place, take a knife and cut V shaped notches into the plastic at either end. Then you can re-tie your bowstring so that it's seated securely in the notches.
 You'll be using pencils to make your arrows. Wrap these completely in a layer of duct tape to give them a more realistic appearance. You may want to use a different color of duct tape for your arrows than you used for your bow, though this is a matter of preference.
 Draw two triangles on a piece of card stock or rigid cardboard for each arrowhead you plan on making. To make your arrowheads uniform, you can draw an arrowhead stencil, cut it free, and then use this to trace the shapes of the rest of your arrowheads.


Your arrowheads can be as large or as small as you like, but for more polished looking arrowheads, measure out 2-inch (5 cm) sides for all three sides of your triangular arrowhead.
 Take the two pieces of card stock that you have cut into the shape of arrowheads and use your glue to attach these to the tip of your arrow. If the card stock you are using is a little on the flimsy side, you might want to reinforce your arrowheads by putting small pieces toothpicks, cake pop sticks, or kebab sticks between pieces, gluing the supports in place as you glue the pieces together.
 Use your thumb to hold your arrowhead to one of the ends of your arrow. With your free hand, take your duct tape and wrap it around the arrowhead and arrow, connecting the two together firmly.
 Use your ruler to measure the length of you arrows and then subtract an inch (2½ cm) from that length. Mark your cardboard tube with the shorter length and use your scissors to cut the tube so it is an inch shorter than your arrows. Then, use your duct tape to cover the outside of your tube and close off one of the ends.
 Once your arrows are finished, put them in the quiver and take up your bow. Remove an arrow from the quiver and draw it back with the string of your bow. Release to shoot - you and your bow are now ready for adventure.

