 Putting vinegar in your hair may sound strange, but the vinegar helps remove build-up. It also balances the pH of your hair, smooths down the cuticles, and leaves your hair feeling soft and silky. Keep in mind, however, that this rinse is not recommended for color-treated hair, as it may cause the hair dye to fade or run. Here is what you will need to make this rinse:1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of vinegar
1 cup (240 milliliters) of cool water
A cup, mug, or bottle to hold the rinse;
, Pour the water and vinegar into a cup, mug, or bottle. You can use white vinegar or apple cider vinegar. Stir the vinegar and water with a spoon to combine the ingredients. If you are using a bottle, you can simply close the bottle and shake it.


If you have longer or very thick hair, then double the amount: 2 to 4 tablespoons of vinegar and 2 cups (450 milliliters) of water.
 Instead of using plain vinegar, you can add 5 to 10 drops of essential oil to 1 cup (225 milliliters) of vinegar.Shake the vinegar to mix the oil in, then use this vinegar in your rinse (1 to 2 tablespoons of infused vinegar per cup/225 milliliters of water) instead of the regular vinegar. Do not use this infused vinegar undiluted in your hair. Not only do essential oils help mask the strong odor of vinegar, but they can also be beneficial for your hair. Here are some essential oils that you can use, depending on your hair type:If you have dry hair, you can use any of the following oils: lavender, myrrh, and peppermint.
If you have normal hair, you can use any of the following oils: chamomile, clary sage, and lavender.
If you have oily hair, you can use and of the following oils: basil, lavender, lemongrass, lemon, patchouli, rosemary, tea tree, and ylang ylang.
 Take your favorite shampoo and wash your hair as you normally would. You are doing this in order to remove most of the dirt and oils. You may also follow up with some conditioner, although the vinegar rinse will be enough to make your hair look smooth and shiny.
 Tilt your head back and close your eyes tightly. Pour the vinegar-water over your head, so that it runs from your hair line, down your hair, and to the ends. Do not let the vinegar-water get into your eyes. It will sting and burn a lot.
 Gently run your fingers through your hair and over your scalp. You might feel and see some soap bubbles forming in your hair. This is normal, and means that the vinegar-water is working. It is removing all that build-up that has accumulated in your hair.
 The cold-temperature will help seal the hair cuticles. You can also leave the vinegar rinse in your hair. Don't worry, the strong smell will disappear once your hair dries.

