 This may seem like a no-brainer, but some of us use stimulants like coffee so often that we don’t even think twice about having that afternoon cup of joe. If you consume caffeine within 4 to 6 hours before going to bed, it will still be in your system when you’re trying to fall asleep that night.It can keep you awake much later than you intended, and therefore make waking up on time very difficult.


Alcohol should also be avoided prior to bedtime. It is classified as a depressant, but it actually depends on the amount of alcohol consumed and how quickly it was consumed. If you drink beyond what your body can handle and become drunk, the alcohol acts as a depressant on your system. However, if you only have a drink or two, alcohol acts as a stimulant on your system – this is the “buzzed” feeling people talk about., If you’re a night owl and have trouble falling asleep early, try exercising during the day – this can help you fall asleep more easily at night, especially when you are trying to get to sleep earlier than your usual bedtime. However, don’t exercise an hour or less before bed, or you’ll be pumped up!


If you’re still having trouble getting to sleep, try winding down before bed by taking a warm bath or shower before hitting the sack.If you know you are trying to get to bed early that night, definitely avoid taking naps during the day.Stop using televisions, laptops and cell phones one hour before bed. Not only can these devices distract you and keep you up, they can also affect the quality of your sleep if used immediately before bed. Shut them off and power them down to avoid temptation.
 Make sure you set your alarm clock for the correct wake up time and double check it right before you get in bed. Instead of putting it right next to you on the night stand, place it on your dresser across the room or somewhere else out of your immediate reach.This forces you to wake up and get out of bed to turn it off.


If you are a heavy sleeper and have trouble waking up with a single alarm, get multiple alarms! Place them in different parts of your room, and stagger the alarm times to go off a few minutes apart from one another.
Make good alarm sound choices.If you are hard to wake, make sure your alarm sound is loud and repetitive. If shrill alarm sounds tend to make you pound your fist into the snooze button and fall immediately back to sleep, try getting an alarm that starts off quietly and gradually gets louder.
, Schedule a very important task for the next morning that forces you to wake up on time. This can be an appointment or any other kind of scheduled task that requires you to be on time. This will motivate you to get up early the next morning, whether you feel like it or not!


A simpler approach to creating an urgency is to drink a full glass of water right before you go to sleep. When your alarm goes off the next morning, your bladder will compel you to jump right out of bed!

