 To start with your piece you first have to crochet a chain of stitches before you crochet the loops that the pattern calls for.
 You will have to practice holding the wire and needle in a way that the wire won't bend unnecessarily until you are comfortable and feels natural.


Although, the principle of crocheting with yarn and wire is similar, wire behaves differently. You will find that even though you may have experience crocheting yarn, the properties of wire will require you to handle it differently.
 Wire hardens slightly when it is bent and can also create kinks that will make your pattern sloppy and uneven.


Hold the wire straight between your forefinger and middle finger sliding it instead.
Pinch the end with your thumb and the other two fingers pulling just enough to create the tension needed to keep the wire straight from the spool.
To maintain the tension needed for good even stitches you must secure the spool allowing it to slowly unwind and reel it in towards you using your forefinger and middle-finger. You are now ready to cast on and begin to crochet.
 Leaving at least a 4 inch tail at the end, loop the wire twice around your forefinger and middle finger.Then, with the crochet hook grab one piece of the wire and pull it through the loop towards you. Pull from the tail end until it tightens around your hook. You just made the slipknot.
 The wire should be under the crochet hook and twisting counterclockwise coil the wire around it so that it begins to bend into a loop.


Once the wire takes the circular shape twisted around your crochet hook, you can pull it towards you through the loop hole. You have made your first wire chain stitch.
 You may have to lay them down and flatten it to keep the shape neat.
 With one loop on your hook stick the crochet hook through the chain stitch loop and catch & coil the wire and pull through both loops towards you. You made your first wire slip-stitch.



Keep checking your loops with the wide part of the crochet hook often to maintain the pattern shape.
