 This is the most important step, because it defines all the other ones. If she doesn't like you for who you are, then you will never able to be yourself around her. This will not make for a good relationship. Someone you have to change yourself for is not someone you will end up with.;
, You don't have to dress fancy, but make sure that your hygiene is well taken care of. Basic cleanliness will go a long way in helping you stand out. Make sure you smell good, thats a key factor to getting her closer.


Shower before school. Use a fresh-scented soap or body wash. Wear a lightly fragranced deodorant. Strong fragrances can be too overwhelming and may drive her away.






Keep your teeth brushed. Carry some gum in case your breath gets bad during the day. keep a travel-sized mouthwash in your backpack or locker for a quick freshening.There is nothing worse then someone with dragon breath.






Trim your fingernails. Make sure your hands and nails are clean, they are a very visible part of your body. Think: does she want you to hold her hand or hide it?






Make sure your clothes are clean. Ratty, threadbare clothes are a turn-off, unless you're going for a specific look. Make sure what you're wearing is presentable and well put together. Pick clothes that compliment your looks; baggy shirts and pants hide your form and make you look less confident. GO for what that girl wants, maybe if she's popular wither wear brand shirts and gel in your hair.
 Girls, and people in general, pick up on confidence. Nobody likes someone who doesn't believe in themselves. You will find that this will help not only get the girl, but in all aspects of your life. Here a some ways to look confident, even if you aren't.


Stand up straight. Slouching makes you look lazy. Pull your shoulders back slightly, this will fill your frame out.






If you're out of shape, suck in your stomach. Start exercising for long term benefits to your confidence and sense of self-worth. Even a few basic exercises a day, such as crunches and sit-ups, will make a big difference.






Make eye contact. Looking down or away makes you look passive, scared, and weak. Maintaining eye contact will show her that you are interested and engaged, and that you are not afraid.






Don't mumble. Speak clearly and form your thoughts before you open your mouth. When you talk, speak with a measured speed. Speak loudly enough to be the commanding voice in the conversation, but don't yell or overpower.







