 If you prefer instant changes, you can use an eyelash curler and mascaraWearing eyeliner along with your mascara can also result in looking like you have very thick eyelashes. Replace your mascara with a new one at least every four months to make sure it won't crumble, dry out and then ruin your lashes.
Make sure that every lash is separate and that you have applied all the way from the root of the lash to the tip. Blot the mascara wand on a paper towel or kleenex to prevent clumping.
Some people have found that using 2 mascaras on top of each other gives more length and volume.
 You can buy eyelashes you apply yourself in the store or you can ask a professional to apply them in a salon.


First, measure the lashes, and trim to fit with scissors. When gluing, make sure the glue is tacky, otherwise it may "pings" off.
Apply extra glue to the ends of the lashes as they are most likely to come off. Use tweezers to position the false lashes. Keep the eye that you're applying the false eyelash on closed. Hold the lashes down until dry.
 Apply a normal coat of mascara onto your eyelashes, coating the front and softly rolling to the back.Dust your eyelashes with baby powder. You can use a brush or your fingers. Your eyelashes should be whitish color.
Brush away the remaining baby powder that has fallen around the eye with a soft brush. Apply your second coat of mascara over the baby powder, using a small brush or eyelash comb to get rid of any large clumps.
 Don't go overboard on trying to make your eyelashes too thick. If you do, your eyelashes might get damaged.


Give your eyes a break sometimes. Don’t wear mascara every day, as this product can dry out the lashes.
Similarly, fake lashes should be more of a temporary boost for big occasions because the glue can make lashes weak and brittle. Minimize eyelash curler usage. Putting chemicals on your eyelashes not only dries them out but makes them thinner. Using an eyelash curler causes breakage and damage.
 These are commercial products that claim to make your lashes grow very thick and long.


Some growth serums come included with your mascara. Look for mascaras that include this as an ingredient.
You would apply the serum just as you apply mascara, and applying it with your mascara should thicken your lashes.

