


Mature knockout roses need major pruning in the late winter, but young roses only need to be pruned throughout the growing period to remove dead or dying parts of the plant.
A mature knockout rose bush should be about 4 feet (1.22 m) wide by 4 feet (1.22 m) tall.
Note that you can often go two to three years in between major prunings, depending on how vigorous your knockout roses seem to grow and how small you like to keep your plant.
 The major pruning period for knockout roses is in late winter to early spring, just as the bush begins to break out of its dormancy stage.


Check for bud formation on the stems of the plant. The roses will be ready to prune if the existing buds have swelled up but no new growth has appeared.
You can still prune the plant even if new growth is starting to develop, though. If a winter proves especially mild, growth might start forming notably early. In this case, snip the growth back to the first dormant bud.
 Knockout roses will grow vigorously when you take proper care of them, so you should keep that in mind when you prune them before the start of the growing season. As a general rule, you should prune them down do that they are about 1 to 2 feet (0.3 to 0.6 m) (30.5 to 61 cm) shorter than you would like them eventually become during the season.


You can cut healthy shoots back by one-third to one-half of their existing length without damaging the plant. If you cut the shoots back further than that, however, you might stunt the growth of the bush.
 Height and width maintain the appearance of the knockout rose bush, but by cutting out enough inside to promote better air circulation, you can also help prevent the spread of various fungal diseases.


Increase air circulation by cutting away some of the interior growth at the center of the plant, creating more openness at the center.
 You can snip both canes away, if necessary, but you only really need to cut away one.


Cutting away overlapping canes stops them from rubbing against each other, helping the plant look neater and promoting stronger growth.
This also creates more openness in the plant, thereby protecting your knockout roses from disease more effectively.
 Try to maintain an even dome shape. Usually, at the start of the season, you might remove anywhere from one-third to one-half of the growth. Doing so prevents the plant from putting too much energy into maintaining an abundance of foliage, allowing it to maximize flower yield as a result.


At the same time, you do not want to be too over-zealous in your pruning, either. If you trim away much more than this, the plant will spend too much energy trying to regrow lost foliage and not enough toward producing flowers.

