 Shoplifting has became harder and harder over the years due to the introduction of CCTV in stores, thus new tactics have been plotted which will differ in different scenarios, here are some of the most common.


Snatch & Run:This strategy is mostly used by lone shoplifters, and is just like a Hit and Run;

Go into store
Steal Item
Run

Simple as that, however this strategy can easily be flawed by noticing a few obvious flaws:



;
, Hoods, sunglasses, scarves etc. or any attempt to cover the face is an easily exploitable way of spotting a thief.
 Most snatchers tend to linger around their target, thinking of how to pull it off, or to just wait until their exit is clear. If there is no exit, no snatch.
 If their exit is blocked they will rarely turn aggressive, and may even apologize, thus no merchandise is stolen.
 With practice, a group theft can easily be prevented by offering assistance and being aware.


Size will matter. If a group of thieves are caught red handed, they make become violent and start to cause trouble, this is where your plead for help will come in, hopefully they will come in a bigger force. If they do engage in violence the local authorities can easily be called.
 It may sound silly, but it helps. A group of thieves may become stunned or may even abort prior to contact with an employee, because you have now engaged conversation, and you have seen their faces. If they ignore and try to evade you, you can easily now ask for help should their be any further contact.
 Most thefts happen at night, where there will be fewer witnesses, less authority to deal with, and when your shop will be closing. Normally prior to closing hours, the front door (if not guarded by partitions) will be automatically shut. Which in turn will trap the would be thieves, and give you more time for the police to arrive.
 This is mainly used in a duo theft, whilst one person draws employee's attention to something else, the thief can complete their mission with ease, here's how to spot this tactic:

, If you pull away from a distraction when you shouldn't be, they will try gain your attention again, either blocking your path or by asking an out of the blue question. This is the most biggest giveaway possible to a theft and distraction scenario.

