 Since the Himalayan rabbit is a small rabbit, the cage you put him should be at least 30 inches long x 24 inches wide x 18 inches high.There are a variety of different cages to choose from: wired enclosures, fancy raised pens, or even rabbit condos.Do not use solid walled cages or aquariums. This does not let enough air flow through.You can also let your bunny roam free in a bunny-proofed room.
Make sure to give your bunny a solid floor, such as a piece of carpeting or wooden flooring. You can also use a piece of fleece fabric, because it won’t leave long strings in the digestive tract if the rabbit eats it. You can also put newspaper under the cage, just don’t use newspaper as bedding.;
, Bedding is what will be placed in your rabbit’s sleeping area. It should be edible, since your rabbit will eat it. Hay (like meadow or timothy hay), Readigrass, natural fiber blanket, pelleted paper, or other organic products make good bedding materials.Make sure to give him enough so he can shape it, move it, and burrow in it how he wants.


Don’t use straw, cardboard, newspaper, wood shavings, sawdust, cat litter, or cedar or pine products as bedding. It can harm your rabbit.
Make sure to check the bedding daily and clean it if necessary. If you don’t clean the bedding regularly, fleas, flies, and other pests can raise in the bedding and harm your rabbit.
If your rabbit is going to the bathroom in his bedding, you need to give the rabbit a larger area to roam, exercise, and move around.
 Rabbits need a place to hide from things that scare them, so they feel safe and secure. Place a cardboard box or a nest box for your rabbit to do so. The hiding place should be placed somewhere where he can rapidly move underneath it or inside it, but be small enough to make the rabbit feel secure.The boxes should have holes at both ends so the rabbit will use it. You can place the hiding place boxes in "hidden" places in your house, like under furniture, in closets, or in corners of the room. If your rabbit has made a habit of using places for hiding spots you'd rather them not be, like under your bed, put a box there with multiple openings to keep the rabbit in the box and away from your carpet and bed frame.


Make sure to have one hiding place per rabbit.
The hiding place should be located away from sights and sounds that could scare your rabbit. Place the hiding place away from other animals, people, drafts, and sunlight. Make sure the hiding place is quiet.
Cardboard boxes stuffed with hay make inexpensive chewing and hiding spots for rabbits.
 Confine your rabbit in his cage with a litter box in a corner he has already soiled. He will use the litterbox to keep his cage clean. Make sure the litter box sides are low so he can hop in and out easily. Try placing hay or a few of his droppings in the litter box to encourage him to use it.If you let your rabbit run around the house, consider setting up multiple litter boxes.
 Sipper bottles are easier to keep clean than bowls, but rabbits prefer to drink from bowls. One of each could be provided to see which works best in your rabbit’s situation. Regardless of container used, clean it and put in fresh water at least once a day.If using a bowl, make sure it is heavy enough not to tip over.
 The Himalayan rabbit loves to chew. If you are keeping your rabbit inside, you will need to carefully rabbit proof your home to protect him and your stuff from damage.


Protect electrical cords with spiral wrap, hard plastic tubing and concealers, or by keeping them out of reach.
Rabbits will chew on wooden objects including trim, door edges, and furniture legs. They may also chew on wallpaper, sheetrock, and carpet. Keep an eye on the rabbit when around these items or block him off with boards or furniture.
Always keep an acceptable chewing alternative out for your rabbit. Make sure he knows where it is. If you catch him starting to chew on something he shouldn’t, give him the alternative. You can use items like hay, alfalfa cubes, cotton towels, and aspen, willow, or apple branches., A rabbit needs at least 4 hours of exercise daily in order to be fit both physically and mentally. You can provide an exercise pen or area for your rabbit, so your rabbit can run around. Place cardboard tubes or boxes in the area for the rabbit to run through and jump on. Move them daily so your rabbit will be curious about the changes.You can even get on the floor and play with your bunny.


Hide food and treats around his exercise areas so he can forage for his food.
Make cheap, homemade toys, like a paper sack stuffed with shredded newspaper and a few treats, cardboard rolls from paper towels stuffed with hay, or tunnels made from cardboard boxes.
Provide a digging box for your rabbit. Place a bunch of newspaper and toilet paper in a box, and the rabbit will spend days shredding the paper.
If your rabbit has a large area to roam around, sometimes he may get used to that and stay in the same spot. If this happens, confine him in a smaller area for a few hours, then release him so he will want to roam.
 The best diet for a rabbit consists of grass-type hay, commercial rabbit pellets, leafy green vegetables, and water. The rabbit’s intestinal tract needs the fibers and water found in these foods for it to function properly and prevent dangerous illness.


Your Himalayan rabbit should always have access to clean, dry grass hay. This helps to keep his teeth and digestive tract healthy.
Himalayan rabbits should have between 1/4 cup and 1/2 cup of high quality (15-18% protein) pellets per day. Most Himalayans eat about 1/3 cup, but monitor your rabbits weight - if it is losing or gaining weight you might have to adjust how much feed it gets. Young Himalayans - under six months - can generally be given as much pellets as they want, but if the rabbit does not eat them all, they will have to be replaced, as rabbits may refuse to eat stale food.
Vegetables and green foods are, contrary to popular belief, neither required for a rabbits diet, or good for them. If you do desire to give your Himalayan fresh food, try dark, leafy greens, such as kale, spinach or parsley.
 Dry treats that are popular with rabbits are black oil sunflower seeds and rolled oats.


Alfalfa or clover hay. These are tasty but way too rich for a rabbit to ingest daily. It can be used as an occasional treat, or given to nursing does.Starchy vegetables, like carrot bottoms, and fruit. These are also tasty but have too much sugar and starch for the rabbit. Feed no more than 2 tablespoons of fruit daily. Don’t feed a rabbit bananas. They are too fatty and can become addictive for the rabbit.
Do not feed human foods (other than the above mentioned vegetables and fruits) to the rabbit. Corn is also not good for rabbits since the hulls can cause problems in the digestive tract. Seed or grain mixes may give your rabbit an unbalanced diet since he can pick and choose the seeds and grains out of these mixes.
 Since Himalayan rabbits have short fur, they require minimal grooming. You can brush your rabbit once a week, or run your hand over his fur with damp hands to move excess hair., The color on the Himalayan rabbit can change depending on the temperature. The colored patches of hair can darken if exposed to cooler temperatures, but lighten if exposed to warmer temperatures. If your rabbit lies next to something cold, his white fur can get dark spots on him., It may be neutered (if he is a male) or spayed (if she is a female) when he is four to six months of age. This operation is very risky, and Himalayan rabbits do not do well under anesthesia. Since they tend to be less hormonal than other breeds, and do not spray or become territorial as easily, it is highly advised by those who keep Himalayan rabbits to not spay or neuter a Himalayan except to prevent unwanted pregnancies. #Take your rabbit to the veterinarian once a year. You should take your rabbit to the vet for an examination once a year. A tooth check should be done to see if the teeth need trimming. Himalayan rabbits do not generally have any teeth problems, though, due to their long facial structure. , Most rabbits are very healthy, but sometimes they become sick and show signs. Look for eye or nose discharge, drooling, refusing to eat or drink, swelling, reddened skin, or fur loss, not hopping or moving like normal or unable to use back legs, diarrhea or a lack of droppings for a day, dark, red urine, or a fever more than 105 °F. Bright, orange red urine is normal, especially during a change in seasons - the red urine to be watched out for is when it has darker specks in it, which can indicate blood. If you see any of these signs or any other concerning sign contact your veterinarian for advice.

