 If you can, leave behind anyone who can’t follow this rule.;
, Take only cash and leave your cards behind. If you only have a set amount, you only spend a set amount. Grocery stores expect you to add a few extra things to your cart; temptation is a way to easily increase their profit. Having only cash will force you to stay within the confines of your budget.
 Think about how much you can spend and what you have available at home. Take into consideration what sounds appealing to your family and try to strike a balance between the two. Compromise is key when beginning to change your shopping habits.
 It may seem counterintuitive to shop before cooking, but you’ll save money if you plan your meals around what’s on sale. If something is on sale for a great price but you don’t know what to cook, look up new and exciting new recipes to serve your family.
 Look in newspapers and explore online free grocery coupon sites for printable coupons.


Stores will often offer in-store coupons, available in the aisles and on the back of your receipt.
You will have better access to the deals offered if you sign up for store mailings or frequent shopper cards.
Printable coupons are everywhere, from social media outlets to manufacturing outlets. Take advantage of them!
Mobile coupons come through your smart phone, which makes them handier and easier to obtain than clipping coupons. Different apps offer different coupons at different stores, so your success will depend on the markets in your area and your shopping list. , Plan for one productive shopping day a week. This will give you time to make lists, check your inventory, and collect your coupons. Becoming more mindful of the future when you shop will ensure you save money (and time, gas and energy) because you won’t be able (or want to) to get that “one extra thing.”

, Some stores have better prices on eggs, milk, and cheeses, while others can’t be beat on their bulk section. Others might have better prices on toilet paper, while your basic fruit and vegetable stand could have the best prices of them all. Research and ask friends what their money saving experiences in the community have been.


Take advantage of each store, but be mindful of how far apart they are. It’s not worth it to save a little money on toilet paper when you’re spending more on gas.

