 As well as the clothes, pack such things as toiletries, clothing, and medications.;
, Make some yummy snacks, and buy some water and drinks in bottles or cans. That will keep your hunger down when there isn't an exit coming up any time soon!


You may also want to pack an iPod, or a Zune, or other type of MP3 player for entertainment. You can also pack a portable DVD player or gaming system.
 Remove trash and old toys, books, wrappers, etc. Vacuum the seats. Put a blanket on the seat to make it comfy.
 Use the bathroom before you go. Adjust your pillow just right because you're going to be back there for a while. Make sure you've eaten. Take off your shoes and relax! Look out the window and see the beautiful scenery go pass.
 These are often fun and get your mind going. Here are a few of them:


License Plate Words: This is where you find a license plate with letters and try to think of abbreviations for the word. For example, the license plate is CESC686. "CESC" can stand for "cows eat seven chickens".
Another one is where you get a list of most states in the current time zone and try to find each state in that area, bonus point if it's out of time zone. Its easier with time zones because if you're on the west coast it will be pretty hard to find a car from upper Maine.
 Think of fun things, or look out the window and pretend someone and/or something is running. It can be just like a movie if you try hard enough.
, Warning as this may lead to carsickness for some people. Bring some magazines and books. If you don't have many books at your house or don't have a library near you, you can get an app like iBooks or eBooks and you can read from there. Some of the books on iBooks are free.
 If you bring a notepad, you can write a story. Maybe if you're in the middle of Kansas you can draw the flat ground, and design a roller coaster or a water slide. Write a story that reflects your surroundings. It can pass time and gets your mind going.
 For example, you can play jokes, such as you can start crying and when someone asks what's wrong and say something like "Someone invisible is chopping onions"! It gets very annoying but it's funny.
 If you're leaving in the morning, wake up 3 hours in advanced and do some things to tire you out. if you leave at 7:30 am, wake up at 4:30. Maybe you can pack your carry on and food, bike a mile, and clean the house. You will be super tired by the time you're on your way.

