 Choosing a faction is key, because playing a certain faction has benefits and advantages than others do. Such as unit types, province bonuses, and titles.;
, Now, when you start playing you have to be a little aggressive to grabs some territories and start racking in the cash from them. Usually, that means you're going to have to fight another faction (Because if you don't, they'll get you later on) but don't take on the whole world by yourself! Take on factions one at a time.
 Without cash, you have nothing to fuel your war machine. Plus no money to ransom back some of your troops or generals in case they get captured. You'll also find a hard time trying to build new buildings in your provinces as well. A good source of income is merchant fleets that connect one of your provinces with trade able resources to a foreign port that also has trade goods then you'll earn a pretty penny.
 If you don't, then the province will rebel against you! Especially if you have just acquired a new province from an enemy faction or rebels. Try reducing the tax rate as it will make them happier and less likely to revolt. Also, when you capture an enemy province then a scroll piece will appear. This is a Title for a general under your command. These Titles can help boost the Loyalty of a general in your military tree. They also have a variety of other boosts such as: Dread, Command, Acumen, and Piety.
 Having spies can be useful in many ways in Medieval. For one, they can gather information about the province they are in. They can also reveal hidden vice from an enemy general or King! In result of this, it could cause penalties for the generals statistics or make the province he is governing more rebellious. Spies aren't the only ones capable of peeking about in Europe. Emissaries, Bishops, Cardinals, Inquisitors, Princesses, and Imams are capable of spying on enemy provinces but they aren't as good of course as the spy is.
 Aye, this may be dirty but it sure is easy to wipe out someone who's pestering you the sneaky way. Be careful though! Assassins that are fresh from training aren't going to be very experienced off hand. They need to kill lesser targets in order to be better at killing more important figures. Why you should be careful is that assassins could wind you up in a lot of trouble with another nation if they get caught trying to kill someone. Usually it means war but if the nation is too busy to worry about you then they just shrug off the fact and focus on other matters. Assassin's don't just have to be for killing your enemies, they can also be used to kill your lame generals, princes, and even your King! Ironic, huh?

, Be patient and think strategically. Also, if you are playing as a Catholic faction fighting another Catholic faction (ie. England vs. France) then be careful because the Pope hates it when Catholics are fighting against each other so he'll probably excommunicate you. I bet you're thinking "So what? I don't care." Well, if that's the case then I hope you have a rather large army because once you get excommunicated then the Pope basically declared you free game for Crusades. Don't worry, if you did get excommunicated it doesn't last for too long and most of the time it rarely happens that you see yourself getting Crusades declared upon.
 A rebel province with a port is the same as a province from a neutral country if you are neutral with the rebels. When the rebels with ports (and at least 1 fort) is attacked by a computer, relieve the siege so you can retain a trade partner.