 If, for example, you have a south facing conservatory adjoining a north facing room, you should draw air in from the bottom of windows in this room to get a good draught of cooler air flowing into the conservatory.;
, Since heat rises it is sensible to have some form of ventilation in the roof of the conservatory and one or more opening roof vents, depending on the size of your conservatory. You will need to make sure that you specify ones that provide good sealing and that are water and draught proof.
 This can be done in several ways. The simplest method is using a Hook & Pole to manually crank the roof vent open or shut. Other than being the most economical way of opening and closing roof vents, it is also the most attractive solution as there is no mechanism to install. For security, the roof vent can also include a locking mechanism that prevents the vent from being opened from the outside.


Alternatively, you can install a Teleflex® or other mechanism which can be controlled from a winding handle some distance away from the roof vent. These mechanisms can also be electronically controlled for even easier use from a wall-mounted switch or remote control unit. You can also make them totally automatic with a digital control system that will adjust the opening to maintain your desired temperature in the conservatory and close the vents completely if it rains.



When specifying a ceiling fan make sure you choose one with a large blade span for a large conservatory. You may need to fit more than one to maximize their benefit. The distance the blades turn from the roof is also important, place them too close to the roof and they will not have sufficient air to work with.
Ceiling fans can help you save on heating bills in the winter and air conditioning costs in the summer by using the warm or cool air already available more efficiently. If you buy ones with built in lights you will also save having to duplicate electric wiring to multiple units. Most ceiling fans can run at variable speeds, but make sure of this before purchasing.
 They can be noisier when turned on to maximum power, but if you specify one with a large enough motor maximum power will rarely be needed.


An extractor fan in the summer makes a great deal of sense, but using one in the winter means you will be throwing away great volumes of expensively heated air.
If you plan to use your conservatory in the winter and are heating it, you should look at installing heat recovery extractor fans. These are environmentally friendly since they can recover 70-80%, or sometimes even more, of the heat that they extract and return it to the conservatory.
Extractor fans installed in conservatory kitchens will need to be stronger than those used in other domestic rooms as they have to cope with extracting condensation, cooking smells and heat from appliances.

