 Choose a USA Taekwondo affiliated school which teaches Olympic style taekwondo. These are recognized by the US Olympic Committee and the National Governing Body for taekwondo in the United States. This body educates coaches and checks their background for safety, so you can be sure that you are being trained safely and conscientiously.Use the Team USA taekwondo club locator app on the Team USA website to find a local school.;
, The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) World Ranking has 8 senior weight divisions for male and female, respectively. The WTF Olympic Ranking is broken up into eight weight categories: 4 for the male and 4 for the female divisions. You can find out which category you fit by visiting the WTF website.Weight categories will differ for juniors. To check junior weight divisions, visit the Team USA taekwondo site., There are three main advanced attack methods. Each technique requires being in a strong physical condition and having flexibility, power, coordination, agility, and fast reflexes. In addition, one must exercise judgment as to which technique is optimal at any given point depending on the fighting conditions. The techniques are:Direct attack. There are three main types of direct attacks: the in-place attack, the incline attack, and the sliding attack. Which one you use will depend on the distance and stance of your opponent.
Indirect attack. There are three types of indirect attack: cutting, feinting, and footwork. These mislead the attack of your opponent.
Counterattack. There are direct and indirect counterattacks. The latter type of attack involves footwork followed by an attack, whereas the former involves staying in place.
 The more diligent you are about practicing, the better you will be at the sport. To get to the elite level, you will need to put in at least 20 hours of practice per week., Make sure you're fully equipped with the proper protective gear. Fighting without it could lead to injury. This gear includes a trunk protector, head protector, groin guard, forearm guards, shin guards, hand protector, gloves, and a mouthpiece., A coach can help you improve your skill and perform the best you can while also being an encouraging and motivating presence.The best way to find a coach is through a taekwondo class you are taking, especially because the coach will already have been checked for safety and expertise., Training does not just refer to practicing and sparring - it extends, for example, to obtaining an adequate amount of sleep. Olympians sleep an average of 8 hours every night, so aim to sleep this same amount. In addition, consider taking a 30 minute nap in the early afternoon to refuel your energy levels., Observe your current dietary habits and consider whether there are changes you could make to reach your goals. For example, if your goal is to lose weight but you eat huge portions for dinner, you might want to space out your meals throughout the day so that you can burn off more calories while sleeping.Consult a nutritionist to create a balanced diet plan that is tailored to your specific needs and health concerns.
 While sparring and practicing taekwondo techniques are important parts of training to become an Olympic fighter, you will also want to spend time in the weight room and working on core strength and flexibility. These are areas you must be well-rounded in in order to compete at an elite level.Consider signing up for a yoga class - you will get both physical and mental benefits that could complement your training., Aside from physical practice, Olympic athletes prepare psychologically for matches. Pick a mantra that motivates you before you step on the mat, read inspirational quotes or books, and, most importantly, develop a routine that you do not stray from. Successful Olympic athletes create and stick to a physical and mental preparation routine that will be reassuring when in a new setting for a match.Visualize your routine. Imagine all of the sensory input you will be getting, like the cheers of the crowd, the approach of your opponent, or the impact of your attack. This will motivate you as well as allow you to anticipate some of the surprise elements of the big day, which otherwise could work to your disadvantage., Family, friends, and teammates can boost your energy when training is not going as expected and can also be your #1 source of support when you win a tournament. Keep them informed of your progress by checking in with them regularly.
 Taekwondo is a full-physical sport that requires a tremendous amount of effort, dedication, and self-discipline. Remind yourself every time you step on the mat that your goal is to become an Olympic fighter and that this is a sport you are passionate about. You could even develop a motivating mantra that you repeat to yourself prior to any sparring matches.
 Becoming an Olympian will be an easier feat if you have increased your comfort level and sparring ability by practicing under different conditions and with different people. Try going to different low-stakes tournaments, mixers, or interschool workouts to get a feel for what it is like to fight a variety of people.


You could also ask your coach to help you visualize different combat situations or even create game-like situations to help you practice under different conditions., Look at where you are right now and establish a reasonable time frame for becoming an Olympic fighter in taekwondo. You will know if you are ready by listening to the opinion of your coach, gauging your performance at low-stakes matches, and speaking with fellow taekwondo fighters about their experience and readiness levels. If you need a few more years of training, allow yourself that time to improve and eventually compete with your best foot forward.


If you are ready to compete, it is time to sign up for tournaments.
 Alongside your coach, create unique offensive combinations that will allow you to score points while also keeping within the rules of the competition and thus avoiding penalties. The more unexpected your strategy, the greater the chance that you will take your opponent by surprise, which might just be the deciding factor for determining a winner., If you are sufficiently prepared, you can participate in tournaments as a means of getting scouted or simply as a way to practice under different conditions.


The American Taekwondo Association hosts tournaments throughout the U.S. which you can sign up for online.The WTF also maintains an updated list of national and international tournaments which you could inquire further about.