 Most people have heard of the George Foreman electric grills and similar brands, which come in many sizes and grill both sides of the food at one time. However, you should shop around to find the one that suits your needs and kitchen space best. For example, there are three main types of indoor grills; a countertop model with one-sided grilling, a countertop model with dual-sided grilling, and a range top that sits on a stove burner and mimics an outdoor grill.Countertop models, like the Hamilton Beach or DeLonghi, are often electric, smokeless, and easy to clean due to their non-stick surfaces.
A range top or stovetop grill, like the Staub Rectangular Grill Pan, can create a lot of smoke if you cook a lot at once. However, they are better for mimicking the look and feel of an outdoor grill, because you can get the same kind of char marks.;
, If you don't want to sacrifice counter space, even momentarily, consider buying a grill pan. These are similar to any normal pan, except they have grooves that mimic the grate of a grill, which allows you to get the same kind of char marks you'd find on an outdoor setup.

Most grill pans are cast iron or stainless steel, like the Anolon Tri-Ply Clad Deep Round Grill. They are also usually non-stick and small enough to be stored in a cupboard with other pans., Some grills come with only one setting, while other grills allow you to raise or lower the heat throughout the cooking process. Being able to adjust the temperature of your grill while cooking will help make sure you cook your food all the way through without burning it.


Most if not all range top grills will adjust the temperature with your stove, however, depending on the width and length, they may heat sections differently.
An electric grill like the Cuisinart Griddler will allow you to change the temperature separately on each plate, which is great if you want to cook two different foods at one time., Most contact or countertop grills come with a slanted surface that allows the fat to drip off or drain through the center. They may also even come with a built-in plate or tray to collect it. However, for range top models like grill pans, there is usually no method for draining excess oils, so cleaning is more difficult.


Countertop grills are usually non-stick and contained, which means you won’t have a lot of oil or fat splattering all over your counter. They are also relatively easy to clean with just hot water and paper towels.Rangetop grills or grill pans, on the other hand, can be a bit messier. Depending on the size or how much food you are cooking, they can cause a lot of smoke - and can spray a lot of kitchen area with oil. However, the cleaning is about the same as a countertop grill.
 Just a small amount of this product will give your food the same smoky flavor you’d get from an outdoor grill. You can use it on anything, too; steaks, burgers, pork chops, chicken, even on vegetables. You can find liquid smoke in most grocery stores, just look in the sections for marinades and barbecue sauces.When using liquid smoke, simply pour a small amount of it over your food. Be careful of using too much, though, as it may add a chemical taste to your food when overused.
Also double-check the ingredients when purchasing, as some companies may add extra seasonings that alter the flavor., Some indoor grills might require you to cook your food a little longer than outdoor grills. This is especially true when it comes to electric grills, as the heating method requires the coils to heat up first. On the other hand, with a range top that uses your stove, the heat source is stronger and more direct. Just keep in mind that if you are using a grill pan over two burners, you are going to have areas that don’t heat as quickly.


Use a meat thermometer to ensure your food is cooking long enough.
The cook time for your food will depend on the cut of meat and what type of indoor grill you're using, however, expect anywhere between 4-10 minutes for beef in a double-sided grill, 4-6 minutes for poultry, and 6-10 minutes for pork. If you are using a one-sided grill, you can expect the time to double., Do not use metal utensils on nonstick surfaces and avoid harsh cleaning ingredients on your iron grill pans. For example, try sticking with just hot water and a light dish soap, as using a harsh scrub brush or steel wool on your indoor grills will wear down the surface and lead to uneven heating in the future.Even if you feel you have an excess of charred residue, simply run your grill under hot water and scrub lightly with a sponge. The nonstick surface will ensure any leftovers come off easily.
 You can find recipes designed specifically for indoor grills on websites, magazines, and books. Check out sites such as foodnetwork.com and epicurious.com, for regularly updated recipes. You can also look for cookbooks on Amazon.com or at your local bookstore.
 Vegetables are an important and healthy component to any meal. Grilling veggies outdoors can be complicated because the grill gets so hot, but on an indoor grill or grill pan, you can control the cooking temperature and time.


Try grilling corn, asparagus, zucchini, or squash. You can even cut up a mix of these and put them together in foil with some oil and spices like rosemary or thyme before putting them on the grill.
Most vegetables should grill in 5-10 minutes.
 Don't limit yourself to just meat and vegetables, instead try grilling pizza, potatoes, and bread. For example, you can grill a pizza dough in just 1-2 minutes - just make sure the bottom of the dough has browned before you add your toppings. You can also make wonderfully crispy garlic bread and grilled cheese.