 Everyone has their own set of tasks to complete every day, from small things like brushing your teeth to the big things like paying overdue taxes. Think of your day to day life, and make a list of things considered to be responsibilities. Then, write next to each item little notes such as "crucial" and "important" for tasks that must be completed, or "minor" for tasks that could be put off if needed. Some things may be important or non-important according to your personal views, but don't put off events you can't escape. Making this list will help you become more organized and help you use your time wisely to get what needs to be done out of the way (thus showing more responsibility).  ;
, When you have your list made, go though all the events marked "important" and think about where they'll fit into your day. Need to fax some important papers? Bring them to the office if you have a fax machine! Need to take the dog to the Vet? Find a free spot in your schedule and fill it in! Determine how long each task will take and what materials you may need to help complete it. Organize a chain of events in the order of importance, and go for it!

, It may not always be easy to complete your goals, or turn past mistakes around. But it could always be worse. If you lose sight, just stop for a minute and thank God aloud (if you believe in Him) for the little things in life we tend to take for granted. You do have family and friends that love you, and if you need to, call upon them for support! The reality that you might have to accept is that you can't do it all alone. So find someone you trust and ask for help! Anyone who tries to hold you back or bring you down is not helping, and simply ignoring them and sticking with your goals is the most responsible thing that you could do.
 If you don't have the tools you need, you might not be able to reach some goals. But don't give up right then and there; be a problem solver! See if you can borrow from someone else, find something used, rent, or replace with a different item. A little brain power may save you some stress and time.
 Keep your head up and try your best to keep your emotions intact. We've all felt like we're about to explode from pressure, anger or stress at one point or another, but tackling the situation with grace and patience, rather then pitching a fit, shows you're responsible. If you feel like the pressure is too great, tell someone! See if you can get rid of some tasks, by either taking them out of the schedule completely or having other people help you run errands. This will help you be more focused and help you get it all done faster.
 If you've made promises, keep them! Don't make promises you know you may not be able to keep: this is very irresponsible. Even if it's not a promise, if you said you'd do something, then just do it. That's just being a good friend.

