 Tulip-shaped glasses are a favorite among scotch drinkers. The tulip shape concentrates the scotch’s aromas at your nose, making them easier to detect. If you want a more classic look to your scotch glass, use a tumbler glass. , Hold the neck of the bottle about one inch above your glass, taking care not to spill any scotch. Pour about 1.5 ounces, or one shot-glass full, of scotch into your glass., Water doesn’t dilute scotch; it actually opens up the flavor and releases more of the scotch’s aromas. Use a splash of water to take the edge off your dram if it’s over 40 percent alcohol., Ice dulls the flavors in scotch and conceals some of the pleasant aromas. Keep your dram cold using frozen whisky stones instead., Make note of the color and clarity. As you start trying new kinds of scotch in the future, you can use the appearance of this glass as a basis for comparison.The color of a scotch can reveal its age. Scotch gets its color from the barrel it’s aged in, so darker-colored scotches are usually older, while lighter-colored scotches are usually younger., Coat the sides of your glass. Notice the scotch’s consistency and observe the “legs” running down the side of your glass.


Thin, runny “legs” indicate a lighter scotch, while thick, slow moving “legs” indicate a heavier scotch., Scotch drinkers call this “nosing” a scotch. Bring the rim of your glass about an inch from your nose and inhale slowly to take in the subtle aromas of your drink. Pull yourself back if you experience a burning sensation or the smell becomes too much.Make a mental note of the different aromas you’re able to perceive so you have something to reference in the future.
 Allow the scotch to coat your mouth, noticing the different flavors you’re perceiving. Breathe in through your nose to enhance the taste.To get the most out of your scotch tasting, cleanse your palate using water before taking your first sip., As the scotch leaves your mouth, notice the '”finish,” or the taste that the scotch leaves behind after you drink it. Make note of the aftertaste so you can compare it to the ”finish” of other scotches in the future.