 To get to the island, visit the south-most region of your town map where there will be docks. You will need 1,000 bells in order to visit the island.


Kapp’n, the frog who mans the docks, will not allow you to take any of your belongings with you.;
, When you arrive on the island, you’ll be inside a small hut. Walk outside the hut, and directly to your left will be the gyroid. It rents out equipment that you can use for the duration of your visit, but you cannot take the equipment back with you.
 In order to swim and dive, you first need a wetsuit. One of the items that the gyroid offers is the wetsuit.


It will also offer you a tutorial if you need to learn how to use it.
 In order to use the wetsuit, you first need to equip it. Do this by pressing “X” to open your inventory screen. Then drag and drop the wetsuit on top of your character’s avatar.
 Getting into the water is easy. Simply walk up to the edge of the ocean. Instead of hitting an invisible barrier like your character would have before, he or she will now continue walking into the water and continue to swim.
 Swim around by continually pressing “A.” Every time you press “A,” your character will inch forward just a little bit, effectively swimming.
 You want to be looking for little black dots in the water. These will also be noted by small bubbles that rise up to the surface. These spots indicate critters that you can catch.


You can also encounter jellyfish in the ocean. If you run into them, they will sting you, and you will be unable to move for a short time.
 Once you’ve spotted a critter, swim towards. Once you’re reasonably close, go ahead and press “Y,” which will cause you to dive.


When diving, your character can only stay underwater for a short period of time, which is why you want to be as close as possible to your prey on the surface.
 Often times, these critters will continue to move, and in order to catch them, you’ll need to continue swimming in their direction by pressing “A” and holding the directional stick towards them.


To succeed in catching, your character needs to take up the same spot as the critter. If successful, your character will grab the critter and rise to the surface with her catch, and it will appear in your inventory.
 The frog is behind the desk on the lefthand side of the hut. This is the same frog that will take you back home to the village.
 When you talk to him, instead of choosing “Go home,” you need to choose “Go on a tour.”


Every tour is different, and at the beginning of it, Tortimer will explain the goal and rules.
The number of medals you receive at the end is dependent on how well you perform in the mini-game.
 You will then use these medals to purchase a wetsuit. You need 40 of them.
 The diving suit will not always be available in the island shop, so you may have to check back multiple days to wait for it. Once it arrives, press “A” when standing next to the wetsuit and choose the correct dialogue options to purchase it.
 Make sure that you put the wetsuit into the island basket so that it travels with you when you return home. The frog at the counter will remind you of this if you attempt to leave with anything in your inventory.


Things do not travel in your inventory, they only travel in the basket beside the counter.
 Return home and enjoy swimming and diving in your own village in addition to on the island!

