 If you do this, you'll probably find yourself talking to God more and more. This automatically brings you closer to him. You will really benefit by worshiping God and seeking to be filled with the Holy Spirit.


Be aware that He can and will talk to you through your day to day life. He may talk into your heart during prayer ("Wow-I wouldn't have ever thought of that!") or throughout the day through other people who never knew what you said in prayer, or circumstances that are so very unusual. Also, He is usually more interested in answering the "Why?" instead of the "What?" or the "When?" Sometimes He answers "Yes", sometimes "No", sometimes "Not now"

, In general, they have studied the Bible and likely have asked many of your questions themselves. Ask that person things you want to know about God: why does He allow the free choice for us to sin; why does He allow/or (possibly) make His people suffer; how are there troubles when doing "good"; why did He let His Son suffer, bleed and die on the cross for all people (even killers); why did Christ need to return to the Father in Heaven; why did He send the Holy Spirit, etc. You will learn many things about God that you didn't know. This information, also, will help you to explain God, Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit to your non-Christian friends.
 Getting to know God will help you grow closer, and the Bible is the written word of God. What does He like? What does He dislike? What makes Him happy, sad or angry? What does He value? What does He think is foolishness? All these answers are in the book. Try to read your Bible daily through a reading plan. You can find tons of reading plans online, try to find one that you find works for you. Devotionals help because they explain passages in ways that relate to our lives, and explains a lot! You can buy your own, our find some online. A great book that spells out the promises of God, which are true even in the difficult times of life, is "Always True" by James MacDonald. He directs you to Scriptures that will encourage you and give you hope in tough times.
 And if you fail on a promise, go back and make amends with Him. Maybe He will want you to make amends to others. Maybe not. Recognize, when you pray, what your feelings are so that you can understand Him better. Open your heart and be honest-He already knows what's in your heart. YOU need to see what's in there-and be honest about it. If you lie, you are only lying to yourself because He already knows the truth.
 You'll learn a lot more and feel more in tune with God. Take notes in church!!! This helps tremendously and later on, you can review them and figure out how to apply principles to your own life.
 Singing in church, and doing the actions you're supposed to do (bow your head, stand up, sit down, etc.) is not enough. Volunteer as much as you can, help others, etc., and be blessed.
 God is purer than any person, so the more you are pure, the more, not only you, but God will touch your heart and fulfill your deepest desires.
 Stay balanced and ethically serene. Read the Bible for help on keeping an eternal cool.
 It will help you to live a more Christian life, and become closer to God.
 This doesn't mean you can't also be around people that don't believe, but whenever you pray, have faith for what you ask -- because -- if you don't believe, you won't become closer to God enough for a full, daily walk in Christ.

