 Take time for yourself by doing things you enjoy or that make you happy. It can be hard to take time for yourself, especially if you’re someone who tends to put other people first. It might also be challenging if you have a life situation such as having small children at home or taking care of someone who is ill. But always remember to “secure your own oxygen mask before assisting others.” You are the best caretaker when you are your best self.


If music makes you happy, listen to music. If reading books makes you happy, take a little time to read in a calm environment. Go look at a beautiful view, take yourself to a museum, or watch a movie that you enjoy.
Stay active doing the things that bring you pleasure. This is a great way to focus on the positive.
 No one else is watching or judging your review of your day and yourself, so there’s no need to worry about seeming arrogant. You don’t have to be good at something or please others in order to enjoy it.


If you’re good at cooking, admit to yourself that you’re a talented cook. Likewise, you don’t need to be able to charm woodland creatures in order to enjoy singing.
Observing moments of satisfaction, pride, contentment or joy in your life and the activities that cause them is a good way to make sure you can repeat them again in the future.
 You are not like other people, so there’s little reason to judge yourself based on other people’s standards. You may enjoy things that other people don’t enjoy. You are certainly “allowed” to define for yourself what success means for your life., Your view of yourself is very different from your view of other people, just as viewing a Monet painting from one foot away is very different from viewing it from twenty feet away. Realize that the image of someone else that you see may be a contrived image that he or she strives to project. This image may only partially reflect reality. Let go of measuring yourself against other people and basing your self-worth on other people’s opinions. This will help you make less subjective inferences about other people’s behavior.


For example, if you have a negative interaction with a casual acquaintance, don’t assume that they don’t like you. Rather, assume that there was a miscommunication between the two of you, or that something else is frustrating your acquaintance.

