 While you don’t want to become reliant on others for validation, it can help you to talk with your friends about your feelings.You may discover that your friends find things attractive about you that you hadn’t even thought of.


Get a hug! Hugging and physical contact with loved ones releases oxytocin. This powerful hormone helps you feel loved and connected to others. It also boosts your mood.The physical warmth from a hug may also help you feel better., If you’re insecure about your appearance, you may avoid going to parties and gatherings because you worry about how others will view you. You may be afraid of being judged. While it may seem easier to stay at home, it won’t do anything to help you get over your insecurity or your anxiety.Rank your fears on a scale from worst to not-so-bad. For example, a hurtful comment to your face might rank as a 9 or 10. Being talked about might be a 7 or 8. What do you think will happen if you go to that social gathering? Write down your predictions and what you are afraid of.
Test these fears. The only way you’ll be able to test whether your perceptions are accurate is to test them. Go to the party. Present yourself with the confidence and positivity you’ve learned. Try not to do “safety behaviors” such as avoiding eye contact or hiding in a corner.Observe what happens. What evidence do you have for your perceptions? For example, if you’re worried that everyone at the party will think you’re “too fat” to be wearing a cocktail dress, consider what evidence you have for that assumption. How do you know that’s what they’re thinking? Have other people at the party in a similar situation experienced this? Try to keep from catastrophizing. Argue with that mean inner critic., People may make hurtful jokes or comments about your appearance without realizing how it affects you. Others may make hurtful statements because they have never been taught not to judge others. Calmly let the person know how they're hurting your feelings and ask them to stop. If they do not stop their comments, avoid their company.Humans are social creatures, and our mood is often determined by who we spend time with. If you are surrounded by people who focus on appearance, or who make you feel bad about yourself, you will be more likely to feel insecure about your appearance. Fortunately, this also works the other way: if you’re around open and accepting people who don’t focus on appearances, you’ll probably feel better about yourself too.Sometimes, negative comments about your appearance can come from the other person’s own insecurities. These comments have more to do with how the other person feels about themselves than they do with you.
If you're the victim of bullying, violence, or other abusive behavior, you don’t have to accept that. Report this behavior to an authority figure (school counselor, HR rep, etc.).
 Sometimes, you may be so unhappy with your appearance that you take drastic and dangerous action to change your body. If you are preoccupied with your weight, body shape or size, and food intake, you may end up adopting dangerous behaviors that can become an eating disorder. These are serious medical conditions, and you should seek professional medical help for them immediately.Anorexia nervosa occurs when you severely restrict your food intake. If you do eat, you feel extremely guilty about it. You may even compensate with excessive exercise or purging.Signs of anorexia include:

Severe calorie restriction
Feeling obsessed with the type and quantity of food you eat
Maintaining rigid rules about what you eat
Feeling “fat” even if you are not overweight



Bulimia Nervosa occurs when individuals binge-eat large quantities of food and then perform purging behaviors such as vomiting, use of laxatives, or excessive exercise.As with other eating disorders, bulimia is linked with an obsession over one’s body shape, weight, or size. Signs of bulimia include:

Feeling guilty about eating
Feeling as though you cannot control what or how much you eat
Feeling compelled to eat large quantities of food



Binge-eating disorder is a relatively new diagnosis, but it is also a recognized medical disorder. The difference between it and the other major eating disorders is that binge-eating does not include “compensatory” behaviors such as purging or excessive exercising. Symptoms include:Feeling as though you cannot control what or how much you eat
Feelings of guilt or disgust while or after eating
Eating when you are not hungry or even when you’re full



, Don't face your problems alone. Mild feelings of insecurity can usually be thwarted by making minor changes to your thought patterns and your habits. However, serious body image disorders are legitimate medical conditions that require professional help. If your feelings of ugliness or insecurity or so intense that they keep you from doing the things you like, or you feel like you might hurt yourself, seek help from a mental health professional.


There are many types of mental health professionals. Psychiatrists and Psychiatric Nurse Practitioners are usually the only ones who prescribe medications, and they may also offer therapy. Psychologists, Licensed Clinical Social Workers, Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists, and Licensed Professional Counselors may also offer therapy.
Some people believe in the myth that seeking help is a sign of weakness. You may think that you “should” be able to handle your feelings all on your own. Remember how “should” statements are damaging. Seeking help is a courageous and caring thing to do for yourself!