 Your doctors and nurses will probably have already explained to you that you have diabetes, and you probably have a good idea about what it is. But your CDE will walk you through in more detail about exactly what diabetes means for you, and what sorts of adjustments you’ll need to make in order to live a full life while treating your diabetes.Your CDE will probably provide or direct you to reliable sources where you can learn more about your condition.
You may receive pamphlets, books, or fliers pertaining to diabetes management.
They might also recommend certain websites where you can read about diabetes and locate additional resources.If you read something you’re confused about, always make a note of it and follow up with your CDE.
 Some people with diabetes need to take medication in addition to eating right and getting more exercise. Your doctor may have recommended one or more diabetes drugs. You can learn more about these drugs, including their side effects, from your CDE. Talk to your CDE about your medications and ask them questions relating to your particular medication. Medications you might be taking include:Metformin, a medication that improves the sensitivity of the body to insulin reception
Sulfonylureas, a medication that helps the body create more insulin
Meglitinides, a medication similar to sulfonylureas, but is faster-acting

, In addition to medication, your doctor might have recommended insulin therapy, a treatment in which you take injections to stabilize your insulin levels. You might need to take insulin several times each day, or just once daily. There are many types of insulin, including insulin detemir, insulin, aspart, and insulin lispro. Your CDE can help you learn more about the differences between the many varieties of insulin, and help you understand why insulin treatments are different for different people.If your physician has prescribed insulin for you, you could ask your CDE for more information about how to administer it properly.
 As a diabetic, if your blood sugar levels are outside certain parameters, you could go into shock. Your CDE will help you develop a care plan that involves checking your blood sugar levels. Ask your CDE how often you should check your blood sugar levels. Assuming your doctor hasn’t already demonstrated how you can check your blood sugar levels, ask your CDE to show you how your particular blood sugar monitoring device works.When you obtain your blood sugar monitoring device, you should ask for a full run-down on its use and operation.
Carefully read all user manuals and directions associated with your diabetes management tools and devices.
 Your CDE might also connect you with apps to help you and your family members track your blood sugar levels over time, or check the sugar content of certain foods. Encourage your CDE to walk you through the use and operation of these apps so you can better manage your condition. 