 It doesn't matter how Metal you look, if you don't understand or respect Metal, then you're a poser. You must understand and appreciate Metal before you try to be a Metalhead. A well-groomed businessman in a suit talking about all kinds of Death Metal and Black Metal bands, guitarists, and vocalists is unquestionably more Metal than a guy who looks Metal, but only listens to Linkin Park.;
, As for hair, the traditional Metalhead has long hair. However, male Metalheads get more leeway in how their hair is.


Haircuts that are not metal include mohawks, bihawks, liberty spikes, "scene kid" hair, or "emo" fringe.
Examples of haircuts that a Metalhead would include long hair, dreadlocks, short hair (Scott Hull), or shaven bald.
Beards can also assist in making one look metal.






Don't dye your hair if you're a guy. If you're a girl and you insist on dying your hair, dye it a natural-looking color.
 Hats aren't preferable in Metal culture. But if you insist on wearing one, it's suggested that you wear a band hat, a camo hat, or dull or dark-colored hat, preferably old-looking. If hunting is a common activity in your area, bright orange hats are fine, too. Unless you listen to nu-metal (in which case, you should prepare to be called a poser by many Metalheads), it's suggested that you avoid brightly-colored hats that a hip-hop fan might wear, as they'd make you look like a nu-metal fan.
 It is strongly recommended that you wear a shirt from a band that you actually like to listen to, as people could start a conversation with you about the band, and you will look like a poser, if you don't know what they're talking about.
 If you want to dress warmly for cold weather, the preferable option would be a black leather jacket, or a denim jacket, if you're into Thrash Metal from the 80s. Darkly-colored work jackets can also be metal to some degree. Bright orange jackets with camo-like designs aren't really Metal, but they're acceptable if you live in a rural area, or any area where hunting is a relatively common activity. If you want to look like an old-fashioned Metalhead, you could wear a "battle jacket," which is a leather or denim vest or jacket with band patches sewn onto it. You can buy band patches from most websites that sell the band's T-shirts, especially from the store of the record company.
 Jeans, camouflage, or casual khaki pants are preferable. Most styles will work fine as long as it's not too bright or flashy. Avoid tight-fitting pants, unless you are going for an 80s thrash metal look. More specifically, if you listen to a lot of Death Metal, Grindcore, Goregrind, etc. you can express that by wearing casual khaki pants (green, khaki, gray, etc.) or camo pants. If your musical preference is Black metal, you can obviously express that by wearing black jeans or black pants of some kind. If you listen to a lot of 80s Thrash/Doom/Glam Metal, you should wear denim jeans, preferably somewhat faded.
 Contrary to what you might think, you don't need a spiked or studded or bullet covered belt. If you like them, then sure, go ahead but if you don't, just any belt that isn't too brightly colored will do, if you need one that is.
 Shoes aren't really too much of a deal, you can wear any kind of sneakers, or skate shoes will work. Boots are a bit more of a metalhead thing though, so if you really want to look metal, maybe get a pair. Black steel toes or leather "biker" boots are preferable.

