 Choose a nice spring day and take a walk around your gardens. Bring a notebook to make notes of what needs to be done.


Take note of emerging plants and weeds, perennials that need to be divided, trees and shrubs that need to be pruned. Make a list of messes that need to be cleaned up, over-crowded plantings, and bare spots. Once you've taken inventory of the things needing attention you can prioritize them and get to work.;
, Rake up any debris, twigs, and leaves that may be on your lawn or in your gardens. Use a light touch with your rake in the spring, because plants are tender at this time of year and could be damaged.


If there are bare spots in the lawn, sprinkle them with grass seed.
Remove tree guards and winter protection so your plants have access good air circulation.
Cut back any dead parts of your plants. Trim your shrubs, and prune your trees.
Divide your perennials. When perennial flowers are left to grow too long they get crowded and put out fewer blossoms.
Dig these up before they grow too much and chop them into two or more pieces.
Replant one of them in the spot you dug from.
Choose places to plant the rest of your new plants. Now you have even more flowers.
Fix or install trellises wherever they're needed.
Take advantage of rainy days to clean and sharpen your garden tools, go over your notes, and plan where things will grow.
 You can grow your own herbs, vegetables, flowers, shrubbery, vines, fruit trees, or a combination of all of them.
 Some plants like lots of sun, some like shade, and some really don't care. If a plant likes dry conditions, it's a good idea to avoid planting it in that low part of your yard where water accumulates in heavy rain.


If you want to build a flower or vegetable garden, now is the time to do it. Make a garden plan that includes shrubs, perennial flowers, annual flowers, and even think about what kinds of bulbs you want to plant for next springs blooms.
Think outside the box. For example, it's perfectly okay to plant your chives in with the flowers, they'll look pretty and save room in your vegetable garden.
 Good soil is key to a healthy and vibrant garden. Identify the kind of soil you are working with, whether clay, sandy, silty, or hopefully loamy, which is a combination of all three.



Work your soil to a depth of about six inches 12 inches (30.5 cm) after applying any soil amendments such as compost, leaves, peat, sand, or rotted manure.
If you're gardening in hard clay soil, now is a good time to add some sand to help break it up so that roots can easily form. Good soil should crumble easily. The end of fall is the best time to start preparing your soil by digging in organic matter such as leaves, but it's okay to start now.
 Once your soil and seedbed are ready and your climate is past any danger of frost, you can start planting your garden. Some plants grow fast and some take years, some are more difficult to maintain, and some are downright easy. When planting, keep in mind the blooming times of plants so you always have some colorful flowers in all your gardens.
 If you don't already compost now is a good time to start. Compost is important to a healthy, vibrant garden. It provides nutrients to the plants and keeps improving the condition of your soil. Plus it's organic and good for the environment.
 The fun doesn’t stop with planting and blossoms. Maintaining your garden is a year round activity. You'll need to prune shrubs, dead head flowers, pull weeds, water, and keep on composting. You can reward yourself by bringing a nice fresh bouquet of flowers into your home.
 Use some attractive garden art for accents, place garden benches where you can enjoy them, and create inviting outdoor living spaces that will allow your family to really enjoy your garden. Maybe you'd even enjoy some type of water element.

