 A "Lonely Planet" travel book is recommended. "Lonely Planet" publishes comprehensive travel books for almost every country and major city. In this guide, the traveler can read about the place's culture, history, sights, recreation, hotels, restaurants, night life, camp sites, warnings, safety precautions, etc.;
, For example, back-slapping and touching a child's head can be extremely offensive in some cultures. Even shaking hands can be offensive. Try reading a "Culture Shock" series book of the specific country while planning the trip.
 Do your research and brace yourself.
 Check the news media and U.S. State Department for any warnings regarding that country.
 For instance, Japan and Sweden should be safe for lone women travelers while taking normal precautions. Women should NEVER travel alone to Africa and the Middle East. There is a long list of countries deemed safe and unsafe for women. Do your research and use common sense.
 This will help choose the proper clothing for maximum comfort. (i.e. If you are hiking in the rainforest in rainy season, bring hiking shoes and rain gear)

, A "Lonely Planet" travel book or similar should be read beforehand and taken along as a guide.
, Passports and Visas will take up to months to process.
 You will be happy to have it when you land tired and disoriented in a foreign airport. Most major U.S. banks sell all types of foreign currency, except for embargoed currency. If traveling to a remote region, bring a wad of cash and guard it with your life. If visiting a safe, developed region, credit cards and ATM cards should work fine. Research that before you leave.
 Not everyone speaks English.
 Check the status of the flight online.
 Don't choose a multi-stop flight to save money. That will only cost more due to delays and loss of vacation time. Non-stop flights also help avoid loss of luggage and theft that could occur at connecting airports.
, Although some taxi drivers are honest and decent, many are criminals eager to steal from a lone tourist...or worse. For example, in Rio De Janeiro, tourists are sometimes kidnapped for ransom by taxi drivers. For safety, take a hotel shuttle, or ask your reputable hotel to arrange for transportation. The extra cost is worth saving your life.
 The extra cost is worth your safety, health and comfort.
 Hostels and cheap hotels in third world countries can be unclean and unsafe. If you can only travel to a third world country on a shoestring, don't go there.
 No temptation is worth being sent to a foreign jail (or worse).

