 If you have particularly dry hair, you may need daily oiling. For example, many African Americans with natural hair find daily oiling beneficial. It increases the hair's moisture and shine.


Don’t apply oil to the scalp every day. The scalp produces its own oils, so the hair closest to it is usually fairly healthy. Applying extra oil on a daily basis might hurt more than it helps by causing oily hair at the roots.
Apply a thin layer of oil to the shafts of your hair, focusing on the tips. The oil from your scalp works its way from the root down to the tip of your hair. It's a longer trip for people with long hair, though, so the ends are often dry and brittle. Curly hair also tends to dry out at the bottom because the curls and kinks stop oil from working down the strands.
Don’t over-oil your hair if you’re applying it on a daily basis. You hair should not be completely saturated. You don’t want to walk around with flat, greasy hair all the time!

, Buy a small spray bottle that will allow you to diffuse the oil over a wide area of hair. This will give you a fine mist instead of the thick coat from your fingers. Dilute the oil with water so it won’t clog up the spray nozzle.









Spritz the oil and water mixture throughout your hair immediately after your daily shower. Your hair should still be damp.
Comb through your hair to work out tangles and spread the oil throughout the strands.
Let your hair air-dry, and go about your day.



Saturate your hair with the oil. For daily oiling, you might just use a light coating of oil, but for a leave-in treatment, you want your hair thick with it.
Tie your hair up into a bun. This will protect the shoulders and back of your clothing from the oil.
Cover your hair with a shower cap if you’d like. This is especially useful if you don’t have a plastic cover for your pillowcase.
If you don’t use a shower cap, cover your pillow with either a vinyl case or with two layers of old towels to protect it from oil stains.
Leave the oil in for at least eight hours, or until you take a shower the next day.
 Many find that dry, brittle hair benefits most from oiling when the oil is applied to damp hair. Apply a base oil in place of your normal conditioner twice a week, immediately after you’ve rinsed the shampoo from your hair. Shampoo strips the hair of its natural oils, leaving it dry. This is a good time for a moisture boost.


Shampoo and apply the oil as soon as you begin your shower. Let the oil soak into your hair for the rest of your shower, as you go on with the rest of your shower routine.
Try to leave the oil in from 5-10 minutes.
Placing a shower cap over your hair to protect it from the water will help prevent washing it out before you’re ready.
Be careful applying oil in the shower. When you rinse it out of your hair, the tub can get very slippery.

