 Encourage your child to spend time practicing whatever it is that they are interested in. Practicing can also be instrumental in teaching lessons about adversity and mistakes, as well as instilling the promise that improvement will follow.Help create and manage a schedule of when your child can practice.
Remind your child of all the rewards that come with practice. Try saying things like “Keep practicing and you’ll be able to master the scales and move on to the next piano practice book,” or “You’re doing so well, keep it up!”
Encouraging does not mean pressuring. Be sure to take the time to listen to your child and have conversations about quitting and moving on.
 Appreciating effort over results will help your child build confidence in their own abilities and self worth rather than what others may think about them. The more their effort is encouraged, the more willing they will be to take risks and try new things.Remember to teach them that winning is admirable but not the definition of worth and value. Their effort is reflective of their character.


Appreciating effort can be the difference between telling your child how proud you are for how hard they studied rather than how proud you are because they received a high mark.
Try acknowledging their effort by saying “I’m very proud of how hard you studied” or “I’m very proud of all the time, effort, and practice you’ve been putting in.”

, Trying new things, at whatever age, takes courage and risk. Acknowledging and encouraging your child’s willingness to try new things will not only instill a sense of confidence in them, but will also provide them with opportunities to learn on their own and from their own mistakes.


Give them positive verbal reinforcement by using phrases like “I’m so proud of you for jumping in and trying your best,” or “I’m really impressed by how willing you are to try new things.”
Asking questions, like “How did you feel trying out the school choir?” or, “Did you enjoy trying science camp for the first time?” can allow your child to reflect and show your interest in their courage to try new things.
Trying new things can be difficult. Treat this as another opportunity to encourage their perseverance and motivate them to continue trying!, A child’s endless stream of questions can often be tiresome, but it should nevertheless still be encouraged. Encouraging your child’s curiosity will help expose them to the idea that there are many things they don’t know. The more curious they are about learning and taking in new information, the more confidence they will gather around their ability to learn on their own.Instead of immediately indulging your child’s question with an answer, try asking a follow up question that will make them think about what the answer might be, like “I don’t know, why do you think that is?” or, “I haven’t thought about it like that, what do you think?”

