 Girls think it’s really cute when a guy is shy! It gives you an air of mystery and makes it more exciting to get to know you. Act shy by being quiet, especially around your crush. It helps if you act a little embarrassed when she talks to you.If you make eye contact with your crush, smile shyly and look away quickly. This is really cute!
If you have long bangs, hide behind your hair when you talk to girls. If your hair is short, you can cover your smile with your hand for a similar effect.;
, A cute guy isn’t insecure; therefore, they don’t feel the need to make others feel bad. Try to be nice to everyone you meet. Make a special effort to be polite to your crush’s friends. If her friends like you, they’ll say nice things about you to her!


Be especially nice to your crush in public. Try to think of ways you can “single her out” from her friends. For example, if you know she likes cookies, bring her a cookie at lunch. If you make her feel special in front of others, she’ll appreciate you more.
Don’t be creepy. Being nice in public can be overdone and makes you look weird. For example, bringing her a plate of cookies every day to lunch would be overdoing it. Limit yourself to small, occasional kind gestures.
 No matter how funny you think it is, time to cut out the comedic burping and farting. Even if girls laugh at crude behavior, they DO NOT find it adorable. However, don’t sweat the occasional accident – girls know you’re only human.
 If you put in all of the effort mentioned above and your crush still doesn’t seem interested, it’s time to move on. There are plenty of intelligent, beautiful women who appreciate a cute boy. Instead of wasting time on someone who isn’t interested, go find someone that is!

, If you’re not sure what kind of haircut looks cute, get tips from some of your lady friends or do a search on the internet. If you have a favorite celebrity or athlete, consider getting a haircut similar to theirs. If you still can’t think of anything, get a haircut similar to one of the Jonas brothers – they’re famously cute!


If you’re willing to get your hair cut by an apprentice, you may get a free high-end haircut. Do an internet search for "salon apprentice" or "free high-end haircut" along with the name of the city where you live, or the biggest city close to where you live. The haircut may take a long time, but you'll end up with the best haircut of your life for free!
Shave your beard. This step is optional – some men look really good with beards! However, most “cute boys” are clean shaven.
 Start by going to the gym. Exercise builds confidence and generally makes you happier. You don’t have to become the Hulk – in fact, cute guys aren’t overly buff. Think of the Jonas brothers: muscular, but slender.


Eat healthy food. Just like going to the gym, eating healthily will make your body look better. Drink less sodas and energy drinks and eat less junk food. Instead, eat veggies, fruits, and proteins such as meat or tofu. Bonus side effect: eating healthily is proven to help clear up bad acne!, Talk to one of your female friends (or stylish male friends!) Ask them to be brutally honest with you and help clear out the unattractive clothing from your wardrobe. Don’t get your feelings hurt if they throw away some of your favorite clothing!


If you can afford it, buy a few new clothes. Take this new wardrobe consultant along with you to pick them out.
If you have a favorite “cute” celebrity or athlete, try to model your wardrobe after theirs. For example, if you really like Nick Jonas, ask yourself if he would wear what you wear. If not, you may need to go shopping!

, It’s a good idea to practice in the mirror if you aren’t sure whether your smile is charming or not. Your smile needs to reach all the way up to your eyes to look genuine. Sometimes it can help to squint your eyes slightly when you smile to create this effect.Kevin Jonas has a good example of a cute smile – charming, not too many teeth showing, and boyish.
 Even if you don’t think you smell bad, you should shower every day. Use soap to wash every part of your body, even your feet, and make sure to clean your hair with shampoo. “Cute guys” smell good!Wear deodorant. Showering alone isn’t enough. If you want to smell clean all day, you need to wear deodorant. Deodorant can be found at most grocery stores, drug stores, and some department stores.
Take care of your nails. Many boys don’t know how important this step is. You don’t have to go get a manicure, just make sure your nails are trimmed and clean. If you end up holding her hand, you don’t want her thinking about how gross your nails are!

, If you have perfect skin, congratulations! However, most of us don’t. The best way to get great skin is to visit a dermatologist. If this isn’t an option, try searching the internet for reviews on skin-care products to find what you need. Always use a moisturizer after you clean your skin.Don’t be afraid to use “girly facewash.” Just because a product is marketed to women doesn’t mean that it won’t do wonders for your skin!
There are many internet forums for advice on skincare on websites such as Reddit. These forums can be a great place to ask questions and get product advice., If you end up getting a kiss from your crush, you don’t want her to be distracted by bad breath! Brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss daily. Use mouthwash if you’re concerned about your breath.Really bad breath can be a sign of gingivitis, a gum disease that can become serious if untreated. If you’re unsure on how to take care of your teeth, visit your dentist for a cleaning and advice., After all the effort you put in to look and smell clean, it would be a shame to ruin it all by wearing stinky clothing from your dirty clothes hamper. Make sure you wear a clean shirt and socks every day, even if that means doing more laundry than you’re used to.

