 Intuition is a belief or sense of something that is not anchored to logical reasoning. It’s a gut instinct that transcends logic.Although everyone has intuition, some people are able to develop it more than other people. Work on developing your intuition by trusting it; it’s the gut feelings you get when you first meet someone.Make sure your motives are pure; that will free up psychic tendencies.Pay attention to random thoughts and feelings. Keep a journal handy at all times, and try to write down those thoughts that seem to come out of nowhere. You may notice after a while that patterns tend to emerge. Thoughts that previously seemed completely random and unconnected begin to form themes or recognizable ideas.
Allowing yourself a few minutes to be still upon waking makes it much easier to remember dreams with more detail than if you rush out of bed in the morning and hurry to start the day. Try setting your alarm clock to wake you up ten or fifteen minutes before your normal waking time. Give yourself some time to remember your dreams and make a few quick notes in your journal. The subconscious is more unrestrained during sleep.
 Some people believe that psychics are acutely tuned into other people’s emotions, pain, and energy. They are able to experience those things in other people as if they are their own.


Although people can be born with empathy, people can also acquire empathy. Some people believe that everyone is born with some degree of psychic ability, so this can be developed. Become an expert reader of body language. Psychics learn a lot about a person by being able to read their non-verbal cues. These can provide key predictors of inner feelings.
Psychic healers will sometimes place their hands on another person so they can better perceive their emotions. Protect yourself from negative psychic energy. This is called psychic protection. That means that you are able to protect yourself, or shield yourself from negative energies of other people.
 You need to develop your ability to concentrate if you want to perceive someone else’s thoughts or move objects with your mind. Being able to focus the mind is critical.


Hold a picture for one minute while looking at it. Then close your eyes, and try to reproduce this picture with every detail you can remember in your mind. This visualization technique will help improve your concentration abilities.Use the power of imagination and daydreaming. It's no surprise that children, who are more imaginative, are better able to use their subconscious. These attributes will encourage psychic abilities. 