 The first thing you should do when trying to help other people stay away from porn is to stop being judgmental. Do not see or portray the situation in a way that makes them bad for what they do. Sexuality is very normal and human. Even most religions teach that it is not anyone’s place to judge their fellow man (but is instead the job of the Creator). It’s also bad to judge people because it tends to turn them off from what you’re trying to do. Many people that might be open to change will become defensive if you judge them and become even more set in their ways.


Stay calm when you talk to them and avoid any judgmental language like “Why can’t you be more like Michael?” or “Watching pornography will turn you into a pedophile!”. Don’t make assumptions about how they think or compare them to other people, since language like this tends to shut people down.
 The best place to start is to talk to the person you’re concerned about. Tell them why you’re concerned. Sometimes, people might not realize that they even have a problem or how their problem might affect other people. If you’re open and honest, you’ll be much better able to reach them and connect with things that they can understand.


Say something like, “Will, I know that this is something that you enjoy, but I’m worried about what it’s doing to you. There is so much more to life and so much more that you could be doing right now to make yourself happy, but you’re spending all your free time in your room. I want you to get more out of life than just this.”

, Talk to them about the negative effects of pornography. Make sure to use lots of different types of evidence and reasoning though. If someone is religious, you’ll want to focus on religious arguments but if someone’s not, then that won’t work, right? Instead, pull on real-world evidence, logical arguments, emotional arguments, and whatever else you can. Using a combination of argument types will be best if you don’t know how the person will think about the problem.


For example, make a logical argument like, “Think about what this is doing to how you think about sex! You’re becoming accustomed to being able change who gets you off by just pressing a button. That’s going to make it very hard to have a satisfying relationship later in life.”
Make an emotional argument like, “What would happen if your little sister saw that? What would she think about you? Seeing things like that, when she’s too young to understand that it’s all make believe...she might become afraid of how men interact with women and what she can expect as an adult.”

, Using a new behavior or a new activity is the best way to stop an old behavior in its tracks. If you want to help someone to stop looking at porn, give them something else to do instead. You can try:


Offering to take a class with them at the local community center. Consider paying for you both to take a cooking class together at the local community center during the time of day you know they’re most vulnerable.
Give them something to do around the house. Give them a responsibility to take care of around the house. For example, if your son spends a lot of time in his room towards the end of the day, task him with taking the dog for a walk around the neighborhood every day instead.
 This is a difficult behavior to overcome and it may take time and a few mess ups before things feel right. You need to plan for failure so that both you and the person you’re trying to help don’t become disappointed with the events that happen. Disappointment can lead to harsh feelings and judgement, which might derail the whole effort. Expect that it will take some work and that a change won’t happen overnight.
 Realize that at the end of the day, you can’t be responsible for everything that someone else does. Whoever you’re trying to help, they’re either already an adult or they’re getting to the point where they really just have to make decisions on their own. This is a part of the world that they’ll be exposed to one way or the other and they’ll need to find their own way to cope with it. You can’t control other people and it’s not your responsibility to. If they feel negative consequences after you’ve done what you can to help them, that’s their responsibility. You did what you were capable of and no one can ask anything more from you.

