 Go to Facebook.com and enter your email address and password to log in.
 Click on the downward-facing triangle on the top right corner of your page (next to the lock icon). This will open a drop-down menu that includes options like “Create Page”, “Activity Log”, “Log Out”, and “Help”. To open your settings, click on “Settings” in this drop-down menu.
 Click on the “Notifications” tab on the left side of the “Settings” window. It should be the sixth option down.
 Once you have clicked on “Notifications”, you’ll see a list of four options on the right side of the screen: “On Facebook”, “Email”, “Mobile”, and “Text message”. Click on “Edit” (in blue) to the right of “Email”.
 In the email notifications window you’ll see three options beneath a heading that says “What you’ll receive”. Ensure that you’ve chosen to receive “All notifications, except the ones you unsubscribe from”.


To unsubscribe from certain notifications, click the “unsubscribe” link at the bottom of your email notifications when you receive them to your email account.
 If you don’t already receive email notifications for your Facebook messages, you’ll see that you have the option to “Turn on” those notifications in the email notifications window. Click on the “Turn On” button to the right of “Messages” to ensure that you receive copies to your email address that you’ve associated with your Facebook account.
 Now that you’ll get copies of every message sent to your email inbox, you can delete your Facebook messages without fear of permanently losing them.


If you are concerned about someone checking your Facebook messages AND snooping through your email inbox, you might consider forwarding your messages from your email inbox to another, secret account that no one knows about. Many email accounts offer the option to forward to another address through filter settings.
You can also change your email notifications address directly in Facebook by clicking on “Settings”, “Email”, then “Add another email”, entering your new email address, entering your Facebook password, and clicking “Save Changes”., If you receive a lot of Facebook messages each day, or if you don’t check your email often, your email inbox could be flooded with message notifications from Facebook. By saving or automatically filtering those messages into a folder, you can keep your inbox tidy.
 Filtering messages differs per email provider (ex., Yahoo, Hotmail/Outlook, Gmail) and program (Inbox, Outlook, Apple Mail); check with your specific provider or do an online search of “filter email messages <provider name>” if you are unsure.


To filter Facebook notifications in your Yahoo inbox, with a Facebook message notification email open in your Yahoo mailbox, click on “More” at the top of your mailbox, “Filter Emails Like This”, choose a filter name (ex., Facebook), and a folder to move it to (ex., Facebook — the option to create a new folder is at the bottom of your folder list), then Save.To filter Facebook notifications in your Hotmail/Outlook.com inbox, with a Facebook message notification email selected in your Hotmail inbox, click on “Move to” in the menu at the top of the inbox, then select “Move all email from…” (at the bottom of the drop-down menu), then click on “Move to<select folder>” (at the bottom of the pop-up window), and either choose or create your Facebook folder, and finish by clicking on “Move all”.
To filter Facebook notifications in your Gmail inbox, with a Facebook message notification email selected in your Gmail inbox, click on “More” in the menu at the top of your inbox, then “Filter messages like these”, then “Create filter with this search” (bottom right of pop-up window), then select where the messages will filter to (there are many options, including “Apply the label”), then click on the blue “Create filter” button near the bottom left of the window.
To filter Facebook notifications in Microsoft Outlook, you can either apply a filter or create a new rule to manage the messages.To filter Facebook notifications in Apple Mail, you’ll create rules as well.