 You might purchase an actual toolbox, a plastic storage box, or you could buy a cute basket. Whatever you choose, if you are planning on giving the home tool kit as a gift, you can arrange the tools inside the toolbox or the basket to make a creative gift. Even if you are buying the tools to make your own tool kit, a basket would be a fun place to keep your tools and can be a part of your home decoration. An actual toolbox is the best choice for organizing your tools.;
, Preparing a toolkit shouldn't cost you a fortune but you do need to buy quality items. You may have to spend a little more money, but quality tools are less likely to need replacing for several years (or even generations if they're really good). Quality tools will usually perform the job better and may even be safer.


If you can't afford the tools you'd like, don't opt for the cheaper versions. Look for secondhand tools in garage sales, yard sales, pawn shops, and auctions. Provided they're good quality to begin with and have been well cared for, being used isn't usually an issue. Older style tools were built to last, so they might only need a bit of cleaning and sharpening to put them back into first rate condition.
 There are a number of tools that are recommended for your toolkit, and while every home is different, there are some tools that are basic must-haves and others that you can decide on adding for your own particular needs. The basics are as follows:

Every home needs a hammer. Be sure to purchase a good sturdy hammer. You will want to buy one that has a claw for removing nails.






A set of screwdrivers is a must. Try to purchase a set that has different sizes, including both a slotted (flat) screw head and a Phillips (cross-shaped) screw head.






Include a spanner. An adjustable spanner is useful for many DIY needs.






Find a set of pliers. These are as handy as the spanner. The needle-nose pliers are especially handy to have around the house.






Be sure to include a wrench. This is important when working with pipes and stuck nuts.







Drill with drill bits. Whether or not you select a hand drill or a power drill is up to you but basic electric or battery-powered drills are not that expensive.






If you have a garden, be sure to include a handsaw in the toolkit. This should have a quality spring steel blade and a solid handle; they come in toolkit sizes.






Your home toolkit should include a roll of duct tape and a roll of masking tape. There are many creative colors and sizes of duct tape these days. Choose your favorite. As for the masking tape, it's useful for writing on, for tidying cables, for protecting edge surfaces when painting, and many other uses besides.






Every home should have a flashlight (torch); no-one wants to be caught in the dark without a flashlight. A rechargeable flashlight is the best kind to purchase.






Include a tape measure in your home tool kit. This is one item you will use over and over again. Consider purchasing one with both standard (imperial) and metric units of measure as this will stop you hunting for conversions.
 The following items might also be handy additions to your toolkit: An electric screwdriver, a utility (Stanley) knife, a putty knife, a staple gun, a pack of nails and screws, and/or a plunger for plumbing jobs.


Lubricant spray and key lock graphite or spray are handy to keep in a toolkit, to fix squeaking hinges, stuck locks bolts, and for preventing rust of metallic items.
Consider keeping a stepladder or a folding stool in the vicinity of the toolkit. While it won't physically fit inside the toolkit, it's a standard DIY item that you really can't do without.






Get safety glasses that fit you well and make a habit of wearing them.

