 The L4D games are about staying alive -- not killing a big boss, saving the world, or racking up a high score. No matter what the mode, you objective is to stay alive for as long as possible. With that in mind, there is some general advice that will help you through any situation:


Always keep moving. A standing target is an easy one to hit.
Work together with all 3 teammates -- never go off alone.
Conserve ammo and supplies, only using when necessary.;
, From the start screen, choose "Campaign" and start with "Dead Center." If you've never played shooting games before, set the difficulty to easy and hit start. Campaigns are single-player games that give you three computer-controlled teammates (AI) to help you fight through the zombies.


It does not matter which character you choose. In the game they all work identically.
If you're with a friend you can choose "Split-Screen" as well. This is a normal campaign, but two of you can play together on the same mission with 2 AI teammates.
 The first location you arrive at, in every level, is always free of zombies. This gives you the chance to learn the controls if you're not used to them yet. While they are different on every console, you can easily check the controls in the start menu. To do so, hit "Start" and navigate to "Controls." This screen will show you what each button or computer key does. The very basic controls that you must know include:


Move and shoot.
Switch weapon.
Reload weapon.
How to shove.
How to use items (on yourself and others)., At the beginning of every level there are several Medkits, which are thick, rectangular red packs, and several weapons. Head over and pick them up. On the first level, they sit on a table right next to the door.



Pistol: Your automatic first weapon. Pistols are weak but accurate and, most importantly, have unlimited ammunition. If you find another one on the ground, you can pick it up to dual wield them, effectively giving you double power, shots, and firing rate.

Medkits: Medkits heal your character completely. You can also use them to heal teammates. You can only hold one at any time. You should always try and have 2-3 Medkits, at a minimum, in your party.

Melee Weapons: Katanas, baseball bats, chainsaws, crowbars, and other melee weapons attack in a wide swath in front of you, often killing Infected instantly. They are good options in the early difficulties, and, with the exception of chainsaws, can be used infinitely. They replace your pistol.
 This is the number one piece of advice you need to follow, in any game mode, to survive L4D2. The game is cooperative, and while it may be fun to run off and act like a hero, more often than not this will get you killed. One mistake can leave you stranded and turn your team of four into a team of three. The best way to survive is as a unit. So stick together, watching each other's backs at all times.


The importance of teamwork cannot be overstated. The game will punish players who head off on their own, and so will your teammates., Zombies will spawn even if you are standing still. They are not set in place and waiting there, in the same place, like most other games. Therefore, the longer you sit around, the harder the game is going to get. You need to be constantly moving forward, sticking together and clearing rooms before moving on. If you see side rooms, set two people at the door, then quickly send the other two in to look for supplies or guns.


Whenever you need to open a door, push a button, or otherwise trigger an event (usually noted on the screen), tell your teammates and give them a chance to heal, use an item, or reload. Then move forward as a team., At the end of some acts is the "Crescendo Event," an enormous, incredibly difficult finale that requires you to complete some task or survive for a certain period of time. In the first level, Dead Center, this occurs when you need to fill the car up with gas. There will be a long, eerie silence. But once you start filling up the windows will shatter and an enormous Horde will descend upon you. Before starting a crescendo event, heal up, find all your supplies, and make a game plan with your teammates.


All crescendo events will be noted to you by a "!" icon on the screen.
Some of these events, like the car in Dead Center, only end once you've completed your objective (ie. fill up the car). You can't just sit there and wait it out because it will not end. Pay attention to the dialogue and objectives to end the rush as soon as possible., When playing L4D2, you can choose a variety of different modes. All of them, however, are built on the same foundation: You have a setting, such as a mall, rainy town, or carnival, and there are 5 Chapters in each setting to survive. Each chapter is it's own level, which is often begins with ease before getting progressively more difficult. At the end of most chapters is a big event you must survive, and at the end of each setting is usually the most difficult challenge seen so far. As you play through each game mode, note where the major events and challenges fall, helping you stay better prepared next time you play.


The basic objective of the game is always "move forward." Levels are more or less linear, and your challenge is to make it to the end.
When in doubt, save your items. The levels will only get harder.
At the end of each chapter is a safe house with supplies, medkits, and ammunition. No zombies can enter it until you open the door, so this is a perfect place to catch your breath.
 Left 4 Dead 2 has a hidden AI Director that adjusts the game based on how you're doing. This means that you can't assume you'll get the same items or challenges each time you play. You need to be constantly adapting. If you decided to use a Medkit early on, assuming you'll get another one a few rooms down based on your last play-through, you'll be sorely disappointed when it doesn't appear. Even the number and intensity of enemies will change from game to game. You need to focus on the present moment if you want to succeed.The Director can even change the route you must take to succeed. You must play to your current situation, instead of trying to figure out one perfect strategy for each level.

