 Use a cotton ball or soft tissue soaked in eye makeup remover to get rid of any traces of yesterday’s makeup. You may be surprised how much makeup can stick to your eyes and lashes, even after face washes, showers, and sleeping.Cleansing your eyes gently with cold water will help to alleviate any bags or redness around the eye before you get started with your makeup routine. Make sure your skin is clean and bright to let your big brown eyes stand out!


The skin of the eye is very delicate, so avoid using harsh soaps.
When drying your eyes, pat them lightly with a clean towel, rather than rubbing them. Rubbing them can irritate the delicate skin.
For an intense cold compress, pop a spoon in the freezer for a bit and let it get really cold. Then, hold it against the bags around your eyes for a blast of cold, de-puffing action.;
, You can use any sort of makeup primer to do this, and there are also primers meant specifically for eyes. Primers create a flawless base for your eye makeup. It gives your eye shadow and liner something to adhere to, while minimizing pores and reducing shine.Don’t skip this step!


Apply just a dot to your eyelids with your fingertips, rubbing it gently over your lids and up to your brows.You can find primers with a big price tag at beauty supply and department stores, but there are also budget-friendly primers sold at your local drugstore.
 Pick a concealer that is a few shades lighter than your skin tone.A lighter shade will help conceal any under eye circles or shadows, and help make your eyes look brighter and more awake. Apply the concealer with your fingertips, a concealer brush, or even a cotton swab, and blend thoroughly.









Rather than simply applying it in a strip under your eye, create a triangle shape. This is an easy trick to make your eyes look more alert and elevated., Fortunately, many different colors work well with brown eyes, because they don’t clash with much. You can experiment with several different palettes, finding one that works best with your shade of brown.


For deep brown eyes, try a beautiful royal or navy blue color.This will contrast beautifully with the dark brown, making your eyes really stand out.
If you have hints of hazel in your brown eyes, try different variants of purple.Choose a metallic gold to make your eyes really stand out. Gold shadows will highlight the flecks of gold in your eyes, making them sparkle.Don't be afraid to experiment with other bright, bold colors. They will only intensify the natural richness of brown eyes.
To create an eye shadow look with great depth, choose a palette with at least three colors.
 No matter which color palette you’ve chosen, you should use the lightest shade as the base for your look. Using a fluffy eye shadow brush, apply the shadow over the entire lid, from the lash line to above the eyelid crease.








Because you’re working with a light shade, you may need to go over the lid several times to pack on enough color. Certain shadows are more pigmented than others.
To make the light shade as intense as possible, you can apply a coat of white eyeliner to the entire lid before applying your shadow., Apply the powder to your brush, and simply follow your natural crease. Continue brushing back and forth in the crease along your brow bone, from the outer corner of your eye to nearly the inner corner.By adding a darker color to the crease, you will create depth and dimension that will highlight the natural hues of your eyes.









If you aren’t sure about the application of a crease color, imagine a windshield wiper. Simply brush back and forth to enhance the natural shadow of the crease.Once you’ve applied the crease color, make sure you blend it out. It should blend seamlessly into the lighter base color to look soft and natural.
 If you are working with two colors, you can simply apply the crease color to the outer corner. By adding a dark color to the outer corner, you will open up the eyes and make them look bigger, especially if they are close-set.Apply the shadow in a triangle shape, extending from your top lash line and blending upwards.








Clean your shadow brush, or grab a new brush, and blend the shadows together thoroughly. There shouldn’t be stark borders or lines in your shadows.
 As you brush powder onto your lids, there is bound to be some shadow that ends up under your eye. The beautiful brown color of your eyes won’t pop if you have smudged, messy makeup along the bottoms of your eyes! Dip a Q-tip in makeup remover and gently blot the shadow away, or invest in a makeup remover pen, to get rid of any stray shadow.








Another trick is to gently blot under your eyes with tape. The stickiness of the tape should pick up any loose bits of shadow.
 Just like with eye shadow, brown eyes can pull off basically any color of eyeliner and mascara. Because they’re a beautiful blend of many hues, different color products will accentuate them in different ways. You can stick to the standard colors, like black and brown, or experiment with bolder, vibrant colors.


Products with hints of blue can play up the lighter, golden flecks in brown eyes, making them look vibrant and sparkly.Navy and royal blues are also less severe than black, so they can be used to create a softer look.
 First, apply eyeliner to your top lash line. This will create a dark base for your lashes, making them look more full and lush. By rimming your eyes with eyeliner, it will enhance the whites of your eyes and make your eye color stand out.









When it comes to lining the bottom of your eyes, proceed with caution. If you line from the inner to outer corner, you risk making your eyes look smaller and thus minimizing your gorgeous brown eyes. Instead, skip the bottom eyeliner or just line from the outer corner to about ¾ in., Mascara is the cherry on top of the perfect look for brown eyes. Mascara enhances the lashes and helps to open the eyes fully, thus putting your chocolate eyes on full display. Again, experiment with mascara colors! Typically people naturally gravitate towards blacks and browns, but brown-eyed beauties can pull off other shades as well. Try using purple, emerald, or navy to accentuate the complexity or richness of your brown eyes. To amp up the volume, curl your lashes first with an eyelash curler.








Make sure the product is applied evenly on the mascara wand. This will help avoid any clumping on your lashes.
Wiggle the mascara wand back and forth as you move from base to tip. This will make sure the mascara is applied evenly and clump-free.
After the mascara has dried, feel free to apply a second or third coat to make them darker and more dramatic.

