 Second-degree burns are more severe than first-degree burns because they extend past the epidermis and into the lower layer of skin (the dermis).This doesn't necessarily mean they need medical care. The burns will be a dark red and will produce blisters on the skin. They are more swollen and splotchy than first-degree, with more reddened skin, which may look wet or shiny. The burned area itself may look white or discolored.If the burn is larger than 3 inches, treat as third-degree and seek medical attention immediately.Common causes of second-degree burns including scalding, flame, contact with a very hot object, bad sunburn, chemical burns, and electrical burns., Burns can cause swelling, which could cause jewelry on the burned hand to become uncomfortably tight, cut off proper circulation, or dig into the skin. Remove any jewelry on the burned hand, such as rings or bracelets., Treatment for second-degree burns is almost the same as first degree burns. When the burn occurs, quickly but calmly get to a sink and put your hand or arm under the cold water for 15-20 minutes. This will help pull heat away from the skin and reduce inflammation. If blisters are present, do not pop them. They help the skin heal. Popping them can introduce infection and delay healing time.Don’t apply butter or ice to the burn. Also, do not blow on the burn because it can increase your likelihood of infection., Because second-degree burns extend further into the skin, the potential for infection is greater.Apply an antibiotic cream to the burned area before bandaging it.


Silver sulfadiazine (Silvadene) is a popular antibiotic ointment for burns. It is often available over-the-counter without a prescription.Use a lot of the cream so that it will soak into the skin for a long time., If a blister does pop on its own or by accident, do not panic. Clean it with a mild soap and clean water. Apply an antibiotic ointment and cover the burn with a new bandage.
 Burn dressings should be changed daily to help prevent infection. Remove the old bandage and throw it away. Rinse the burn in cool water, avoiding soap. Do not scrub the skin. Let the water run on it for a few minutes. Pat dry with a clean towel. Apply burn cream, antibiotic ointment, or aloe vera to the burn to help it heal. Cover with a new sterile bandage.


When the wound is gone or mostly gone you won't need the bandage anymore.
 The use of honey to treat burns is supported by several studies, although doctors consider it an alternative treatment. Take a teaspoon of honey to cover the burn. Dab it on your wound. Honey is naturally antiseptic and keeps bacteria out of the wound, but causes no damage the outside healthy skin. The honey's low PH and high osmolarity helps the healing. Medicinal honey is recommended instead of the kind you bake with.Studies have suggested that honey may be a better alternative than regular silver sulfadiazine prescription ointment.Dressing changes should happen daily. If the wound drains more often, change the dressing more often.
If the burn cannot be covered, then reapply the honey every 6 hours. It helps cool the burn as well., Burns can become worse over the course of a few hours. After rinsing and treating your burn, monitor your burn to make sure that it does not develop into a third-degree burn. If it does, seek medical treatment immediately.While healing, look for signs and symptoms of infection, such as pus-like oozing from the burn, fevers, swelling, or increased redness on the skin. If these signs occur, seek medical treatment.

