 Most people do not need to seek genetic counseling, but if you have a family history of genetic disorders or birth defects (or your partner does), you should consider it. Some genetic disorders are hereditary, and a genetic counselor can help you understand the likelihood of passing these disorders on to any children you might have.


Some of the more common hereditary genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, and sickle cell anemia. If any of these disorders appear in your family history (or your partner’s), you are an excellent candidate for genetic counseling.
 If you or your partner have a history of multiple miscarriages, a child who died in early infancy, or an existing child with a genetic disorder or birth defect, you might consider seeing a genetic counselor before trying to have another baby., If you are pregnant (or want to become pregnant) after your mid-thirties, you might be a good candidate for genetic counseling. After age 35, the risk of having a baby with a birth defect increases significantly: at age 35, the overall chance is 1 in 178, while by age 48, the chance is 1 in 8.
 Some genetic disorders are more common among particular ethnic groups. For example, sickle cell anemia is more common among people of African descent, thalassemia is more common among people of eastern European and Middle-Eastern descent, and Tay-Sachs disease is more common among Ashkenazi Jews.
 If you’ve had chemotherapy or been exposed to radiation or toxic chemicals, your risk increases. You should discuss the potential consequences with your doctor and consider pursuing genetic counseling.
 If you or your partner are already pregnant, you will probably have a number of routine prenatal tests: every pregnant woman will have blood work, urinalysis, and ultrasounds performed, and some will have additional tests recommended by their doctors.If your doctor thinks the results of any of these tests indicate a higher than normal possibility of genetic disease, he or she may suggest you consider genetic counseling.

