 Many iPod models have a built-in hold switch that, when activated, keeps the device from responding to button presses and touch inputs.This feature is designed to keep the iPod from receiving commands while it bounces around in a pocket or bag, but if you're not aware of it, it may seem like your iPod is frozen when it really isn't.


The hold switch is more common on older models of iPod, like the iPod Shuffle and iPod Classic. The hold switch is usually a small metal peg on top of the device. Pushing it to one side exposes a small orange sliver and locks the device. Pushing it back restores normal function.
Newer iPods like the iPod Touch usually use a screen lock feature to keep from activating. This isn't easy to confuse with a frozen device — you'll be able to call up the screen and deactivate your lock as normal.;
, Sure that your iPod is frozen? Use the built-in restart feature, which will turn your iPod off, then back on, regardless of whether or not it's frozen. When it turns back on, it should work normally.


The way to do this varies for the different iPod devices — see the steps below for details., To reset the Original iPod through 3rd generation, press and hold the "Menu" and "Play/pause" buttons until the Apple logo appears.


Once the logo appears, give the iPod plenty of time to reboot. Don't attempt a second reset until you see the normal menu screen. This advice is true for all other devices in this section as well.
 To reset almost all iPod models with a "clickwheel" (4th generation onward; most Nano models), press and hold "Menu" and "Select" (the button in the center of the wheel) until the Apple logo appears.
 To reset iPod Shuffle models, just use the built-in power switch. Move the power switch into the "off" position, hold it for five seconds until the device turns off, then switch it back on.
 To reset iPod Touches, press and hold the "Sleep/wake" button (the one on top used to dim the screen) and the "Home" button (the one at the bottom of the front of the device.) Hold these together for about ten seconds until the Apple logo appears.
 Newer iPod nano models can vary slightly in their reset methods. To reset the iPod Nano (6th generation), press and hold the "Sleep/wake" button and the "Volume Down" button for about six seconds until the Apple logo appears., To reset the iPod Nano (7th generation), press and hold the "Sleep/wake" button and the "Home" button for a few seconds. The screen should go dark — you may not see an Apple logo. Eventually, the normal home screen should return.