 Many players begin with a plastic didj. They are relatively inexpensive and you can find one online to purchase very easily. Others prefer to go directly to a wood didj. Even then you will want to consider your budget and the type of wood that you would like, such as agave. Wood didgeridoos are less likely to break and create a deeper, richer sound when played.Some music stores rent didgeridoos and, if you take a class, you may be able to borrow one during the sessions. Be aware, however, that most serious didj players recommend purchasing a personal instrument to make regular practicing easier.;
, It is best to play and practice in an area where you will not be disturbed. This is especially important if you are practicing breathing techniques. You also need to be able to hear yourself play. This sounds easier than it is. The vibrations from the didj will muffle your hearing making it more difficult to identify particular notes or sounds.Some say that the bathroom is the ideal place to play the didgeridoo due to the amplified acoustics. The tile etc., helps to magnify the sound., You can stand or sit in a chair or on the ground. Most people prefer the sitting position as it is easier to maintain for long periods of time. If you are sitting on the ground you can rest your didj on the top of your bare foot. Try to avoid resting your didj directly on the ground. This helps to keep the sound clear and undistorted.In all positions, make sure to maintain proper posture. Keep your back straight and your shoulder back. Slumping over can hurt your ability to move air effectively up from your lungs into your instrument.
 Not matter which position you choose, your grip remains the same. Cradle the didgeridoo in the upturned palm of your dominant hand. Your index finger should be pointing away from you, leaving your thumb and remaining fingers to curl around the didj. Slide this hand down until it is a relaxed arm’s reach out. The other hand can be used to balance the didj close to the mouthpiece, if needed., Playing the didgeridoo is often compared with meditation or spiritual experiences. Keeping your mind clear and focusing on playing the didj will allow you to reap all of the possible mental benefits. Tell yourself, “Be calm,” before sitting down and playing. And, if other thoughts intrude, put down your didj until you can re-focus.It might help to say, "This is my time to play," aloud if you feel distracted. You can also ask your fellow players to keep you on task by having them alert you if you seem unfocused.
You can also lower the lights a bit and maybe light some candles or incense to create a calming environment for playing your didj.

