 Negativity can often be contagious. If you’re in any toxic environments, get out of them so you can stay positive about your school work.Look for teachers that make you feel good about yourself. A teacher can make a big difference for students. Interact with teachers you really connect with to feel better about school.
Join clubs or groups that are positive. Community engagement groups may help you to feel about what you and others are doing.
Talk to teachers or counselors about finding positive environments. They may have suggestions for how to get more involved so you don’t feel down about your time at school.
 Positive friends can make you feel better about yourself. Seek out friends that are enthusiastic and passionate about their lives. Negative people can often be draining on you, especially in tough environments like school.

Positive people can influence you to become more positive yourself. They show gratitude to others and seek out experiences that make them feel good about life and school.Pay attention to how you feel around people. Positive people should make you feel invigorated and excited about the future.Be honest about how others make you feel. Even if it’s a long-time friend, it may be time to break away from overly negative people in your life. Though it is difficult, being honest about how others make you feel will create a better, more positive environment for you.
 Being in positive environments doesn’t mean you never feel negative. If you’re feeling negative, it’s important to share these feelings with someone you trust. Find friends, teachers, or counselors that will listen to you. Your parents are always willing to listen as well.Find teachers that you can talk to about your fears and worries. Talking to an influential teacher you respect can make you feel listened to and may make you feel better about your concerns.
Talk to school counselors or professional counselors. Counselors are trained to talk to struggling students. They should be able to listen and give you good advice on how to feel better about yourself and any struggles at school.
Share your feelings with your friends. Close friends will be willing to listen to you. They may share their own feelings, which can make you feel better if you have some shared emotions about school.

