 Before you ask out your coworker, you should first be aware of the company policy. Many companies have a strict no-fraternizing policy, banning romantic relationships within the company. Others are much more lenient, requiring only that you inform your supervisor.If you love your job and want to keep it, and your company forbids relationships between coworkers, consider dating someone from outside of your job.;
, If you want to ask your coworker out, be sure to do so out of earshot of others. Pull them aside or ask them to go for a walk or to lunch with you. Ask them if they would consider going on a date with you. Reassure them that they have time to consider it given the trickiness that a relationship could bring.


You might say something like “Sally, I know that we work together, but I really like you. I’m hoping you’ll go out with me this weekend if you’re free. I know this could potentially put us in an awkward situation, so I understand if your answer is no.”

, If they say yes, then spend some time alone with them outside of the office. Try to go to places that you know your coworkers or boss aren’t likely to go so that no one finds out before you are ready.
 If you break up with a coworker, know that you can’t avoid them like you might be able to do with other exes. Dating this person will mean that they are a part of both your professional and personal life. Avoid spending everyday together in the early stages until you know that this is a person you want to pursue wholeheartedly., If you are a supervisor, know that you are held to a higher standard and could potentially get into trouble if you date your subordinates. If you have the ability to fire or promote someone, then you should not date them. Date only those who you do not supervise at your job., If you know that the person you are interested in has a spouse or significant other, do not pursue them. If they have also dated others in the office in the past, it is probably best not to date them, as this could create some jealousy. Find out this information by asking your coworkers covertly, checking their social media accounts, or noticing wedding rings or pictures of spouses on their desk.


You can ask your coworkers questions like “So I know Marsha and Ashley and Jim and Marissa started dating while working here. Do you know of anyone else who dates or has dated here in the office?”

