 If the manufacturer is giving samples away, it will probably say so on their homepage.


If you don't see a blurb about free samples on the homepage, look for a tab on the menu that says "Free Samples" or "Freebies."

, If the manufacturer isn't giving away any samples on their website, look for the company’s physical address and write a letter to them directly to request free samples. This strategy doesn’t work 100% of the time, but it’s worth a try! It does pay off occasionally.


Company addresses are usually located at the very bottom of the webpage, in small print, or they can be found under the “About Us” or “Contact Us” menu tabs.
Mailing a physical letter is more likely to get you free samples than sending an email. Business websites are bombarded by emails every day, but physically receiving a personal letter from a customer is becoming a rarity. It will usually get someone’s attention.
It wouldn’t hurt to throw a few compliments in the letter about how much you like their brand, how excited you are to try a sample, etc.
 Some perfume companies will happily give away free samples when they launch a new perfume. Keep an eye on your favorite brands so that you know when something new is coming out. Do a little additional online research on perfume brands that you aren’t familiar with, as well. Check out their websites for possible samples, too.


Try looking into newly launched perfume companies, as well. Investigate their websites for free sample opportunities.
Brand new perfume companies are generally very happy to provide you with free samples, since they are very actively trying to develop a customer base.
 You won’t always have complete control over which brands you can sample, but these sites are a good way to discover new products you may not have checked out otherwise.


Always read the fine print on these freebie websites to make sure you know exactly how their process works before trying them.
The most trustworthy freebie sites will never ask you for credit card information in order to receive free samples., Many department stores, like Sephora, offer up to three free samples with every online purchase you make with them.In most cases, you get to choose what kind of samples you want.


The free samples will arrive packaged with the rest of your order.
Online perfume stores will often include perfume samples with a purchase, as well. You usually don’t get to choose which samples you get with those establishments, however.

