 Forming a business is the first step to be a tea importer. In the United States, the form of tea business typically depends on state law; it is best to consult your accountant or tax attorney. Taking on a corporate form or any other form requires filings with the state authorities and it’s best to register your trade name with local authorities for protection.;
, According to Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, any facilities engaged in manufacturing, processing, or holding food for consumption in the United States should be registered with the FDA.
 There are many good teas and tea suppliers in China. (There are some tips in Tips: Finding the right Chinese tea supplier.) Once you confirm the teas you want and all the terms with the supplier, you can sign a formal contract. or more commonly, use a Proforma Invoice (P/I). In China, the supplier should meet 2 requirements for tea exporting: the first is the tea should come from a government registered plantation; the second is to get a phytosanitary certificate from the CIQ, or your teas will not have the rights to be inspected. The HTS (Harmonized Tariff Schedule) for tea is 0902. Green tea is 090210, black tea is 090230. (There is no specific code for Oolong and Puerh because the U.S. Customs considers Oolong and Puerh tea leaves to be fermented or partially-fermented black tea(090240)). There is a detailed reply from U.S. Customs and Border Protection - The tariff classification of Green, White, Oolong and Black Tea from China. Normally, tea itself is duty-free under the United States HTS. However, imported tea loses duty-free status when it is merely an additive to another beverage or dietary supplement. The supplier should provide you the packing list and invoice for Customs clearance.
 According to the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), all food importing (including tea) must offer a third party testing to ensure the foreign food facilities comply with U.S. food safety standards.
 Pursuant to the Bioterrorism Act, tea importers/supplier are required to give the FDA advance notice of shipments before import into the USA. Here is the step–by-step guide for Prior Notice. You can do it by yourself or provide your Registration Number and let your supplier do it for you. And under the new rule, before merchandise arriving by vessel can be imported into the United States, the "Importer Security Filing (ISF) Importer," or their agent must electronically submit certain advance cargo information to CBP in the form of an Importer Security Filing. This requirement only applies to cargo arriving in the United States by ocean vessel; it does not apply to cargo arriving by other modes of transportation. Entities that want to become Importer Security Filing filers using either AMS or ABI should call 571-468-5500 to be assigned a Client Representative.

International trade business can be pretty complicated, especially with Customs. You will lose if you are not familiar with what the Customs regulations, so it’s better to hire a Customs broker. Sometimes the broker can be a forwarding agency too, that also can do the Prior Notice for you. You can also choose “DDP” terms, which means the supplier will offer you a door-to-door price. In this case, all you need to do is pay one sum directly to your Chinese supplier. It will take care of everything including shipping, insurance, and Customs clearance and deliver the teas to your warehouse. That’s the easiest way for you.
 Once you get the tea and prepare to sell it, you should be sure your label meet the labeling regulation.

