 If you feel unsure of your technique, you can take a moment to review how to Apply Foundation. Do so lightly over all of your skin to give it an even tone.


Remember, a little foundation goes a long way. Using too much foundation can make your makeup looked caked on and far from cute!The closer the color the foundation is to your skin tone, the better chances your product will blend well with your skin.
 Acne and skin problems affect people of all ages, and using some concealer on top of your foundation for trouble areas might help you achieve a cuter, clear skinned look, especially if you suffer from bad blemishes.
 Though this step is not necessary, applying a little setting powder can help with shininess and help your makeup last longer. Lightly apply the powder where you have used foundation.


Oily skin can benefit greatly from the use of powder.
 Blush can be a tricky creature, and if you put on too much it will be noticeable. Give yourself a refresher on applying blush if you feel your technique could use some work. Using only a small amount of blush, apply it with a brush to the apples of your cheeks.Now you are ready to apply bronzer to your cheeks to give your skin a glow others are likely to find adorable.


Try not to contour your face too much. Many people associate the "cute" look with girlish features, which are less angular. Too much blush or bronzer could turn your look from "cute" to "fierce."

, Blend your blush in as evenly as you can. Clumps can ruin your look, or can create uneven coloring that appears splotchy.
 This is optional, and depending on the length of your lashes, might not be an option without eyelash extensions and a heated eyelash curler.There's nothing like the innocent appeal of curled lashes to increases your cute factor!

, To do this, you'll need mascara, and finding one that suits you might take some looking. Perhaps brown or clear will suit you best in place of the classic black, and apply your mascara.


Use a single coat of mascara; you don't want clumps in your lashes!Wait for your mascara to dry a bit before attempting to curl your eyelashes again.
 This youthful shine and soft bubblegum finish will complete the look you've been dying to pull off. Lighter colors will give you more of an air of innocence.

