 Try to avoid sitting in one place for an extended period of time. Walk around a little bit, and try doing gentle shoulder rolls. If you sit at a desk all day, make it a point to get up and walk around for a few minutes every hour.Try to avoid hunching your shoulders. Sit up straight, with your head high and shoulders back. Good posture can be very effective in reducing tension in your neck and shoulders.
Get a new pillow. If your pillow is too flat, it might not be providing the neck support that you need. If your neck is especially sore when you wake up in the morning, a new pillow might help solve the problem.
 Emotional stress can manifest itself in your body. Try to reduce anxiety by calming your mind. You can try methods such as meditation, which is a great way to relax. You can also consider adding weekly yoga sessions to your routine. Yoga and meditation will teach you how to perform deep breathing exercises, which are a great way to cope with stress.You can attend meditation and yoga classes, or you can practice them in the comfort of your own home. To meditate, all you need is a quiet, comfortable space where you can close your eyes, focus on your breathing.
In terms of the mental stress, if there are aspects of your work that are causing you to experience excessive amounts of stress, implement change by cutting back your hours, or even looking for a new job.
 Your diet and exercise habits can play a big part in how your body and mind function. Try eating healthy and getting more exercise to keep your stress levels low. This can help prevent future muscle issues.Aim to be physically active for at least 30 minutes five days a week. Exercise is great for relieving stress and anxiety, while also promoting optimal health.
Try to find a form of exercise that you enjoy doing, as this will make you more likely to keep it up. It could be running, swimming, kickboxing, Zumba or pilates — anything that gets your blood flowing and your heart rate up. Remember that no matter what type of exercise you do, you should always stretch first.
Stay hydrated in order to avoid dehydration. The same is true for your muscles - a lack of water will cause them to become tight and stressed.
Choose healthy foods. A nutrient-rich diet is important in terms of stress levels. Your body is always trying to create balance within your internal systems. Try to incorporate more B Vitamins into your diet. You can do this by eating foods such as chicken, fish, cereals and leafy green vegetables.

