 Australian Terriers tend to be aggressive towards other canines, so it’s important to socialize them early. Take time early on to bring them to a variety of new environments where they can meet new people and dogs. If you gradually expand their knowledge of the outside world, your pet will be less prone to aggressive or fear-motivated behavior.Try to make these introductions as positive as possible. Don’t start by taking your terrier into the center of a crowded dog park because that will be alarming and set them up to fail. Instead, start by taking them to a field where there are a few dogs present in the distance and work your way up to closer encounters.
If your dog reacts negatively to a place or dog, it’s most likely out of fear. The best response is not scolding. Instead, give them calm reassurance and affection until they’re more at ease.
Make sure that they’re safely exposed to other dogs by bringing them to puppy classes where they can interact with other dogs in a controlled environment with a trainer present.
 Aussies can be stubborn and domineering, so it’s important to take them to obedience training to minimize these traits and ensure that they’re good members of the family. Start by going to classes with an experienced professional trainer, and then keep the lessons going at home.Australian terriers are intelligent working dogs who generally respond well to training. However, their intelligence also means that they can get easily bored with repetition. Train them in short sessions using challenging activities with high rewards to keep them engaged and attentive.
Always use positive, rewards-based training methods with your Aussie, and seek a trainer who does the same. They respond well to consistency and firmness but not to aggression.
 Since Australian Terriers were bred as working dogs, they have quite a bit of energy and need to be exercised on a daily basis to keep them mentally and physically sound. Take them out on a walk for at least an hour each day.Be sure to keep them on a leash to keep them from running away after those small animals they have an instinct to hunt.
 Be a responsible dog owner by ensuring your pet leaves no trace. That means you should immediately pick up their feces using a bag and dispose of them to keep public spaces clean and prevent the spread of disease. It also means that you should be aware of and address any damage that your terrier may cause in public areas.


Australian Terriers have a strong digging instinct. Be sure that you watch out for and fill in any holes when you take them on walks. If you’re trying to cultivate a well-manicured garden, don’t let your Aussie loose in it.