 It requires the adoption of specific poses which are held for a given length of time, then transitioning into another pose to be held for a different length of time. It also incorporates breathing exercises. Yoga is useful for improving flexibility, strength, and relieving cancer fatigue.To get started with yoga, look up a local yoga class near you using the yellow pages. Alternately, try an online search using your preferred search engine.
You could also visit your local library to check out a book or DVD about how to do yoga.
You can also use a yoga app like Down Dog to guide you through daily exercises.
However, it’s best to take a few classes before going off on your own. Only a trained yoga instructor will be able to identify and correct mistakes in your yoga poses that could, over time, lead to injury.Yoga can also help cancer patients overcome their anxiety, depression, and stress., Mediation is a broad term for a number of mind-focusing therapeutic processes that may or may not involve movement. The purpose of meditation, no matter its form, it always to help you gain more tranquility and vitality. In addition to cancer fatigue, meditation has been shown to relieve stress, sleep problems, and anxiety.Try using a meditation app, like Calm, to get meditation suggestions and keep track of your daily meditation goals and progress.
Browse YouTube for meditation videos to get inspiration. Experiment with different techniques and use the one that works best for you.
To learn more about how to meditate, contact your local Zen temple and find out if they offer mediation lessons to the public. Alternately, visit your library for a book about how to begin meditating. The reference librarian might be able to help you find books specifically about meditation to relieve cancer fatigue.
You can also try online guides, like the one here: https://www.nyimc.org/how-to-meditate/


, Focus on being in the moment during meditation. For instance, don’t think about your homework that is due tomorrow or whether your cancer treatment is working. Instead, focus on the sensation you get by breathing in and out, the feel of your feet folded under you, and the pleasant breeze on your face. This feeling of being more in touch with your immediate surroundings is known as “mindfulness.”For instance, you might try a simple walking meditation. Walk outside in a wooded path for five to ten minutes. Pay special attention to the feel of your body as you walk, the way your feet touch the ground, and the sounds you hear in the woods. Observe as closely as possible each detail in the leaves and tree bark.
 Research shows that tai chi can help people with cancer fatigue – especially general and physical fatigue – who are undergoing chemotherapy.There are several ways to get started doing tai chi. You could look up instructions through online videos, read a book about how to do it, or visit a tai chi class in your area.To find a tai chi instructor in your area, use your yellow pages and look up “tai chi instructor.”
To learn tai chi from a book, visit your local library. Tell your local librarian, “I am looking for a book about how to do tai chi, an ancient Chinese form of exercise and meditation. Can you help me find a such a book?” If possible, get a book with a DVD. In addition to your book, try to rent a DVD that demonstrates tai chi movements so you have a better idea of how they should look.
 Acupuncture could help you relieve cancer fatigue.To receive acupuncture, visit your local Chinese traditional medicine specialist or acupuncturist
Acupuncture might also help you alleviate other cancer treatment-related symptoms like dry mouth, anxiety, and nausea.
A related integrative therapy, acupressure, uses gentle massaging on the points where an acupuncturist would insert needles to achieve the same effect.
 Ayurveda is an ancient form of medicine originally developed in India more than 2000 years ago. An Ayurvedic approach to medicine usually includes dietary changes, exercise, and the use of dietary supplements which may contain herbs, minerals, or metals.If you decide to start using Ayurvedic medicine, let your medical team know. Talk to them about the potential risks and benefits of Ayurvedic medicine.
Never attempt to use Ayurvedic dietary supplements without consulting a specialist. Some of the ingredients in these supplements may be harmful if used incorrectly.

