 Be generous -- if you miss an area, it may hurt when you're taking it off.


This method will not pull out your eyebrows. Just be liberal with your application of the petroleum jelly; you'll be thankful you did.
 Cut and wet your strips of plaster and make an 'X' on your face. Place the first two strips diagonally across the bridge of your nose.


Apply strips until you have attained the shape of the mask you want. Take extra care around your eyes -- leave a little more room than you need.






Smooth out all the pieces as you put them on. You'll want a smooth base to design later on.
 You'll have to wait for it to dry first, though. When it starts to become itchy, that's when you know it's ready.


Loosen up the mask by scrunching your face over and over. The movement of your face and the jelly will slowly ease the mask off the form of your face.
 This step is completely optional -- if you're happy with the shape of your mask now, move onto decorating. But if you'd like to add a bit more, go on ahead!


If you'd like to add ears or any other shape, cut it out from a piece of card and glue on. Attach more plaster on and around it until it's smooth and allow it to dry.
 The most accessible way to do this is with a disposable chopstick. Glue it on and place plaster strips over the tip. Smooth over.


Any stick-like object will do. When you're finished attaching the dowel, allow it to dry overnight.
 Start grinding away to smooth the rough areas. It doesn't have to be perfect, but this will remove the grainy, granular look of the plaster.


Wipe the dust off with a cloth and spray with a coat of clear paint to seal. Let it dry.
 Here's where you get to do just about whatever you want. It may be wise to stick to one color. Most masquerade masks employ only one color scheme.


Once you're done painting, you may want to include a top coat of glitter spray. It adds a nice, finishing touch.
 They'll cover the tip of your dowel and make your mask look professional and stylish.


Think about bows, feathers, ribbon, and jewels. And definitely think about combinations!

