 Staying positive will help you remain calm and looking forward to meeting this new person. Plus, the other person will find it much easier to interact with you when you appear positive and receptive to talking to them.Give yourself a mini-pep talk with a word or phrase meant to help you stay centered and positive, like “Go get ‘em!” or “Stay strong!”
Think well of yourself. Believe in your ability to have a successful encounter with this new person. For inspiration, think about all of the ways you are successful in your life: You can do all those things, and you can do this, too!

, Wear an outfit appropriate to the occasion that you look and feel good in. For a job interview, you may want to wear a suit or other clothing appropriate for an office setting. For a first date, you may wish to wear jeans and a nice sweater, or your favorite dress.


For professional settings, it’s okay to wear clothes that convey your personality (such as a brightly-colored blouse, eye-catching statement jewelry, or a colorful tie), just be sure you don’t overdo it! When it doubt, aim for a more conservative look., Your body language conveys lots of information about you to the other person. Convey confidence and positive energy by standing up straight, making eye contact, and smiling when you greet the person.Shake hands. Greet the person with a confident, firm handshake. Make sure you look them in the eye while you are shaking hands., Make sure you speak loud enough so that other people can hear you, and that you are looking at the other person, not at your feet, when you greet them. A clear, articulate, warm speaking voice makes you appear calm and confident.Also be mindful that you are not speaking too fast, which often occurs when people are nervous.
Greet the other person with a warm, friendly hello. Say their name in your greeting. “Hello, Marisol, it’s so nice to meet you!”, Observe the other person in their surroundings, and look for ways to start a conversation. Look for ways to connect with them over common interests. While many people dislike small talk, it is a way to find common ground and begin building a relationship.Look for conversation cues in your surroundings. Look at the other person’s clothing: Is there something they are wearing you could compliment them on? Is there a beautiful piece of artwork on their office wall? Find something to talk about for a few minutes before you settle into the business at hand. If you can’t think of anything, you can always talk about the weather!
For example, you may be in a meeting in someone’s office. On their desk is a family picture. You could say, “What a beautiful picture! How old are your children?”
For example, your first date is wearing a pin with the name of a political candidate you support. You could point to it and say, “Nice choice! I think she’d make a great mayor!”
Take note of the person's name and use it periodically throughout conversation. This makes you seem personable and likable. Also use their name when you thank them or say goodbye at the end of the encounter.

