 Take your chicken out of the refrigerator and remove it from any container that it's in. Let the pieces sit evenly-spaced on a plate or platter until they come to room temperature — about half an hour.


Use this time efficiently by doing any other prep work you need to do. Preheating the oven is a must, but you can also prepare side dishes, set the table, and so on.;
, Set the chicken pieces on an oven-safe baking sheet. You may want to line the sheet with aluminum foil first for an easier clean-up. It shouldn't be necessary to grease the sheet but this won't hurt your final product.


Try to avoid prepping the chicken pieces for the oven before they're room temperature. Cold meat on the inside can interfere with the "crisping" process going on at the outside of the meat that's needed to make fried chicken so delicious.
 Place the pan with the chicken pieces in the oven on the center rack. Set a timer for 10 minutes.


Some online sources will recommend spritzing the pieces of chicken with a small amount of water to prevent them from drying out, while others omit this step.
Plan for at least 10 minutes of cooking time and as much as half an hour. As you'll see in the next step, cooking times can vary.
 The only difficult part of this reheating method is that different pieces of chicken can heat at different speeds. As a general rule, bigger, thicker pieces (like breasts and thighs) will heat more slowly than smaller pieces (like wings and drumsticks). Since you don't want your smaller pieces to dry out, check them every few minutes after about ten minutes have passed. If they are crispy on the outside and warm all the way through, they're done.


One online source lists legs and wings as taking about 15-20 minutes to reheat to perfection and breasts and thighs as taking about 20-25 minutes., When your chicken pieces have regained a somewhat crispy exterior and are warm all the way to the bone, they're ready to eat. Take them out of the oven and carefully move them to a wire rack to cool for about five to ten minutes before eating. Enjoy!


You shouldn't generally need to re-season your chicken — any seasoning in the batter will be preserved.

