 This is especially important if you realize you've taken a medication high in caffeine or eaten or drank something high in caffeine. Foods that are high in caffeine include things like chocolate, and beverages like tea and coffee also tend to be high in caffeine.If you have symptoms like difficulty breathing, call poison control right away to figure out how to handle the problem.The National Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) in the United States can be reached at any time of day. It does not cost money to call and you can call even if it's not a medical emergency.
Explain to the person on the phone your exact symptoms and what you ingested that caused an overdose. You will also be asked your age, weight, physical condition, time you took the caffeine, and amount.Ask for instructions on how to proceed. You may be advised to force yourself to vomit or to use other medications to treat your symptoms. However, do not force yourself to vomit unless instructed to do so by a professional.;
, If you're experiencing intense symptoms, like dizziness, confusion, an irregular heartbeat, or difficulty breathing, go to the ER right away. Do not try to drive yourself. Call 911. In rare cases, caffeine overdoses can be fatal. Intense overdoses should be treated by medical professionals.If you ate or drank something unusual that caused the overdose, bring the container with you to the emergency room.
 At the ER, you will be given medical treatment depending on your symptoms, current health, amount of caffeine you ingested, and other factors. Talk over your symptoms with your doctor to figure out the right course of treatment for you.You may be given activated charcoal tablets to treat an overdose. Laxatives may be used to get the caffeine out of your system. If your breathing is very bad, you may need breathing support.
You may also need certain tests, like chest x-rays.
For more mild cases of caffeine overdoses, you may only need medication to treat the symptoms until they pass.

