 There are numerous web search engines, but you should use one that is not over-loaded with ads and spyware.


Make sure your virus scanner is running and up to date.
You probably won't find a completely ad-free search engine, but if the site has so many ads it's slowing down the response--avoid it.
If you cannot find the company as you typed it, try advanced searches with different combinations. For example, if you are looking for companies that sell batteries you can mix in electronics, hardware, video game stores, department stores, etc...
If you are getting too many results, then you can narrow the search down by adding some words such as a probably location (region, or city), or another qualifier. #* For example, if you need a shop that sells a particular brand of wine in your area you can refine the search by typing in "vineyards," and adding in the names of counties nearby, and/or the variety of wine.
 Once you have the company's basic information from the search, you can use related sources to double check the authenticity.If the company's physical location is readily available, check the locality's chamber of commerce website or city government's website for information. If neither is available or has no listing, try multiple local travel guides.
You might also try state and federal government sites for assistance.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Federal Trade Commission may include the company's information within official government rolls or the company's respective state may retain that information.
 If the company has a safe website, check it out thoroughly first. This should also have their contact information.


If the website is noticeably lacking in contact information, this could either be simply poor design or a sign the company is not interested in direct contact.
If you have trouble finding contact information from the company's electronic displays, contact one of the official repositories you saw them listed in before to see if they have another means to make contact.
 Depending on what business you wish to conduct, a physical visit may be required.


If the company is making contact difficult, and your business with them is not urgent, you may wish to reconsider doing business with this company at all. Under these conditions, you should get more information on the company's behavior from other reviewers before proceeding at all.
If you have made successful contact and/or you insist on further activity with the company, then you may need to personally travel to their location. For example, if this is an online company you ordered a product from and you wish to tour their production line, a physical visit would be one way to see their process in action.

