 Libraries are a great resource because they not only provide free books but may also offer free, online learning programs to help you learn a new writing system. While you may not find a specific program offered at the library, there may also be community lead tutorials or tutors posting at the library bulletin board.Both books and personal tutorials can teach stroke order, basic grammar, character identification or translation.;
, There are a variety of language apps available for free or purchased download. Functions you may be looking for are whether the app can create flashcards to help learn new characters and words. Flashcard apps can be searched for Apple, Windows or Android phone., Submerse yourself in the language system by listening to specific tutorial podcasts and audiobooks as you practice each lesson. Read reviews of podcasts and audiobooks to ensure that they are at an appropriate level., Kanji is commonly known as Chinese characters. Kanji characters differ from the English alphabet because they describe an idea rather than represent a specific letter. This is unlike the other two Japanese language systems, Hiragana and Katakana, which do not have meaning on their own but rather are used for grammar and to write non-Japanese words., Many people may assume you only need to learn to speak Japanese, without learning to write kanji. Understanding kanji increases your vocabulary and can familiarize yourself with the nuances of the Japanese language.


For example, kanji is similar to some English affixes. For example, a word starting with “re-” in English, like reunite, means “again” or united again. Similarly, when seeing specific kanji characters you will come to understand that the meaning of the word may change based on the kanji., Flashcards are a great tool to drill new information. For example, commit 30 minutes everyday to learning at least 7 new kanji characters. Don’t forget to quiz yourself on the previous lessons to ensure the information stays fresh Remember to learn the meaning of the word, how it is said, and how it is written.
 When possible, use mnemonics to glue a word to memory. Mnemonics works by associating a word with a funny, silly, or memorable story. While you can create your own mnemonics there are also numerous apps and online resources to help if you feel your creativity waning., Learning another writing system can be daunting so it is important to clearly define your endgoal in order to map out the appropriate steps you’ll need to attain it. Learning how to write in another language is a vague goal so perhaps a more specific goal can be learning how to write a one page letter in Kanji to your favourite Japanese television.Defining an appropriate timeline may also help you reach your goals faster and stave off frustration. Make your goals according to your everyday schedule. Choose an appropriate end date that won’t be pushed back or interfered with by other, more important, events., Kanji characters may seem foreign but if you look closely you may be able to associate more familiar images within a kanji character to help you remember it. For example, the kanji character for “person” looks like a person. Similarly, the kanji character for “stop” looks like a person motioning with his arm to stop.There are a few resources including the books Remember the Kanji by James Heisig and Kanji Pict-O-Graphix by Michael Rowley that can help decode kanji characters into more recognizable image association., Use flashcards and change the order of the cards everyday to ensure that you’re memorizing the words and not the order of the words. Additionally, do not simply randomize your cards by changing the order of a few new ones each day. You must continue to learn the writing system by building on words that you have already learned, which is best done every day.If you don’t have energy, motivation, or time to review on a given day, simply go over what you do remember. Whether you have access to your flashcards or not, your motivation and energy will increase as you both confirm what you’ve already learned and wonder what you could be missing.Whether walking to your car or using the bathroom, there’s always time to review.
 There are many sites where you can find a language partner that you can easily write to everyday. Even 3 sentences a day can help you learn kanji., Stroke order can not only help you write efficiently but may also help you memorize characters. Stroke order for most kanji stays consistent and can be relatively easy. While there may be difficult kanji characters such as 飛 or 鬱 where you’ll need time to master the stroke order, ensure that you don’t develop any bad habits when you first master the less complex characters., Learn new vocabulary and practice verb construction as you continue to write. While it's easy to learn words individually, it’s more difficult to write them fluidly into fully formed sentences and paragraphs. Writing also gives you time to completely express your emotions and construct full ideas.Writing allows you time to think and practice as conversation doesn’t give you the same opportunity to process your thoughts. You will be able to refine your communication style the more often you write., Immerse yourself in the culture and language by checking out what is trending on Youtube for Japan. You can also buy a popular Japanese television series to watch at your own pace. Depending on how popular the program, you may be able to easily find English manuscripts, dubbing or subtitles so you can follow along. News outlets may also provide their programming and content in alternate languages. Check the site of your local news outlet for a Japanese alternative.
 You do not have to learn every single word to become fluent in another language. More importantly, you only need to learn the most frequently used words to understand most of a language.For example, there are just 300 words that make up 65% of all written English material.For example, learn colloquialism over formal forms of words if you are trying to learn conversational Japanese., While learning to speak a language is easiest when forced into a conversation, having visual aids may also quicken your reading comprehension. Being able to speak to someone over video can help you associate the spoken word with the written word if they are willing to read along with you or provide visual aids. Search online for tutors or conversation partners. You may be able to trade a lesson in English for a lesson in Japanese.Skype allows you to have multiple windows and apps open as a safety net in case you feel lost in your conversation. You can use translation tools while you chat to make sure you don’t feel too far behind. Don’t rely too heavily on anything other than your memory. Depening on your partner, you can always ask to take a break because you are lost in the conversation., There’s no better way to learn about Japan than visiting the country; however, travelling can be very expensive so turn to local cultural centers. If you do not have a local Japanese cultural center, look to establish a club so that you and other community members interested in the culture may share resources.


If travelling in Japan, many directions, menus, and signs will be read in kanji.