 No matter how busy you may be, you should always make time for a date night with your wife, ideally once a week or at least twice a month. If you spend all of your precious time together hanging out with friends or just lounging around the house, then you'll forget that spark that makes your relationship so special.


Mix it up. Do something different during every date night, whether it's checking out a new movie or going to a restaurant you've never been to before.
If you're staying in to cook, dress up just as nicely as you would if you were going out.
Make time to talk. Activities like mini-golfing or watching movies are great, but make sure there's a portion of the evening when you have time to just look into each other's eyes and talk.
Give your wife a card that tells her how much you love her during date night, even if there's no special occasion. Every occasion with your wife should be special.;
, Though it's tempting to let your scruff grow and to lounge around the house in your workout clothes, you should try to be presentable at all times and work to maintain your handsome looks. If you two don't care how you look anymore, then you're slacking in the romance department.


Unless you're rocking a beard or some scruff, make sure to shave every day and to keep your face smooth.
Take a shower every day and continue to smell fresh. Don't let hygiene get in the way of you and your wife.
Even if you're just hanging out around the house, make an effort to wear clean and matching clothes.
Of course, you can't look amazing every day. You and your wife can decide on a more casual day, such as Sunday, when you can wear whatever you want, but don't let your old ratty sweatpants become the standard.
 Though a romantic vacation is not a long-term solution for any problems in the romance department, taking a short getaway is a perfect way to spend time with your wife in a fresh environment and to learn to appreciate your relationship even more.


Make a goal of going away somewhere exotic together at least once a year, if your budget allows for it. Book your trip well in advance so when the time comes, you can't say you're too busy as an excuse.
Try to go to a new place every time. Not only will this keep your romance fresh, but it will also strengthen your bond when you explore the world together.
If your budget is really tight or if it's difficult for you to find a sitter, have a goal of at least going away from the weekend together from time to time even if you're only going an hour's drive away or just checking into a hotel in the closest city.
 You can still make room for romance even if you're just sitting around the house. Though it may feel impossible to create a romantic atmosphere when your house is cluttered with dirty dishes and toys, there are a few things you can do to make your time at home feel more romantic.


Bring roses or other flowers home to your wife once a week and put them in a bouquet on the dining room table.
If the two of you are just having a normal dinner or watching TV, dim the lights and light a few candles.
If you're just engaged in a quiet conversation, turn up some jazz or romantic music.
Try to keep the house as clean as possible, so you'll feel more relaxed and happy in your own environment.
Make your bedroom a sex sanctuary. No matter how cluttered the rest of the house may be, you should keep your bedroom clean, neat, and smelling fresh at all times. Don't use your bedroom as an office or a place to throw your dirty laundry.
 If you want to maintain romance in your relationship, you should never take your wife for granted. Though you know you love her, and she should know how you feel, you still have to take the time to tell her how much you value your relationship. She's a wife, not a psychic.


Tell your wife that you love her every single day. No matter what.
Take the time to not only tell your wife you love her, but tell her why you love and appreciate her so much. Remind her why she's special.
Don't just be affectionate in the bedroom. Take the time to hug, caress, and kiss your wife as often as you can.
If you're leaving the house while she's away or still asleep, leave a post-it note that tells her how much you love her and wish her a good day.

