 Perhaps you visited a garden in France, fell in love with its beauty, and seek to recreate it in your own backyard. The first thing you must do is find out whether your climate is conducive to growing plants you saw elsewhere. It's important to choose plants that will thrive where you live; otherwise, you'll be dealing with sick and dying plants instead of enjoying a healthy garden.


Figure out which planting zone you live in, so that when you start to research species you'll be able to tell right away whether they'll be a good fit. You can look up your zone by zip code on the USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map.
Don't be averse to using plants that are native to your area. Formal gardens can have many different themes that vary according to climate. There are formal alpine, desert, tropical, temperate and Mediterranean styles. Check around for gardens in your area that may inspire you with ideas.
 Balance and cohesion are key in formal gardens. Choose plants with shapes that go well together and work with the other elements in your garden. For example, if your garden design is primarily square, you might want to plant box hedges, which can be trimmed into a square shape. Hydrangea blossoms are a good choice as a complement to a circular design.


This is not to say that if you have a square garden design, all of your plants must be square. Get creative with your interpretation. Choose flowers that have four distinct and neat petals, or decide to plant tulips in the shape of a large square.
Pick plants with cohesive colors.One or two colors is enough for a formal garden; too many colors and it will have a wild look.Choose plants that are containable. You'll be doing a lot of trimming and weeding to keep your garden design looking neat. Help yourself out by choosing plants that won't spread over your brick path or get unwieldy after a few weeks. Bulb plants are a good choice for this purpose.
 Once you've chosen your plants, decide where to put them. Your garden is divided into several spaces by paths; assess each space both individually and as part of the whole garden when you're deciding what to plant where.


Consider lining the paths with one type of plant. This is a beautiful look that provides instant cohesion.
If you plant something in one area, plant the same thing on the opposite side. For example, if you have a group of tulips in the left corner of the garden, plant a similar group in the right corner, for balance and symmetry.
Plant en masse. A classic characteristic of formal gardens is the striking sight of a large group of plants. A box-shaped section planted wall to wall with hyacinths, for example, could give your garden the look you want to achieve.
Create patterns. Alternate plant shapes and colors by planting a row of one flower, a row of a different flower, and so on.
 The term "good bones" is used by landscape architects to describe the structure of the garden that is in place all year round, after the flowers are gone and the grass isn't quite as green.Choose hedges that will stay green all year round, and pick some winter-hardy plants. You can also employ fencing and other permanent features to make sure your garden has "good bones."


Consider lining your pathways as a part of this process. Formal gardens often use gravel, stone, brick, or concrete to line the pathways.
 Don't forget to leave some areas open. Open spaces provide a pleasing contrast with planted spaces, and they're also nice if you want people to be able to lounge in the garden. Plant the open spaces with grass, or cover them with gravel if you prefer.

