 There are many things to take into consideration before jumping into the world of motorcycles. Ask yourself the following questions:


Do you need a motorcycle?
Are you financially capable to invest in a motorcycle?
Do you have time to ride?
Are you responsible enough for a motorcycle?;
, Safety gear such as a helmet, motorcycle jacket, motorcycle pants and riding boots will help protect you if you get into an accident while test riding a motorcycle. Buying all the above equipment will also put you in the mind set of buying a motorcycle.
 This step is optional however, most sellers will not let you test ride their motorcycle without a CY Endorsement. You will also need your CY Endorsement to ride a motorcycle on the street.
 Hopping on the first bike you see can cost you your life. Not every bike is suited for you. When choosing the right bike for you, take into consideration:


Your skill level. If you are not experienced with motorcycles, pick a bike with a smaller engine displacement.
Your height and weight. Bigger bikes will be harder to handle if you are a smaller person.
What can you afford?

, Use Craigslist's search feature to search for the bike you want. To help narrow your results:


Search the motorcycles/scooters sub-category.
Sort postings by date listed. The newer the post, the better the chances the motorcycle hasn't been sold yet.
Modify your distance radiance. Choose areas you are willing to travel to go see and pick up the motorcycle from.
If the ad posting has images, evaluate the pictures thoroughly. Look to see if there is any visible damage to the motorcycle.
 Unless in their posting they ask you not to, always call the seller. Contact information can be found in the description of the ad posting. Ask them the following questions:


How many miles are on the motorcycle?
How often was the motorcycle's oil changed?
How much tread is left on both tires?
Are there any cosmetic damages you should be aware of?
Was the motorcycle ridden hard?
Has the motorcycle been dropped?

, Don't lowball the seller. This will cause the seller to not negotiate with you. If the seller is asking for $6000 and you are willing to pay $5500, offer the seller $5000. If the seller agrees, you just saved yourself $1000. However, if the seller declines, you can ask them to meet you half-way at $5500, the original price you were willing to pay. Most sellers will agree to this.
 Do an initial walk-around the motorcycle to make sure it is the same motorcycle that was posted for sale on Craigslist. After confirming it as the motorcycle up for sale, check it for:


Cosmetic damage to the fairings. This can help you determine if the motorcycle has been in an accident or not. If there is minor damage that doesn't bother you, ask the seller to lower the price in order for you to be able to fix it.
Leaks.
Tire tread. If tire tread is low, you may be able to get a price deduction because you will need to replace the tires soon.
Engine. Turn the engine on and assess how it runs. There should be no clicks, clanks or any other odd noises coming from the engine.
 Ask the seller if he is willing to let you test ride the motorcycle. Most sellers will allow you to do a test ride as long as you have your CY Endorsement and cash in hand. Check to see that everything is working properly:


Ignition switch.
Fuel line.
Engine cutoff switch.
Headlights.
Turn signals.
Horn.
Accelerator.
Brakes. Check both the front and rear brake levers, located on the right side of the motorcycle.
Clutch. Make sure the clutch lever, located on the left handlebar, feels smooth.
 If all is well, give the seller your money and have them sign over the title for the motorcycle to you. You now own the motorcycle.
 Get quotes from different insurance companies and see which company offers the insurance that suits your financial needs. Some insurance companies will give you a discount for having completed the motorcycle safety class. Have a copy of your motorcycle safety class completion certificate.
 After getting your motorcycle insured, take your proof of insurance and motorcycle title to the DMV and get your motorcycle insured.
