 This is more effective at increasing happiness and raising the strength of your Pokémon than if you use rare candies to gain levels quickly. For competitions, make sure all your Pokémon are trained to level 100. Otherwise, they will be at a big disadvantage., These are points that your Pokémon gain for defeating other Pokémon, whether it's in a trainer battle or in the wild. EVs are essential to raising strong Pokémon. Certain Pokémon give different EVs, so you should make sure you only train against Pokémon who give the right EVs, instead of just randomly. Note that you will not receive EVs in a link battle with friends or in the Battle Tower/Battle Subway. Consider the following list of Pokémon according to EV: http://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/List_of_Pok%C3%A9mon_by_effort_value_yield

You can have a maximum of 255 EVs per stat, and 510 EVs total on all stats. With every 4 EV points in a stat, it gains 1 stat point at level 100. This means that the maximum amount of EVs that can be used to increase a Pokémon's stats is 508. Because of this, do not give 255 EVs to a stat, but 252. This way, you have 4 extra EV's which can be used to increase another stat by one point.
It is usually a good idea to max out the EVs for a Pokémon's most important stat. However, in certain cases you can use less – such as if your Pokémon only needs a certain Speed stat to outspeed a common threat.
Figure out which stats you want to develop on your Pokémon, and figure out how many and which Pokémon you need to fight to reach those EVs. Make sure to keep a log of your progress. Consider logging stats in a spreadsheet so that you don't lose track., Buy as many vitamins (e.g. Protein, Carbos) for your Pokémon as you can, and use them before EV training. Each vitamin that you give to your Pokémon will increase its EVs by 10 in a certain stat. Vitamins can only be used for the first 100 EVs.

If you have 100 EVs or more, vitamins will have no effect. For example, Carbos gives your Pokémon 10 Speed EVs. If you use 10 Carbos with no previously gained Speed EVs, your Pokémon will gain 100 Speed EVs. If you already have 10 Speed EVs, you may use 9 Carbos. If you have 99, you may use 1 Carbos, and it will only give you 1 EV.
Remember to give your Pokémon EVs that they can use. Don't give an Alakazam Attack EVs, for example, because they are not physical attackers.
 If you're going to battle online, EV train beforehand using Power Items. Use the Experience Share or Macho Brace during early levels. The Macho Brace will double the EVs you receive from each Pokémon you battle, but it lowers speed while it is held.

Give your Pokémon Pokérus, if you have access to it. This also doubles the EVs, but without the speed depletion. The effects still remain even after the Pokérus is gone. This results in your Pokémon ending up with higher stats.
 Sweepers should hold an item to increase their attacking stats, like Life Orb, a Choice item, or Expert Belt. Assault Vest can be used for more bulky attackers, and Choice Scarf can be used to outspeed opposing Pokémon, or can be Tricked onto another Pokémon to lock them into a move. Defensive Pokémon can use Leftovers to increase their longevity. Poison types can use Black Sludge instead, in case their item is stolen. Megas will need their corresponding mega stone to Mega Evolve, and certain other items can be useful on specialized sets.