 you could always say you were doing a different type of move. Call it the "Northern Side Swing Grip" or "The Left-Right Winged Pass". These names can make you seem that you know the sport.;
, Avoid being a goalie. Stay on the outsides.
 For example even a mediocre shooter could focus on Free Throws and become a high percentage free throw shooter just by focusing on shooting free throws and learning a few techniques. Pick a skill that can be repeated in much the same way each time.
 Admit to the coach that you are not that skilled (they already know this, remember!) but explain to them that it is important to you to get better.



Develop the basic and easy to achieve attributes such as strength, speed, agility and flexibility.
Maintain these attributes in the off-season, and during the season, as they will vanish if you do not. Although technique and experience are longer lasting qualities, a good athlete must have an edge and be totally developed. Decrease your reaction time in your sport by increasing your strength and speed.
Do not be misled by labels. Improving these simple qualities involve technique. For example, when lifting a heavy weight notice how important it is to use your leg and back muscles. Apply this insight to a more complex, athletic movement and use your legs and back to throw, swing or hit. In another example, when practicing for speed, if you truly love your sport that you are practicing for, you will be thinking how to apply this speed work to your sport. Develop in your speed work time sprints and speed drills for your sport.
Maintain your priority. If your priority is your sport, develop these helpful attributes so they will not interfere with your regular sports session. Start a modest supplemental program, strive to keep learning and progressively improve on these attributes. If doing extra work after your sport, do them after. Do not lift weights and run sprints before your sport.
 Learn in a few day what might take you a few months to learn thru experience. The learning process is great, however do not try to reinvent the wheel.. it has already be invented.
 If you mess up, just laugh and move on. You'll be making something bigger of it then it really is, if you act embarrassed.
 It's very mean for someone to make fun of you, but if you just ignore it, they'll know it doesn't bother you, and stop.
 If you just can't seem to enjoy yourself, maybe this sport isn't right for you.

