 Dark skin on the upper lip is caused by excess melanin in the skin. You can reduce the appearance of this dark pigmentation by using an over-the-counter or prescription skin lightening cream.









The most effective skin lightening ingredients include kojic acid, azelaic acid, arbutin and vitamin A, so you should look for creams containing a combination of these.
Hydroquinone is a very effective bleaching product for dark skin. Although it is available in the USA, it has been banned in many Asian and European countries due to its potential carcinogenic properties. Therefore, you should speak to your doctor before using this product.;
, Exfoliation can help to slough off the upper layers of dark, pigmented skin and reveal the newer, lighter skin underneath.









Use a facial scrub three or four times per week to exfoliate the skin above your lip. You can use a store-bought product, or make your own scrub using sugar or salt.
Alternatively, you could consider getting a microdermabrasion treatment, which is usually performed by a dermatologist using a rotating brush with a crystal head which effectively removes the upper layers of dark skin.
 Dark skin on the upper lip may be caused by aggressive hair removal techniques, such as regular waxing.


Therefore, it's a good idea to take a break from waxing for a couple of months, to give your skin a chance lighten on its own.
If you're concerned about the dark hair that grows on your upper lip, consider bleaching the hair or using a gentler hair removal method, such as threading.
 Harmful UV rays are one of the biggest culprits behind dark and discolored skin -- on the upper lip or anywhere else on the body.









Therefore, it is very important to protect your skin from these harmful rays by wearing a facial sunscreen everyday -- even when it's not sunny. To make it easy, try applying a moisturizer with an SPF of at least 15 every morning.
Dark pigmentation on the upper lip can be caused by the use of tanning booths and beds. Tanning booths are harmful to the skin and can lead to premature aging, in addition to brown spots and discoloration. Try using a self-tan lotion instead -- it's kinder to the skin.
 Some people have had success in lightening their dark upper lips using a homemade facial mask made from gram flour, turmeric, lemon juice and honey.









Mix an equal amount of each of these ingredients (e.g. 1 teaspoon) together in a small bowl until it forms a smooth paste.
Apply the paste to the dark skin on your upper lip and leave it to sit for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the paste is dry.
Rinse the paste away with some warm water, then pat the skin dry. Use this mask 2 to 3 times per week until the skin becomes lighter.
 There are many home remedies for lightening skin on the upper lip, most of which vary in terms of their effectiveness. So if you're interested in getting a lighter upper lip naturally, you can experiment with the following:



Honey and lime juice: Mix a little honey and lime juice (you could also use lemon) and apply it to your upper lip. The citric acid in the lime juice bleaches the skin, while the honey softens and moisturizes.

Almond oil: Almond oil is a good product for lightening the skin, as it nourishes and hydrates the skin, while also encouraging skin rejuvenation. Heat up a small amount of the oil and massage it into your upper lip.

Carrot juice: Carrot juice can be used to lighten dark skin on the upper lip thanks to high levels of vitamin A and an anti-oxidant called beta carotene. Grate a carrot, then blend in a food processor. Press the pulped carrot through a sieve to extract the juice, then use a cotton ball to apply the juice to the skin of your upper lip. Leave for 15 to 20 minutes before rinsing off.

