 Creating a red eyeshadow look is easy, as long as you have the right kinds of makeup and makeup application tools. To create a red eyeshadow look, you will need:








eyeshadows in pale nude, white, peachy pink, light brown, and dark red
a champagne colored highlighter or eyeliner
black eyeliner
burgundy eyeliner
a highlighter or liner brush
a large fluffy eye makeup brush
a crease brush;
, Apply some Mac "Blanc Type" or a similar pale nude color of eyeshadow to your eyelids. You should apply the eyeshadow to the entire eyelid, from your eyebrow line to your eyelashes. This color will serve as your base for the red eyeshadow look, which will result in a better distribution of color and a more complex shade.








You may also want to apply some primer or foundation to your eyelids before you begin, but that is optional. Primer or foundation can help your eyeshadow to last longer.
 Use your highlighting brush to apply some Mac “Mylar” or a similar white eyeshadow to the areas just below your eyebrows (along the brow bone) and on the inner corners of your eyes. You will not need to apply any other colors to these areas.
 If you have a Manny MUA palette, then use the “Peaches and Cream” color on your eyelids. If not, then you can use a similar peachy pink color. This color will help to transition to the dark red shade that you will be applying over it.








Apply the “Peaches and Cream” eyeshadow to your upper and lower eyelids with your large fluffy eye makeup brush. Keep the color close to your lash line as you apply it.
 Use a crease brush to add another layer of color to your eyelids, but focus on the center of your eyes (the crease) and the area below your eyes.








Don’t extend the color too far past the corners of your eyes. Try to maintain a nice circular shape around your eyes.
 Use the “Mars” color from your Manny MUA palette or a similar deep red eyeshadow. Apply the eyeshadow to the areas below your eyelids first and then apply the red to your upper lids.








As you apply the color to your upper lids, avoid the areas just above your irises. Try to apply the eyeshadow in an arc or halo motion.
 Use this color to blend around the edges of the dark red eyeshadow. This will help to soften the transition from the red color to the color of your skin. Otherwise, the stark contrast between the red eyeshadow and your bare skin may give you a sickly look.








If you prefer, you can also use a darker color, such as “Aphrodite” from the Manny MUA palette or a similar dark brown eyeshadow to blend the edges of the red eyeshadow.
 Apply the highlighter or liner to the areas above your irises only. This area should be free of eyeshadow already, but applying the champagne highlighter or liner will help to enhance this area even more.








You can also apply the champagne highlighter or liner to your waterline, which is the inner area of your lower eyelid. Just make sure that you wipe off the liner tip before touching it to your waterline. You may also want to wipe your waterline with a clean cotton swab first to dry it off., Use a highlighter brush and gently dab this color on the areas of your eyelids just above your irises.








You can also dab a little of this color on your waterline if you like.
 To define your eyes a bit more, you can apply some black eyeliner to your upper waterline and apply some burgundy eyeliner to the edges of your lower waterline. Do not apply the liner to any other parts of your eyelids.








Remember to dry off your waterline with a cotton swab before you apply the eyeliner.
Try using a waterproof eyeliner on your waterline. Waterproof eyeliner is less likely to smear on your waterline than the non-waterproof kind., To complete your look, apply some mascara to your upper and lower lashes. Choose a true back mascara rather than a brown or blue. Black will look best with the red eyeshadow look.








You can also curl your upper lashes with an eyelash curler before applying the mascara if you like. Curling your lashes will give them more volume and definition.For even more lash volume, you can apply some fake eyelashes to your upper eyelids. Just be careful not to smear the eyeshadow.

