 Airline ticket fares can vary greatly depending on when you leave. Plan to book your tickets as far ahead of time as possible. Once you know the dates you will be in Utah, it will be easier to plan for everything else like hotel accommodations, lift tickets, etc.;
, Include your lodging costs in your budget after the airfare. With a little google-mapping, it is often possible to find a remote city or town that is close to the ski resorts you want to go to, but offers very cheap rates due to being the middle of nowhere.


For example, you might be able to locate a suitable motel offering rates of around $50 a night in Beaver, Utah, which is only 1 hour from Brian Head and 30 minutes from Eagle Point Ski resorts.
Keep in mind that lodging costs will vary from area to area. For example, it will be difficult to find cheap lodging in Park City, no matter where you look, because it's a notoriously expensive tourist area.
 Your transportation needs will vary depending on where you want to ski or snowboard and where you are staying.The cheapest mountain transportation options are offered by Utah's Transit Authority (UTA).


If you are staying in Salt Lake City or at the base of the Cottonwoods, there are public transportation options to get from the city to ski resorts in Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons (Brighton, Solitude, Snowbird and Alta). Check the UTA Ski bus schedule to plan ahead: http://www.rideuta.com/mc/?page=RidingUTA-SkiService

As with airfare, rental car arrangements should be booked as far ahead of time as possible. Don't be afraid to negotiate over the phone. Most rental car agencies do not have fixed prices for their vehicles, so it is often possible to get a cheaper rate with a little negotiation. Tell them that you're not able to afford to spend more than a set amount, and they might reduce the rental. Definitely worth it to negotiate and try your luck!

, Do you have your heart set on visiting the legendary Alta ski resort? Are you looking for a snowboard-friendly resort with lots of terrain parks? Determine what you like best about your skiing/riding experience and then figure out what mountains you want to visit during your trip based on these preferences. Every mountain has different things to offer, but it's useful to make a shortlist of some mountains that will help you to plan accordingly. This following list is not inclusive, but will get you started:


Alta - This is a skier's only mountain! All the skiers swear that this mountain has some of the best terrain they have ever skied.
Brighton - Located in Big Cottonwood Canyon, this mountain is one of the most snowboard-friendly mountains you will find. Of course, skiers are welcome too. Snowboarders will find special joy in the vast array of terrain parks available at this resort. Truly a local's mountain, Brighton offers great terrain and good deals on beginner packages if you are new to the sport.
Solitude - Located a few minutes south of Brighton, you will find some of the same awesome terrain at this mountain. However, don't expect to find much for terrain parks here. It is highly recommended that you're sure to hit the Summit lift before the end of your day. It is not to be missed.
Sundance - Sundance is one of the smaller ski resorts in Utah, but the offerings are anything but. You can find some of the cheapest lift tickets at this resort (as low as $30 a day on liftopia).
Park City Mountain Resort - If you're looking for a posh place to ski or ride, then Park City is the resort you want to visit. PCMR has more lifts than you can ever possibly ride in one day, including a lift that will drop you off right in the heart of downtown Park City (it's called the "Town" lift). PCMR offers nice scenic runs, but the lift tickets here are some of the most expensive out there.
Wolf Creek Mountain - Are you looking for a truly small, mom and pop mountain? Then Wolf Creek has what you're looking for. With a lodge that will time warp you straight back to 1993, Wolf Creek offers some seriously cheap lift tickets and amenities, at the sacrifice of only offering 2 or 3 lifts and limited terrain. This is a great place to go if you are or have a beginner with you though.
 The website www.liftopia.com has been a dollar-saver for skiers and snowboarders everywhere. With a little advanced planning, you can save yourself up to 80% off resort lift ticket prices by using their site and paying for your tickets ahead of time. The only catch is that you have to commit to being at the resort on the day that you purchase tickets for, however, this shouldn't be an issue with some planning and can actually help you make sure you're getting the most out of where you want to ski or snowboard in Utah.
