 One of the main things every teenage girl wishes for (if they aren't already blessed with it) is clear skin. The three main products you need for an effective skincare routine are a good cleanser, toner, and moisturiser that go with your skin type. There are five main kinds of skin types: Combination, Sensitive, Oily, Dry, and Normal. Match your skin type with the products below:


If you have a dry skin type, you need moisturizing products! Start off with a good cleaner. Follow up with a moisturizing toner and finish it all off with a high-power moisturizing product. Try a good cleanser. Keep your moisturiser oil-free to avoid clogging your pores.
On the other hand, if you have an oily skin type, go for a good cleanser and then a lightweight moisturiser. Lightweight means that it's oil-free and won't clog your pores.
If you have a combination skin, go for a good cleanser and then a regular moisturiser. It should be oil-free and light. Keep things in moderation.
If you're a lucky girl with a normal skin type, you're pretty much able to use whatever products you want. We'd suggest a good cleanser and a lightweight moisturiser. This way, your skin will be kept fresh and moisturized, but also control the amount of oil in your skin.
If you have sensitive skin, you'll need to take extra precautions with your skincare products so that they won't irritate your skin. Go to a dermatologist to see what they recommend.
If you have acne-prone skin, you'll need quality products to maintain a good complexion! Products like Neutrogena SkiniD and Proactiv are effective for sensitive skin.

Buy your products and start your routine! Wash your face at least once a day. For oily and combination skinned people, it is recommended to wash it twice a day, and once for the rest of the skin types. Wet your hands. Take some cleanser and dispense a small amount in your hands. Rub your hands together to spread the cleanser. Stand over a sink, close your eyes, and rub the cleanser thoroughly on your skin for 30 seconds. Stop for 5 seconds to allow the cleanser to settle. Then, rinse it out with cold water--this will close the pores. Pat your skin dry with a clean towel. After, apply the toner with a cotton pad. Let it sit until it is completely dry, and then dot moisturiser on your chin, forehead, nose, cheeks, and the region between your nose and mouth. Rub each area in, making sure there is no residue left on your skin.;
, One of the pleasures of being a girl (especially a beautiful and trendy girl) is wearing makeup! If you have great skin that isn't uneven, don't wear foundation or concealer! Learn to apply makeup, and to apply it well. Wear an amount that makes you happy. A good, simple makeup look that suits most girls are:


Use a concealer that matches your skin tone to cover any blemishes.
Take an eyeshadow colour that makes your eyes pop and apply it to your eyelids.

Line your lids with a black or dark-brown eyeliner.
(Optional) Curl your eyelashes.

Apply dark brown, clear, or black mascara.
(Optional) Apply blush to your cheeks.
Add light-coloured lipstick/lip gloss/lip balm to your lips. Try to match it with your natural lip colour, or go a few shades darker.
 You want to look good while wearing makeup, but you also want to look good when you have no makeup on at all!


To zap a zit overnight, purchase a Zeno Hot Spot (they can run a bit expensive) or put a dab of toothpaste (regular, not gel) on the zit. It should disappear!
To get rid of bags around eyes, take two thin, cold slices of cucumber or two frozen spoons. Place them over your eyelids and leave them there for 10 to 15 minutes.
For super chapped lips, take a clean, warm towel and rub it over your lips for one minute. The dry skin should rub off. Then, apply lip balm.
Drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day for clear and healthy skin.
Exercise frequently to stay in shape. Be careful not to overwork yourself! Space your exercise regimen responsibly and give your body time to recover to avoid injury.
 No matter what length, colour, or style your hair is, most people agree that the most attractive hair is moisturized, clean, and managed. Identify what problems you have most with your hair. Then, find a hairstyle you like. Preferably, it should go with your face shape, but go with what you feel. Visit a salon and ask some of the hairdressers for hairstyle suggestions. If you want, get highlights, low-lights, or a different hair colour!


There are so many different hairstyle options! Purchase some hair elastics, bobby pins that match your hair colour, a couple plastic headbands, some elastic headbands, mousse, and hairspray. If you don't already have one, splurge on a flat iron or curling iron, as well as a heat protectant. Straight, smooth hair is trendy and looks good on almost anyone. On the contrary, pretty, bouncy curls happen to be trendy and can completely alter your look. Try out different hairstyles and look at other people for inspiration!
Speaking of hair, there's another kind of hair- facial and body hair. There are many ways to remove your hair, and no worries, if you don't want to, you don't have to. If you do, there are many different ways to remove those hairs! You can try waxing, plucking, depilatory creams, and shaving. A rule of thumb is to never shave your facial hair. This backfires and will cause your hair to grow back thicker, longer, and darker than before. Plus, it will be harder to remove in the long run. Consult your parents or your friends for further advice on hair removal.
 The answer is no. Pale is equally (and sometimes even more) pretty than tanned, and actually looks better on some people. But if you adore the way you look with sunkissed skin, use a faux tan. If you buy the right one you won't look orange. Jergens is one type of tanner that works well.

