 Look at a calendar and discuss the best date to have a sleepover with your friend.;
, Make fun and colorful invitations. Make sure to add all the info the guests will need. A fun invite idea, buy some chocolate bars (one for each guest), take off the wrapper, but keep the foil on, and with a colorful piece of scrapbook paper the same size, decorate the outside and put the info on it. Then, tape the scrapbook paper around the foil, and hand deliver your chocolate invitations!

, Have some balloons on the mailbox too! Also, tablecloths and centerpieces are cool.
 You will need a bunch of fun things to do that ties with what your best friend loves to do. So, if your friend loves to sing. Play a few rounds of American Idol with 3 guests as judges. If your friend loves to scrapbook, supply everyone with mini scrapbooks and stickers to decorate a scrapbook. If your friend loves the spa, have everyone to pitch in to give the birthday girl a relaxing treat with massages, manicures, and face masks. Fill your night with fun!

, You will need a lot of snacks, and to prevent someone not liking what you have, have a variety of sweet and salty snacks. Soda is totally a must. Get at least 4 two liters of different soda and juices. Have bowls of chips and pretzels on a small table with plates and cups. For dinner, of course get pizza, or for a fun twist, buy pizza dough, cheese, and pizza topping and have guests to make their own. A small birthday cake or cookie cake in your best friends favorite flavor is perfect. Or again, have them bake and decorate their own cookies or cupcakes. You will need lots of snacks to keep the fun night rolling!

, Have her sit in a special chair with colorful balloons attached and pass her the gifts.
 Supply each girl with a bag of popcorn in a medium large bowl. Also, have the choice to add toppings like melted chocolate or shredded cheese for the girls to choose from. everyone should lie in their sleeping bags around the room to get comfy.
 Play huge rounds of Truth or Dare, Chicken Out, and others. This is the time to spill secrets and crushes! If a few girls don't want to play, have them play a fun board game in the meantime.
 It can be hard, so try to get a lot of sleep the night before.
 A great breakfast and all time favorite, make different types of pancakes, peanut butter (make sure no one is allergic), blueberry, strawberry, or chocolate pancakes are really good. Have choices as sides like sausage, bacon, and eggs. Always have syrup on hand too! To drink, have then girls pick out their favorite fruit and make smoothies. While the guests are waiting for their mom or dad to pick them up, have everyone say happy birthday to the birthday girl and watch a movie while waiting.
