 If you're prone to staying up late at night, you'll know the reddened, dry look of eyes that comes with sleep deprivation. Getting enough sleep is mandatory if you want to maximize the size of your eyes. Eyes need at least five hours per night to properly regenerate.Of course, you'll need at least seven to ensure you're generally feeling your best each day.;
, Puffy eyes are well-known to result from dehydration. Keeping up with your body's need for water will keep the puffiness at bay. Eight glasses of water is often cited as the goal amount per day.If you have trouble working water consumption into your current day schedule, try bringing a refillable bottle of water around with you. Drink some of it whenever you think of it. Keeping hydrated has a long list of benefits. Not only will you look more awake, you'll feel more awake.
 While moisturizing the area around the eyes is going to improve the look of your eyes the most, the fact remains you should be giving your face a full-blown moisture treatment. This will make you look more vibrant, which in turn will have a beneficial effect on the way your eyes are perceived. Treat your face with a facial moisturizer, and buy an eye moisturizer for the area around your eyes. Eye moisturizers are designed to be very mild, which is perfect for such a sensitive area.You can use your regular moisturizer around your eyes, but you may notice an improvement if you buy a specific eye moisturizer for the job. Eye moisturizers are especially helpful if you are prone to wrinkles around the eyes., Gently massaging your area around your eyes helps encourage blood flow, improving the look of your eyes and reducing dark eye circles. Slowly massage around the eye, rubbing in small circles. If you want to make it a regular habit however, you should purchase a vibrating eye roller.They are relatively inexpensive, limit the transmission of oils between hand and face, and are specifically designed to promote blood flow around the eyes.


If you massage with your hands, make sure you have no excess oils in or on your fingers. Otherwise, the exchange of oil may result in skin irritation.
 If you want to improve the look of any body part, the best way to do so is to exercise it. Though not increasing the actual size of your eyes per se, making sure your eyes are as strong as possible is important and shouldn't be overlooked.Alternate quickly between near and far sight. Purposefully switching between the two quickly will force your eyes to speed up the time they take to adapt.
Directional eye exercises will improve mobility and reaction time. Try moving your eyes in different directions. Keep your head locked in one place, then look up, down, left and right. Try moving your eyes as far in each direction as you can. This will maximize the effectiveness of the exercise.
 It's a well-known fact that your pupils will adjust according to the amount of light in your line of vision. Being somewhere darker or dimly lit will force your pupils to enlarge so they can trap more light. Going somewhere dark will naturally increase your pupil size as a result, which in turn may increase the apparent size of your eyes. Keep in mind the opposite is true for bright lights, so it's best to avert your gaze from any particular brightness if you want to keep your pupils in check.


Some research has suggested that your pupils will contract and dilate when you even think of a different light setting. If you're in a bind where you have no control over the light setting, imagine yourself in a dimly lit space and check to see if it has any effect on your eyes., Putting on an eye mask for ten minutes will reduce inflammation around your eyes. Done regularly, the skin around your eyes will be softer, and your eyes will find it easier to shine.If you don't have an eye mask at hand, rubbing ice cubes around your eyes will have much of the same effect.

