 Before you apply to get married in South Carolina, make sure you are not included in a class of people who cannot legally marry. People who cannot legally marry in South Carolina include:


mentally incompetent individuals
immediate family members
persons under the age of 16
anyone who is currently marriedAs of early June 2015, same-sex marriage is legal in South Carolina.;
, Under S.C. state law, only certain groups of people are required to show documentation to obtain a marriage license.However, check with your local probate court to determine what documents it may require you to show. Some courts ask for photo IDs and social security cards.State law does require some groups of people to show documents.


For example, an applicant between 16 and 18 who lives with his or her father, mother, other relative or guardian, cannot legally marry without a sworn affidavit consenting to the marriage. The affidavit must be signed by the family member or guardian with whom the applicant lives.Any individual under the age of 18 must show his or her birth certificate (or a hospital or baptismal certificate, military service identification card, selective service identification card, passport or visa).Individuals who are over 18 but under 25 years of age must furnish documents, satisfactory to the judge (or clerk), to prove his or her age., Fees can range from $40 to $70 for a marriage license.,To ensure you have the right fee, contact your local probate court to determine what it charges to apply.
 Both parties must apply together for a marriage license in South Carolina. Therefore, it is a good idea to set a date and time convenient to both parties, to go to the court and apply.
 Once you arrive at the court, ask to be directed to the marriage license division. Request a marriage license application from the court staff.
 You will have to include your name, address and phone number. The application will also ask for your social security number and (likely) your date and place of birth.


Under S.C. law, you and your partner will have to complete a statement under oath or affirmation that you are legally entitled to marry (i.e. that you are not currently in another marriage or are not in a class of people who cannot marry).
After you have completed the application and oath, hand it to the court personnel, along with the required fee. Court personnel will note the hour and date of filing the application.If you want to receive your marriage license by mail, make that request to the court. There may be an additional fee of around $1 (for the postage) for the mailing service., Under S.C. law, all parties must wait 24 hours before they can receive their marriage license. Court personnel will hand you your marriage license certificate in triplicate (three copies). Court staff will note the hour and date of issuance, to prove the 24 hour wait time.
 Only certain individuals can perform a marriage ceremony in South Carolina. These individuals include: ministers and rabbis, officers authorized to administer oaths in S.C. and a chief or spiritual leader of a Native American entity recognized by the S.C. Commission for Minority Affairs., Prior to the wedding, turn over the marriage license to your wedding official. An experienced official should be familiar with the forms and the license process.
 Immediately after the wedding ceremony the official should complete the license forms. He or she should give one of the three completed copies back to you for your records.
 Once the court receives the two copies, it records and indexes one copy in the public court record and sends one copy to the Division of Vital Statistics of the Department of Health and Environmental Control., At this point, you are legally married under the state of South Carolina. Retain your copy of the marriage license for your records. If you ever lose your copy, you can request a copy from the court.


Additionally, if you ever need a certified copy of your marriage license, you can request one from the court.
A certified copy is a copy that is certified as true by court personnel. There is an additional fee associated with a certified copy that varies by county. A typical fee is around $5.You can determine the exact fee by contacting your local court.

