 Inhaling steam can help to clear your nasal passageways and allow to you to breathe more comfortably.There are several ways to breathe steam safely.For an especially quick option:


Soak a clean towel in hot water and wring it out until the towel is damp.
Make sure the towel is a safe temperature.
Place the towel over your nose and mouth and breathe deeply and evenly.;
, Turn the shower on at the hottest water setting. Let it run for a few minutes to steam up the bathroom. Be sure to reduce the temperature to a safe, warm temperature before entering the shower. Breathe deeply, and relax!

, Heat distilled water to just below boiling and pour it into a container that is stable and heat safe. Secure the container by setting it on a flat surface and make sure the rising in steam is not too hot to breathe safely. Lean over the container and deeply breathe in the steam. For maximum steaminess, tent a towel over your head and the container.
 This may be an especially worthy measure to take if you’re spending time in an environment with dry air. Both add moisture to the air, which will ease congestion due to a cold or dry nasal passages.Vaporizers increase air humidity by producing steam, and some include features that allow you to vaporize menthols or other additives that may further increase your comfort.
 This is an important step, both in the short and long term. Staying hydrated can help keep your mucus thin, which can help keep your nasal passages from blocking up.As a rule of thumb, men should drink at least 13 cups (3 liters) of liquid per day, and women should drink nine cups (2.2 liters).When ill, you should be drinking even more!
Hot tea, clear broth, and hot water with lemon and honey are great beverages options, as rising steam will immediately improve breathing, and hydration is a key aspect of getting and staying healthy!Just make sure they are not so hot you burn your mouth!
Avoid beverages with alcohol, high amounts of sugar, and caffeine. These drinks can work against your body’s ability to stay hydrated., Saline spray, which is actually just salt water, will often immediately alleviate congestion-related discomfort.


Make your own saline spray with 1 teaspoon of table salt and 2 cups of warm water. Stir until salt is dissolved and apply to nostril with a nasal syringe., Some readily available options include squeeze bottles, bulb syringes, or Neti-pots. Flush the nasal passages with a sterile saline solution. This will remove thickened mucus and allergens that are the most likely culprits of nasal congestion. Make your own saline solution by mixing 16 ounces of lukewarm water with 1 teaspoon of salt. Adding a ½ teaspoon of baking soda will reduce the stinging sensation. Squirt the solution into one nostril, then let it drain through your nasal cavity and out the other nostril. Be sure to keep your mouth open and don't breathe through your nose.