 If you want to keep your shared apartment or dorm room to a certain standard of organization, the best thing you can do is to stick to this level yourself. Make sure your food is put away, your dishes are clean, and your dirty clothes are placed in the the hamper. Don’t expect your roommate to be tidy if your portion of the apartment is messy.Look around at your shared spaces, and notice your part of the mess.
Remember, it’s often a lot easier to spot other people’s mess than it is your own. Try to set a higher standard for yourself than you do for your roommate.
 If your roommate’s things are scattered all over the apartment, you might consider gathering it all up and placing it in a pile. She might get the message and start to keep the room a little cleaner...or, she might not.Whether she gets the message or not, your shared space will be clean for a temporary period of time.
If you haven’t talked to her about your feelings, this might be interpreted as a passive-aggressive act.
 If your roommate’s mess is really getting out of hand, you might consider just cleaning it up yourself. While this might not feel fair, this solution will help address your need for a cleaner house, and probably won’t take very long. Whether it’s washing all the dirty dishes your roommate has piled up in the sink (and on the counters, and on the table, and in front of the television…), or just wiping up the hairs left in the shower drain, you can take action to make your space the way you want it.If your roommate notices, she might get the hint that you’d like to live in a cleaner space. Or, she might think you’re a “clean-freak” with control issues.
Follow up your cleaning binge with a conversation about your desire for a different standard of cleanliness in your shared dorm or apartment. Otherwise, you might get trapped into continuing to do your roommate’s cleaning for her.
Don’t do this more than once, unless your roommate has a life situation (a death in the family, a serious illness, etc.) that’s substantially out of the ordinary.

