 Many people celebrate the time-saving benefits of making a daily to-do list each night before bed. Take this concept further by ranking your decisions from important to not-so-important. Then, prioritize the most important ones for the next morning.Decision fatigue builds and self-control declines as the day goes on. Make sure you tackle the most significant decisions first.
 If you’re struggling with making a decision, try narrowing down your options a bit. You’re more likely to become fatigued—and put the decision off—when you have a seemingly infinite list of options. Skip choice overload and narrow yours down to three top picks. Then, choose from there.For example, if you include every possible country and city in your list of vacation options, you’ll have trouble deciding. Instead, select three destinations you’re most interested in. Then, narrow it down further from those three options until you pick a winner.
 The more time you have to make a decision, the more time it may take you to make it. Setting a time limit on your decision-making may help to make it easier for you to make the decision. Like deadlines that motivate you to get a task done, set a time-frame for your decision-making window. This minimizes the amount of time and energy you spend in analysis paralysis.Depending on how big the decision is, give yourself a suitable window (e.g. eight hours, a day, or a week).
 Another useful decision-making habit is the “if-then” scenario. By establishing what you’ll do when a certain circumstance occurs, you reduce the need to decide. This can be especially helpful when you are forced to make decisions under pressure, when frustrated, or when tired.For instance, you might say, “If I have completed 75% of my homework, I will go out with friends.” If the conditions aren’t met, you don’t do it. This will help to make you feel more in control.
 Another cause of decision fatigue is second-guessing a decision once it’s been made. Doing so drains you of mental energy, and can even result in anxiety. As a rule-of-thumb, once you’ve made a decision, take down the rearview mirror and proceed with confidence, no matter what.One exception to this rule: engage in a period of reflection after a bad mistake. Although you shouldn't dwell, spend some time figuring out where you went wrong and how you can avoid a similar bad decision in the future.

