 If you have run away from home or your life. You will have limited resources available in the form of money, food and shelter. It is important you are safe and healthy.


You need to find somewhere that you can sleep safely. Look in the phone directory for homeless shelters or charities that support the homeless to assist you in finding a location and can assist in sourcing food.
Until you have further money your diet is going to be basic, so if you have some money and you cannot source free food from homeless kitchen or charity vans, try the supermarket home brand food as it is often the cheapest.
Keep in mind your facilities; if you don't have access to a stove or microwave, frozen meals aren't going to help you.;
, When you run away you are on your own in the world, and the world has the potential to be a dangerous and dark place. You need to have plans and strategies to keep yourself safe. What do you plan to do with your life, now that you are away? It isn't realistic to just hide forever, you need to join the world somehow. Even as a homeless person they establish themselves with a corner to busk or beg for money and have a repeated place or places they go to sleep.
 While you may have left your home because of a bad situation, think about how your family must be feeling. Is what you left for really that bad to inflict this much pain on them? Is a fight about a video game or a car worth them thinking you are dead? Think about the grief they must be enduring. If the situation was that bad, think about your extended family or friends. Is there anyone in your world you can communicate with? Communicating doesn't mean going back; it just means ending the grief and sadness your departure has caused. Not knowing if you are alive or dead is the worst feeling for people who love you. Think about whether you really want to cause that.
 Do you see yourself in the future just staying lost, or do you want to re-enter the world? If you do, how are you going to get accommodation? Do you need to eventually go back to school to get a job? How are you going to do that? Do you need to wait until you are old enough so that the law can't force you back home? If that is the case, how are you going to get an income? How are you going to hold a job without indicating where you are? Most jobs require lodging of tax information which in turn require your identity; how are you going to get around this?

, There are a lot of free resources for children or adults that need help. Free telephone counselling is available to help you resolve the issues. Talk to charity workers about your life and why you left it and maybe they can help find a way back if you want it. If not, they can still help with any feelings of sadness, anger or depression you may be carrying around.

