 Making a crocheted wreath is one of the easiest types of Christmas ornaments that you can crochet, but you will need a few things to complete this project. You will need:


A ball of green yarn (medium weight).
A size J (size 10) hook.
Embellishments of your choice, such as pompoms, sequins, buttons, ribbon, etc.
A pair of scissors.
White glue or hot glue.;
, To start your wreath, make a single chain of 10 crocheted loops. Then, connect the first loop with the last loop to form a circle. This will be the base of your wreath and you will build on it by crocheting around the outer edges.To connect the first and last loops, insert the crochet hook through the first and last loops, and then loop your yarn over the hook and pull this loop through.
 To begin building your wreath outwards, you will need to crochet around the outer edges of your circle using the hook.Use a double crochet stitch to expand the wreath outwards.


You can make the wreath as wide as you like, but you should only need to stitch one to three times around the circle.
 When you have made the circle as wide as you want it to be, you can connect the ends and close it off. To do this, take your hook with the last loop you created still on it and insert it into a nearby loop. After you pass the hook through this loop, wrap the yarn over the needle and then pull it through.To secure the last loop, crochet one more loop from the free end of the yarn, cut the end of the yarn, and then pull it tight to make a knot. You can sew this end into the edge of your wreath with a darning needle.
 To embellish your wreath, you will can add buttons, sequins, pompoms, ribbon, or any other embellishments that you want to add. Use a white glue or a hot glue gun to secure the embellishments on the wreath.You can use any color of embellishments that you like. Try

, To hang your wreath on a Christmas tree, you will need to add an ornament hook or a piece of yarn. If you are using yarn, then tie together the ends of a 6” to 8” piece of yarn. Then, use your crochet hook to loop this yarn through the top of your wreath and then pull it through itself to secure the yarn. You can use the loop to hang the wreath ornament on your tree.