 If you are unable to resolve your dispute through face-to-face negotiation, a neutral third party mediator may be able to help you come to a mutually agreeable settlement.Mediation can't go forward unless both parties agree. The process is entirely voluntary, and if the two of you don't reach a compromise, the mediator won't force you to agree to anything.
Mediation also has the benefit of being confidential, which your landlord might prefer to a public lawsuit that could do damage to his or her reputation.
 Unless your lease agreement specifies a particular mediator to be used in any disputes, you and your landlord will have to agree on which service to use.Free or low-cost community mediation programs that handle landlord-tenant disputes are available in many areas, particularly larger cities and college towns.
You typically can find mediators by calling the clerk's office of your county courthouse. Some courts also have links to mediation services on their websites.
 You want to bring any documents or evidence that support your position with you to mediation.If you have photos or videos of your unit or problems you've encountered, you should bring those along with you – both for your landlord and so the mediator can better understand the issue.
You also want to bring along copies you have of any letters you sent to your landlord or notice you provided of an issue that wasn't resolved.
 You and your landlord will meet your mediator, who will introduce him- or herself and explain a little about the mediation procedure and what to expect.Typically the mediation session begins with each side making an opening statement regarding the dispute.
The mediator will encourage you to discuss any issue that you consider important. At the beginning of the mediation session, everything is on the table – even if you aren't able to work out a resolution to all issues.
 Although procedures vary among mediation services, generally you and your landlord will be separated after opening statements to meet with the mediator privately.The mediator typically will keep you and your landlord talking even if it seems as though you're not going to reach a solution. Keep in mind that mediators are trained to help two parties understand and work through their problems.
You may discover that some other issue is really at the root of the problem, and resolving that is the key to working things out.
 If you and your landlord come to a compromise that settles your dispute, either in whole or in part, make sure that agreement is memorialized in a written contract signed by both you and your landlord.Keep in mind that the mediator doesn't have any authority to bind you and your landlord to the agreement. However, if you both sign a written agreement it is legally binding to the same extent any other contract would be.
Read over the written contract before you sign it and make sure it says what you understand the agreement to be.

