 You will want to have several ways to obtain cash in the Emirates, so opt for a major credit card that can be used abroad and an automated teller machine (ATM) card that can withdraw cash from a major account.


Calling the customer service number on the back of your ATM and credit card will place notes on the accounts about when and where you plan to travel. You are less likely to have purchases flagged as possible card theft, which can lead to a hold on your account.
Check on the rates of your debit and credit cards before leaving your country. Some cards charge an extra fee for ATM or credit card usage in foreign currencies. Choose the cards that have the most reasonable rates before you travel.;
, Dollars and pounds are more likely to be exchanged than other currencies, although you may be able to exchange other currencies at certain banks or airports.
 Some people choose to keep traveler's checks in another bag or in a money belt, in case of theft. If you do this, you should choose banks like HSBC and Thomas Cook that have locations in the major cities of the UAE.


Traveler's checks from smaller banks may not be accepted at banks, hotels and exchange houses.
 Airports are known for having more costly exchange rates, in general. However, this is a good place to exchange your first $100, so that you have money to pay for services and tips on the way to your hotel.


If you are flying into Dubai, search for the currency exchange locations in your terminal at dubaiairport.com/en/passengers/AirportServices/Pages/Currencyexchange.aspx,

, If you are simply wanting to exchange dollars or pounds, your hotel may be able to offer you a rate similar to the airport. They are unlikely to exchange traveler's checks.
 These machines are available all over the UAE, in malls, in hotels and in banks. Simply type in your pin, request the money and you will receive cash in Dirhams.
 Go to HSBC or Thomas cook to get cash exchanged for traveler's checks or to exchange cash.


UAE banking hours are slightly different than in the US or Britain. They are open between 8 am and 1 pm and 4 pm to 6 pm Monday through Thursday. They are closed all day on Friday. Some exchange businesses are open for a portion of the day on Friday.
 People often find that the fees are more favorable here than in the airport or at hotels.
 If you are exchanging more than several hundred dollars, you should do some research in the city where you are staying to get a favorable rate.
 You will get discounts for using cash in most markets and with many services. Use the credit card for larger travel services, like accommodations, to use your cash when it is necessary.

