 Social support is crucial to coping with suicidal thoughts.This is because not having social support can result in depression and increased thoughts of suicide.However, after a suicide attempt you may need to regain some of the trust you had with your friends and family. These relationships may need some time to heal. Try your best to increase closeness and support with these individuals before you try to make new friends.


Look at your life as a fresh start. You have been blessed with surviving your suicide attempt.
Avoid thinking that you necessarily have to switch schools or jobs in order to avoid feeling different or judged (unless you are being bullied).
If you are in an abusive relationship, seek help. Staying in an abusive relationship will only take a greater physical and emotional toll on you.;
, Individuals who have attempted suicide often face difficult feelings (sadness, anger, fear). Expressing these feelings can help make them less severe over time.


Talk to people who you feel can listen to you without judgment and see the good in you.Let your emotions out. You can do this by crying when sad or boxing (in a safe environment) when angry. Crying with others, if you feel comfortable, can also be a healing experience.
Writing your feelings down is a good way to process them. Then you can read your thoughts and feelings to someone you trust if you feel comfortable.
 Go see a therapist or a counselor, especially if you have continued depression or thoughts of harming yourself. They can help you get your life back in order, and may even offer you extra tips on how to make friends.


Pinpoint the reason why you attempted suicide. Work with a psychiatrist/counselor to accept what happened and change your perspective on that item as opposed to trying to work on it by yourself. Attempting suicide indicates some very serious underlying issues that don't resolve themselves or go away. The most productive thing you can do for yourself is to go to therapy sessions until you feel you're able to cope and move past your suicidal thoughts and feelings.

