 After establishing your server, the next immediate thing you need to do is to put up a firewall. Firewalls are programs the filter out the information that goes in and out of your computer.


There are a lot of firewall applications available on the Internet and from local computer stores, but even the less experienced hackers can get past these. Invest on a well-developed and reputable application to ensure utmost security.
Firewalls are installed just like any other programs and are more than capable of protecting small scale servers. But if you’re running several mainframes, enterprise firewalls need to be installed by a software security specialist.;
, When creating your program codes for applications that your intended end users interacts with, make sure that appropriate error trappings are placed within the application. Hackers typically use SQL injections, or the manipulation of an application’s code through its URL or SQL forms.


When your program lacks error trappings that can cover loopholes where SQL queries can be injected, your server becomes a sitting duck to hackers.
 SSL, or Secure Sockets Layer, is an Internet security protocol that protects your server by making sure that all information that goes in and out of the system remains private and inaccessible to third-party users.


Hackers can easily get the information from your server if it does not ask an SSL certificate. You can take advantage of this technology for your server by visiting the SSL website (http://info.ssl.com/) and availing its service.
 Your server will need to accept data from end users in order for it to gather information. Though uploads are necessary, you still need to limit the amount of information going in to the system.


To do this, format forms properly to make sure that only the required data gets into the system.
 Passwords are the most basic tool you can use and your first line of defense in protecting your server from hackers. Using passwords restricts any unauthorized access to your system; those without extensive technical know-how will find it hard to get into your system.


Make sure that the password you make are complex and very hard to crack. Using combinations of special characters, mixed cases and numbers will make it harder to break.

