 You may have to follow up more than once with prospective clients.


Create a database to hold all your lead information. The database should contain the business name, the contact's title and full name, the phone number, the mailing address, and an email address. This makes it easy to follow up with business prospects.;
, It's always a pleasant surprise when someone recognizes you and remembers your name the next time they see you.
 You can use a quick call, letter or a brief email to do so.


Let the business prospect know that you enjoyed talking with him during your initial point of contact. Include personal information to help the individual remember you. For example, if you meet a person at your child's little league game, be sure to mention that fact.
Tell the potential client that you wanted to follow up. Offer your services, go over your idea or share something useful. Most people like to feel that they are getting something for nothing.
Pique the individuals interest in some way. You'll want to let the person know exactly how you can help fulfill her needs later one. This can also be a good time to mention any free offers or special promotions that are available for new clients.
Be sure to provide business prospects with your contact information, including your full name, phone number and a business email address. This allows interested individuals a way to get in touch with you.
Close your conversation or email with something friendly. This is another area where you can make a personal connection. For example, you could mention that you look forward to seeing the potential client at the next little league game.
 Briefly state the reason for your call, let the person know you will try to reach him again and close with an upbeat ending or well wishes.


Stay in touch with business prospects and past customers. The chance for a successful sale decreases dramatically after the first 72 hours after your initial contact.
 Some companies use a standard follow-up process, making contact at 24 hours, 72 hours and 2 weeks. Also, contact your leads any time you have a new special or promotion.
 This can help you tailor your proposal each time you talk.

