 This is a good way to start with using a behavior chart, especially with younger kids. This type of chart is dedicated to adjusting a single behavior, such as “saying thank you” or “sharing your toys.” You can download sample versions, or simply make a grid with the days of the week down the first column, a space for daily totals in the last column, and the number of columns you expect to need in between (perhaps five to seven) for placing stickers when the good behavior occurs.Keep the chart in a prominent place, and place earned stickers on the chart as soon as possible — or let your child do it. Do regular progress reports each day and an end-of-day tally with your kid. Especially for younger kids, use immediate rewards that can be earned quickly (daily, for instance). Five “thank yous” in a day could equal doing a special puzzle together, for example.
 These charts are only slightly more complicated, and work best with kids who have multiple and related behaviors that need addressed. For instance, they are great options for kids who struggle with either morning or bedtime routines. Once again, create a grid with the days of the week in the left column and totals on the right. In between, create columns for each particular element of the related behaviors / routines (bathing, putting on pajamas, brushing your teeth, etc.).Add stickers or checkmarks upon completion of each task, and keep a daily tally in the far right column and a weekly individual task tally in the bottom row of the grid.
Keeping both daily and per-task tallies provides more opportunities for encouragement and rewards. You can, for instance, reward each time an entire routine is completed properly, as well as when an individual task is completed satisfactorily at least five times in a week.
 It is a good idea for kids of any age to have age-appropriate chores around the house, as they help teach the importance of both individual and shared responsibilities. A simple chore chart can have a days-of-the-week column on the left, and columns to the right for each individual chore the child has (with a couple of blank columns for occasional or one-time chores).Since specific chores might vary day-to-day, you may want to determine a set number of daily checkmarks/stickers as the prize threshold.
Be clear with your kid that the criteria for rewards isn’t set in stone. If it’s too difficult or too easy for your child to achieve rewards, clearly explain the adjustments you’re making — and perhaps create a new chart with some minor cosmetic changes to indicate the “fresh start.”

, If the behavior you need to address is your child’s laxness in completing school assignments on time, a chart can once again be a useful tool. For small kids, a simpler grid system with single boxes for each day’s homework may suffice. For older children, you may want to use a more complex grid system broken down by day, subject, and progress toward task completion. Look for samples online.Consider working with your child’s teacher in using this chart. You might create a somewhat smaller, more portable version that your child can bring to and from school, so that the teacher can check off assignments that are turned in.

