 Since driving is one of the biggest ways people contribute to global warming, minimizing how much you drive will make a huge impact. There are many ways you can do this:Carpool to work with others.
Using mass transportation. Consider riding the bus, using the subway, or taking a train.
Plan weekly or monthly shopping trips, instead of going out whenever you need something.
 Buy a new bicycle, a used one, or refurbish one. While you don’t need to bicycle everywhere, you can use it to get around town, exercise, and to visit friends. In the end, you’ll save energy and get in shape., If you can't live without a car, then use it in a way that minimizes global impact. By regularly maintaining your vehicle, you’ll save money on gasoline and on future repairs.



Keep your car tires adequately inflated. Under-inflated tires can reduce fuel economy by up to 3% and are subject to increased wear and tear. Check them monthly.

Change your air filter. Check your car's air filter monthly. Cleaning your air filter improves your mileage and reduces pollution because it makes it easier for your car to take in air and maintain a proper fuel/air mixture., Insulate anything that uses energy to stay a different temperature from its environment. You can buy insulation from hardware stores and in many varieties.


Keep your water heater insulated to save up to 1,000 lbs. of carbon dioxide a year. Avoid using units fitted with continuous pilot lights, and you will save 200 kilograms of greenhouse gas emissions yearly.
Re-insulate your whole home to reduce heating and cooling costs. If your insulation is old or inefficient, replace it. Consider the attic, crawlspaces, basement, walls, and ceiling. If you have awkward spaces, be aware that cellulose or fiberglass insulation can be blown in by a professional contractor.

Weather strip your home. Weather strip your doorways, windows and HVAC system. This could save up to 1,700 lbs. of carbon a year., Walk around your home and count how many incandescent light bulbs you have. Then, go to the store and buy compact fluorescent or LED bulbs to replace them. By replacing your old lightbulbs, you’ll save a lot of power.A standard compact fluorescent bulb will save around one third of a ton of greenhouse gas over its life.
LED lightbulbs are the most efficient and can save a lot of power. However, they may be costlier.
Consider substituting as many energy efficient bulbs as you can, and give them as gifts to family and friends. Donate a set to a local charity to refit their office.

