 "A dog biting a man is not news," states an old journalism cliché, "but a man biting a dog is." News stories need to have an impact on their readers by exposing something they didn't already know. As you are brainstorming, ask yourself if the story is relevant to your community, if there something unique or out-of-the-ordinary, or if it sheds light on a previously mysterious event or phenomenon.


A good reporter bears witness to a person, event, or trend that a reader could not see on their own.
The best news stories contain a little bit of everything by bringing a new and fresh perspective to the world. , No matter what your topic, readers turn to newspapers to learn something, and they have the assumption that what they are reading is true. If an article is inaccurate or false then it does not matter how good the writing is -- the article has failed. You can prevent this by researching fully before you write, using a variety of sources, and looking into any facts that feel fishy or incorrect.


Always take notes while you do research, and keep a log of your sources in case a story's veracity is questioned.
Never use only one source of information-- interview more than one person, consult more than one book, and dig as deep into the topic as you possibly can.
Ask your sources if they can recommend anyone else to talk to, or further events worth covering. , At minimum, a news article needs to cover five basic questions about your subject: Who, What, Where, When, & Why. While artfully told stories and poetic language make a story better, a newspaper article doesn't work if it cannot provide the reader with these basic facts. While some of these points may be less important than others depending on the story, they should all be covered at some point.


List these five words out on a sheet of paper and fill them in before you begin writing. If you're missing one, go back and find the answer.
Many articles need to go further by answering "How?" or "So What?" to fully explore the story. , The lead is the first sentence of a story, and it needs to both grab the reader and tell them exactly what the story is about. Short, punchy, and informative, the lead is the most important sentence in the article and is usually the hardest part of the story to write.


The lead line needs to contain the central idea of the story. If you're writing about a possible peace deal, don't write "US and Iraq met yesterday to talk." Say, "Yesterday, American and Iraqi diplomats began peace-keeping negotiations for the first time in a decade." , Your first paragraph should contain the most relevant information to the story so that anyone reading it knows more or less what happened. This is your pyramid's base. You then adds specific facts and ideas by expanding from the points made in the first paragraph. This allows readers to be informed no matter where they quit reading


While the opening paragraph does not need to contain all "five W's," it should cover the most essential ones.
As you write ask yourself: "if an editor cut my story after this paragraph, would it still feel complete?" Space restrictions in print papers make this a very real possibility. , Being objective, or sticking to facts and figures instead of your opinions, is at the center of a writer's trustworthiness. People read the news to get information and they trust that it will not be biased. If you are a liberal who is assigned to write about the local Republican town meeting, for example, you do not want to insult or deride the politicians you are covering.


Research all viewpoints equally on controversial subjects. If you interview the lawyer defending a criminal, for example, you should interview the prosecutor as well, no matter what you think of the case.
If there is a conflict of interest, such as reporting a scandal at your parents' business, you should ask another reporter to cover the story.
 Nothing can derail a reporter's credibility faster than typos and incorrect facts. Make sure you've accurately quoted sources and that you've formatted your article correctly.


try to cut any words, sentences, or phrases that are unnecessary to the story. People appreciate brevity and want to get right to the facts.
 The best photo-journalism tells a version of the story all by itself. Since space is often limited in papers you need to pick the one or two photos that best represent your article so that anyone thumbing through has an idea what they'll be reading.


If you are publishing online you may have the ability to post as many pictures as you want. Still, you want the first picture a reader sees to be the best one you have.
Never stage a photo, steal a photo you found online, or photograph people without their permission. Use a consistent format for your newspaper. You can download free style guides for the most common newspaper formats, Associated Press and APA, online. No matter what style you choose (AP, APA, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, etc.) make sure every reporter sticks to the same style guide.
Have someone else check your article to insure that you didn't miss anything on your own.

