 Dogs are now living longer than ever with improved veterinary care and dietary habits. But as dogs get older, they have a different set of age-related conditions. These can include cancer, liver disease, senility, and weakness. Scheduling regular vet visits for your older dog can prevent or catch potential health problems early.Schedule vet visits at least twice a year and more often if necessary.
Let your vet know if you notice any new symptoms in your dog such as lack of mobility or weight gain.
 Older dogs' behavior can change as they age. You may notice that your older dog grooms itself less often.Helping your dog maintain its hygiene can boost health and wellbeing.Groom your dog yourself if you feel comfortable. Keep the session to 10 minutes and make sure your dog is lying or standing on a soft and non-skid surface. Use softer brushes or combs.Consider a professional groomer who works with older dogs. A trip to a groomer may cause an older dog stress, so finding someone who will groom your dog at your home may ease your pet. Let your groomer know about any special needs your dog has., As dogs get older, they become especially sensitive to their surroundings. Environmental factors such as extreme temperatures or basic tasks such as having to climb stairs can stress your dog or may even be too difficult. Taking some time to adjust your dog’s environment for its age can ensure that it is comfortable. It also is a way to show your older dog affection.Consider placing stair steps or ramps in areas your dog likes to go. This can keep your dog from jumping, which helps keep joints healthy.
Make your dog a cozy bed that also keeps it warm. You can purchase a plush dog bed or even an orthopedic bed to make sleeping stress-free and comfortable.
Avoid extreme temperatures by keeping your older dog indoors when necessary. This can prevent stress and promote health and wellbeing. Consider keeping your dog’s fur longer to aid warmth. If this isn’t possible, sweaters and blankets can help keep your dog warm in colder temperatures., As dogs age, they may have difficulty handling stress. You can show your affection for your older dog by preventing as much stress as possible. Show your dog affection by petting and talking to it, which may help it relax., It can be difficult to leave your older dog at home. This may upset your dog. Having toys suitable for older dogs can divert its attention until you get home. Some toys that may relax your older dog include:Soft rubber toys for chewing and carrying around
“Busy box” toys with hiding places for snacks
Balls
Soft and/or plush toys without stuffing
Dirty laundry that smells like you

, Since older dogs are often stressed by change, you may find it gets separation anxiety more often. This can lead to destructive behaviors such as chewing, whining, scratching, and defecation. Showing your dog affection may relax it and minimize separation anxiety. Other actions that may prevent separation anxiety include:Gently petting and praising your dog before you leave and as soon as you arrive
Leaving recently worn clothing that smells like you
Saying a word that lets your dog know you’ll return soon
Setting up a comfy room or crate that simulates a den
Offering busy toys for distraction

