 Examples include streamers made to look like seaweed, paper fish, sea creatures, toy boats, starfish, shells, sand, sponges etc.;
, Leave them plain for decorating by the party guests. Set out a decorating area with icing, candies, sprinkles etc. and have the children spend some time icing their own fish cookies. Do this early in the party, so that the children can take home their creations to eat later.
 Here are some ideas:


Pin the legs on the octopus - Make the octopus and leave some of the legs off for taping on.
Nemo Treasure Hunt - take photos of a Nemo toy in various places in the garden. The children have to look at the photos and find the Nemo toys hidden in each one. The finder gets to keep the Nemo toy. Use chocolate fish or ordinary fish toys if preferred.
Watery games - anything wet could be good if the weather is right and parents aren't fussed. Water bombing is a fun water game, with supervision. If it's really hot, ask the kids to come in their swim gear and use sprinklers, hoses etc. as part of the entertainment.
Fishing - make fish shapes out of cardboard and place a paper clip "nose" on each fish. Make fishing rods from bamboo sticks with string attached and a small magnet or hook at the end (whichever works best for you) and have the kids fish for a catch. Make sure to include other items, such as an old boot, a tin can etc. The winner is the one with the most fish.

Pass the deep sea parcel - have chocolate fish, gummy sharks etc. as the prizes in the parcel.
 Fish shaped fish bakes, chips, cupcakes decorated with a mermaid, or a shark, or just a general sea theme etc. Look for shell shaped food, such as chocolate. In fact, anything shaped like a fish, a sea creature, shells, seaweed, starfish, driftwood, sand castles, etc. is fine.
 Anything that can be found under the sea, real or fantasy, can inspire the cake. For example, Nemo, a treasure chest, a shark, a dolphin, a seal, submarine, etc. are just some ideas for an under the sea cake. The image shows a fairytale castle under the sea.
 Add the decorated fish cookies to the bag, as well as some sea creature toys (the stretchy ones are great), maybe a coloring book of sea animals, and other sea themed toys.

