 There's a chance that the other driver may try to drive off, especially if they’re at fault. As soon as your car stops moving, look at the back of their car. Note the license plate number, and keep repeating it out loud until you can write it down. Do the same with the make, model and color.


Turn this information into a string you can memorize and give it a rhythm. For example: “Blue Toyota Corolla 922 RIE”.
Try to get a picture of the other car with your phone, but only if the car is pulled over and stopped.
 Check yourself for injuries first. You’re unlikely to be seriously injured in a minor accident, but you should still check for whiplash or concussions. Check your passengers as well. Ask them if they feel any pain or discomfort. Headaches could be indicative of a concussions, so pay particular attention to what your passengers say., It’s important to call the police, particularly if repairs are going to be needed. The police report will help the insurance companies determine who is responsible for paying.Ask the police if you should cautiously move the car out of the travel lane, if it will move and it is safe to do so. Do not move far lest the other driver think you are trying to flee.
 Depending on the accident, you might need to move your car to avoid putting other drivers in danger. For instance, if your car is in the middle of a traffic lane, you should try to move it to the side of the road.
 The hazard lights will be a first warning to other drivers of a possible obstruction; doing this makes makes things safer both for you and incoming traffic. Make sure to turn off your engine. A damaged, running engine can leak fluid and cause problems., In a minor accident, your car is unlikely to be at risk of catching fire. Do not step out into fast-moving traffic--go out the opposite door if necessary. The police will be able to direct traffic away safely soon. Be especially careful at night. It is much better to have someone hit your car with you in it than to have them hit you out of it.