 In order to get an appointment at a Passport Agency, you need proof that your are traveling within two weeks of your appointment date., It’s often much faster to get your expedited passport at one of the 28 passport agencies. They can issue your new passport within one or two business days., You need an appointment to apply for a passport at one of the passport agencies.


Make an appointment by calling (877) 487-2778. The appointment system is available daily from 8am to 10pm Eastern Time, except federal holidays., Once you have an appointment with a Passport Agency, figure out which application forms to take with you. The State Department has different forms according to what kind of passport you need, from new passports to extra visa pages.


Fill out Form DS-82 if you're renewing your passport.Fill out Form DS-5504 if you need to change your name on your passport, for example because you got married.If the information on your passport is inaccurate, you also need to fill out Form DS-5504.Fill out Form DS-4085 if you need extra visa pages.Fill out form DS-11 if you are a first time passport applicant or your most recent passport was issued more than 15 years ago.Fill out Forms DS-11 and DS-64 if your passport is lost, stolen, or damaged. , All passport applications require additional documentation to the application forms.


You’ll need proof of US citizenship, such as an expired passport or a driver’s license or military identification and Social Security card, or birth certificate; and passport sized photographs. You’ll also need a separate copy of your photo identification.Parents applying for a child’s passport must prove their relationship to the child. For example, you can provide a document such as the child's birth certificate., All passport applications require at least one passport photo.


You can have official passport sized photos made at places such as the United States Postal Service offices, stores like CVS, or even professional photography stores.
 You must submit payment for passport and application fees with your application. Make sure to calculate the right amount to avoid any delay in getting your passport.


Additional services, including getting an expedited passport, cost more than the standard passport issuing fees.
Passport agencies accept cash, money orders, personal checks, and debit/ credit cards as a form of payment for passport services.A standard passport booklet and passport card costs $140.Expedited service costs an additional $60 and the overnight delivery fee with package tracking costs $14.85., Arrive a little early for your passport appointment because you will go through security before meeting with an agent.


A passport agency is a government office and you may not carry any weapons, including knives, guns, or mace into these buildings.
 Make sure to have all of the required application forms and present them to the agent when you’re called. She will also answer any questions you may have.


The agent will often decide if “will call,” or same day, service is appropriate for you.If you don’t need your passport immediately, the agent will schedule expedited mail delivery service for your new passport.You can also ask the agent to issue the passport that day if you’ve traveled from another city to the passport agency.

