 Make it a habit to dress in line with LDS dress codes. Women should wear a skirt or dress that is no shorter than two inches above the knee, as well as a top that covers the midriff and shoulders and is not low-cut. Men should wear slacks, a button-up dress shirt and dress shoes; ties and suit jackets are optional, but appropriate.;
, Mormons encourage highly respectful behavior during sacrament meeting. This includes keeping fidgeting and talking at a minimum, as well as folding your arms and bowing your head for prayers.


Be aware that there is no applauding in sacrament meeting, even after a musical performance.
 If you attend a full LDS church service, you'll have several opportunities to sing hymns. Green hymn books are available at intervals in all the pews of the chapel. Follow along if you can. If you're not a confident singer, however, it's OK to simply keep the hymn book open and read along.
 During the sacrament meeting, trays of bread and water will be passed around the chapel. Protocol is that you should hold the tray for the person next to you as he or she partakes of the sacrament, then pass it on.


Don't feel pressured to take the sacrament. Taking sacrament each week is a way for LDS members to renew their covenants (promises) with God when they were baptized. If you haven't been baptized, it is not recommended for you to consume anything from the sacrament. However, no one will reproach you if you choose to take it anyway.
 During sacrament meeting, as well as Sunday school, speakers may quote extensive scriptural passages. You can ask for a set to reference, or share with the person next to you.
 This might seem obvious, but it's important. Speak gently, and try not to swear. Don't bring outside food or drink into the chapel, and avoid pulling out your phone during the service (unless you are using them to read related scriptures or manuals). You may find that members of the ward are eager to introduce themselves to you. Respond with courtesy and offer a firm handshake.

