 While you can visit Greece during any time of the year, the most popular times to visit the islands are between July to September. If you plan on going to Greece during this time, make sure that you book your travel tickets far in advance. The Greek Islands are the warmest between the months of June and September and these months are perfect for swimming. If you want warm weather that's good for sight seeing, you should travel to the islands in the months of April, May, October, and early November.To save money and enjoy good weather, try taking your vacation a little before or after July to September.
 Not all Greek Islands have ferries that will let you connect. Athen's three main ports are Piraeus, Rafina, and Lavrion. Once you decide which islands you want to visit, make sure to plot out different ferry routes and choose a port in Athens that connects to your desired island. To research ferry routes, visit https://ferries.greeka.com/ or the ferry website for the specific island you plan on visiting.You can purchase ferry tickets to the Greek Islands at http://greekferries.gr, http://bluestarferries.gr, http://anek.gr, and http://hellenicseaway.gr.
Crete, the Cycladic Islands and the Northern Aegean Islands, are easily accessible from Piraeus.
When traveling to the Northern Cycladic Islands, leave from Rafina.
If you want to go to Kea or Kythnos, you should leave from Laviron.
 It's advised that you book your travel tickets at least 6 months in advance. Sometimes you can get discounted ferry tickets by buying them the day that you travel, but this is risky because they might fill to capacity. When traveling during peak vacation season, make sure to get your plane and ferry tickets in advance., If you live outside of Greece and Europe, you can fly to one of the islands directly. Search online and find tickets to the island that you want to visit. You can choose to fly directly onto one of the main islands of Mykonos, Santorini, Naxos, Paros, Crete, Rhodes, Lesvos, and Corfu or you can get tickets to fly to Athens and take a ferry to the island that you want to visit.There are other Greek Islands that you can fly directly to including, Skiathos, Chios, Samos, Kos, Kefalonia, and Zakynthos., Search online on reputable hotel aggregate websites and find hotels on the island that you want to stay on. When choosing a hotel to stay in, make sure you choose a hotel that is near the main town and use Google street view to get an idea of what the area looks like around your hotel.You may also want to call the hotel to see if it's kid-friendly or if there are any special promotions.
 Residents of the EU only need an identification card in order to travel to the Greek Islands. If you live outside of the EU then you must have a passport to travel to the Greek Islands. If you live outside of the US, EU, Australia, Canada, or New Zealand, you'll also need to have a valid visa. In order to get a visa, contact your country's tourism office. You can find a list of their contact information at http://www.greeka.com/greece-travel/greece-tourism-offices.htm., Many of the Greek Islands are small enough that you can usually just walk to where you need to go. If you're visiting a larger island, however, you may need to take a bus or use a taxi. Go to main bus terminals to find schedules and routes. If you need a taxi, hail the yellow cabs with TAXI on the top of them to get a ride.If you're still unsure about your bus route, you can ask a bus driver for help.
Fares are higher between midnight and 5:00 am
If you are using a taxi in a rural area, make sure that you agree on a price before starting your ride.
 Having a daily itinerary will help you stay on track and will ensure that you get to see all of the sights and events that you want to while you're there. Before visiting, make sure to go to the island's official website so that you can get a list of fun activities, events, restaurants, and historical sites. Make a loose plan for each day in your vacation and write it down.

