 If at all possible, follow up with your customers after the sale. Work to get the customer's address or email address during the transaction process. Then, send them a simple thank-you message and contact information they can use to get in touch with you if they have any problems with your product. This space can also be used as an opportunity to promote complementary add-ons to the product or service they purchased.


Give the customer the option to opt in to your mailing list so that you can send them regular updates.
Use a mailing service, whether physical or email, to send out updates and special offers to your mailing list every few weeks or once a month., A well-known philosophy of business states that 80 percent of your sales come from 20 percent of your customers. These are your largest, best customers. Because they provide the majority of your business, they should also receive the majority of your attention. This also includes those customers who recommend your business to friends and those who are frequent returning customers. Identify these customers by looking at your sales records.


Once you have a list of your best customers, look for similarities between them. If they're businesses, are they primarily big or small? If they are individuals, what are their primary demographic qualities?
Use this information to focus your marketing efforts., Loyalty programs can be a good way to retain your best customers. They can come in several forms, including points earned for purchases, monthly or annual spending tiers, or VIP programs that offer special savings or exclusive products. A VIP program can even be a paid program where a customers pay an annual fee to have access to discounts. This ensures that customers will continue buying from you as long as they are in the VIP program, as they have already invested in it., Businesses can increase their sales by offering complementary products. These "add-ons" go with or are necessary to the functioning of your primary product or service. You can offer these add-ons to customers during or after the transaction as a way to quickly increase your sales. These add-ons should be framed as a convenience so that the customer doesn't feel like they are being up-sold.For example, coffee shops often sell pastries or other breakfast foods that can be purchased with the coffee.
Salespeople need to be trained in explaining the benefits of add-ons clearly and convincingly. This will help the customer see how they work together to create a complete package., You can drive customers to purchase more of your product by offering discounts, benefits like free shipping, or free trials or samples of your products or services. These can be offered to existing customers through your mailing list or given to customers who reach a certain purchase threshold.


For example, you might give a 10 percent discount to customers who purchase more than $200 worth of goods.
However, don't offer too many of these discounts or make the threshold very low. If you do, customers will start to consider your products or services to be worth less than full price., A powerful way to build customer loyalty is by cultivating a strong brand for your business. Your brand is the sum of the customer-facing aspects of your business and includes your product strategy, business values, community involvement, marketing, customer experience, and every other aspect of your business that customers can see.


Work to standardized your brand across your marketing materials, employees, and business locations.
If customers know they can trust their experience with your product and customer service, they will be more likely to choose you over competitors.