 Get started by finding the perfect notebook for you, such as a composition book, spiral, or journal. While you can choose a nice print, decorating your homework planner is a great way to express yourself.
 Designing your cover gives you a chance to be creative, even if you don’t consider yourself an artist. You may decide to use ink or paint directly on the cover of your notebook, or you may find it more fun to glue on your decorations.


If you’re artistic, take this as an opportunity to express your talent by sketching or painting your planner cover. Another option is to create a collage using clippings of photos, words, and phrases from a magazine. Simply glue the clippings to the cover of your notebook in your desired arrangement. To protect your work, self-laminate it with clear packing tape.
If you enjoy crafting, you could glue fabric, paper, or magazine photos to your notebook.
If you don’t like to draw or craft, you could try decorating your planner with stickers or photos. For example, you could cover your notebook with stickers representing your favorite bands, or you could print out your favorite photos of your friends to glue on the cover.
 Before you can use your newly decorated notebook as a homework planner, you need to create sections for your planning. Common sections will include monthly calendars, weekly planners, and to-do lists.


Count out the number of sheets for each section. Because it’s your planner, how many sheets of paper you will need per section will depend on you. However, for a standard year-long planner, you would need at least 14 sheets of paper for monthly planning and 54 sheets of paper for weekly planning. Including extra sheets in each section will allow for section labels, do-overs, and section buffers.
Create your section dividers by either using tape or cutting the edges of the paper. To make your dividers using tape, fold a piece of tape over on itself so that just the ends touch the paper. Leave a flap of tape sticking out from the paper so that you can easily see the divide between sections. You can also divide your planner by cutting the corners of two of your sections. For example, you could cut the top outer corner of the monthly calendars and cut the bottom outer corner of the weekly planning sheets, leaving your third section un-cut. This would allow you to easily find each of those three sections.
 On the first page of each of your sections, create a label. You can write, draw, or use stickers. As an alternative, you could print out what you want your label to say, trim the excess paper, and glue it onto the title page.
 Drawing or pasting in a calendar will allow you to better plan your assignments because you can see a month at a glance. You can also more easily plan out time to work on big assignments.


To draw your calendar, you will need a ruler or a straight surface to trace. Using your ruler, draw a large box.
Lengthwise, trace six evenly-spaced lines to create seven columns for the seven days of the week.
Then draw four evenly-spaced lines down the width of the box to create the rows of weeks. When you are finished, you will have 35 boxes.
Write the days of the week above each column.
Write the name of the month and the correct dates for the first month of your homework planner.
 Much of your actual planning will happen in your weekly section, so it’s important to create those planning sheets. Fortunately, it’s very easy to organize your weekly plans by dividing your sheets into eight even boxes so that you will have seven for the days of the week and one extra box for notes.


Draw a line down the center of your paper, and then draw three evenly-spaced lines across your paper to create eight boxes.
Label seven of the boxes with the days of the week, and label the eighth box “Notes.”

, You’re now ready to use your homework planner! Use your syllabi or assignment sheets to fill in your assignments.

