


Backpack






Binder (most schools have a rule saying every student needs one, but they are very useful even if your school doesn't)
Pencils(3-5)
Pens(2-3)
Highlighters(2-4)
A packet of post-it notes
A planner
Subject dividers
Journals for each subject
A homework folder
Zipper pouch. (All of the items like the planner, journals, folder, and zipper pouch should be able to be put in a binder.);
, Make sure that on your homework folder, hopefully it has two pockets, that one pocket says "Finished" and "Not Finished". That way, you can keep track of what homework you need to complete and what homework you need to turn in.
 On each journal (try a different color for each topic) write on the front cover what subject it is for. You could also put each journal in the subject divider for their subjects.
 How are you going to know where all of your papers are if every tab looks the same?


Put your subjects in the order of your classes. If you don't know your schedule yet, then write them down in your free time during classes on the first day of school.
 That way, you don't have to dig through your binder for a pencil.
 During classes, write all of your assignments in each slot for each subject in your planner. You can write down important dates like if you're in music, you can write down when your next concert is. Or when your tests are coming up. Up to you!

, Here are some tips on finding some friends.


During your classes, look at some of the people around you. If they seem nice, talk to them after class. Don't do so during class, or you'll get in trouble!






If you have an elective, find some people during that class. You'll have a friend with something in common!
Sit next to someone during lunch, if he or she seems lonely.
If you see a group of friends who seem nice, ask if you can sit with them. You could get to know them.



Make a slot for mornings(6-11),afternoons(12-4),and evenings(5-5). Make sure to list everything in those slots on what you need to do. In the mornings, list everything you need to do in the morning. The same goes for afternoons and evenings, just make sure to write the times and what you need to do in the slots.
 Don't eat too much junk food

, Practice makes perfect!

, You won't get good grades on tests if you don't study. That's what your journals and post-it notes are for. Make sure to write notes during the lessons.
 No one wants a friend who doesn't shower or brush their teeth.

