 One of the most elegant and delicious ways of cooking summer squash is to use it as a quick and easy side dish, stir-frying it and dressing it simply. This makes an excellent side for grilled meats or rice dishes, and is perfectly amenable to any seasonings, additions, or changes you might want to make.


Probably the most common way of preparing squash for this dish would be to cut it into disc-shaped slices, then fry them on both sides. They'll cook relatively quickly.
If you're cooking this as a side for a big group, aim for about one small-medium squash for each person.
 Add a few teaspoons of olive oil to a skillet when the pan starts to get hot and coat the bottom of the pan evenly. Add the squash in an even layer before the oil starts to smoke.


The best way to stir fry summer squash is pretty quickly, at relatively high heat. If you cook squash lower and slower, they'll get pretty watery and limp.
 A quick and simple way of flavoring the squash is to add a little bit of minced garlic, which will soften quickly. Toss the squash with the garlic to coat it evenly. Summer squash isn't super-flavorsome, so it's usually a good idea to add something. Any of the following make good additions to a squash stir-fry:


Sweet corn
Bell pepper
White or green onion
Kale
Chard
Collards
Fried tofu
Chicken or beef

, When the outside of the squash starts to brown, turn it over, then turn the heat down gently, to medium. Depending on how thickly you've sliced the squash, they'll cook in anywhere between 10 and 15 minutes, and will be done when fork tender, to the desired softness.It's very easy to overcook summer squash, and not really possible to undercook them. Raw summer squash is commonly eaten, and though it can leave a kind of drying sensation in your mouth and in the back of your throat, there's no reason to worry about under-doing it.
 When the squash are done cooking, remove them into a serving bowl and add a splash of soy sauce to dress them, or add some salt and black pepper, tossing the squash to coat them evenly.


Season the squash however you like. If you're making some curry to go with it, add a pinch of garam masala. If you're making burgers, add a pinch of cayenne. Other good seasonings for cooked squash include balsamic vinegar, hoisin sauce, or Sriracha.
If you already disgorged the squash to draw water out, be very careful about adding additional salt. Taste it first and add more if necessary.
 A bunch of chopped parsley or cilantro really helps to lift the flavor of the squash and give it a freshness and vibrancy. Top the squash with chopped vegetables and serve immediately.

