 If you are looking for a short-term rental in a tight housing market, it may be tempting to jump on an advertised sublease without knowing all the details. A sublease is a legal contract. You need to meet your prospective landlord and inspect the property.


Note and photograph any problems such as water damage, carpet stains, and damage to wall coverings. You don't want to be accused of damage you didn't cause.
 As the subtenant, you are bound by all the restrictions of the original lease. Don't trust that you will have guaranteed parking or can bring your cat until you see it in writing.


Make sure the leaseholder has contacted the landlord and has permission to sublet the property. The last thing you need is to move in and get a notice that the master lease has been terminated because of an unauthorized sublet.
 A sublease can be priced however you and the leaseholder want. Expect to pay more for a nicely furnished apartment. However, that doesn't mean that you can't ask for discounts, especially if you can pay some or all of the lease term upfront.


If the space is not vacant, inventory the leaseholder's personal property and attach it to the lease. If you do not do this, you could be accused of theft at the end of the sublease.
Discuss utilities and access to any services available at the property. For example, if the house has Internet or cable, will the services be disconnected or can you use them for a fee?
Discuss how to handle mail or packages that may arrive at the house. The leaseholder should pay postage for anything that is forwarded.
Ask for a termination clause. Discuss what will happen if the leaseholder wants to return earlier or if you need to move. Generally, either side should be able to terminate the agreement with 30-days written notice.
 You need to know when the property will be ready for you to occupy and if you need to have the utilities established in your own name or if you can pay the bills as them come in.


How you will receive the keys depends on the circumstances. If the leaseholder has been transferred, you may receive the keys from the property manager. Otherwise, you will get them when you sign the agreement.
Before you unpack, do a quick check and make sure you didn't miss anything in the initial inspection. For example, if the water was off when you looked it over, check the kitchen and bathroom faucets for leaks. If you find anything, document it, photograph it, and contact your sublease landlord.

