 A deceased donor is someone who agrees to donate their organs after they die. Deceased donors can provide a wider variety of organs, including kidneys, heart, liver, lungs, pancreas, the small bowel, corneas, and other tissue.At the end of your life, your death will be confirmed by a consultant who is not connected to the donor system. After that, the operators will then operate to remove your organs and examine them for suitability for transplant., Many religions in the UK have varied viewpoints on the morality and ethics of organ donation. The NHS provides background from several of the nation's major faiths: https://www.organdonation.nhs.uk/about-donation/what-does-my-religion-say/. You should also check with your religious leaders if you have any concerns or doubts.
 There are restrictions on the people who can be donors, to ensure that their organs are healthy and will grow if placed in a new body. Your doctor can do the tests you need to pass in order to become a donor. If you are interested, just ask him about it.You cannot be an organ donor if you have had cancer that spread in the last 12 months, a severe or untreated infection, or a nervous system condition called Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), The NHS maintains a confidential database of everyone in the UK who has agreed to be an organ donor. There are several ways you can sign up for the Register.The NHS offers an online form, which only takes a few minutes to fill out: https://www.organdonation.nhs.uk/register-to-donate/

You can contact the NHS Donor Line, either over the phone at 0300 123 23 23 (lines open 24 hours a day, year round), or by texting SAVE to 62323.
There is a paper form that you can mail in, available at GP surgeries and hospitals.
Additionally, you can agree to be an organ donor when you apply for a driving licence or vehicle tax, register with your GP, or register for a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC).
 Family members have the right to decline your donation, so by letting them know, you can ensure your wishes will be carried out. Additionally, if you have not signed up for the databases, your family members can agree to donate your organs following your death.