 It is critical that your entire staff know how to handle and dispose of hazardous materials. If the staff is thoroughly trained, it reduces the risk of contamination of other patients.Consider hanging informational posters around your hospital that explain how to dispose of different types of waste.Using red "hazardous material" bags or canisters for appropriate waste will cut down on the accidental handling of hazardous and potentially dangerous material.
Having separate disposal containers for hazardous wastes also reduces the unnecessary use of these containers for nonhazardous materials.
Store hazardous materials away from nonhazardous materials to avoid contamination.
Always keep radioactive materials segregated, centrally processed, and properly labelled

, In case of a spill, handle it properly to avoid contaminating the surrounding area. You should also be proactive in preventing spills and leaks whenever possible.You should create a spill containment system around your storage area to prevent leaking materials from spreading to other areas.
When a spill is detected, be sure to scoop up and reincorporate as much of the material as possible. The remaining material should be cleaned using commercial absorbents and disposed of according to all federal and local laws.
Prevent spills in the first place by lifting drums with the proper equipment instead of tipping them. Always use pumps to transfer hazardous materials into smaller containers.
Inspect containers regularly for signs of corrosion. This will help prevent the deterioration from becoming so bad that it causes a leak.
Keep containers covered. This will not only prevent spills, but will also minimize airborne emissions of toxic chemicals.
 Chemicals can damage plumbing drains, which may cause the leaching of toxic substances like mercury. If you are ever unsure if a chemical is safe to dispose of in a drain, don't do it., If chemical pesticides are used, be sure to maintain a log indicating when and where they were applied. Take care not to use pesticides in areas where patients or employees might be exposed to them.Use non-chemical pest-control methods whenever possible.
 In some cases, there may be less hazardous compounds that can be used in place of more traditional ones. Tell all lab managers to think of ways to reduce their usage of hazardous chemicals like mercury whenever possible.For example, zinc fixatives can be used in place of mercury fixatives in certain applications.
 There are treatment systems available that can recover certain substances from wastewater, and others that can detoxify certain substances, meaning that you do not have to treat them as hazardous materials when disposing of them. Such a system might be cost-effective if you deal with large volumes of these materials.Treatment systems are useful for chemicals like formaldehyde.
Recovery systems are useful for contaminants like silver, which is commonly introduced into wastewater by radiology equipment.

