 Benzoyl peroxide kills the bacteria that contribute to pimples. Benzoyl peroxide comes in different concentrations, but benzoyl peroxide with a 2.5% concentration is just as effective as 5-10% formulations, and it's less irritating to the skin.Benzoyl peroxide also helps peel away layers of dead skin, leaving brighter, rejuvenated skin in its place.;
, Like benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid kills bacteria responsible for pimple growth. It also causes skin cells to shed more rapidly, promoting the growth of new skin. Put small amounts of salicylic acid onto affected areas. After you have washed your face.
 Toothpaste contains silica, which is the drying agent you find in bags of beef jerky, among other things. Basically, toothpaste will dry out your pimple overnight, reducing it in size.


Make sure to use natural toothpaste when you dab it onto your skin. Some toothpastes containing sodium lauryl sulfate can irritate the skin. Watch out for it before applying. Leave on all night. (CAUTION!!!: it may burn so brace yourself)

, Mix a teaspoon of sea salt with two tablespoons of warm water. Then use a Q-tip to apply the salt water directly to the pimple. Do not rinse off. The sea salt will kill bacteria and dry out the pimple.
 Tea tree oil is an antibacterial essential oil that can blast the microbes that have started to make a home inside of your pores. With a dropper, dab a Q-Tip with a bit of tea tree oil and apply to pimples as needed, being careful not to put on too much.


Tea tree oil has anti-inflammatory propertiesthat can make the redness and size of the pimple less noticeable.
 Crush an aspirin tablet and add just enough water to make it into a paste. With a Q-Tip, lightly coat the pimple(s) with the aspirin paste. Cover the pimples entirely and let dry. Aspirin is another anti-inflammatory, meaning it will help the skin fight against inflammation, making the pimple less visible. Let the aspirin paste fight the pimple overnight.
 Astringents are agents that cause the skin to contract or get smaller. Some pharmaceutical astringents contain antimicrobial ingredients that will help fight the pimple in addition to reducing the size of the pimple. Here are some astringents to consider using:


Store bought astringents. These come in different types and sizes. Look for one that contains benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid. Ask for astringents that are gentle on the skin.
Natural astringents may also work in a pinch. They include:


Lemon juice. The citric acid here kills the bacteria that cause acne and act as a skin-tightener. Many people swear by it. Slice a lemon and gently rub it over the affected area. Use a toner afterwards to balance the PH of your skin. Lemon is very acidic and can mess up your skin's PH which is why a toner is necessary.

Banana peel. Banana peels are helpful in treating insect and mosquito bites, and may be helpful in reducing the size of some pimples. Gently rub the banana peel over the affected area.

Witch hazel. Another great astringent with a ton of applications. Look for witch hazel that doesn't contain alcohol. Apply a small bit over affected area and let dry.

Green tea. Green tea is an astringent that's packed with lots of antioxidants, which help reduce signs of aging by fighting free radicals. Steep a tea bag in some hot water, remove the tea bag along with all the liquid, and place onto affected area briefly.
 Egg oil is effective in removing zits and preventing scars.


Wash your hands with soap or use a sanitizer before using egg oil.
Gently massage egg oil with you finger tips on the affected area twice a day until the scars disappear.
Wash it off after an hour with a mild facewash.
 This should bring down the swelling, as it slows down blood flow to the area. Either apply ice directly to the pimple or cover it in a thin layer of gauze or towel.
 Eye drops, at least the ones that reduce redness in the eyes, can be helpful in reducing redness and signs of irritation in acne. Drop a few eye-drops onto a Q-Tip and apply as necessary onto the pimple(s)


Because cold also helps reduce inflammation in acne, place the Q-Tip soaked in eye-drops into the freezer for an hour before applying. The cold Q-Tip will soothe as it reduces inflammation.
 Antihistamines suppress the swelling effect in the skin tissue of people. Most of these remedies can be ingested in pill form, but some can be consumed as tea or used as a topical agent. These should offer a reduction in redness. Natural herbal antihistamines include:


Stinging nettle. This may sound weird, because touching nettles in the wild can produce a rash not unlike small pimples. Some doctors, however, recommend taking a freeze-dried preparation of stinging nettle, which is known for its ability to reduce the amount of histamine the body produces.
Coltsfoot may be effective as a natural antihistamine. Europeans have a long history of using the plant to cure skin conditions. The leaves can either be ground up into a paste or coltsfoot extract can be ingested in pill form.
Basil may also work as a natural antihistamine. Heat a couple sprigs of basil leaves up under some steam and apply gently to the hives. Basil may help reassure the body that the foreign agent causing the hives is not something it should be fighting.
 Try to wash your face twice a day. Remember to be gentle when handling with your face and don't use a dirty towel or anything else dirty when washing your face: acne is caused by bacteria, which are found on dirty towels.


Use a facial scrub once every week to help exfoliate. Exfoliate means wiping off the top, dead layer of skin, called the epidermis. Doing this once a week is healthy.
Moisturize after every wash. Your skin is an organ in your body, too. Like your kidney, it needs moisture to be healthy. Give it the moisture it needs after each wash.
 Try not to touch your face — consciously or unconsciously. Your hands are dirty things, vectors for bacteria. The less your hands meet your face, the happier your face will feel and look.
 Exercise is a great way to get rid of acne. When you exercise you relieve stress. Stress is thought to contribute to acne, although doctors are still not sure how.Find a healthy way to relieve stress and anxiety through exercise. Join a sports team, go to the gym, or push yourself through a daily exercise regimen. All will help your skin look clearer.
After you've done your exercise, shower immediately. When you exercise, you sweat. (At least if you exercise correctly, you will sweat.) Grime, salt, and dead skin cells all accumulate after vigorous exercise.
 Alcohol may worsen the effects of acne. Drinking alcohol may worsen acne. Alcohol dehydrates your body, leaving it deprived of essential water. And alcohol contains lots of sugars, which may be connected to acne growth. Either way, if you want to play it safe, consume less alcohol and see how your body reacts.Just drink lots of water.
 Don't pop them, pick at them, prod them, itch them, scratch them, or otherwise touch them unless applying a medicine or remedy. Doing so will only make the redness and inflammation worse. It's easy to say but hard to do. If you don't pick at them then it will minimize scarring and ultimately get rid of the pimple a lot faster.

