 Summer is a fun time to play with friends. A great way to stay active in the summer is to join a summer camp or sporting activity. You will have fun meeting new friends and spending time outdoors in the summer weather. There’s many different types of summer camps to choose from including sleep away camps, day camps, sport focused camp, or artistic camps. Joining a summer sporting activity like swim team is a great way to stay active all summer long.

Search online or visit local churches, schools, libraries, or nature centers to find summer camps in your area. Sometimes, local magazines will have a listing of upcoming summer camps in the area as well.
Sign up for camps early to ensure you receive a spot in the camp.
Swim team, flag football, tennis, and golf are all great sports to do in the summer.
 Summer is a great time to do activities outdoors because the weather is warmer and the days are longer, so stay active by going for a hike at a local trail. Hikes are a fun way to enjoy nature while keeping physically fit. There are many hiking trails to choose from, so you can try to do new one each week of the summer for a fun challenge.Make sure you dress appropriately for your hike by wearing comfortable, sporty clothes, a hat, and tennis shoes or hiking boots.
Bring a friend with you on your hike to share the experience with.
Pack a backpack filled with healthy snacks, water bottles, a cell phone or gps, and a first aid kit.
Find local trails to hike by searching online, visiting your local nature center, or contacting your local parks and recreation department.
 Summer is a wonderful time to ride your bike outside because the weather is so nice. Going for a bike ride is fun to do and great exercise for your body. The summer is a good time to learn how to ride a bike if you don’t already know how to do it. Riding your bike is a great way to travel to a friend’s house who lives nearby.You can take your bike on trails to go trail riding for a thrilling summer activity.
Go for a family bike ride in the evenings as a fun summer tradition.

