 It is much easier to study a topic when you think of it as interesting. If you study and get into it, you might find it interesting which will help you focus. Some points that might help you in this regard are:


Think of how useful history is. Not only does it show how the world has evolved through time but you can learn from the mistakes of the past to create a civilized earth where love, compassion, understanding, and knowledge are the goals of humanity, not revenge and greed. Once you gain the knowledge of history the world is yours. It shows you how the world has changed and how the people changed your history.
Think of how the world would have been if history did not exist.
Familiarize yourself with the different areas of study/branches in history.;
, The History Channel has excellent programs that often re-enact historical battles or explore old technologies.
, You can get to know history and still have some fun.
 Most history classes focus on historical events in isolation.  Try to figure out how the participants in the events got there; why were they there? How did the event lead to subsequent events? What would have happened if the outcome had been different?

,  These might make the time period feel more realistic to you.  Keep in mind that they may not be historically accurate - try to identify the inaccuracies.
 Do not just start reading until you're tired. Try to be organized. Find a technique to approach the study of history that best suites your intellect. In other words, find a theme for your studying. Some start by studying personalities and historical figures and tie all other aspects to them. Some prefer places and locations.
 Rephrasing what you learned in your own words will help you to understand what you are studying.
 Studying history doesn't have to be all paper and pen. Try to use your talents and interests in studying history.
 How did the introduction of rifling change the outcome of battles?

, What if the US was better prepared at Pearl Harbor? What if both Lenin and Woodrow Wilson had lived longer and had met?

, If the test is a hard one, there are also general guidelines for harder tests too.
,