 With enough Starcoins, you can get hot clothing, cool animations, awesome items, and maybe even a pet. Before you start saving, decide what you want by putting those items on your wishlist. This will give you a target for how much to save, and it will help you keep track of your goals.;
, Choose whether you are going to be a girly girl, tomboy, goth, or something else. Whatever you pick, stick to it. Buy clothes that will match that style. Having a particular style can help brand you and make you more recognizable to other players. However, if you can't decide on one particular style, you can choose elements of all styles to mix and match, or you can dress in a different style each day.
 Don't choose random items and put them together. If you match your clothes, you'll look much more fashionable and seem a lot more popular. Pick matching clothing that fits your style.
 A cool accessory can make or break an outfit, so use them wisely.
 Get natural colors like red, black, blond, dirty blond, orange, etc. If you don't want a natural color and instead want neon or another color, then make the unnatural color match or go with an outfit.
 You want eyes that were not there when you signed up. Choose Sweet Stuff, Glitter Galore, Pretty Perfect, or Rococo Fantasy. If the under eye has eyeshadow, get rid of it by changing the color to skin color. Don't get Major Manga Fierce, Feline intense beauty, or beautiful butterfly. But any other eye is fine.
 Get perfect pout or another closed mouthed one, like cherry gloss or cool cat. Avoid getting pierced, big and bold, fangs or all smiles. Try not to make your lips lighter than your skintone.
 Don't get it at level 1, 2 or 3. Get it at level 5+ otherwise it will make you seem silly.
 Try to make series, but avoid making too many short movies. Advertise your movies and get others to watch them by posting them in your status. Make them dramatic and leave cliffhangers for more curious viewers.
 Being a supporter/team member gets you attention and more friends on the same team.
 Make good Artbooks. Take your time on them and make them really good. Make good Movies, and put the people you want to be good friends with in them. Get backgrounds, music, and animations to make them even better.
 Don't bully others. Instead, try being generous and encouraging. Standing up for others people will make people like you more.
 Do this by earning awards and getting others to watch/love your stuff.
 Make forums and cool statuses. Message and talk to your clique. This will make them want to be your friends. But never talk badly about other people.

