 Before you look for a business to buy, consider what type of business you'd like to run. Even if you plan to "flip" the business for a profit, you'll have to run and grow the business for a good length of time. So make sure that you actually want to be involved with this type of business. Also, figuring out what you want can help you find and identify a business to buy.;
, Investigate local businesses, and their owners, to find out which ones are ripe to be bought. Generally, this means finding an owner who is prepared to retire or move on to a new business opportunity. The retiring owner will likely be the better opportunity, as they have more of an incentive to sell the business quickly. Locating these businesses, however, is easier said than done. Try the following avenues to locate them:


Talk to lawyers or accountants that work with local businesses.
Talk with the business owners themselves. Even if they aren't willing to sell, they may know another business owner who is.
Read local publications and seek out owners who are nearing retirement age., Getting a good deal on a business requires making an offer at the right time. However, this doesn't mean the right time for you, just for the business owner. As previously mentioned, this can simply be as the owner is planning to retire. Alternately, this could be during a recession or economic downturn, when the owner is looking for a quick exit to establish his financial security. While this is a risk for you as the buyer, you may be able to secure betting financing from the owner and then see the business grow faster as you exit the downturn.
 When you're performing your own leveraged buyout (buying a business without using your own money), you're going to need a good business attorney to ensure that the deal is structured properly.


Ensure that you get an attorney who specializes in business sales, not a general purpose attorney. Too much can go wrong with a deal handled by an attorney that's not specialized in business transactions., Some owners who are selling their businesses are willing to loan buyers the money to purchase the business.When you can find a business that's on the market with seller financing, you're on your way to buying a business with no money.


Keep in mind, though, that almost no business owner is willing to lend 100% of the purchase price. You'll still need a "down payment." However, the down payment can be borrowed from another source, meaning that you still get the business without putting any of your own money into it.
When a business owner is willing to lend you money to buy his or her business, that usually means two things:

The business owner believes in the business
The business owner believes that you can manage the business well. That's good news and points to likely success in your entrepreneurial efforts.


However, it can also mean that there is a limited market for the business, thus few buyers. As a consequence, the seller is faced with liquidating the business at a substantial discount.
 If the owner is reluctant to offer 100% financing, you may want to make them an attractive offer to go along with your purchase of the business. This offer could be one that offers them higher payments for a period of time or a better repayment interest rate. For example, a buyer could offer to work for free for a number of months (building sweat equity) while giving all profits to the seller.
 Some owners have been working with their own businesses for decades. They'd like to retire and just enjoy life for a while, but they still need income. You can approach that type of owner with an opportunity to let you buy and run the business while he or she earns a percentage of the income.


In this case, you may still need to put some money down. However, you'll owe the owner a percentage of the intake for several years into the future. This is similar to owner financing, except that the payments to the owner are based on the ongoing success of the business. You also aren't in debt.
 It's not likely that any business owner will give you 100% financing for the business. If that's the case, you'll need to get a second source of financing.


You can try to go to a bank, but usually the process of getting a bank loan for a small business is long and complicated. Bank lenders typically don't like to be part of a deal that's 100% financed. Your best option in many cases is to try and find an unsecured personal loan.
 If you can't finance the purchase through other means, you may be forced to bring on an additional partner. This partner can contribute the needed money in exchange for a share of the business's future profits. You can even bring them on as a "silent partner," where they have no responsibilities or active duties in the business, but instead simply contribute money. Your equity partner will likely have to subordinate his position to the original business owner.


Additionally, you could consider issuing preferred stock to various investors (perhaps family and friends) or issuing unsecured debt.
 The difference lies in the assumption of debts held by the business. If you only buy the assets of the business, you are not liable for these loans. However, if you buy the whole business, you will also have to factor in the repayment of existing loans in your repayment schedule. This distinction can inform your decisions, like the purchase value of the company and your repayment schedule to the business owner.
 Even with owner and secondary financing, you don't want to be left with an empty bank account. It's still a good idea to have some money left in the bank for attorney fees, capital budgeting purposes and working capital.


You should always determine how much you can borrow from the owner and additional sources before making an offer on a business. That way, you can be sure that you'll make an offer that leaves you with some money left over.
 If you buy a business for $100,000 that was completely borrowed, you've done a good job at buying a business with no money. However, you also need working capital to keep the business going.You'll need to pay rent, employees, utilities, etc. Make sure that you have some working capital. You can either get that from some of the same sources you used to obtain the money to buy the business or use the business's income and assets to produce the needed capital.
 You can use the business's cash flows to supply your working capital. This will save you from having to borrow more money. However, you'll need to analyze and project the business's future cash flows to be sure that you will have enough working capital. If you don't feel comfortable with projecting cash flows, seek out professional advice or hire a banker to do the projections for you.
 Look for opportunities to sell or repurpose existing equipment or other assets owned by the business. This can give you an opportunity to make additional income without any investment of your own. For example, you could sell off unused equipment or loan out vehicles that are not used frequently. These opportunities can vary widely between businesses, so examine all of the assets available to you and assess their potential value.


You can only do this if the assets aren't pledged as security to the seller.
 Factoring allows the business to sell its accounts receivable (at a discount) to a third party in order to receive capital more quickly. In contrast, accounts receivable financing allows the business to take out a loan against the value of their account. This means that the business must pay back regular payments to the lender or risk losing the rights to their accounts receivable.


In factoring deals, the third party buyer gives the business 75 to 80 percent of the accounts receivable value immediately so that the business can cover costs. The remainder, minus the discount taken by the third party, is given at a later date when the customer payments actually come in. Talk to your banker to be referred to a third party that offers factoring.Factoring is not cheap capital, and is generally more expensive than a short-term financing arrangement secured by receivables.
 Look for business owners who also own the real estate associated with their business. Then, you might be able to structure a deal that includes leasing the property with an option to buy it later. Alternately, you may be able to refinance the real property with another lender for cash.
 If all else fails, you can take out additional loans to cover working capital costs. One good way of doing this is by taking out an inventory loan. Essentially, an inventory loan gives the business money to purchase products for sale, with the inventory being held as collateral for the loan. However, because of the difficulty banks may experience in selling inventory seized as collateral, many lenders are reluctant to offer this type of financing.Alternately, if you buy a business that takes in a lot of revenue from credit card sales, you might be eligible of a merchant cash advance.That's a "loan" where you get an upfront amount of cash but the company that provided you with the money takes a percentage of your credit card sales for a period of time.

