 You can report the data breach to the FTC at their identity theft website. In addition to reporting the theft, you can get other helpful information from their website.At the website, click “Get Started.”
If you ever have a question, you can always chat with a tech specialist. Click on the “chat with our support team” icon in the upper-right corner of the page. You can get help Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 8:00 pm EST.
 If yours isn’t listed, then click on “A breach not listed here.”


You will then have to report whether someone used your information to open accounts or make purchases. You can also report that you are not aware of any misuse., If you are reporting a new breach, which is not listed at the FTC website, then you will need to tell the FTC what information was exposed (e.g., Social Security Numbers, online passwords, etc.)


You will also have to tell the FTC what the identity thief used your personal identification to purchase. For example, the thief might have opened credit card accounts or obtained loans using your identity.
You will then be asked for personal information and relevant information about the theft. You also should provide information about any suspect.Review your complaint before submitting it to the FTC. At the end, you can print off an Identity Theft Affidavit. You will need to show this affidavit to the police.
 The FTC will tell you what steps you should take next in order to protect your identity after the data breach. This checklist is very useful. You can print it off and then work your way down the steps.


For example, some companies whose data was breached are providing free credit monitoring. You will be given a phone number to call.
 If someone used your information to make purchases or open accounts, then you should file an identity theft report. Once you have completed filing the report, get a copy of it. You will need the following information to show to the police:evidence of the theft, such as credit card statements, bills, IRS notices, or other information
your valid, personal identification, such as valid driver’s license or passport
proof of your address
your copy of the FTC Identity Theft Affidavit

