 There are a lot of muscles that are attached to, or near, your jaw and help you do important things like chew. These muscles include: the masseter, which is located in front of your ear, along your teeth; the lateral pterygoid, which is attached to your jaw joint and up into your cheek area; the medial pterygoid, which is located behind your jaw bone; the digastric, which is located under your chin., To do this, put your right thumb inside the left side of your mouth, with your right index finger on the outside of the left side of your mouth. Since the masseter muscles are further back towards your ears, you may have to push your thumb a little bit to the back of your jaw, behind your cheek. Then use your index finger (and middle finger if you need to), along with your thumb, to pinch the masseter muscle. You can work your fingers from the top of the muscle (higher on your face) to the bottom of the muscle (nearer your jaw line). Once you’ve done the left side of your face, use your left hand to do the same thing to the masseter muscle on the right side of your face., Place your right hand on your forehead. Place your left index finger inside your mouth, right behind your bottom teeth. Place your left thumb under your chin/jaw. Use your left hand to pull your jaw downwards while you use your right hand to stabilize your head. Hold for eight seconds. You can do this five to six times to help stretch and exercise the muscles of your mouth., These muscles are located behind a lot of other things on your face and aren’t the easiest things to reach on your own. The best way to apply pressure to these muscles is to put your left index finger into the right side of your mouth — all the way back behind your last molar on your upper jaw. If you press your finger upwards in this area, sort of in the direction of your nose, you should be able to apply pressure to the lateral pterygoid muscle.Once you’ve done the muscle on the right side of your face, switch hands and do the muscle on the left side of your face.


Since this is a hard muscle to reach on your own, don’t worry if you aren’t able to find it. You may need to enlist the help of a professional to get to this muscle if you feel it’s the cause of some of your headaches.
 As with the lateral pterygoid muscles, the medial pterygoid muscles are located behind a lot of other things on your face and aren’t easy to get to. One method is to place your left index finger inside the right side of your mouth. Push your finger back, along your cheek, until you’re past your last molar on your upper jaw. Then push your finger against the area near your jaw joint. You can move your finger up and down in this area until you find spots that are uncomfortable, then hold the pressure on those spots for eight to sixty seconds.Repeat the whole process with your right hand for the left side of your face.
 Start by pushing the knuckle of your right index finger into the soft area under your chin, just behind your lower jaw bone. Start this process near the front of your chin and move your knuckle backwards along your jaw bone until your up behind your jaw joint near your ear. Press and hold for eight to sixty seconds in any location where you feel discomfort. Switch to your left side once your right side is complete.