 Our bodies make very small amounts of DHA naturally; however, the amount is not enough to support healthy growth and development.


In general, it's recommended to consume about 300-500 mg daily for adults.Adequate levels of DHA support fetal brain development and their ability to learn. In adults, it supports normal brain function and also has been shown to decrease the risk of heart disease and Alzheimer's Disease.;
, Fatty, cold-water fish is one of the best sources of naturally occurring DHA. Adding these types of fish and shellfish to your diet can help increase your intake of DHA.


Fatty fish to try include: salmon, anchovies, sardines, mackerel, trout, tuna, halibut, herring, caviar, shellfish, and whitefish.Try to include two to three servings of fatty, cold-water fish every week. Each serving should be about 4-6 ounces. This results in about 1,250 mg of DHA a week.Both wild and farmed version of fish contain high levels of DHA. Either option is appropriate and will help increase your overall DHA consumption.Children and pregnant women should avoid consuming fish that have high levels of mercury. The types of fish that are most likely to include contaminants, in general, whether wild or farmed, include mackerel, swordfish, tilefish, and shark., Eggs are another source of naturally occurring DHA. In an egg that has not been fortified, you consume about 70 mg of DHA per egg. However, eggs that are fortified with DHA contain about 160-200 mg of DHA per egg.It's now considered safe and healthy to consume eggs on a regular or daily basis. Studies have shown that eating eggs does not increase your cholesterol.Although non-fortified eggs generally contain some DHA, they are not a consistent source. This is due to the differing diets that hens have prior to laying eggs. However, choosing fortified eggs gives you an more accurate amount of DHA., Algae is another great source of naturally occurring DHA. The algae are also what makes fish high in DHA — small fish consume the DHA-rich algae and the bigger fish consume the smaller fish. Through the food chain, large fish contain adequate quantities of DHA.Types of algae that you can include in your diet are seaweed (nori) or kelp (wakame, kombu, or dulse). 1/4-1/2 ounce of any of these types of algae counts as a serving.The amount of DHA will vary depending on the type of algae you consume.
Spirulina, which is a powdered algae, can be added to smoothies, yogurt or even oatmeal. It might turn your foods a slightly turquoise color, but it'll be filled with DHA.
Try adding chopped nori sheets or dulse flakes to salads or sandwiches.
Also, many grocery stores sell "seaweed chips" which are nori sheets sprinkled with a little bit of salt and are a low-calorie snack.
It can also be found in powder or pill form.
 Increasing DHA consumption has become more well known and popular. Many food companies have been finding ways to incorporate DHA and other heart healthy fats into other foods. You might find added DHA in items such as milk, eggs, orange juice, or even peanut butter.


Look for fortified milk and milk alternatives. Some commercial brands of milk or soy milk add fish oil or algae oil during processing, thereby enhancing the drink with DHA. You'll get roughly 30 to 50 mg of combined DHA and EPA for every 1 cup (250 ml) of fortified milk.To know whether or not foods are fortified with DHA, you must make sure that the products you purchase are labeled as "fortified" or "enriched" with DHA. The label should include additional information, including whether or not DHA is included among the added nutrients.Drink fortified orange juice. One cup of fortified OJ has about 50 mg of added DHA.Switch to fortified peanut butter. Consuming 2 Tbsp of fortified peanut butter will provide approximately 32 mg of combined DHA and EPA.Choose "all natural" peanut butter that has no added trans-fats and sugars.
Natural sources of DHA (like fish or algae) will contain higher levels of DHA and typically contain other substances that help your body absorb the fatty acid. Your primary source of DHA should still come from natural options instead of fortified ones.