 Social support from family and friends is crucial to helping someone deal with the death of a loved one.Once you find out that your friend lost a loved one, you can let your friend know that you are there for her.


Make sure you verbalize your condolences. You can say something like, “I am so sorry for your loss.”
You can start by saying that you are available if she needs to talk with you or spend time with you. You can say something like, “I know this is a difficult time for you and I just want you to know that I am here for you. Is there any way I can help?”
Offer to help your friend with any practical tasks. During this time, your friend may have to help cover costs of the funeral, unpaid bills, clean out her loved one’s home, go through items, and deal with other financial and legal concerns.You can offer your help and support if you feel comfortable.;
, Practical help is often lost on friends of the bereaved.However, many people who have lost loved ones are consumed with grief. A great way to help your friend in this time is to make a home cooked meal, or pick up her favorite meal, and deliver it to her. This is a common gesture (depending on your culture) that can produce feelings of being supported, which is important in helping individuals cope with grief.Good food ideas are: home-made lasagna, a casserole, banana bread, and soup.
Try to prepare dishes that can be put in the microwave or oven easily. Provide simple instructions on a post-it note if needed.
 Gifts can be seen as an act of compassion; these gestures can provide a great sense of comfort to those who are grieving.Try to avoid giving your friend any gift that will remind her of her loved one that passed away.


Some examples of appropriate gifts might include flowers, a written letter, or a card. It is also sometimes helpful to provide the family with a cash donation for funeral costs.
 The funeral is an important component of the grieving process.If there is a funeral and the family invites you, it would be polite and supportive to attend.


Make sure that if you go, to use your manners and dress appropriately by wearing nice, neat, clothing. People also may wear black to the funeral (depending on the culture).
Say something positive about the funeral arrangements; this can help convey a sense of support and community, and help your friend gain closure.You can say something like, “That was such a nice and meaningful service.”

