 This helps especially when you have to travel a long way.;
, In the personal bag, include personal necessities (like clothes and toiletries). Make sure to take a good pair of sunglasses and a jacket.You never know when you will need them.
 This should include things like books, an iPod, a portable DVD player with some DVDs, a phone , a camera, a hand-a phone charger, a pack of cards, a notebook or sketchbook, magazines, an e-reader, a tablet, newspapers, a laptop, puzzles, audio books for when you stop, and anything else that entertains you.
 This should have small meals, as well as snacks. These can include thing in thermoses, sandwiches and wraps, cold pizza, chips, pretzels, energy bars, crackers, and anything else you like to eat. Also include small deserts, like a box of chocolate truffles. Add some drinks, like water, juice, lemonade, and soda (in insulated water bottles). Finally, add some gum, mints like Mentos and Tic Tacs". Be sure not to bring plastic-throw-away water bottles, especially when you're traveling to a warmer climate; the sun can affect how the water tastes.
 This should include a flashlight, an extra (charged) phone, a first-aid kit, batteries, a radio, can of oil, a carton of gas, and an extra tire.
 This should include car chargers for every device you brought. This way you can charge things when they run out.
 Every person should have a wallet with a hefty amount of money. At least one person should have a credit card.
 Getting lost during a road trip isn't very fun at all.
 Which one depends on the car. Either way, have each person make a long playlist with upbeat songs that you can enjoy while driving. Play these playlists in turn as you drive. Sing along to every song you know.
 This is common and easy, especially if the other passengers are close to you.
 Eat, run around, or go to the bathroom so you're ready for the next leg of the drive. If the rest stop is a mall (or some other place where there are activities), embrace it and spend an hour there. You might even want to plan them out in advance so that you don't starve when you find out that the next exit doesn't have a McDonald's!

, This ensures that you won't feel the need to check what time it is. People who really get the urge a lot should set it to ring every 30 minutes and say the time (if possible).
 This could be a journal, scrapbook, video diary, or website. No matter which you pick, do your best to record everything you can.
 Having the wind in your hair alone can be fun. Open the sunroof or take the roof down if possible.

