 Be careful not to bend the pin too far and risk cracking the metal. You don’t want to end up with two separate pieces. Your hair pin should be in the shape of an “L” at this point. 





;
, You can usually bite these off with your teeth. You can also remove them by gripping them with a pair of pliers and pulling them off, or by scraping them away with a butter knife., This can be done by inserting the end into the lock itself and then bending the pin to one side. This should give you a tiny bend at the end about an inch long. Avoid over bending it. This is not a ninety-degree bend like the last one., At this point you should have your pin in an “L” shape with the tip of the flat end bent downwards slightly. Take the other end and fold it in half over itself so that you have a small “V” shape (about twenty degree angle) that can act like a handle.
 You’ll need one more hairpin that will be inserted into the lock to help you turn it., Don’t unfold the hairpin like you did the last one. Instead, use a pair of pliers to bend the closed end of the hairpin about seventy-degrees. You can also try the same method you used for the first hairpin. Stick the end into the lock and then pull down until the hairpin is bent.
 The lever is going to act as a guide for your lock pick as well as allow you to turn the lock once the pins are all pushed into place. The open end will act as a handle, allowing you to turn the lever and apply pressure to the pins inside the lock. 







, Turn the lever softly but firmly in the same direction you would turn your key to unlock the door. The lock will catch on the pins and you’ll feel some resistance. Keep this pressure on the barrel while you begin picking the lock.
 The end that is arced should be pointed upward so that the tip of the pick can work at pushing the lock pins up.
 Keeping pressure on the lock with your lever, start to push your lock pick forward, using an up and down motion to feel past the pins. Some of the pins may move up and down fairly easily. Push by them until you find a “seized” pin. This one will be much harder to move.
 Work your lock pick up and down on the seized pin until you hear it click into place with the barrel. This is the sound of the barrel moving slightly to the side which separates the break in the pin and keeps it from securing the lock.
 Once you’ve taken care of one pin another will become stuck or seized. Find that one and start to work it in the same way.








Remember to keep pressure on the lever.
Work the pick in an up and down motion.Trust how the pins feel on the pick and allow it to direct your movements.
 Once you feel like you’ve dealt with all of the pins, put more pressure on your lever and the lock should open.








If the lock does not open you may have pushed one of the pins up too high. You can try to remedy this by easing up on some of the pressure on your lever. This may allow that pin to fall back down, but it could also allow other pins to fall and cause you to have to start over.