 A big part of performing is sharing a piece of who you are with your audience. It’s not enough to just perform for them – you also need to engage them emotionally.The more personal you can make your performance, the more your audience will respond to it.
If you’re a musician, tell stories about your life between songs.
If you’re a stand up, do some crowd work and interact with the audience between jokes.
If you’re a dancer, don’t forget to look out and make eye contact with your audience as you perform.
 There’s nothing more unnerving than watching a performer flounder on stage. When you’re performing, you’re responsible for your audience’s happiness, so make sure to show up well-prepared and ready to work.Don’t allow nerves to affect your performance – turn that nervous energy into a more productive performance energy.
Block out and rehearse every portion of your performance so there are no surprises for you or your audience.
 Get your audience involved in your performance. Giving them something to do will help them feel like an integral part of the experience. Get them in on the action by asking questions or including them in your jokes or tricks.If you’re a magician, have at least one trick that requires an audience volunteer.
Make sure to choose a volunteer that actually wants to participate – they won’t have fun if they just want to get off the stage.
If you’re a musician, perform a popular song and let the audience sing along for a verse.
 As you begin to perform more, you’ll learn that not every audience reacts to your performance the same way. A small, intimate performance in a café is very different from a large concert venue and as a performer, you need to be able to read your audience and give them the kind of performance they want.If your audience isn’t enjoying the jokes or music you’re performing, be able to adapt on the fly and switch to something that might be more their speed.
Know that you’ll have to be bigger, louder and more energetic the larger the venue and the more people you have watching.

