 Locate the app on your iPhone and tap on it. You will be brought to the main screen that displays all the preloaded lists and your custom.
 Customs Lists has an icon of nested folders.


Tap on the folders icon, and the next screen will display all the ListPro files you have, including those you’ve synced from your PC.
 You can store multiple lists under a ListPro file. You can only do this under the Custom Lists mode though, so from the ListPro files under the Custom Lists, tap on the one you want to use to add your new custom list.


If you want to create a completely new ListPro file in which to add your list to, tap on the plus sign on the upper right corner to create a new ListPro file. A screen will ask you for the name of this new file. Type the name of the new file then tap the “Save” button. The new ListPro file will be created.
 Tap on the plus sign on the upper right corner to create a new list, and select “Add List” from the options that will appear.
 To make creating your custom list easier, ListPro has included some basic list templates to get you started. The list of available list templates will be displayed. Tap on one to select it.


The available templates include Basic Checklist, Collection, Contacts, Shopping List, To Do List, Website List, lists for Business, lists for Getting Things Done (GTD), lists for Shopping, lists for Travel and Expense, and lists for Collectors.
 The selected list template’s default columns will be displayed. Scroll through them to see if they fit your purpose.
 If you want to modify the columns or to add new ones, tap on the “Customize” button on the header. You can edit the columns on the next screen. You can change the list’s layout, column order, column titles, and acceptable values.


Tap on the “Add Column” button at the bottom of the list of columns to add a new column to the list. You have to identify the Column Type by tapping on a drop-down list with the options. Select the Column Type from here. Afterwards, name the column. The new column will then be added to the list.
 Tap on the “Save” button at the upper right corner to save your changes to the custom list. You will then be asked to name the new list. Type it in then tap the “Create the List” button. The new list will be created.
 Tap the plus sign on the upper right corner of the new list to add an entry to it. A new screen will appear where you can populate the entry to your list, and when you’re finished, tap on the “Done” button to save your entry and go back to your list.

