 If you have automatic waterers, make sure to check your horse's gums to check his water intake. For horses with buckets, make sure that there are no shavings or hay in his water, as this can deter some horses from drinking. If there are more than one horse in a pasture, check to see that one horse is not hogging the water tank from the others.;
, Although you should do this all year, it's especially important in the summer to prevent stomach ulcers and to let your horse eat the more natural way. Also, consider buying lower grade hay, as horses can eat more of it without over eating (this is also good to do in the winter so horses can keep their body temperature up). In her stall, hang a toy that she can play with to entertain her. Make sure to supply a mineral or salt block so she can get all her nutritional needs met. If she licks the salt block, her water intake will go up, so this is always good for the summer time.
 This is more natural, and is much better for your horse than sitting in a stall all day. Jut make sure to adjust the amount of hay she receives to coordinate with her grass intake. Never leave her halter on when she is left in the pasture or in her stall, as she can get snagged and injured.
 Blanket her with a nylon fly sheet, a neck covering, and a fly mask with ear coverings if she is going to be outside. Never put her tail up in a bag, as this keeps her from swatting at flies. If you are going riding, use a natural, water-based fly spray that not just kills flies when they land on your horse, but prevents them from coming to land.  Muck stalls at least twice daily, and even three or four times to keep fly larvae away. Make sure to also muck pastures at least twice a week to keep flies away from there as well. Fly predators are also a good investment. Also, try adding garlic or a packaged supplement into your horse's grain or water to help protect her from flies.
 If you are riding your horse, make sure that you use fly protection, proper tack and support mechanisms, and that you ave looked into the weather. Avoid riding on days hotter that 85 °F (29 °C) to prevent heat stress, and if you do have to ride, do slow work and pay attention to your horse's breathing, sweating, and temperature. Stop and walk your horse in the middle of your ride to let it cool down, if necessary. If you have a choice, perhaps ride English, as this is less to carry and is more comfortable for the horse.
 This will make your horse much, much more comfortable, is not extremely expensive, and has a high value.
 Make sure to see your horse at least every other day if you are boarding, and if you have you own stable, make sure to spend quality time with your horse daily. You can groom her, free lunge, muck her stall, teach her tricks, or work on natural horsemanship if you don't have time to ride. This will make your horse happy and will strengthen the bond between horse and rider.

