 A fresh nail polish spill is much easier to clean than a dried one, and the trick is to get as much of the polish off the carpet as possible before it dries out. For large spills, use a spoon to scoop up as much of the wet nail polish as you can from the carpet.








Once the spoon is dirty with nail polish, wipe it off before going back to the carpet to get more. This will prevent the nail polish from spreading.;
, Once you’ve picked up as much nail polish as you can with the spoon, absorb even more with an old towel, rag, or cloth. Wrap the cloth around a couple of your fingers and dab the nail polish with the cloth. Do not rub, or you will spread the polish around and work it deeper into the fibers of the carpet.








After each blot, use a new section of cloth to avoid spreading the stain.
Continue dabbing in this way until no more color is coming off on the cloth.
 There are a number of different cleaners you can try to remove fresh nail polish spills from carpet. Avoid using bleach and acetone, as both of these can damage and discolor the carpet. The most effective cleaner will be non-acetone nail polish remover, but you can also try:Rubbing alcohol
Hair spray
Hydrogen peroxide (for light carpets only)
Window cleaner

, It’s important to perform a patch test on fabric before applying new cleaners or products. Dip a cotton swab in nail polish remover or another cleaner, and dab a tiny area of carpet in an inconspicuous area.








A good inconspicuous spot for a test patch includes an area of carpet that’s normally hidden under furniture.
Check back in a couple minutes to see if the area has been discolored or otherwise affected by the cleaner. If the cleaner you chose did discolor the carpet, try something else.
If the carpet hasn’t been damaged or discolored, proceed with cleaning the nail polish.
 Dampen a fresh clean rag or cloth with the nail polish remover or cleaner. Blot at the stain the way you did with the dry towel. Switch to a fresh section of cloth regularly to prevent spreading. Add more nail polish remover to the cloth as necessary, and keep dabbing until the stain is gone.








Avoid pouring nail polish remover and other cleaners directly onto the carpet, as they can soak through and damage the backing.

