 The American Translators Association offers generalized certification programs for translators and is widely recognized, both nationally and internationally. You can obtain a qualification for translating into English and for translating from English into your target language.


Certification is available for translating into English from Arabic, Croatian, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Swedish.
Certification is also available in translating from English into Chinese, Croatian, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, and Ukrainian.;
, The ATA has strict eligibility requirements which must be met. The ATA website explains the system and requirements in more detail but there are two core criteria which must be met prior to making your application.


You must be a member of the ATA to apply for certification but you can become a member at the same time as making your test application. You must provide a reading proficiency test in both your source and target languages from the ACTFL (American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.)

, Eligibility requirements for becoming certified by the ATA are a combination of education, experience, and assessed proficiency. To be eligible to apply you must meet one of the following criteria:


To be currently certified by the Fédération Internationale des Traducteurs.To hold a Bachelor Degree from an approved translation and interpretation institute which is on the approved list of the ATA Education and Pedagogy Committee.To hold a Bachelor Degree and two years proven work experience as a translator.
To have at least five years proven work experience as a translator.
 This is a challenging three-hour exam that will cover: comprehension of the source-language, translation techniques, and writing in your target language. You will be graded on your grammar and choice of words as well as the overall quality and accuracy of your translation.


To give yourself the best chance of success on the ATA test, make sure you have hit the level of at least ‘Advanced-Low’ on the ACTFL scale before attempting the ATA certification examination.
Take advantage of the practice tests which are available from the ATA website.Candidates are provided with three passages. Passage A might be a newspaper editorial, an essay, a non-fiction book. Passage B may be technical, scientific or medical in content. Passage C may be a financial, business or legal document. Candidates must translate two written passages. A is compulsory and candidates can choose either B or C.
 Once you receive your certification you will also receive an ATA-certified translator seal, and a professional services listing in the ATA Directory of Translation and Interpreting Services. This will enable you to market yourself to employers as a professional who is approved to industry standards.


The ATA seal will document your certification number which you can use on your documents.
Once your name is listed on the ATA Directory of Translators and Interpreters any individual or company seeking a professional translator will be able to find you and see your contact details.

