 Start by cutting the cardstock into narrow strips first, then cut the strips into squares. ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) squares will be fine for most projects, but young children might find 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) squares easier to work with.


Plan on having at least two different colors: one for the heart and one for the background.
For a more interesting design, consider using various shades of the same color: light pink, medium pink, and dark pink.
Consider using some patterned or textured paper in your design. You can even use pages cut out of a magazine.;
, Sketch the heart lightly in pencil so that you can erase it later. To make the colors of your paper tiles really stand out, choose white or black paper. This will make the "grout" part of your mosaic.
 Apply the glue directly to the paper, then press the tiles into the glue. Work in small sections at a time so that the glue does not dry out too fast. Be sure to leave tiny gaps between each tile for a true mosaic look.


You can use a glue stick, or you can paint on a thin layer of liquid glue using a paint brush.
You might find it easier to glue the tiles along just the inside of the outline.
 As before, work in small patches so that the glue does not dry out too fast. You can glue these tiles down randomly, or you can continue following the curve of the outline. Don't be afraid to cut the paper tiles to fit, and remember to leave tiny gaps between each tile.
 If you'd like to add a background, now is the time to do so. You can make your background a solid color, or you can make it different shades of the same color. To avoid detracting from the heart, choose a contrasting color for the background. You can arrange the tiles in neat, little rows, or glue them down randomly.
 Be very careful while erasing the pencil. If you can, try to only erase between the tiles instead of right over them. This way, you won't accidentally bump them off the page.
 You can use a spray-on acrylic sealer, a brush-on varnish, or a glossy decoupage glue, such as Mod Podge. Let the sealer dry before displaying your work.

