 If you want to swim to stay fit, you first must find a pool that is convenient to you. Ideally, you want to find an indoor pool so you can continue your swimming regimen year round.Find out what classes are available at the pool, as well as the cost to use the pool. These fees can add up, so ask if you can purchase a monthly or yearly membership that will give you unlimited access to the pool for less money.
Carefully inspect the pool and facilities. Ask staff about pool maintenance and make sure everything is kept clean and sanitary.
 One of the best parts about swimming to stay fit is that you typically don't need to invest in a lot of equipment to get started. However, you will need at least one swimsuit that is comfortable and functional for swimming.If you're wearing a women's swimsuit, choose a one piece and move around in it to make sure it fits well and the straps won't slide off while you're swimming.
If you're wearing men's swimming trunks, choose those that cling rather than board shorts or other loose, flappy shorts.
You may want to cover more of your body for modesty reasons. Most pools allow full wetsuits that cover your arms and legs. Talk to the staff at the pool where you plan to swim so you can better understand your options., At a minimum, you'll probably want to buy a pair of googles to protect your eyes from the chlorine. If you have longer hair, you also may want to get a swim cap to keep your hair from getting in your way while you're swimming.Some pools may provide towels, but you may want to invest in a more super-absorbent towel for quick hops out of the pool for a water or bathroom break.
Flippers or fins, hand paddles, and kick boards are swimming equipment used in perfecting your stroke or increasing your speed. Many pools loan these out for free or for a small rental charge. If you find you use these items regularly in your swimming routines, however, you may eventually want to buy your own.
 If you've never taken formal swimming lessons before, or if you last took lessons as a small child, you might want to take some lessons before you start swimming for fitness.Working with a swim coach for your first few sessions will help you perfect your form and correct any bad habits you may have developed over the years.
You also need to focus on your breathing technique. Incorrect breathing will sap your energy level and make your stroke less effective.

