 Some owners may need you to come in every day while they are at work to let their dog out to the bathroom, others may just need your services when they travel. Clients who are away overnight may require up to 4 visits a day depending on the needs of their pets.
 Instead of traveling to your clients' houses, build a business where your clients bring their pets to you. This type of service is most commonly offered for dogs, which tend to be the most social of all pets.
 Cluster your clients if possible so you can pick several dogs up and walk them at the same time, or bring them as a group to your local dog park for room to play.
 If you have the space, you can also host the party. Birthday parties for dogs and other pets are becoming increasingly more popular. Typically dogs and their human owners are all invited and activities center on the pets.
 Busy pet owners can't always take time off from work to get their pets to the vet or groomers. Pet taxi services pick up the pet, accompany it to the appointment, and then bring it back home. These services often run other pet-related errands, such as picking up pet food and other supplies.
 This usually works best as a mobile business where you take pictures in the customer's home. Or strike a deal with some local pet shops and set up in their store. Shops may be particularly open to this around holidays, such as Christmas and Easter.
 Bathing, brushing, cutting hair, brushing teeth and trimming nails are some services many pet owners pay others to do. Going to your clients' homes to groom their pets makes your services very accessible.
 Although this may not be the most glamorous or fun pet business, doggie waste removal can be very lucrative with low overhead and no special skills required. Most services charge a monthly fee which includes one visit a week. Build a route to fill your day because each stop should only take 10 to 20 minutes.
 Many dog owners are willing to pay more for high-quality, all-natural dog treats made with human-grade ingredients. Familiarize yourself with which foods are not good for various pets to make sure that your recipes are healthy ones.
 If you are crafty and can make your own pet clothing. Local flea markets are a good place to market pet supplies, as well as online and word of mouth. Craft fairs are also a great selling venue.

