 People with bulimia find themselves stuck in a cycle of binging and purging – eating large amounts of food and then vomiting, taking laxatives, and/or exercising excessively to get rid of what they have consumed. Bulimia can have catastrophic health consequences, and it’s even more dangerous during pregnancy. If you are pregnant and you binge and purge, you need to seek medical treatment immediately.


Some women experience the symptoms of bulimia nervosa for the first time when they become pregnant. Others have long histories of the condition. Either way, you need to be honest with your doctor and get the help that you need.;
, People with anorexia restrict their food intake severely, resulting in excessive weight loss and malnutrition. The condition is extremely dangerous, and during pregnancy, it poses additional risks – to both you and your unborn baby. If you are pregnant and think you may have anorexia, talk to a doctor right away.


As with bulimia, you may experience the symptoms of anorexia for the first time during pregnancy (in the media, this condition has been termed “pregorexia,” but that’s not a recognized medical diagnosis), or you may have a long history of the condition. Either way, get medical help immediately.
 People with binge eating disorder (BED) experience episodes during which they consume very large amounts of food, without the purging associated with bulimia. If you have BED, you might feel “out of control” or powerless around food, and you may feel guilty or depressed about your binges. Though not as immediately dangerous as bulimia or anorexia, binge eating disorder does pose serious health risks, which may be exacerbated during pregnancy. See a doctor right away if you suspect you have BED.


As with other eating disorders, binge eating disorder sometimes occurs for the first time during pregnancy; it can also be a long-standing condition triggered or aggravated by pregnancy. Either way, report your symptoms to your doctor.
 If you are pregnant and have any of these eating disorders, you risk malnutrition, dehydration, heart problems, gestational diabetes, psychological issues, labor complications, and breastfeeding difficulties. In addition, your condition may affect your baby. Risks to your baby include:


premature birth (which can pose many dangerous health problems)
low birth weight
respiratory problems and/or respiratory distress at birth
feeding problems
developmental delays

, During pregnancy, your body changes very quickly. You gain weight, and your breasts and belly grow. Well-meaning people will comment on these changes, and you may feel upset, embarrassed, or self-conscious. For women prone to eating disorders, all of this can be triggering.
 Eating disorders can appear to be all about food, weight, and body image – and that can seem particularly true if your condition was triggered by healthy pregnancy weight gain. However, most people with eating disorders have underlying issues that are unrelated (or loosely connected) to their bodies, such as depression, anxiety, relationship problems, and a need for control. Therefore, though medical treatment for eating disorders is absolutely necessary, you will probably also need some kind of counseling to deal with the psychological backdrop.
 Many women feel embarrassed, guilty, or ashamed about their eating disorders, especially during pregnancy, when they become responsible not only for themselves for also for their unborn babies. Resist the urge to conceal your condition. Your obstetrician needs to know about your eating disorder. Provide a detailed description of your symptoms so that he or she can help you and your baby.
 Your obstetrician should be able to refer you to a nutritionist, who will help you develop an eating plan to ensure adequate nourishment for your and your baby. Check in with this person regularly, and do your best to follow his or her advice. Remember that a nutritious diet is one of the most important factors in ensuring a healthy pregnancy.


Your nutritionist is also a fantastic resource for dealing with the postpartum period. Plan to continue seeing this person after your baby is born.
 Your obstetrician may want to perform additional tests to make sure that you are staying as healthy as possible. He or she may want to check you for anemia, osteoporosis, and other complications that can result from poor nutrition and be exacerbated during pregnancy. In addition, if your condition is severe, he or she should monitor your cardiac health and overall wellness.
 Having an eating disorder places you in a higher risk category that most pregnant women, so it’s important that you work with your obstetrician to monitor your baby’s growth and development. Depending on your specific circumstances, you may need more frequent doctor’s appointments, additional ultrasound examinations and laboratory work, or referrals to specialists. Follow your doctor’s advice.
 If you started your pregnancy at a healthy weight, you probably need to gain between 25 and 35 pounds by the time you deliver; if you were underweight, you may need to gain more, and if you were overweight, you may be able to gain less. Talk to your doctor about your weight gain goals, and do your best to follow his or her recommendations. Remember: pregnancy is temporary, and gaining weight is necessary for your baby’s health.


You will probably have to weigh in at every doctor’s appointment. For women with eating disorders, this prospect can be stressful, but it’s crucial to monitoring the health of you and your baby during pregnancy. If you find this part of the appointment especially upsetting, talk to your doctor.
 If your condition is severe, your doctor may recommend hospitalization. You may need intravenous fluids and nutrition, and you may need to undergo additional testing. Hospitalization may be required if:


your vital signs concern your doctor
you are dehydrated
you show signs of malnutrition
you have cardiac symptoms, such as arrhythmia
you do not gain sufficient weight, even after seeing a therapist and nutritionist
you have signs of preterm labor or other complications

, Individual therapy is almost as important as specialized prenatal care. Your therapist can help you deal with your feelings about food, weight, pregnancy, and motherhood. He or she can also help you discover some of factors that are contributing to your condition, so that you can deal with them and move forward. If possible, choose someone with experience treating pregnant women with eating disorders.


Like your nutritionist, your therapist will continue to be an excellent resource for you even after your baby is born. Remember that the postpartum period will be challenging, too; if possible, plan to keep seeing your counselor during this time.
 There are probably support groups for people with eating disorders in your community. Find one and attend a meeting – you might be surprised by how helpful and comforting these groups can be.
 If you have a spouse or partner that you trust, tell this person about your condition. He or she can encourage you to eat healthfully, see your doctor regularly, and strive for healthy, moderate weight gain. Just as importantly, he or she can offer love, compassion, and emotional support.
 Close friends and relatives can also provide important emotional support. Tell the people you trust what you are going through; give them an opportunity to listen and help you.
 If you have friends or family members who judge you harshly, criticize your actions, or make you feel bad about yourself, avoid them. Continue to see your doctor, nutritionist, and therapist, and surround yourself with people who support you.

