

You may have the urge to keep explaining yourself or start rambling, but keep your break up speech under five minutes.Dragging it out and talking it over repeatedly can become a long, more painful process and ruin the whole Valentine’s Day for both of you.

If the other person suspects that you plan to break up, the shorter the speech the better.
You could simply say, “We’ve both known this was coming, so I’m ending the relationship because neither one of us is happy.”
If this will come as a total surprise, you may want to build in some time where you can allow the other person to digest and ask questions. You should be prepared for him to ask why you have chosen to do this on Valentine's Day.
The length of this discussion with vary for each couple, and it's okay if it takes a while. But if you begin repeating arguments or talking in circles, then it's time to end the conversation. Gauge what you and your partner need in terms of explanations or expressing yourselves, and if it seems you both understand each other and the breakup, then that is the cue to end the conversation.
 Don’t just talk during the break up, listen to what your partner has to say as well.Instead of thinking of a response to what she is saying, just listen and hear what she is trying to tell you. Although you don’t have to change your mind, you should give her a chance to express her feelings about the breakup.

Look at her when she is talking to you to show that you are listening.
Once your ex starts repeating herself or trying to convince you to stay, it’s okay to end the conversation.
 You don’t want to accidentally send your soon-to-be ex mixed signals, so make sure your body language matches your words.For example, excessive hugging and touching may make it seem like you don’t really want to break up.


This doesn’t mean you can’t touch her at all, just make sure you aren’t getting too physical.
Look her in the eyes and sit up straight to show her you are serious.
 This eliminates any confusion about what you are saying. It also shows that you mean it. Keep your voice calm and controlled while you explain why are breaking up on Valentine’s Day.


You might use phrases like: “I’m breaking up with you,” “I’m ending the relationship,” “I’m leaving you.”
Phrases like, “We need some time apart,” or, “I want to take a break,” suggest that you might get back together at some time.

