 and hide it amongst your other books.
, If there are absolutely no good hiding spots you can access easily or your nosy person has already discovered them all:


Consider writing your diary in a shorthand or code that only you understand, so that even if intercepted no one will know how to read what you have written. Note, however, that almost any code that isn't generated by a computer can be broken by someone with enough time and experience, and that if you write in a code that doesn't look like normal English, it will be obvious to everyone that you're hiding something. Also, the more complex the code, the longer it will take to write out and the longer it will take to decipher when you want to read it. The more practice you have with your particular method, the quicker your writing/reading will become.
Or, as a twist to the above, consider writing in a language with a script different from your own; for example, Japanese. Greek and Korean are a good shortcut because you only need to learn the alphabet and not the actual language (Korean and Greek characters have different shapes from the English letters, but share very similar sounds). Try to choose a language few people know and/or you have an interest in (if anyone finds it, you can always say it's practice or something).
You can also create your own language or variation on English. English has a lot of room for condensation. For example, consider dropping the definite article and using a symbol instead. Then take that symbol and place it somewhere that isn't grammatically correct in English. For example, use a '?' symbol for "the" and attach it to the end of a word. That way 'the word' becomes 'word?'
Consider instead keeping an electronic diary on a computer. Write in MS Word or a similar program, and then put a password only you know on the file when you save it. Then, put it in a folder and put a different password on that folder, giving an extra layer of security. For even better hiding, place the password folder in a directory on your computer that people would be unlikely to look in. For example, name the folder something innocuous, like "data3", and then place it in a directory called "utilities", instead of naming it "diary" and putting it in "My Documents".
 It is an electronic device where you voice activate or pin code open. Then it opens up to a notebook, LED light, pen holder, picture frame and all sorts. The prices for these are very low for something that is very high technology!

,, Just keep in mind that your parents might ask you why you have the key.
 If you have a video camera, and are willing to spend time and money getting cassettes, you can record your feelings out loud!

, When you have a word document to put a password on it you need to go to tools, options, click the security tab and type in the "password to open". Also make sure not to name it "My Diary" but name it something normal like "page 27 homework" or "Today I...."

, Truly the diary seems to be a story-book.
, Type out your diary under the article.
 Navigate to C:\Windows, and pick a folder. No one will ever look in there, or know which of hundreds of folders you have put your file in.

