 Cookies keep well, and they make great gifts for a birthday, Christmas, or any other occasion. You can send them in a package with all kinds of other goodies... it's just too bad that you won't be there to see the faces when the package is opened.
 This includes teachers, bus drivers, and even other students (though you'll need to get special permission from the school to sell to students, and you may want to keep in mind that especially with younger kids, the money-cookie transactions may be a bit hard to pull off). Most teachers will buy a box or two, and the same goes for bus drivers. Office staff, janitors, and other "less noticed" school personnel would also be a good idea, since they probably have fewer people asking them. However, be careful not to make a big deal about it, because if your teacher buys 10 boxes from you, another scout in your class may become jealous.
 This is an easy way to get lots of sales in one convenient place, and your parent(s) will take care of most of the delivery. One of the easiest ways for parents to do this is to enclose a cookie order sheet, a brochure describing the cookies and other information such as who's selling, in a folder that can be passed from cubicle to cubicle. This is often comfortable for parents and their coworkers as there's no direct soliciting or hovering. It gives people a chance to complete the order when they've time, and it minimizes feelings of obligation to buy.
 If you attend church, it is a great way to sell cookies to people that you know. After a sermon or during events, sell cookies to your friends and family. You'll be sure to have an order form filled with names.


If they work at a time that you're not in school, you may even be able to go to their workplace and set up a mini-booth sale near the front entrance or their office door.
 If you or your parents are fairly close with a manager of a big store or an owner of a smaller one, you may be able to persuade them to buy large quantities of cookies to give out at an event, sell for a little extra money, or whatever else they'd like to do with them. This is a great way to exceed your goals... possibly by a few thousand boxes.
 Even if you couldn't sell cookies to the business owner, maybe they'll let you sell outside their store. A booth sale is a great way to get rid of extra cookies, practice selling in a different environment, or get those last few boxes you need to reach your goal. It also gives people who don't live near a girl scout, or who want to buy more of something, a second chance.
 They, too, may want to buy cookies in bulk. Some ideas are senior centers/groups (or nursing homes), Boy Scouts (they'll never admit it, but they're jealous of Girl Scout cookies), church groups, sports teams... the possibilities are endless.
 A new and exciting cookie selling form is called mobile cookie booths. You can be anywhere in your Girl Scout county for fifteen minutes. So make a big sign saying "GIRL SCOUT COOKIES FOR SALE" and have your parents ( or if you're old enough, you) drive around your town and sell cookies. So you could go to the park for fifteen minutes, go to the local Public for fifteen minutes then maybe the Library. And you do NOT need permission.

