 Place a warm, moist washcloth over the affected ear to lessen the pain and throbbing ache. You can use any warm compress, such as a hot towel wrung out in warm-to-hot water, against the ear for immediate relief.Alternatively, you can use a cup of rice or salt, heated in a pan on the stove until it is warm – but not too hot — and bundled into a sock or washcloth. Place it over your ear. It will stay warm longer than a wet washcloth will.
 Your doctor may recommend the use of over-the-counter acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin IB, Advil) to relieve pain and ease any discomfort.Be sure to follow the dosage specified on the label.


Adults should take up to 650 mg of acetaminophen, or 400 mg of ibuprofen every four to six hours, depending on how much pain you are experiencing.Do not take more than 4grams in total for all of these combined within 24hrs.
The amount of painkillers children should take are based on their weight. Read the directions that come with your medication to determine how much your child should be given.Never give aspirin to children or teens (under 19). Aspirin has been linked with Reye's syndrome, a rare condition that can cause severe liver and brain damage in children and teenagers. You should not give aspirin to anyone under 19.Consult your physician if you have questions., If you are in considerable pain, your doctor may prescribe ear drops, such as antipyrine-benzocaine-glycerin (Aurodex) to relieve pain as long as the eardrum remains in tact and not torn or ruptured.The normal prescription is to add three or four drops of the medicine to your ear canal twice a day for seven days. Lie on your side to properly put the drops in your ear, and then stay lying on your side for 60 seconds so that the drops have time to sink in.To administer drops to a child, warm the bottle by placing it in warm water. This will make the drops less of a shock to the ear since they won't be freezing cold. Have your child lie down on a flat surface with the infected ear facing you. Administer the drops as directed on the label. Follow the recommended dosage and do not use more. Follow the same procedure if you are administering drops to another adult or yourself.
 To relieve pain and help drain the fluids that have built up in your ears, you can change the position you lie in when you get in bed at night. Put a bunch of pillows under your head to keep your head elevated so that the fluids will drain from your ear tubes.

