 This could be herbal tea or hot cocoa. From the warmth rising from the cup, to the pleasant aromas of your favorite hot drink, you will find that a hot drink relaxes you. Even holding a hot drink can make you feel friendlier.Avoid anything with too much caffeine such as regular coffee or black tea, as caffeine increases energy and can increase anxiety in some people., If you’re struggling to get out of your head or having a hard time relaxing, try yoga. You don’t need to do much—just 5 to 10 minutes can help. And there’s no need to do any position that’s too hard or twisty to get the effect. The child’s pose (laying face down with your knees tucked up under you and your hands stretched out in front of your head) or the corpse pose (lying flat on your back with your palms face-up at your sides) can be easy poses to relax with. Once you’ve done yoga, you should be able to relax better., Reclining at a 135 degree angle is best for your back. Sitting in a cushy recliner can make you feel more at ease whether you’re watching television or reading a book. You might even get so relaxed that you fall asleep there. Just make sure you aren’t holding your hot drink if you start to feel like your dozing off., Sometimes you might judge yourself too much for doing things you want to do that. This can keep you from practicing basic self-care. Sometimes self-care is simply giving yourself permission to do something you don’t usually let yourself do, like read a book for fun or binge-watch a new season of your favorite program. You’ll be surprised how much giving yourself permission do something you really want to do helps you relax., Unless cooking is relaxing to you, order food in for dinner or eat snacks. You can even indulge a little and have cookies for dinner or some other fun snack. You can get your favorite dish from your favorite restaurant. Either way, do what helps you relax., This is really important. It’s not fun to realize you really need to do laundry in the middle of your relaxing evening. If laundry really can wait (you still have something reasonable and clean to wear the next day), then give yourself permission to put it off. If there are chores you absolutely must do that evening, do them first before beginning your relaxation., Keep the water warm, but not too hot. You can use bubble bath if you like (This can irritate some sensitive skin). You can even take your hot drink with you. A warm bath can help you relax (and relax your muscles) after a long day. Just be careful not to fall asleep in the tub!