


Start with a good roller pin.
To extend your reach and give you better control, screw a 48 inch (1.2 meter) wood handle or extension pole onto the end of the roller.
Invest in a good roller cover (also known as a sleeve). It’s tempting to buy the cheapest cover available and throw it away when you’re done, but cheap roller covers don’t hold enough paint to do a good job. It’ll take you twice as long to paint a room and the results won't be as good. Use a 1/2 inch (1.2 cm) nap for flat paint on walls and ceilings, 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) nap for rough surfaces like textured ceilings, and 1/4 inch (.63 cm) nap for satin or semi-gloss paint. See the Tips below for more information on how to take good care of your equipment.
You’ll rarely see a pro using a paint tray for painting very large areas. A 5-gallon (18.9 liter) bucket with a special bucket screen hung over the edge works better because it's easier to load the cover, it's easier to move around, and you're less likely to trip over it or step in it. And if you need to take a break, you can just cover it with a damp towel to keep the paint from drying.
Roller trays work well for smaller areas such as bedrooms where a single gallon of paint might be all that is needed. Cleanup is also easier with roller trays. Add a tray liner to make cleanup even easier.;
, Since rollers can’t get tight to edges, the first painting step is to brush along the ceiling, inside corners and moldings.
 Start about a foot from the bottom and 6 inch (15.2 cm) from the corner and roll upward at a slight angle using light pressure. Stop a few inches from the ceiling. Now roll up and down back toward the corner to quickly spread the paint. You can leave paint buildup and roller marks at this step. Don’t worry about a perfect job yet.
 Keep a wet edge. Keeping a wet edge is crucial to all top-quality paint jobs, whether you’re enameling a door, varnishing furniture or rolling paint on a wall. The idea is to plan the sequence of work and work fast enough so that you’re always lapping newly applied paint onto paint that’s still wet. If you stop for a break in the middle of a wall, for example, and then start painting after this section has dried, you’ll likely see a lap mark where the two areas join.
 Don’t reload the roller with paint for this step. Use very light pressure. Roll up and down, from floor to ceiling and move over about three-quarters of a roller width each time so you’re always slightly overlapping the previous stroke. When you reach the corner, roll as close as you can to the adjacent wall without touching it.
 Get as close as you can. This “cutting in” process leaves brush marks that won’t match the roller texture on the rest of the wall. For the best-looking job, you’ll want to cover as many brush marks as possible with the roller. Do this by carefully rolling up close to inside corners, moldings and the ceiling. Face the open end of the roller toward the edge and remember not to use a roller that’s fully loaded with paint. If you are skilled enough to roll within an inch of the ceiling while rolling vertically, you can skip this step.
 Use your putty knife, or better yet, a special roller scraping tool with a semicircular cutout in the blade. A painter's "5-in-1 tool" is perfect for this task.
 Lather up the roller and scrub the mat with your fingers like you are washing a short-haired dog. The detergent will pull a lot of the paint residue out of the mat and make the next step easier.
 A roller and paint brush spinning tool, available at hardware and paint stores, simplifies the cleaning task. Just slip the roller cover onto the spinner and repeatedly wet and spin out the roller into an empty bucket until it’s clean.

