 You must be at least 12 years old to get a hunting license. If you are under 16, then you’ll need parental consent., Both residents and nonresidents may buy hunting licenses. However, residents will pay less. In order to qualify as a New York resident, you must live in the state for more than 30 days immediately before you apply for the license.Simply owning land in New York does not make you a resident. Instead, you must maintain a fixed and permanent home in the state.
Full-time college students and active members of the U.S. Armed Forces stationed in the state also qualify for annual resident licenses.
 First-time applicants must pass this course before you can obtain a hunting license. Visit http://www.dec.ny.gov/outdoor/7860.html to select your course. Courses are free. Once you pass, you should call 1-866-933-2257 to have the certificate added to your profile.


Because classes fill quickly, you should sign up as soon as possible. If you wait until the last minute, then no class may be available.
There are no courses offered only online. Instead, you must attend a class taught by an instructor.
Class are at least seven hours long.You will have to do several hours of homework in your course and have your instructor review it.
If you want to hunt with a bow, then you’ll need to take the Bowhunter Education class along with the Hunter Education course.
New York honors hunter education certificates and sporting license from other states. Call the Department of Environmental Conservation.
 Some people don’t need a hunting license to hunt in New York. Check to see if you fit one of these exceptions:You are a Native American who lives and hunts small game on a reservation.
You hunt on a licensed shooting preserve or at a big game shooting facility.
You are a resident landowner (or family member) who primarily engages in farming, or a lessee who does. You shoot small game on your farm land.
 You must purchase your annual hunting license first. However, depending on when and what you want to hunt, you may need additional privileges or permits. Visit http://www.dec.ny.gov/permits/95492.html for a description of which permits or privileges you need. Consider the following:Bowhunting Privilege
Muzzleloading Privilege
Turkey Permit
Federal Duck Stamp
Bobcat hunting
Harvest Info Program (to hunt woodcock and waterfowl)

, You can purchase a license online, in person, or over the phone. You should choose the method that is most convenient for you.

To buy in person, you can visit a license issuing location near you. Visit http://www.dec.ny.gov/permits/95448.html to find the closest location.
To buy a license over the phone, call 1-866-933-2257 Monday through Friday 8:30 am to 4:30 pm., Gather this information ahead of time so that the application process will go as smooth as possible. Find the following:One proof of state residency. If you want to purchase online, then you’ll need a valid driver’s license. Otherwise you can use a non-driver state identification showing a valid state address or other document.Your hunter education certificate. If you lost your certificate, call 1-888-HUNT-ED2. Provide your name, date of birth, type of course and when you took it. Certificates before 1980 cannot be replaced. Instead, you’ll need to take a new course.
A bowhunter education certificate if you want bowhunting privileges.
A credit card or debit card so that you can pay for the license. You can pay online by using a Visa or MasterCard.
 You can buy your license online through the Department of Environmental Conservation by visiting this webpage: https://decals.dec.ny.gov/DECALSCitizenWeb/loginregister.htm. If you are a first-time applicant, then you should register an account. Click “Create an Account” and provide the following information:email address
username
password
full name
contact information (address, phone number)
gender
date of birth
height and eye color
driver’s license ID number or other proof of residency

, After creating an account, log in using your username and password. Provide all requested information. Answer as honestly as possible, since it is a Class A misdemeanor to provide false statements.If you have questions as you complete the application, call 1-866-933-2257.
 The fee amount will depend on your age and whether you are a state resident. Residents may also buy a lifetime license for $535.00.Otherwise, pay the following amounts (current as of December 2016):


Residents ages 12-15 pay $5.
Residents ages 16-69 pay $22.
Residents 70 or older pay $5.
Nonresidents ages 12-15 pay $5.
Nonresidents ages 16 or older pay $100.
 Your tags and license will be sent in the mail. Generally, you must wait 14 business days for them to arrive. If you want them immediately, then you should buy a license by visiting a license issuing agent location.If you purchased online, then you’ll receive a confirmation and receipt of payment. However, these are not sufficient to allow you to start hunting. Instead, wait for the license and tags to arrive.Double check that all information is accurate before you go hunting.If something is wrong, then take the license to an issuing station and ask that the error be corrected. Remember not to hunt until you have an accurate license in your possession.
 If you lose your license, you can get a new one at any license issuing facility. It will cost $5. You can replace big game carcass tag sets or turkey carcass tag sets for $10.You can replace a lost back tag for free.
 Unless you bought a lifetime license, you will need to buy new ones every year. Your license is valid September 1 to August 31.It is illegal to hunt without a valid license, so give yourself plenty of time to buy a new one., If you are under 18, then you must have a parent or legal guardian hunt with you the entire season if this is your first time hunting big game. The person going with you must also have a current hunting license and meet all state requirements.You may also have someone 18 or older go along with you. However, they must have at least one year’s experience hunting deer or bear. They also must have a signed permission form. The form is available here: http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/wildlife_pdf/ythpermform.pdf.
 You can’t transfer your license or tags to someone else. In fact, you can't legally possess another person’s license when you are hunting.Keep your license with you at all times that you are hunting and don’t share., Legally, you must show the license to law enforcement when they request to see it. Furthermore, you must show it to the owner or person in control of any land on which you are hunting.Safely keep your license in a plastic bag so that it doesn’t get water on it. However, you shouldn’t laminate the license. The heat destroys the tag.
 You must visibly display the backtags in the middle of your back when hunting. An exception exists for those hunting in Catskill Park and in the Northern Zone. However, everyone else must properly display back tags.