 To ensure that the oven is ready to broil the sandwich, move the broiler rack so it’s approximately 8-inches (20-cm) below the heating element. Set the oven to broil and allow it to heat for approximately 5 minutes.Most oven broilers only have two settings: on and off. If yours has more specific heat settings, set the broiler to high.;
, Place 1 loaf of ciabatta bread that’s been cut in half lengthwise on a foil-lined cookie sheet with the cut sides facing up. Drizzle 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of extra virgin olive oil over the pieces of bread, and set them under the broiler until they are crispy and brown, which should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes.You can substitute your favorite type of Italian bread loaf for the ciabatta. It should have a crispy crust, though.
 After you’ve toasted the bread in the broiler, set the top piece aside on a cutting board. Spread approximately 1 cup (257 g) of spaghetti or marinara sauce over the bottom piece of bread so that it’s completely covered.You can make your own spaghetti or marinara sauce or use your favorite jarred sauce from the grocery store.
 When the bottom piece of bread is covered with sauce, place 4 to 6 chicken cutlets that have already been prepared parmesan style on the bread. Arrange them in a single layer, overlapping just the edges to fit them all if necessary.The chicken parmesan should be completely cooked and already covered with sauce and cheese.
This gameday sandwich is an ideal use for leftover chicken parmesan.
 After you’ve arranged the chicken parmesan cutlets on the bread, sprinkle 4 ounces (113 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese over them. Make sure to cover all of the chicken evenly with the cheese.You can also sprinkle some grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese over the chicken cutlets if you like.
 Once the chicken cutlets are covered with cheese, return the cookie sheet to the broiler. Allow the sandwich bottom to broil until the cheese melts completely and begins to brown and bubble, which should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes.It’s best to keep an eye on the sandwich as it’s broiling. It can burn easily if you leave it unattended.
 When you remove the sandwich bottom from the broiler, place the top piece of bread on top of it immediately. Use clean hands to gently press the sandwich closed so it’s sealed. Allow it to cool for 1 to 2 minutes before slicing it., After you’ve allowed the sandwich to rest for a minute or two, use a sharp knife to slice it into 6 to 8 pieces. Place the sandwiches on a platter and serve.You may want to serve the sandwiches with some extra sauce for dipping.
Pasta salad is a tasty side to serve with the chicken parm sandwiches.

