 Loop the yarn around the pointer and middle fingers of your left hand. Stick your hook through the circle, hooking the working end of your yarn with the hook and then pulling it back through the center of the circle. This will give you one loop on your crochet hook.
 This will form the very center of the circle you are crocheting.









If you are following a pattern you may need to make a different number of chains to start. This will change the number of stitches you make in further steps but will not change the general technique.
 Insert the hook into the loop of the first chain you made. Once through, hook the working end of the yarn onto the hook and then pull it back through the loop and also through the loop that was on your hook.Now the piece is formed into a circle and you have one loop on your hook.
 Be sure that you are going through the very center and not one of the stitches you made.
 To "yarn over" means that you need to hook the working end of your yarn onto your hook. Then twist your hook slightly, so that the yarn stays hooked on.
 Two loops should be on the hook after you complete this step.
 This is the finishing step of the basic stitch called a "Single Crochet".
 In all you will make eight single crochet stitches around forming a tiny circle for the beginning of your project.
 This will be the first step in creating a connection between the end of the last round to the beginning of it and setting the stage to start another.
 Two loops should now be on the hook.
 This the finishing step of the single crochet stitch which joins everything into a circle. This stitch is also the first single crochet of the next round. (Stitch 1 of 16 total.)








, Now continue around the circle by making two single crochet stitches in each single crochet stitch of the first ring. Doing this is called an "increase". This means that there will be 16 stitches when you complete the round. Please count them.









Doing two stitches in each one stitch from the previous round is how we "increase" the size of the circle we are making.
 However, this time you will put only one single crochet in the first stitch but then put two single crochet stitches in the next stitch. Do this "increase" in every other stitch of the previous round.Repeat this to the end of the round.
 Make one single crochet in the first stitch, then make two single crochets in the next stitch. On the next round do two stitches in every third stitch, then two stitches in every fourth stitch and so on.









See a pattern developing? To keep increasing, put two stitches in the n-th stitch where n is the number of the round you're currently working on. For instance, if you are working on the fourth round, put two stitches in every fourth stitch as you work your way around. You may loop a shot piece of contrasting colored yarn through each round if you wish, to help know which row you are on.
 This is called "Tie-ing off the end". Once the yarn is tied off, sew or "weave" in the ends. Some patterns use the word "weave". To sew or weave in the ends, use a Yarn Needle. Fold the yarn end over the Yarn Needle forming a small tight loop. Slide the yarn needle out of the loop, then insert this tight loop into the eye of the Yarn Needle. Push it through far enough that you can grasp the loop and pull the yarn all the way through the eye. Gently weave the needle tip under and over stitches on the back of your work where it will not show. Do this for a distance of 7 to 8 stitches. Now turn around and alternate. Go over the stitches you previously went under and visa-versa. Now turn it around and do it a third time, this will make the "tail" or "yarn-end" stay put for many years. Remember to sew in both "tails" on the outside edge and in the very center.








