 You might want to get noticed by your crush, one of the popular kids or maybe from someone else. You should choose different approaches to get noticed by different people.;
, Before you try to get noticed by someone, think about how you're going to do it. Try to come up with a few questions or a conversation starter such as the following below:


'Hi, what's your name?'
'What's your favourite colour?'
'It's a beautiful day today!'
'Do you like this school?'
'What are your plans on the weekend?'

, If you want to be noticed you have to get out there and have confidence in yourself. If you're quite shy you probably won't get noticed, you need to be sociable, fun and outgoing.
 Try to start a conversation with people you don't know much. Be sure to listen to what they say and don't hate on their opinions. Small talk can be about the weather, pets, favourite TV shows, etc.


Make a good first impression on people. Don't ignore someone or call them names because everyone else is doing it. If you become the kindest person in school people will know you for it and you'll most likely become popular.
Go with the flow. If your group are talking about cats don't go completely off topic by saying "last week I went to Florida with my cousins" because chances are, you'll probably be ignored. If they are laughing, laugh with them. While on topic, don't forget to say your opinion as well or share your own story about what everyone's talking about.
 Try to become friends with a range of different people. Your friends might mention you to other people and then you will become noticed. However don't be friends with someone who isn't nice to you or is a bully, be friends with people who are kind and respect you.
 Whether it's during school time, after school or on the weekend, plan a get together for you and your friends to catch up. Try to find fun and exciting places to go such as the pool, mall or the movies. Every now and then you could have a sleep over or go to each overs houses but choose a different destination each time.
 If you know a persons full name, consider following them on a social media site such as Instagram, Twitter or Facebook to know more about them. Even send them a friend request to get noticed.


Stay active. Post a photo every now and then so people know who you are and your kind of personality. If someone comments on your post reply back to them but don't say anything rude or mean towards them or others.
You can comment on your own posts but not too much otherwise people might start ignoring you. However, you should always reply to a question or compliment to show people that you are kind and that you care.
 Update your wardrobe to clothing that is in fashion right now and download any new music. It helps if you listen to music that everyone else likes or is in the top 100 list.


Don't change your fashion or music taste just because everyone else likes it. If you like the type of music you listen to or if you find your current clothes comfortable don't change them for others.
 No one likes to hang around someone who smells or is unorganized. Shower regularly, brush your hair, clean your teeth and face, keep your clothes tidy, don't scuff your shoes, etc.
 Make sure to stay hydrated and eat a well balanced diet that consists of plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables. Exercise daily and practice good hygiene.
 Starting a trend is sure to get you noticed and talked about around school. Try starting a new hair style or fashion accessory.
 Try different hair styles, accessories, shoes, clothes etc. You could even put on some light make up if you're allowed. If you look nice and wear something new everyday you're sure to get noticed and liked for it.
 If you're allowed, consider getting a boyfriend/girlfriend. This is sure to be the talk around school but don't be pressured into a relationship if you don't think you're ready. Don't be desperate for a relationship but don't be hard to get either. If you only want a boyfriend to use them, you'll get a bad reputation and people might stay away from you because of this.

