 Prior to the actual day of presentation, you ought to know the talk––in other words, inside-out. This does not happen naturally–– you must prepare sufficiently. Use the internet to surf for ideas, read books, articles, journals or any other published and unpublished sources. It may even be worthwhile consulting some experts on the topic.;
, Whether you prefer to work from sketchy, simple notes or from detailed, full notes is up to you and the situation. A politician may prefer to read from extensive notes in order to be able to refer back when needed; on the other hand, a wedding speech may only require brief and summarized notes.
 All required materials should be put in place in advance of the speech. These may include overhead projectors, laptops, white boards, flip charts, props, etc., depending on the kind of talk to be delivered.
 On the day of the talk, give yourself plenty of time to ensure that you remain calm and to avoid feeling any tension due to rushing. Keep track of time. You must arrive in time and not on time. That will give you ample opportunity to relax and still yourself mentally.
 These may be overhead projectors, slide shows, laptops, etc. Good preparation in this area will prevent last minute or on-the-spot panic situations or embarrassment.
 The speaker's dress code matters. Good dress adds beauty to your talk. Nevertheless, extremes are always dangerous. Do not over dress; remember, this is not a beauty contest!.
 To elaborate: In every audience there are always three personalities; friendly, ambivalent and unfriendly. To deliver the talk successfully, focus on the friendly faces. Also, when giving a talk, you have to be animated. The audience often loses interest if the presenter is too polite, timid or sheepish. Share light moments with the audience to relax both yourself and your listeners. And yes, you have to be alive!

, Why should that be necessary? After all, you're the speaker. Sometimes, however, an audience can become aggressive. If you are bombarded with questions, analyse them before you respond. If necessary, throw them back to the author or the audience as a whole. By doing that, you can buy time to think of what to say. Also, this will discourage the audience from asking contentious questions. Only those who are genuine will persist.


It is also permissible to take questions and offer to follow up with an answer later if it's complicated. Ask the person to give you contact details after the speech.
 It is an undeniable fact that giving a talk can be intimidating. Nonetheless, it is also fun and entertaining if handled well. The steps outlined above will help you prepare for that special talk.

