 Drink plenty of water and some fruit juices or sports drinks. Limit consumption of caffeine and alcohol, as these may worsen dehydration.Dehydration can exacerbate symptoms of seasickness., Most people settle their stomach best by eating a moderate meal low in fat and high in complex carbs, such as fruit and grains.Pack some especially bland food such as dry toast or crackers to eat in frequent, small snacks during the trip.If you've been motion sick before, you probably know which foods are comforting and which you need to avoid. Trust your gut!

, Perhaps one of the most common folk remedies for nausea, ginger is also backed up by medical studies.You can take it in any form, but a chewable tablet or a hard candy has the extra bonus of stimulating saliva production, which can also help settle your stomach. Start taking the ginger at least a couple hours before boarding, and up to two days before a long trip.Many ginger ales, candies, and cookies contain very little actual ginger. Check the label and try to find something that provides at least 500 mg (half a gram) every few hours.
Do not give ginger to children under the age of two, and avoid taking more than four grams a day. Always consult your doctor before taking ginger, especially if you already take other medications., Peppermint, fennel, and lavender are just a few of the plants people use to alleviate seasickness. Although the medical effects are less well studied than ginger's, any pleasant scent or taste can help by distracting you. Try sipping tea or sucking a hard candy made from one of these plants., There is no good evidence that these have any real effect, but they are widely available and will not cause any harm.You can also mimic the effect simply by pressing on your inner wrists.
 Onboard facilities are typically cramped and evil-smelling, the worst place to be when you're seasick. If you're only on the boat for a few hours, use them before you leave so you can avoid them once the motion sickness hits.
 If your motion sickness gets really bad, you'll usually feel better after vomiting. Pack sick bags (or reserve a bucket on board) so you have an easy way to heed the call. Running to a smelly bathroom makes things worse, and leaning over the rail may not be safe in rough weather.


Don't clutch the bag in front of you the whole time. Do your best to distract yourself during the trip, and keep the bag accessible but out of sight.
 Going on board drunk, hungover, or exhausted can make the problem much worse.Alcohol is especially risky if you plan to take anti-nausea medication, since it can increase the sedative effect or cause dangerous drug interactions.

