 You will want to spin the ball on the bottom middle of the ball where all of the grooves meet in a perpendicular point. If you spin the ball with the grooves in a horizontal position, your spin won't look as clean and your finger won't have a point to rest on.;
, Some people will prefer to use two hands to throw and guide the ball into the air before catching it with their finger. Others prefer to palm the basketball in one hand and use a quick flick of the wrist to prop the ball up to the fingertip.
 You want your elbow to be at a comfortable height, usually a little bit higher than your hip. The ball should be about level with your face when you spin it.
 This should be the same hand that you will use to spin the ball. Do not hold the ball entirely flat on your palm, as this causes the ball to slide around too easily. Instead grip it with your fingertips and allow for a small air pocket between your palm and the ball.
 By the time you finish the twist of your wrist, your hand will have made a 180-degree twist and your fingertips will be pointing away from your body.
 You want your thumb to be directly in the middle between the top and the bottom of the ball because it will provide the majority of the force as you toss the ball.
 Simultaneously flick your dominant hand 180-degrees, pinky leading, while flicking your thumb on your non-dominant hand forward to spin the ball. Be sure to complete the two motions at the same time in order to create an equal force on both sides of the ball. Use your finger pads on your dominant hand to guide the ball in the proper direction. If you choose to only use one hand to complete the spin, disregard the non-dominant thumb.
 You want to get the ball to spin very quickly regardless of whether you are using one or two hands. The toss should not be very high above your dominant fingers and should only float a few inches into the air so that you can quickly place your finger under the ball. If you toss the ball too high it will be very difficult (and somewhat painful) to catch with your finger.










The faster the ball spins, the longer you will be able to hold it on your finger.
Be aware that extremely fast balls are more difficult to balance, however.
 Once you've mastered the speed and height of the ball toss, you should be able to catch the ball on your finger without much difficulty. The closer you can keep your hand to the ball, the easier it will be.
 You don't want the ball to be floating on its own for very long, so allow your arm to float up and make contact with the bottom of the ball.
 Do so slowly in a gradual downward motion until your arm is at a comfortable resting height.
 This position will make it easiest to keep the ball in a steady position.
 The nail allows the ball to spin with less resistance. However, if that position is uncomfortable for you, you can spin the ball on your finger pad instead.
 Gradually learn to create a faster spin by slapping the side of the ball with your non-dominant hand in the same direction that the ball is spinning. At first, slapping the ball will probably cause it to fall off of your finger, but eventually you will be able to slap it without causing it to fall.










Slap the side of the ball in three to four slap increments and make sure not to slap too hard.
A light, but swift slap should be enough to keep the ball going without disrupting the spin.
