 Don’t bombard your interviewee with questions right after they arrive. They’re probably nervous; unless they’re a performer or a salesperson, stage fright is probably irrelevant to job performance. You should want to put them at ease just as you would like to be put at ease.Introduce yourself, try to find some common ground with the interviewee, tell them a little about your own experiences with the company and its history.
 Interviewing in and of itself—asking each applicant a series of resume-related questions—isn’t a terribly effective strategy for hiring the best talent. It typically finds the person who is most talented at interviewing, rather than the person with the skill-set for the job. Although it is a necessary step in the process, endeavor to test your applicants on a job-related task.For example, if you’re hiring an attorney, instead of only interviewing, pass along a mock case file and ask your applicant to follow up in a couple of days with a memo about the strategy and theory of the case.
 The idea behind changing locations is that you minimize the rehearsed aspect of any interview. Without being an explicitly high-pressure tactic, it forces the candidate to think on their feet.For example, start the interview in your office and continue it over lunch or in a coffee shop. It can give you ideas about how the applicant interacts with people he’s not trying to get something from.
 Don’t just ask the same questions everyone else asks in an interview. Every applicant has rehearsed their answers to those questions over and over again, so you’re not getting the information you’re after when you ask them.For example, don’t ask: “Where do you see yourself in five years?”
Instead, ask: “If you could start any kind of business right now, what would it be?”

, Although it won’t always be necessary, it’s always a good idea to interview each candidate multiple times. That way, you get a more complete picture of their temperament and attitude.It's not a bad idea to focus on different areas during different rounds of the interview, especially if you plan on having different people take the lead on interviewing the candidate during the respective rounds of interviewing. For example, you can have the immediate supervisor administer the aptitude test.

