 When you're meeting together, it's important that everyone has a chance to speak. Try not to cut off your peers, and if you notice other people getting cut off, speak up to let each person have their say.For example, you could say, "Sorry, Rob, I'm not sure John was through. Did you have something else to say, John?";
, In addition, it's important to actually hear what your peers are saying. Often, you may be thinking hard about the project and want to jump in with what you have to say. However, in that time you spent thinking, you haven't heard what someone else is saying. Make sure you take time to hear each other out, as otherwise, you'll never be on the same page.If you find your mind drifting on an idea, jot a quick note down, then refocus on what other people are saying.
Remember to make eye contact with the person who is speaking and lean in towards him or her. Put away anything that might distract you as well, such as your cell phone or laptop.
You can also try nodding your head while the person is talking to show the person that you are listening.
Avoid interrupting the person while he or she is speaking. Wait until he or she has finished to ask questions or make comments., You may be set on one idea. In fact, you may think it's the only way to work through a situation your team is facing or a problem you're working on. However, you can't just shut down other people's ideas. For one, it will keep them from wanting to speak up later. More importantly, someone may have a better idea if you give it a chance to develop.Sometimes, an idea can sound outrageous at first, and you'll want to reject it immediately. It may take you a little while to warm up to the idea and see that it actually could work, particularly if it's out of the box.
Ask more questions about the idea to better understand the logistics. Even if the idea doesn’t work, it could be a springboard for other ideas.
 You'll likely find that there's someone on your team who doesn't quite know how to work well on a team. They may be shy, or they may have never been taught how to work with others. If that's the case, try to draw them out.Invite them to speak out when they're quiet in group meetings. Ask them questions to get them talking.
In addition, figure out what they're good at, and then propose that they work on certain tasks to play to their skills. You can even use flattery to draw them in, such as, "You are so good at the details. Would you mind putting together the spreadsheet for this project, Jen?"

