 The Chicago Manual of Style uses the author-date (social sciences) and the notes-and-bibliography (NB) systems (humanities).Author-date uses commentary footnotes—very sparingly.NB makes extensive use of discursive and bibliographic footnotes.
 Capitalize all important words in the title. Italicize the titles of books, journals, magazines/newspapers, movies, music albums, and works of art. Place the titles of articles, essays, chapters, songs, and TV shows in quotation marks., Whether you’re using NB or author-date, you should single-space your footnotes. Do not make your font size smaller than 10-point or larger than 12-point. Use a default typeface like Times New Roman or Arial., Discursive notes add information or commentary that isn’t immediately relevant to your main text. You can create them as stand-alone notes or after a citation in the NB format. (Check with your professor or editor for their preference.) For example:1. In this book, I put words like “masculinity” and “femininity” in quotation marks because they are defined by cultural, as opposed to biological, parameters.
2. Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison, trans. Alan Sheridan (New York: Vintage, 1977), 196. The Panopticon system trains individuals to conform to rules or norms under the condition that they never know when they are being watched.
 Type the first name first and the last name second. Follow them with a comma. Enter the title of the book. Follow it with an open parenthesis. Enter the location of the publisher, followed by a colon. Type the name of the publisher, followed by a comma. Enter the most recent publication date on the copyright page. Enter a closed parenthesis. Enter a colon, followed by the page number(s) you’re citing. For example:1. Pat Shipman, The Invaders: How Humans and Their Dogs Drove Neanderthals to Extinction (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2015).

This footnote cites the entire book.


2. Pat Shipman, The Invaders: How Humans and Their Dogs Drove Neanderthals to Extinction (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2015): 150.

This footnote cites one page in the book.


3. Pat Shipman, The Invaders: How Humans and Their Dogs Drove Neanderthals to Extinction (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2015): 15, 20.

This footnote cites two separate pages.


4. Pat Shipman, The Invaders: How Humans and Their Dogs Drove Neanderthals to Extinction (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2015): 178-180.

This footnote cites information on three pages in a row.
 After the first footnote, you can shorten all future citations for that source. Enter the last name(s) of the author(s), followed by a comma. Type the main title of the book, followed by another comma. Enter the page(s) you’re citing. If you’re citing the entire book, enter a period after the title. For example:1. Shipman, The Invaders, 15-20.
2. Shipman, The Invaders.
 When you refer to a source two or more times in a row, use the abbreviation “Ibid.” (a Latin abbreviation of ibidem, which means “in the same place”). Follow the abbreviation with a comma and the page number. Don’t use this abbreviation when citing two different sources in a row. For example:1. Shipman, The Invaders, 15-20.
2. Ibid., 35.
The second note shows that you’re citing The Invaders again, but you’re citing different pages.
 Follow the same rules for formatting a book by one author. Include the first and last name(s) of the other author(s) in the same manner as you did with the first author. List the names in the same order as they appear on the title page.1. Jane Smith, John Doe, and Emily Jones, Random Title (Anytown, USA: Anonymous, 2017), 53-57.
 Enter the full name of the first author. Follow it with a comma and the abbreviation “et al” (from the Latin et alii, meaning “and others”). Continue formatting the citation as you would any other book. For example, if Random Title had one additional author, you’d cite it like this:1. Jane Smith, et al. Random Title (Anytown, USA: Anonymous, 2017), 53-57.
 If the author’s name is listed, enter that first. Type the title, followed by a comma. Enter the abbreviation “trans.,” followed by the name of the translator. Finish the entry like any other book. If the author’s name isn’t listed, start with the name of the translator, followed by “trans.” and the title of the book. For example:1. Sigmund Freud, On Dreams, trans. James Strachey (New York: Norton, 1957).
 Start with the full name(s) of the author(s), followed by a comma. Enter the full title of the essay. Insert a comma between the last word and the closing quotation mark. Enter the word “in” and the title of the book, followed by a comma. Type the abbreviation “ed.,” followed by the full name(s) of the editor(s). Put the publication info in parentheses. Place a colon after the parentheses followed by page(s) you cite. For example:1. Kimberly Lamm, “Portraits of the Past, Imagined Now: Reading the Work of Carrie Mae Weems and Lorna Simpson,” in Unmaking Race, Remaking Soul: Transforming Aesthetics and the Practice of Freedom, ed. Christa Davis Acampora and Angela L. Cotton (Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2007): 103-140.
 Type the first and last name(s) of the author(s), followed by a comma. Enter the title of the article. Follow it with a comma between the last word and the quotation mark. Type the title of the journal. Don’t insert any punctuation. Enter the volume number, followed by a comma. If there’s an issue number, enter it next preceded by the abbreviation “no.” Place the publication date next in parentheses. Follow this with a colon and the page number(s). For example:1. Judy Sund, “Why so Sad?: Watteau’s Pierrots,” The Art Bulletin 98, no. 3 (September 2016): 321-347.
If the article is electronic, include the date you accessed the article, followed by the 10-digit Digital Object Identifier (DOI) after the page number(s)., If you refer to the same article or essay more than once, enter the last name of the author(s), followed by a comma. Type the main title of the article. Place a comma between the last word and closing quotation mark. Insert the page number(s) you refer to. For example:1. Lamm, “Portraits of the Past, Imagined Now,” 132-135.
2. Sund, “Why so Sad?,” 330.
 If the author’s name is listed, enter that first. If not, start with the title of the article. Place a comma between the last word and the closing quotation mark. Enter the title of the website. Italicize it only if it’s affiliated with a newspaper or magazine. After the website title, place a comma, followed by the publication/modification date (if applicable) and the date you accessed the information. Place another comma. Follow it with the full URL. For example:1. Adam Sweeting, “Prince Obituary,” The Guardian, April 22, 2016, accessed March 21, 2017, https://www.theguardian.com/music/2016/apr/22/prince-obituary.
2. “The Guardian Privacy Policy,” last modified July 23, 2011, accessed March 21, 2017, https://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy.

