 You often can find an attorney with whom you'll work well by asking for recommendations from friends and family who you know and trust. A recommendation doesn't excuse you from checking the attorney out on your own, however.Keep in mind that just because an attorney worked well for a friend or family member, that doesn't mean that attorney will be well-suited for you.
Additionally, cases can be very different. Even if you know someone else who also was the victim of violence at a bar, their case still may have had different issues than yours does.
Recommendations do, however, provide a good place to start. This is especially true of recommendations you get from other attorneys. They will understand your case a little better, and probably know attorneys who practice in other areas of law than they do.;
, Without recommendations, you may want to start your search on the website of your state or local bar association. Most have searchable directories, and some have referral services that can provide you with more directed results.To use a referral service, you typically must first answer a few short questions about your case. There may be a form on the website, or you may have to call a local or toll-free number.
Based on your answers, you'll get a list of attorneys licensed in your area who take cases similar to yours.
The benefit of using the state or local bar association's website is that you don't have to worry about whether the attorney is licensed and in good standing to practice law in your area.
Another benefit to a referral service is that attorneys sign up for these services because they need additional clients. You have less of a concern that the attorney will be too busy to take your case.
 You can evaluate an attorney's background, experience, and reputation by doing general online searches as well as digging through the attorney's website. Ideally, you want to come up with a list of three or four attorneys you're interested in meeting.You typically can look up an attorney's disciplinary record by searching their name on the bar association or state court system website. You want to make sure you hire an attorney who does not have a significant record of complaints, especially recent ones.
Pay close attention to client reviews as well. Reviews an attorney posts on their own website probably will be biased toward positive reviews. However, by doing a general internet search using the attorney's name, you may be able to find client reviews from neutral sites.
Take these reviews with a grain of salt, especially if they're anonymous. However, they can let you know areas of concern that you should address with the attorney when you meet in person.
 Most attorneys offer a free initial consultation. Take advantage of this to talk to several attorneys without breaking the bank. By meeting with an attorney one-on-one, you can find out more information and see if you click.Try to schedule your initial consultations within a week, instead of spreading them out. Your ability to do this, however, may depend on your own schedule.
If you call an attorney to schedule an initial consultation and they cannot meet with you within a week or two, you may want to scratch their name off your list and move on to someone else. They may be too busy to give your case the attention it deserves.
Some attorneys will have an information form for you to complete before your initial consultation. If you get one of these, fill it out with as many details as you can and get it back to them as soon as possible.
 Think of the initial consultation as an interview or an information-gathering session. The more prepared you are, the more you can find out from the attorneys with whom you speak. Prepare a list of questions and a summary of what happened.Bring along with you any information you have about the incident at the bar, so the attorney can fully assess your options.
Ask the attorney questions about their work and communication style. You want to make sure that you'll be able to talk to the attorney when you need advice, and that any emails or phone calls will be returned promptly.
Before your initial consultations, think about your goals for the litigation. If you're not particularly aggressive and only interested in making sure your medical bills and any lost wages are covered, let the attorneys know that.
Ask the attorneys you interview how many clients they've represented who had cases similar to yours, and find out the outcomes of those cases. Consider whether those outcomes are similar to the one you want in your case.
If the attorney works for a larger firm and there will be paralegals or associate attorneys doing significant work on your case, ask if you can meet those people as well. It's important that you feel comfortable with everyone who will be working on your case.
 After your initial consultations are over, sit down and go over the information you have about each attorney with whom you spoke. You can create a chart to compare the attorneys objectively.The items on your chart will depend on what's important to you and what differentiates the attorneys you interviewed.
For example, if all the attorneys you interviewed would work on contingency, fees may not be an issue – unless one has a significantly higher fee percentage than the others.
Objective criteria are important in comparing attorneys, but don't be afraid to go with your gut. Your personal feelings and comfort with your attorney may matter just as much as their experience.
For example, suppose you talked to one attorney who had less experience but who made you feel comfortable, expressed interest in your case, and seemed passionate about their work. They may be a better representative for you than another attorney with significant experience who was cold and intimidating.
 Once you've decided which attorney you want to hire, schedule a meeting to discuss the terms of the representation. Make sure the attorney provides you with a written retainer agreement before you pay them any money or allow them to begin work on your case.People often believe that a retainer agreement isn't necessary if you're hiring an attorney on a contingency fee arrangement.
However, even if the attorney isn't going to charge you any fees unless you win or settle your case, it's important to have that fee percentage in writing.
You also need to understand what will be included in the costs of your case (which typically are separate from the attorney's fees).
If there's something you don't understand or don't agree with, bring it up to the attorney before you sign the agreement.

