 Use a sharp knife to cut the venison roast into slices that are roughly 2 inches (5 cm) thick.


Cutting the roast into slices will make it easier to keep the meat submerged under the sauce as it cooks.
You should also remove any visible fat and connective tissue as you cut the roast into slices.
 Spread the slices of onion evenly over the bottom of the slow cooker. Place the slices of deer roast on top of the onions.


The pungent onion flavor helps mask the "gamey" taste of the venison.
If possible, avoid overlapping the slices of venison roast. Keep the slices in as even and flat a layer as possible.
 In a separate medium mixing bowl, whisk together the apple cider vinegar and the brown sugar until the sugar is fully dissolved.


This will form the base of your barbecue sauce.
 Add the beef broth, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, tomato paste, butter, chili powder, salt, ground mustard, garlic powder, red pepper flakes, and black pepper to the vinegar-sugar sauce base. Whisk these ingredient in, blending everything evenly.Margarine, lard, or vegetable shortening can be used instead of butter, if desired, but you must include some sort of fat if you want the naturally lean deer meat to become tender and moist as it cooks.
 Pour the barbecue sauce over the venison slices, covering the meat completely and evenly.


If desired, you can reserve 1/2 cup (125 ml) of the sauce to serve on the side when the shredded roast is finished cooking.
 Pour the liquid over the contents of the slow cooker, covering the roast in the process.


You may need to add more cola if 1 cup (250 ml) fails to cover the roast. Make sure that the roast is just barely covered.
If you don't want to use cola, you can use beer, chicken stock, beef broth, or water. Regardless of what you use, though, the meat should be covered in liquid as it cooks.
 Cover the slow cooker and set it on low. Cook until the meat is tender enough to pull apart with a fork.


If you don't have that much time, you can opt to cook the roast on high for 6 hours, instead.
 Remove the meat from the slow cooker and place it in a large bowl or on a large platter. Use two forks to shred the roast into pieces.
 Place the shredded venison roast back in your slow cooker, cover, and let it cook for another hour on low or another 30 minutes on high.


While the roast is technically safe and ready to eat without returning it to the slow cooker, allowing it to cook for additional time allows the flavor of the barbecue sauce to penetrate the meat more thoroughly.
 When done, switch the slow cooker to warm and serve the shredded venison directly from the appliance.


Enjoy the shredded venison on sandwich buns, on top of mashed potatoes or noodles, or in any way you would usually serve shredded barbecue meat.

