 Pictures with vibrant brights and clearly delineated shadows will always look better than flatly lit photos. Flat lighting is when you don't have a large difference between your light and dark spots, leading to a lack of contrast. On the other hand, "blowing out" photos, when the highlights bloom unnaturally bright, look amateur as well. Good lighting has clear highs and lows and a nice range of shadows in between.


Shadows create volume, or the illusion of 3D in a photo. Think of a white ball on a white background. The only way you see that it is a round sphere is if there is a shadow around it. Thus, you need good, deep shadows for good photographs., All light has a color, even if it appears white to us. Camera sensors pick up different temperatures of light.White balance automatically adjusts the camera so that it matches our eye, keeping your shots consistent. You can find white balance in your menu, and most "Automatic" modes will automatically balance it for you., Diffusing the light can soften harsh lighting and "spread out" the light on the subject. Diffuse light is a light that has been bounced around to avoid making nasty shadows or harsh light on your subject. You can diffuse light multiple ways to make it appear more subtle and natural:Umbrellas take a light source and spread it out over a larger area.
Diffuse boxes turn a harsh light into a soft glow.
When using a flash indoors, point the flash at the ceiling or the wall behind you, by doing this you will not get a shadow halo around the subject.
Reflectors allow for directional light, like a spotlight, but are much softer than directly shining a spotlight on a subject.
Cloudy days are naturally diffused.
 Aim to shoot at the beginning or end of the day for outdoor photography. Known as "golden hours" the time right after sunrise and before sunset is the best natural lighting on the planet. There is a soft glow and beautiful shadows, and most nature photographers only shoot during these hours.Try to shoot in even, open shade if you are shooting during the middle of the day. As long as you don't have half the photo in shadow and half in direct sunlight, a shady day is the best chance to get even unobtrusive lighting.
Overcast days, which offer a soft, even light across everything, are great for outdoor photography if you can't get out at sunrise or sunset. While less dramatic, the results will be consistent and clear., Stripping away color lets you see nothing but light. This is one of the fastest ways to see natural lighting and focus on getting good, high contrast shots without blowing out your highlights or muddying your shadows. A good black and white photo will have a wide range of grays that blend into clear whites and blacks.When setting up a shot, switch your camera to black and white and test out a few shots before moving back to color.
 To truly take professional photos, you need to understand light completely. Light is photography, as a camera is merely recording the light coming through the lens. A light meter gives you the exact shutter speed you need for your selected ISO and aperture, and can help you prevent glaring bright spots that will ruin pictures.