 As your cat ages, its nutritional needs will change. For instance, it may need to eat fewer calories because it is less active during the day. If you have a senior cat, it should be given food that is designed to provide for its specific dietary needs.For example, cats with hyperthyroidism may need to eat food low in iodine.Cats with kidney disease may do better with canned foods that are low in phosphorous.Discuss changes to your cat's diet with your veterinarian. Ask them if they think that your cat would benefit from a senior diet and ask them for recommendations of what specifically to feed to your cat.
When switching your cat's food, be sure to do it gradually. Switching a cat's food all of a sudden can cause stomach upset and illness.
 All cats should have unlimited access to clean drinking water but it is especially important for older cats. Older cats are more at risk for problems with their kidney function and having access to drinking water can help to keep them hydrated.If your cat isn't interested in drinking water, and you are afraid it is getting dehydrated, consider switching the cat's food to wet food. The moisture in wet food can help to keep an aging cat hydrated.
 As your cat ages it may spend more time enjoying quiet time alone. However, that doesn't mean that it doesn't still need quality time with you. Be sure that you are giving all the love and attention that you always have, and maybe even a little more.Many older cats love curling up on their owner's laps and getting lots of petting and affection. If your cat is having a hard time moving around, go to where it is instead of waiting for it to come to you and give it some love.
 As your cat ages it needs to continue to have lots of stimulation to keep both its mind and body active. Give your older cat puzzle toys to play with and play with it daily to keep it active. Even a few minutes of play each day can help an older cat to age well.Many cats love to play well into old age. They may not be able to play for as long, or as vigorously, but they still benefit from the exercise, attention, and brain stimulation.

