 A fishtail braid looks like it's made of several small strands, but surprisingly there are only two primary sections.


For a neat braid, use a fine-toothed comb to make a straight part down the middle of your head, from forehead to nape.
For a more tousled, Katniss Everdeen-inspired look, just part your hair with your hands and separate into two sections that seem somewhat even.
You can fishtail your hair when it is either wet or dry.
 Once you get this grip down, you'll be able to do it for the whole braid.









Hold the right section of hair in your right hand.
Drop the left section and let it hang loose. Because you're only working with two sections, you don't need to worry about it mixing with another part of the braid.
Using your left hand, pull up a small strand of hair from the leftmost side of the left section. That is, from the side of the left section of hair that's closest to your ear.
Grab the small strand of hair from the left section with your right hand, incorporating it into the right section of the braid.
Hold the left section of hair in your left hand again. As you pick it back up, you can run your fingers through the section to smooth out any knots and tighten up the braid.
 This is just like the previous step, but mirrored.









For a more intricate-looking braid, pull up smaller strands of hair. For a quicker braid, grab larger sections.
Hold the left section of hair in your left hand.
Drop the right section and let it hang loose. Again, because you're only working with two primary sections, there's no need to worry about mixing strands.
Using your right hand, pull up a small strand of hair from the rightmost side of the right section (or the part closest to your ear).
Grab the small strand of hair from the right section with your left hand, incorporating it into the left section of the braid.
Hold the right section of hair in your right hand again. As you pick it back up, you can run your fingers through the section to smooth out any knots and tighten up the braid.
 Keep alternating sides and adding strands until you get to the end of your locks. Try to keep the small strands that you pull into the main sections as evenly sized as possible.
