 Get in touch with your campus Greek Life office.Once you have an idea for a fraternity and a decent pitch, you should go to the Greek Life office at your school and tell them your plans for starting a fraternity. Ask what they would like you to accomplish before they would be willing to recognize your fraternity. They might be resistant at first, so you’ll have to come in with a very concrete pitch and plan. Don’t wing it. Be very prepared.


Come with details about name, values, and organization as well as a list of all the people you have gathered who are interested in it. The administration will be much more open to your idea if it is clear that you are on top of it.
 Present your fraternity with confidence. Show everyone what hole in the campus culture you fill. Prove to them that you will be a positive influence. Don't try to develop a fraternity that is just like every other fraternity - that will make you redundant. However, you also shouldn't be so far out in left field that no one would want to join your group.


Your pitch should include all the aspects that you have organized so far including structure, constitution, name, mantra, regalia, and location. However, you also need to explain to them how your fraternity will survive moving forward and how they will fit into the daily life of the campus. What do you bring that no one else brings? Why will you succeed?
Draft a plan that starts by addressing the basics and then moves on to the details. For example, maybe you are selling a fraternity that is based on political activism. You need to explain not only the idea behind your fraternity but also how you will organize events centered on political activism and how this fits into the college's mission.
 Let them know that you have established an interest group and ask them what the next steps will be. They can help guide you through the process., Once you have taken the steps that your Greek Life office has asked you to take, you can ask for recognition. This will allow you to throw campus events, advertise on campus, and be involved in school-sponsored events. Being recognized by the university is necessary if you want to add legitimacy to your fraternity. Remember, the better prepared you are and the more details you can show your administration the more likely they are to approve your fraternity.