 One way to make your job more tolerable is to look at what you are hoping to gain from it in the long run, such as skills or experience, and making a plan to attain that goal. Is this job a stepping stone to another job? Do you need the experience for your resume? Or are you hoping that a better position will open up at the company that you can apply for? Identify your main reason for needing the job and then make a plan to help you work towards it.


For example, if it is your intention to apply for a different job after you have at least a year of experience in this position, then you might plan to stick with your job for seven more months to get the experience you need.;
, Just because work is not your favorite experience, that doesn’t mean that it can’t be good experience. You can learn as much from a job you hate as a job you love, and what you learn can be the difference in getting a better job or not. Take advantage of things like optional trainings, continuing education, and professional development programs. These opportunities will help you build your resume and your network.For example, if your office offers a training on how to use a new piece of software, take the training. Even if you don’t use it in this job, it can help you land a new job that you enjoy more.
 Many times, people obsess about minor problems. Something as simple as being displeased with the type of toilet paper at work can be mulled over so many times that you dread going altogether. Practice solving as many problems as you can, so that your day is as enjoyable as possible. For example, if the toilet paper is a serious issue, bring your own toilet paper instead of dreading your workday.There are also efficiency problems in most work scenarios. For example, your office might use much more paper than it actually needs. Analyze the situation and come up with a plan to be more conservative on paper.
Even if you can’t problem solve your way out of hating your job, it is good practice for mitigating problems in a future job that you do enjoy. It will also distract you from the job you hate in the meantime.
 An inconsiderate boss, demanding coworkers, or other emotional hurdles can make it hard to deal with work sometimes. Try to imagine that you are surrounded by a protective shield each time you enter your workplace.Take a moment before entering your place of work every day to put on your psychic armor. Imagine a solid shield going up around your whole body, or imagine putting on full plate armor that will protect your from any unpleasantness throughout your day.
Any time something happens that is frustrating or upsetting, remind yourself that you are well-protected and imagine that it is bouncing off of your shield or armor.
 Taking a few minutes every day to practice gratitude can help you to feel happier as you go through your day.Try jotting down five things that you are grateful for at the beginning of your workday every day. As the day goes on, keep adding to this list as you think of more things you feel grateful for.


The items you list can be small or large. For example, you might include on your list things like, a hot cup of coffee, no traffic on your way to work, a compliment that a coworker gave you, a pleasant smelling air freshener on your neighbor’s desk, or an upcoming long weekend.
 Very few people work in their positions purely for the love of their work. Most people work where they work because it pays them something. You probably fall into this category, and focusing on your paycheck might help to distract you from how much you hate the work you do to earn it.