 Barking orders at your spouse is only going to cultivate passive aggressive behavior. While he may be acting like an animal, telling him could be humiliating. Instead of whacking his elbows off the table or snapping his jaw closed when he chews, take a more subtle approach.


Ask him what kind of table manners were practiced at his house growing up. Perhaps he’s forgotten manners that his mother insisted upon and recalling them may bring them back today.
Point out bad manners on TV. See a TV or movie character exhibiting the same bad manners as your man? Point out how garish the character’s manners are--maybe it’ll ring a bell.
Talk about people behind their back. Well, perhaps talk about their manners. Discuss both good and bad mannered friends. For example, talk about how your friend Dan always looks put together, has sparkling dinner conversation and always knows which fork to use for each course. Quite the contrast, your friend Stephanie thinks that everything is a finger food and slurps her soda.;
, For fun, ask him to join you (and the kids) for a manners and etiquette class. Look for courses offered at your local community center or college. A good etiquette class will not only cover table manners but may also hit on themes such as how to write a proper thank you card and how to dress for certain occasions (topics that you may also want to cover). Not only can a class be beneficial to getting him to stop his bad habits, bringing the kids along will help them cultivate good manners that will lead them into the future.
 Lead by example and always practice proper table manners at home. Also, if you have children, insist they practice table manners. Use their errors as a way to point out “do’s” and “don’ts.” For example, if Mary is chewing with her mouth open while telling a story, stop her and say, “Mary, a lady or gentleman never shows his or her guests the food being chewed. Please chew with your mouth closed and then continue with your story.” Don’t forget to deliver praise, especially if its your husband practicing good manners. For example, “Look at how well daddy remembered to place his napkin in his lap!” Your husband will think you are just using him as a good example, while all along you are reinforcing good behavior.
 Your husband may never know which fork to use for the salad course or whether he can get away with serving white wine with beef; but as long as he can master the basics you should be able to dine in public with him and not want to hide.


Before a business dinner meeting, ask him if he wants to brush up on dining etiquette skills. In effort to impress the boss, he may be more willing to take gentle advice on what he should be doing differently at the table.
Focus on one aspect at a time. He may be a total disaster at the table, but instead of barking at him to take his elbows off the table, put his napkin in his lap and chew with his mouth closed, tackle it one bad manner at a time.
Don’t allow table manners to ruin your marriage. Sometimes the most stubborn of men may not adhere to change. If he either doesn’t understand what you want him to do or simply can’t remember don’t turn it into a federal case.

