 Many nations sign trade pacts with other nations in order to promote free trade. The United States, for example, signed the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with Canada and Mexico. Many bilateral trade agreements prohibit nations from taking actions which interfere with a company’s investments in that nation. If the nation does interfere, then the company can bring an arbitration against the nation.


For example, NAFTA’s Chapter 11 prevents member nations from taking any action that would affect the investment rights of corporations.Under Chapter 11, a U.S. company successfully sued the Mexican government for denying them a permit to build a hazardous waste facility. The company received over $10 million in compensation.You need to identify a violation before you can start arbitration. Talk with a lawyer to make sure that you have a legitimate claim to make under the bilateral trade agreement.
 Depending on your trade agreement, you might need to submit a written notice to the government that you want to sue. You should be able to get a sample notice from your government. The United States provides a sample form you can complete for NAFTA disputes. The form requires the following information:your name and address
your nationality
whether you are a corporation or an individual
the type of investment
your lawyer’s name and contact information
the trade treaty provisions which were allegedly breached
the factual basis for your claim of a breach
what remedy you want (such as monetary compensation and how much)
signature and date

, You should send your notice of intent to the correct government’s address, which should be listed on the form you fill out. The trade agreement probably tells you how much time you have to submit the notice.


For example, under NAFTA, you must submit the notice 90 days before filing an arbitration claim., If you reach an agreement, then you can avoid an arbitration. You should work closely with your lawyer to develop a negotiation strategy. Consider the following:


How likely you are to win an arbitration. Arbitration is probably your best alternative to a negotiated settlement. Accordingly, you should try to estimate how strong your case is. If it is strong, then you can be more aggressive in negotiations.
Your ideal resolution. You should negotiate with a goal in mind. You should come up with this amount before completing and filing your Notice of Intent.
The minimum you are willing to settle for. You also need some minimum baseline in mind as you negotiate. For example, if you are seeking $20 million in damages, then you might be willing to settle for $10 million. However, if the government refuses to meet even that amount, then you can walk away from negotiations. This is called your “walkaway point.”, If you cannot resolve your dispute, then you will need to file for arbitration. For bilateral trade agreement disputes, you typically will file with the ICSID. A Request to the ICSID requires the following information:name and contact information for all parties (mailing address, telephone number, fax number, and email address)
the date of the agreement to arbitrate the dispute
copies of all treaties, laws, or contracts in which the consent to arbitrate is located
basic information about the circumstances giving rise to the dispute
your nationality as of the date of the agreement to arbitrate and of the date you submit your Request
signature and date

, This fee might also be called a “lodging” fee but it means the same thing. ICSID requires an initial $25,000 fee before filing your Request. You must pay by wire transfer., You have to make a sufficient number of copies. For example, ICSID requires that you provide an original, five hard copies (including all appendixes), and an additional copy for each defendant. You also need to provide the Request in electronic format., You will receive an Answer from the defendant, just as you would in an arbitration involving another business or private person. You will then attend various conferences to hammer out the arbitration schedule.


You and your attorney can discuss which witnesses or documents to present in support of your case.

