 When cleaning up dead rodents, disinfecting nesting areas or removing droppings, it's important to wear vinyl, latex or rubber gloves. Once you've finished cleaning or disinfecting the space, take off the gloves and disinfect them. Ensure that you wash your hands with hot soapy water when you're done.To disinfect the gloves, wash them with soap and hot water or disinfectant.
 Spray disinfectant on dry areas before you sweep. If you find a rodent-infested area covered with dirt, avoid simply sweeping it up. This will stir up dried feces that you could inhale. Instead, spray a disinfectant all over the area so it's no longer dusty. Then you can carefully sweep up the dirty space.You can use a general or household disinfectant to moisten the area and kill the HPS virus.
 Open windows to ventilate the space. Spray everything in the space with a disinfectant. Soak a towel in the disinfectant and wring it out. Use the towel to pick up any items that were in the space and throw them away. Mop the space or sponge it using the disinfectant.To create a disinfectant, fill a bucket with one gallon of water. Add 1 1/2 cups of bleach and stir it to combine the mixture. This will kill the HPS virus., As an extra precaution, put on a simple face mask. The mask should cover your nose and mouth. While it won't protect you against the virus, it will keep you from breathing in dust or dirt.Use a fresh mask each time you clean a new rodent-infested area. Discard it after you're done cleaning.
 If you find dead rodents, never pick them up with your hands. Instead, spray the rodents and the surrounding area with disinfectant. Use a small scoop or broom to sweep up the rodents. Place the dead rodents, any nesting materials, and your cleaning supplies in a double bag. Seal each bag and bury or burn it. If you can't bury or burn the materials, contact your local health department.You should also place any nesting materials and cleaning supplies in the bag before burying it since nesting materials can also transmit HPS.
 If you get the hantavirus, you should watch for fatigue, fever and muscle aches, headaches, dizziness, chills, and abdominal problems (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain). If you experience any of these early signs, get immediate medical attention since HPS symptoms can get worse and even be fatal. Late signs of HPS include:Coughing
Shortness of breath
Tightness around the chest

