 Before you can treat droopy eye, you need to get a diagnosis from a medical professional. Because droopy eyelids can be a sign of serious medical conditions, you should seek medical attention promptly. Your doctor should get a complete medical history and perform a physical exam to rule out serious neurological problems, infections, autoimmune disorders, and other diseases. Some other things that your doctor may do to find a diagnosis for your droopy eyelids include:


an eye exam to test visual acuity
a slit lamp test to check for corneal abrasions or scratches
a tension test to check for myasthenia gravis, a chronic autoimmune disease that causes muscle weakness;
, If your droopy eyelids have been caused by an underlying condition, then you will need to get treated for that condition before doing anything about your droopy eyelids. Treating an underlying condition may also help to improve your droopy eyelids.


For example, if you have been diagnosed with myasthenia gravis, your doctor may prescribe various medications to treat the condition, including physostigmine, neostigmine, prednisone, and immunomodulators.Other conditions that may cause droopy eyelids include third nerve palsy and Horner's Syndrome. There are no treatments for these disorders, although surgery may help relieve symptoms of third nerve palsy., At present, there are no home remedies that are proven to treat droopy eye. Surgery is the only sure fix.The surgical procedure used to correct droopy eye is called a Blepharoplasty. During this procedure, the surgeon will remove any excess skin, remove excess fat pads, and tighten the skin on your eyelids.The procedure includes:


Before the surgery begins, your surgeon will administer a general anesthetic to numb the upper and lower eyelid area. Once the area is numb, your surgeon will make an incision in your eyelid crease. Next, your surgeon will use some gentle suction to remove any excess fat. The your surgeon will remove any excess skin and then reconnect your eyelid skin with dissolvable sutures.The whole surgery takes about 2 hours and patients may often go home the same day.
Following the surgery, your surgeon will bandage your eyelids to ensure proper healing and protection. You will need to follow your doctor’s instructions to clean and care for your wounds following the surgery. It will be about a week before you can remove the bandages.
Your doctor may also prescribe some eye drops and pain medication so that you are more comfortable as you recover., In some situations, eyelid drooping may indicate a much more serious problem that may require immediate treatment. Seek immediate medical attention if you experience any of the following symptoms:Eye Pain
Headache
Vision changes
Paralysis of face
Nausea or vomiting

