 Choose a space indoors that gets indirect natural light, where you can hang up your clothes or lay them out on a table. A white door or wall, or a white sheet as a background will help the item stand out better (unless it is solid white itself, in which case use any background but shades of white).


If natural light won’t be enough to illuminate the item, set up lamps with lampshades around the area to provide extra sources of diffused light.Avoid direct sunlight or using the camera's flash, which can distort the garment’s colors., Avoid using plastic or wire hangers--a nice wooden or fabric-covered hanger will be much more attractive. Affix the hanger to a hook already in the wall or on a door, or to an adhesive hook.Lay pants flat on a low surface, making sure to smooth out any creases as much as possible.


If someone is available to help you, try modeling the clothes yourself. This will attract more attention, and give potential buyers a better sense of the item’s shape.A mannequin can also do this job quite nicely.
 Most modern digital cameras and cell phone cameras will produce images that are detailed enough to post on eBay. Take bright (but not overexposed), well-focused shots. The images should give an accurate representation of the colors, textures, and dimensions of the item


In your camera's settings, select the highest level of photo quality. The minimum photo length allowed is 500 pixels for the longer side.
Taking photos with a minimum length of 800 pixels will allow users to zoom in on the image of your item., If you're having trouble with blurry photos, either add extra light sources (without using the flash), or use a tripod to steady the camera. Most digital cameras have a timer function that allows to you set a countdown to when the photo will be taken automatically. This allows fully hands-free picture taking (if you use a tripod), which is another way to prevent the camera from shaking and taking blurry pictures., The item you're photographing should take up about 80% to 90% of the picture's frame to show adequate detail.If you're taking close-ups, the whole frame should be filled with the subject, but be sure everything is still in focus, is bright enough, and that it's clear what element is being shot.


Some digital cameras have a macro setting that improves the clarity of close-ups. Use this setting if you're shooting closer than one foot (30 centimeters) from the subject.
 It’s recommended that you shoot at least the front, back, and brand tags (external and internal) of the item, in addition to any flaws such as holes, tears, or discoloration.Even better is to photograph components such as pockets and fringes, and standout elements like embroidery or unusual stitching.Imagine how you might inspect the item in a store. What elements would you check the most? Take photos of anything that might be of interest.