 The point of view in your story is the perspective from which a story is told. You can tell a story in first-person, second-person, third-person omniscient, or third-person limited.In first-person, the story is narrated by a character in the story. It's told using pronouns like "I" and "me." The advantage of this is that you get to see one character's perspective in-depth. The disadvantage is that you often see other character's from only one character's point of view. If you're using first person, you'll have to keep the tone consistent with that character. If a book is told through the point of view of a child, for example, this will be very different from a book told from the point of view of a college-educated adult.
Second-person is when the author uses "you" or "your," telling the story as if it's happening to the reader. This can make experiences feel more personal for the reader. However, it's used somewhat infrequently in longer works.
Third-person can be limited or omniscient. A limited third-person narrator tells the story as an outsider looking in, but focuses in on the perspective and inner thoughts of one character. An omniscient third-person narrator can reveal the thoughts of any character in the book. Third-person omniscient can be particularly helpful for a character-driven book if you have a wide variety of characters.
 Dialogue is vital to a solid story. In a character driven work, how a character speaks says volumes about who that character is. As you write your book, make sure you focus on believable, unique dialogue.Listen to how people talk in real life. Spend some time people watching and eavesdropping on conversations. Listen for verbal ticks, such as how people use words like "like" and "um" when speaking.
Consider how your character may talk. If your character is cynical, his words may be laced in sarcasm. A well-educated character may have a highly developed dialogue, especially if he's insecure and wants to call attention to his intelligence. Try to give every character their own unique voice.
Read your dialogue out loud. This will help you gauge whether it sounds believable or not.
Break up dialogue with action so you can have characters use non-verbal cues to convey mood. A character may, for example, fidget excessively when lying or being deceitful.
 As you begin to write your book, focus on your character's internal monologue. A lot of the action in a character driven book occurs in a character's mind. Allow your characters to stop and think throughout the book, highlighting what's going through their minds.If your story is told in first person, this can be particularly easy to do. You can have the character discussing what he or she is thinking as the action of the story unfolds. However, you can also get into a character's head if you're writing in third person. As a narrator, you're a somewhat omnipotent force and are able to tell your readers what your characters are thinking.
Benign events can cause a character to stop and think. Maybe a passing school bus reminds your character of a traumatic event that occurred on his first day of school, for example. Major events can also drive introspection. Maybe your character has a breakdown after a relationship implodes, causing him to spend a night awake with his thoughts.
 Strive to make small events significant in a character driven work. You can show a lot about a character's relationships with others, and his or her personality, through how that character navigates day-to-day interactions.Have your character respond to small interactions he or she has with other people. This can show how your character sees the world. How these interactions change can show how a character's story arc is playing out. For example, you can include a scene where a character gets very angry when someone cuts him or her in line. This can showcase that your character is high strung about rules. Later, a similar interaction can take place and your character can react in a more relaxed fashion. This illustrates how this character has changed.
You can also have every day interactions with other characters matter. How a character reacts to being touched by a significant other can offer insight into that relationship. The way your protagonist reacts to a phone call from his mother can show you how he does or does not value family.

