 Rest is a great way to allow your body to recover from any illness like a cold. So, listen to your body. If you feel tired, then you should rest and relax. Make sure to sleep through the night, take naps, and sit down to relax when you are feeling tired.Even sitting down or lying in bed while reading a book or watching TV will allow your body to rest.
Sleep the recommended seven to nine hours per night. Also, minimize your activities during the day so your body can reserve its energy to fight the cold.If sleeping is uncomfortable, use a foam wedge or layer your pillows into a triangle shape to prop your upper body.;
, Even if you aren’t pregnant, staying hydrated is crucial to getting over a cold. Therefore, make sure to drink plenty of fluids. Drink water, broth, and juice frequently throughout the day to stay hydrated.It is recommended that pregnant women drink 10 glasses of water per day. Up your intake to 12 or 13 glasses per day to make up for the fluids you lose due to symptoms such as sweating and a runny nose.
 Eating nutrient-rich foods will help you maintain good levels of immunity. Eat nutrient-rich foods such as brightly colored fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables contain antioxidants that will give your immune system the boost it needs.Examples of nutrient rich fruits and vegetables are spinach, tomatoes, broccoli, bell peppers, garlic, onion, lemon, blueberries, strawberries (any berries), bananas, apples, and more.Wash all produce thoroughly to avoid a serious blood infection called toxoplasmosis, which is caused by a parasite that can be found in soil.Make sure to continue taking your prenatal vitamins, as well.
 Wash your hands before and after eating, during office hours, and before you touch your face. Also wash them after blowing your nose, and coughing and sneezing.Wash your hands by wetting them with clean running water. Lather them with soap and scrub your hands for 20 seconds. Then, rinse them with clean water, and dry them off with a paper towel or air dry them.