 It's important to look in the proverbial mirror every now and then and take stock of how you feel. What do you like about yourself? What do you need to work on? It's possible to build up elaborate psychological barriers that force us into dishonest behaviors, opinions, and activities that could be avoided by giving ourselves an objective appraisal. Write down a list of your strengths and weaknesses in a notebook, not to take stock of your self-worth, but to find things to improve and to celebrate your achievements.


Identify your strengths. What are you good at? What do you do better than most people you know? What do you contribute to daily life? What are proud of? In what ways are you better than you once were?
Identify your weaknesses. What embarrasses you about yourself? What could you do better? Have you gotten worse at something specific, over the years?

, A big source of dishonesty in our lives comes from an unwillingness to confront the things about ourselves that we're ashamed of, embarrassed about, or just plain disgusted by. Without dwelling on them, try to define them honestly.


Maybe you always hoped to have published that debut novel by the time you turned 30, a goal that's no closer now than it was 5 years ago. Maybe you know you need to get in shape, but find it easier to keep up the same old routine. Maybe your relationship is stale and you're unhappy in it, but can't bring yourself to make any considerable changes.
As much as you can, try to eliminate excuses from your mind. It doesn't matter why this particularly uncomfortable truth about you is so, because you can't go back into the past to change it. You can, however, change your behavior now and start making yourself happier.
 From your list of strengths and weaknesses, try to identify specific areas for improvement, and specific ways that you might improve yourself.


What was necessary for your strengths to become strengths? What did you do that you're especially proud of? In what way could that truth inform your desire to improve some of your weaknesses?
What threatens your ability to improve yourself? Are these threats external, like a lack of funds necessary to buy a gym membership and lose a few pounds, or internal, like a lack of desire to research DIY weight-loss options?

, Lying to yourself is easy. It's easy to come up with a couple hundred reasons not to do something you don't want to do. That's why we let it happen so often! Make it hard on yourself. When you decide to end a relationship, or start working, start doing it. Make it happen. Now. Don't wait until you come up with a litany of reasons that it's "not the right time." When you make a decision, set it in motion.


Make it easy on yourself to be successful in accomplishing your improvements. Set up a risk-and-reward exchange when you accomplish a daunting task, like buying yourself that new guitar after ending your ugly relationship, or treating yourself to a vacation after losing a couple pounds.
Accomplish your tasks with digital aid: you can sign up with Skinny-Text to receive exercise reminders on your phone, or even consider using Pact, which will charge you a specific amount of money if you choose not to exercise.

