 Even though your pet lives indoors, he may still get cold. Provide blankets for him to curl into on his bed, on the floor, or on furniture he is allowed to be on. You may also think about moving your pet’s bed to warmer areas in the house, away from windows, doors, or other drafty areas. Watch your pet and make sure he is comfortably warm inside your house during cold weather.Make sure your pet is not sleeping on the floor. Give him a bed made of blankets, a pet bed, or a pillow. Floors can retain cold and make your pet even colder., When your pet comes in from outdoors, dry him with a towel to remove any melting snow or precipitation. Make sure to remove snowballs or ice from the paws.If you pet is wet, it can have trouble getting warm and cause problems.
 Indoor pets expend less energy during the winter. They sleep more and usually exercise less. This means you need to reduce the amount of food you are feeding your pet.Watch your pet for weight gain. If you think your pet is gaining weight, limit his food intake every day.
 While proper grooming is still important, refrain from shaving pets down to the skin during cold months. Longer hair can help keep your pet warm.Keep your pet trimmed to reduce the amount of snow and ice that gets caught in his hair during walks. This is especially important around his feet. Trim the hair between his toes and around his feet.
 Just like in hot weather, leaving your pet in a car during cold weather can be harmful or deadly. Cars that are turned off and sitting can become cold extremely fast, which means your pet left inside will be exposed to extremely cold temperatures. Consider limiting any travel for your pet, especially if the pet will be left inside a car for a period of time.You should never leave young, old, ill, thin, or short-haired pets unattended in cold cars.
 Since you will be keeping your pet inside, make sure to protect your pet from potential dangers. Always watch your pet around space heaters to make sure he doesn’t get burned or knock it over, which is a potential fire hazard. If you have a fireplace, use a guard to keep pets from getting burned.