 Take a nice, cool shower, and use shampoo that will make your hair have lots of volume and shine. Use a body wash that will keep your skin smooth, soft, and refreshed. It is also good if the body wash is scented, perhaps something flowery or whatever your favorite scent is.;
, While you're waiting for your hair to dry partially, brush your teeth well, pluck your eyebrows (if you know how to. If not, go to a salon and have a professional do it, or you might mess up your pretty brows, which is not good), clip, buffer, and file your nails, moisturize and soften your skin with lotion, put on good and long-lasting deodorant, paint your nails, etc.
 When you are done with that your hair will still be damp, put in shine enhancer, and blow dry it. I recommend using an anti-frizz hair spray to prevent your hair getting frizzy when you're dancing, such as John Freida Anti-frizz.Then style it in any way you want! You can these hairstyles:


Regular braid
Fishtail braid
Curls (wavy or make it curlier)
Straightened
A nice and pretty bun (make it messy or ballerina or however you want it, as long as it depicts the theme).
A pretty hairstyle of your own invention!

, Put a bathrobe over this so that you don't get makeup on your clothes.
 Use brand products like the well-known Proactiv and Neutrogena. But do not apply too much acne treatment. Too much of it will give you massive breakouts and you do not want that; You're trying to do the other way around!

, If you're dancing with a guy, he would like to be with a girl with a natural look, not a clownish, fake mask!


Put on foundation. Blend well including your neck, and dust some powder over your face
Put on eyeliner that's not too heavy-looking. Make the line thin or medium sized, perhaps adding a wing on the corner of your eyes.
Eye shadow that matches your outfit and your overall makeup (e.g. bold lipstick = lighter eye shadow)
Blush to keep your cheeks at a beautiful, rosy flush. Don't put too much blush!
Mascara - several swipes would do. Don't cake your lashes with them though! Just enough to add volume and length to your lashes.
Lips - If you choose to wear lipstick, make sure it looks good. For example, if you choose a bold lipstick, make sure your eye shadow is lighter. Preferably for a dance, a light, rosy color is best. Add some lip gloss (optional).
, Plus, use perfume! Spritz it lightly on your neck, elbows, wrist, and yes, behind your knee. These are the places where the perfume would last longer. Do not drown yourself in perfume or else people can smell you several states away!

,).
 Shaved legs and armpits are a must, unless, of course, you're not allowed to shave yet.
 This is your night, after all!

