 The basic version of Flipagram is available for free from the iTunes App Store and the Google Play Store.;
, Once you’ve finished downloading, open the app. A welcome notification will appear. Click Yes or No whether you want to receive push notifications.
 This will allow you to access the photos you've uploaded to Instagram.
 You will be prompted to select photos or videos to add.
 You can choose from your Instagram photos or the photos stored on your device.
 Keep in mind that Instagram only supports 15-second video clips.
 This will show a list of all the images you've selected. If you selected Instagram photos, they will be downloaded.


Downloading will take few seconds depending on how many photos you have selected.
 This will allow you to add more photos, such as photos from a different source than you originally picked.
 The Edit button is located to the right of the "+ Add" button.


Double tap any photo to crop.
Tap and hold to drag and drop photos to change their order.
Tap photos to select other actions.
Duplicate photos to emphasize moments on your Flipagram.
 Click the arrow button (located on the top right of the screen).
 The best way to make your slideshow pleasing to watch is to add a background sound. Click “Add Music” located in the bottom of the slideshow preview.


Click “Choose Music Track” if you want to add music saved on your local disk.
Choose “Sound Recorder” if you want to add narration or your own voice in your slideshow.
If you don’t have any music in your device, you can also download the music by selecting “Find Music.”

, Remember not to exceed 15 seconds because Instagram will cut it. Make it enough or below the recommended time.
 The title is the text that will appear in the beginning of your slideshow.


Choose from the fonts and color to change the style of the text to make it more appealing.
 You may want to review your slideshow first before finalizing to make sure you haven’t missed anything.
 If you are satisfied with your slideshow, click the check button in the top right of the screen.


A message will appear saying “Are you ready to finalize your Flipagram?” Hit yes to create.
Flipagram will begin processing your images and audio to your slideshow!

, When the slideshow is created, you can now show it off to your followers by hitting the share button and clicking Instagram.


Choose the start and end point of your video.
Add filter if you want.
Choose your cover.
Add a description, location, or share it outside Instagram.
Wait until Instagram uploads your slideshow, which may take longer than adding a photo, then you are done.

