 Alcohol can take a great toll on the kidneys. If your kidneys are already compromised, drinking to excess is not recommended. If your kidney disease is advanced enough, you may not be able to drink alcohol at all. Some people with kidney disease can have one drink on occasion. However, you should talk to your doctor to get precise recommendations about how much alcohol is safe for you.If your doctor says it is okay to drink, then make sure you do not exceed one drink per day and count it as part of your fluid intake for the day.
Ask that friends and family members do not drink around you at social events. If you know a social event will involve drinking, try sitting that event out or asking a friend or family member to refrain from drinking with you.
If you struggle to give up alcohol, talk to a therapist about how to quit drinking. You can also seek out the support of groups like Alcoholics Anonymous if you believe you have a drinking problem.
 You may not have to limit your fluid intake early on, but many people have to cut down on fluid consumption in the later stages of kidney disease. If you are on dialysis, fluid can build up in the body between sessions. Your doctor may want you to stick within a certain range of fluids throughout the day. Look into ways to manage your thirst without drinking too much liquid.Drink from smaller glasses during meals. If you're at a restaurant, turn your cup over when you're done drinking. This will let your server know not to refill your cup, allowing you to avoid the temptation of drinking too much water.
You can try freezing fruit juices in ice trays. You can suck on these juices like popsicles, allowing you to alleviate your thirst slowly. Just make sure to count these popsicles towards your total fluid intake for the day.
If you need to limit your fluids, try using a pitcher to track the amount of fluid you are allowed to drink per day. Fill the pitcher with water and only drink from the pitcher throughout the day. If you have something else that counts as a fluid, such as coffee, milk, jello, or ice cream, then pour out the amount of water equal to what you consumed. Make sure to count fluids from canned fruit, canned vegetables, soups, and any other sources as well.
 Sodas should generally be avoided, as they're a source of unnecessary calories and sugar. However, if you like soda on occasion, go for light colored varieties. Lemon flavored sodas, like Sprite, are better than darker sodas like Coke and Pepsi.

Make sure that you avoid colas and soft drinks that contain phosphate or phosphoric acid. Sodas also have high amounts of sodium in them, and it is important to decrease your sodium/salt intake.
 Orange juice contains high levels of potassium. It's best to avoid orange juice if you have chronic kidney disease. Try substituting grape juice, apple juice, or cranberry juice for orange juice.