 You have probably heard this spill a ton of times but this “How To” can change your life! And, it’s as easy as 1, 2, 3.;
, Ask yourself these questions, "Has anything ever been more important to me than God? Have I ever lied (a lie is a lie, no matter how small you may think it is), stolen (cheated on a test, took a piece of gum, etc.), hated (the Bible says it's murder in your heart), lusted, (the Bible says it's adultery in your heart), taken the Lord's name in vain (such as "OMG!!!"), dishonored my parents, or been jealous of someone else's belonging?" The Bible says that we have all sinned, and that if you've broken one commandment, it is the same as breaking all of the commandments (the whole law). All sin deserves punishment, and God is a just God. He should give you what you deserve -- Hell. However, He died for your sins and took your punishment, so that you can live eternally.
 That means turn away from sin at a heart level and trust and follow Jesus. On the day of Pentecost, Peter stated, "Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." (Acts 2:38), "Go Ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost..." Upon repentance and faith, God will then impart into you, His Holy Spirit. He will transform you and make you a new creation in Christ Jesus. He wants you to forgive others as you have been forgiven, love others as you are loved, and help others as Jesus also helps you.
 Be assured that evidence of receiving the Holy Ghost is that He makes you holy, and gives you gifts according to His own will (see 1 Corinthians 12)!

, Pray daily: Praying is vital and essential -- even praying for little things such as asking God to help with a test -- and for more serious things such as, asking God to help the doctors figure out what is wrong with someone close to you.
It’s very exciting to know that Someone is always there for you, and that is Jesus Christ. See examples of God answering our prayers.Read the Bible daily: What kind of relationship is it if you're the only one who talks? You will never know what God is telling you unless you open up His Word and listen in your heart for God to guide you in the right direction. He speaks in a still, small voice but, you'll know it's Him. He can guide you in all things you do.
 JESUS answered, Verily, verily, I say to thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God"(John 3:5) Be born of the Spirit. according to the Bible as God's gift to you. "For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten son that whosoever believes in Him will not perish but have eternal life." (John 3:16)

, Casting all your cares (problems) upon Him; for He careth for (looks after) you. (1 Peter 5:7)


Jesus is someone you can count on. Talk to Him like you would to a friend, a close brother, and tell Him everything. He loves you as his brother or sister, so much that He laid His life down to take your death sentence and died in your place! The Holy Spirit will never leave you: He is your comforter and friend!

