 Each paddle should be a minimum of 18 1⁄2 inches (47.0 cm) long and no longer than 20 inches (50.8 cm).
 Paddleball can also be played on grass, concrete, or even snow if sand is not available.
 A singles court should be drawn when two teams composed of one person each are playing, and a double court should be used when two teams of two people each are playing.
 Though you can buy nets specifically for playing paddleball, you can also adapt any similar sports net you have as long as the top of your net is 5'10" off of the ground on a hard surface such as grass, and 5'7" off of the ground on a soft surface like sand or snow.
 First decide whether you want to play singles or doubles. If you are playing doubles, you might want to flip a coin to quickly and randomly choose partners.
 Paddleball scoring is the same as tennis scoring and is played in sets of 1, 3, or 5.


Tennis scoring begins with both teams at 0, also called love. One point is scored as 15, the second point for the same team is 30, and the third point awarded to the same team is 40. The serving team's score is called first. For example, if the serving team wins 3 points and the receiving team wins 2 points, the score would be 40-30.
Once a team reaches 40, that team wins the game if they win one more point. If the score gets to be 40-40, a situation referred to as deuce, the next point wins that game. Normal tennis scoring requires that either team must win two points in a row in order to win the game, but paddleball does not use advantage scoring.
Paddleball can be played in sets of 1, 3, or 5. One set is completed when a team has won 6 games, though they must win by a two-game margin. Therefore, 6-4 would be an acceptable set score, but 6-5 would not. If the second situation occurs, you continue to play games until one team wins the set by a two-game margin.
 A volley war simply consists of volleying the ball across the net between teams until a player misses. The team that misses will receive the serve first, while the team that didn't miss will serve first.
 Teammates may not "double-hit" the ball before it goes over the net.
 If a let occurs, continue to play normally.

