 Heat can help reduce pain from menstrual cramps and abdominal pain caused by Crohn’s disease. Turn a heating pad on the medium or high setting. Lay down, and drape the heating pad over the site of the pain. This may be on your abdomen or your lower back. Relax until the pain has lessened.


A hot water bottle also works. Fill the bottle with hot water. Set it against the source of pain.
A warm shower or bath might be soothing as well.;
, Massages can help you relax, and they can lessen symptoms during menstrual-related flares. Ask a massage therapist if they can perform therapeutic abdomen massages.You can also massage yourself. Lie down on a flat, comfortable surface. With both hands, start massaging the bottom right side of your abdomen. Move your hands up towards the left side of our body, then down towards the pelvis and the pubic bone. Follow this pattern for up to fifteen minutes., Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are often used to treat period pain, but they may actually worsen your Crohn’s flares by increasing bleeding and damaging the lining of your intestines. Common NSAIDs include: Aspirin,such as Bayer’s or Bufferin
Ibuprofen such as Advil or Motrin
Naproxen including Aleve and Naprosyn

, While NSAIDs are not encouraged for Crohn’s disease, you can take acetaminophen (also known as paracetamol) to relieve your pain. This includes brands like Tylenol, Panadol, and Anacin.Always read the label for dosage information. Do not take more than the recommended dosage.
If you have a history of liver disease or drink more than three alcoholic beverages a day, do not take acetaminophen., It is important that you keep taking your normal dosage during flares, unless otherwise directed by your doctor. Even if your pain is getting worse during a flare, do not take more or less than your prescribed dosage without consulting a doctor.
 If your pain is particularly bad around your period, your doctor may give you a special prescription to only take during these flares. This might be a corticosteroid that you only use while on your period.Make sure to tell your doctor when the flare usually occurs. For example, if it always comes the week before your period starts or if it starts the same day as your period.

