 If you decide to simply present the original artwork as a gift, feel free to use any size paper (or, if using paint, a literal canvas) that you like. However, for many of these projects, you’ll be scanning the finished artwork to your computer. If you decide on one of these, use paper that will fit your scanner. Also:


Be aware that changing the size of your scanned image may alter the image itself. For example, shrinking your child’s 8.5 x 11-inch self-portrait to fit a small canvas pouch may cause facial features to condense and blur together. Conversely, blowing up a smaller picture to cover a larger dishtowel may cause the blown-up image to appear pixelated.
To avoid this, use paper that roughly matches the surface area of the item that it will be transferred to. Or, simply trim larger sheets of paper down to size with scissors.;
, Again, if you intend to give the original artwork as a gift, this is less of a concern. However, for artwork that needs to be scanned and transferred, consider the dimensions of the item that it will be transferred to. If the item is wider than it is long, instruct your kids to orient their paper accordingly.


For example, if you’re going to iron your transfer onto a small wide pouch, you’ll most likely want a horizontal image to cover as much surface area as possible.
 Of course, if you want to, give your kids free rein to draw or paint whatever they choose. But also consider instructing them to draw appropriate subjects for the occasion. Ask them to create a custom image that ties directly into the occasion and/or the recipient for a more personalized gift. For example:


If the occasion is a birthday, they could draw a party scene with cake and balloons.
For holidays like Christmas or Hannukah, have them draw a Christmas tree or a menorah.
For relatives like grandparents, aunts, and uncles, ask each child to draw a family portrait, or make it a group project with each family member drawing themselves.
 If you’ll be giving the finished artwork as a gift by itself, skip this step. However, if you’re going to use it to decorate another item (or present copies of one image to more than one recipient), scan the artwork to your computer. Once scanned, crop, minimize, or otherwise edit the image to your liking and save the file.


If you don’t have a scanner, you can either use a smartphone or digital camera to take photos instead.Or, bring the artwork to a copy store to have it scanned and saved to a thumbdrive.

