 Pour 2 quarts (2 liters) of water into a large bowl and add one teaspoon of salt. Stir or whisk the saltwater until the salt dissolves. Wash four apples and core them. Slice the apples into wedges (about eight per apple).Choose an apple variety that you enjoy eating. Try Honeycrisp, Pink Lady, Granny Smith, or Jonagold.
 Immediately place the apple wedges in the bowl of saltwater so they're covered. Soak them for 5 minutes. Then you can drain the saltwater and discard it. Pat the apples dry and use them or refrigerate them for a few days.The saltwater soak prevents the apples from browning, so you can make caramel apple wedges in advance.
 Set a heavy-bottomed saucepan on the stove and add 3/4 cup (180 ml) of the heavy cream, 3/4 cup (225 g) of dark corn syrup, 1/2 cup (115 g) of unsalted butter (cut into pieces), and 1 cup of (225 g) of sugar. Stir the ingredients to combine them and heat the pan over high heat until the mixture melts and reaches 244 to 248 degrees F (117 to 120 C).To accurately check the temperature, you can attach a candy thermometer to the inside of the saucepan. Just ensure that the tip of the thermometer doesn't touch the bottom of the pan.
 Carefully dip a spoon into the caramel to see how dark the color is. The caramel should be a dark amber color. If it is, remove it from the heat (or cook it longer if it's too pale). Pour in the remaining 1/4 cup (60 ml) of heavy cream and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Hold the handle of the saucepan and swirl it to combine the ingredients.If you like a softer caramel, don't cook it the caramel soft too long. Let it get to a light brown color and remove it from the heat.
 Scoop the caramel sauce into a small bowl and allow guests to dip the prepared apple wedges into the sauce. Or you could lay the apple wedges on a serving plate and drizzle the caramel sauce over the apples. Serve the apples immediately once you've drizzled them with caramel.For an extra crunch touch, sprinkle the drizzled caramel apple wedges with 1/4 cup (30 g) of chopped salted and roasted peanuts.
