 Whether you read books, attend conferences and workshops, or study specific trivia, the more you are able to talk about topics, the more impressive you will be to your friends. You may learn about random facts or specialize on topics that you’re passionate about like sports.


A random fact can be something like the king of hearts is the only king without a mustache in a deck of cards.;
, Whether you gain experience for your career, gain culinary experience, a hobby or just life experience, personal growth is always admirable amongst friends. Updating your friends on what you’ve been up to or simply showing them pictures or examples is a great way to impress them.


For example, you could show off a new recipe you’ve learned or tell your parents about a promotion you’ve just received.
 The world is so large that simply traveling to somewhere new always insights interest. Talk about future travel plans or past adventures. Show off souvenirs and share profound life experiences with friends.


Travelling can be quite costly so make sure to budget before leaving for a trip. Take the time to ensure a safe and enjoyable experience.
 Changing your body can impress your friends especially if it is a drastic change. Set a goal to lose weight and get healthy. Talk to a healthcare and fitness professional to find out the best course of action on how to achieve your goals. Find exercise routines and diets that suit your schedule and lifestyle.


Don’t overdo it. Set realistic goals. There’s no point in jeopardizing your health just to impress your friends. You should be trying to get in shape for yourself.
 Languages can be very challenging to learn. Find a tutor, visit a language center, download audio books, listen to podcasts, or download language apps to help you. Set a goal to learn a language and then plan a trip to the country as your reward.
 Not everyone is musical. Persevering through lessons and being able to play music will impress your friends. Watch tutorials at home and begin with a used instrument before investing in anything professional .
 Find something that you are passionate about and share it with your friends. Joy can be very infectious. Your friends don’t have to participate but they will be very impressed with how much you have learned and the new skills that you have picked up so fast.


Hobbies can include sewing, painting, running, etc

, Let your friends know your goals and give yourself timelines. You can update them on your progress to your goal. The more challenging your goal, the more impressed your friends will be. However, don’t set a goal simply to impress your friends. A goal will be more rewarding if it is something personal for you.


You can set goals like losing weight, quitting smoking, going back to college, or restoring a car with your son.

