 Remember that when you do something special, your parents probably make a big deal out of it, just like they're doing now with your sister or brother. Nobody thinks your sister or brother is better than you.It's okay if your sister draws really well, and you're not so good at that. Everyone is good at different things.
There are things you can do well, that your sister or brother can't. Don't brag about it or try to make them feel bad.;
, You can't have all the attention, all the time. But when you feel like you're not getting enough, it can feel pretty terrible. Try not to be jealous of your sister or brother when they're getting a lot of attention, because this can come across as mean.Tell your parents if you are feeling left out, and they will find some way to include you in the fun.
 If your sister keeps borrowing your things and not returning them, tell her that this makes you want to stop loaning her things. Ask her to be more careful in the future, and promise to be careful when you use her things. It is always best to talk things out, and get problems into the open., Remember that kids are treated differently at different ages. Does it seem like your little brother gets all the attention? You probably did, too, when you were his age. Does it seem like your older sister gets to do things you aren't allowed to do? You'll most likely be allowed to do the same things, when you are her age., If your sister or brother makes you angry, try to take a break for a few minutes and cool down. If you yell at them right away, it can turn into a big argument and it will be difficult to get things back to normal., If you have been trying to fix your relationship with a brother or sister, but you feel like you're getting nowhere, ask your parents for help. They know both of you better than anyone else does, and they can probably come up with a few good suggestions.


Don't complain about your sister or brother in front of your parents - this will just make your sibling angry.
Talk to your mom or dad sometime when they are alone, and your sister or brother won't over hear you.

