 Over 99 percent of commercial animal products come from factory farms. At these large industrial operations, animals are often neglected, abused, or left to live in cramped and/or unsanitary cages.One of the best ways to help reduce animal suffering is to give up meat by becoming a vegetarian or give up all animal products by becoming a vegan.Even dairy and egg production can cause suffering for animals. Chickens and cattle are forced to produce more eggs and dairy (respectively) than they naturally would, all while being housed in cramped, uncomfortable living quarters. Additionally, many chickens have their beaks cut off or burned off to reduce the chances of "nervous pecking" in the tightly-packed cages.If you're not sure you want to commit to a meat-free diet, try participating in meatless Mondays. It's a great way to try out a meatless diet one day each week and experiment with different meal options that you may not otherwise have tried.There are a plethora of vegetarian and vegan recipes available online and in printed cookbooks. Learn how to make delicious vegan meals at home, or find restaurants that offer vegetarian/vegan versions of your favorite dishes.
 It's a sad fact that often goes unmentioned, but many cosmetic products are still tested on rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, and rats. These animals are often blinded, poisoned, or killed while testing cosmetic products and the ingredients used in these products.Animal testing is currently legal in approximately 80 percent of all countries worldwide.Look for cruelty-free products online and in stores. Buying cruelty-free cosmetic products helps reduce profits that would otherwise support animal-testing industries., Cutting out fur products from your wardrobe is one of the easiest ways to help animals by reducing their needless suffering. Over 50 million animals are mistreated and killed each year for their fur coats, even though many non-fur alternatives keep you warmer and look even more stylish.The Humane Society compiles a running list of brands, designers, and retailers that have halted or are actively phasing out the use of fur in clothing products.