 Double-click the green X on the dock, or open the Applications folder and then the Microsoft Office folder, before clicking Excel.;
, Title the top, leftmost worksheet, "Actuals".
, Do Edit > Fill > Series Rows Date > Month > Step_Value 1 > OK

, Select the "Custom" option under the Number tab. Pick $#,##0.00;-$#,##0.00 with column width 1.
 Select the "Custom" option under the Number tab. Pick mmmm.
, Then Edit > Copy the formula and Edit > Paste it to cell range N4:N110.
 They should cover all of the budget items you need:


ANNUAL BUDGET
INCOME:

Source 1 - Net Paycheck(s), excl. taxes, 401K, etc.
Source 2 - Trust Income
Source 3 - Dividend Income
Source 4 - Interest Income, excluding Savings
Source 5 - Schedule C Income
Source 6 - Home Rental Income
Source 7 - Other Income, from Investments/Other
Refinance (REFI) Loan Receipt
Misc. Income (Yard Sales, etc.)
Other Assets Sold for Cash
Other Assets Sold for Cash Installments
Gifts Converted to Cash
TOTAL INCOME


SAVINGS RECAP:

Beginning Balance
Add: From Source 1 - withdrawable 401K/Other
Add: Regular and Other Savings Contributions
Deduct: Withdrawals (new trust: gain, sale of home)
Add: Interest Earned
Deduct: Fees & Charges
Ending Balance


PRINCIPAL and OPTIONS:

Trust Balance
Non-withdrawable 401K/Pension Balance
Other "untouchable" Principal balance(s)
Stock Options, Unexercised, at est. market value
TOTAL PRINCIPAL and OPTIONS
TOTAL SAVINGS, PRINCIPAL and OPTIONS


Equity additions & Expenses:

Home - Mortgage Interest /Rent, w/ REFI int.
Home - Equity, Repairs & Improvement, w/ REFI Princ.
Remodeling
Roof
Driveway
Home - Maintenance
Yardcare & Gutters Maintenance
Sewage Line Maintenance
Home- Property Tax
Home - Insurance
Home - Other Mortgage-related Exp.
Home - Rental Portion Improvements & Repairs
Home - Rental Portion Maintenance
Home - Rental Portion Property Tax
Home - Rental Portion Insurance
Home - Rental Portion - Other Expense
Auto Payment(s) - Interest
Auto Payment(s) -Equity
Auto Insurance w/ GroceriesTransport
Auto Gas - w/ GroceriesTransport
Auto Oil & Maint. w/ GroceriesTransport
Auto Repairs w/ GroceriesTransport
Auto License, Fees, Registration Expenses
Auto Depreciation/Obsolescence
Sys: Macs, Phone, TV, Printer Ink & Ppr
Sys: Software & Hardware Equity
Sys: Other Tech Accessories
Sys: Depreciation/Obsolescence
Supplies
Groceries, Rx & Comestibles (non-deductible)
Moving Expense
Credit Card - Interest payments
Long-term Loan Repayments, e.g. Educatnl. Princ.
Long-term Loan Repayments, Interest
Short-term Loan Repayments, Principal
Short-term Loan Repayments, Interest
Utilities: Garbage & Recycling
Utilities: Gas & Electric
Utilities: Water
Medical: Transport, Tests & Procedures
Dental: Including Transport
Vision & Eyewear, w/ Transport
Chronic Conditions Counseling, w/ Transport
Legal Fees/Retainer, etc.
Other Professnl Fees, Dues, Subscrptns, Mmbrshps
Career/Professional Library +/or Software, Aids
Education & Training Expense Unreimbursed
Donations: Church and Other Tax-deductible
Donations: Non-deductible
Gifts
Sched. C - Accounting / Bookkeeping Expense
Sched. C - Payroll Expenses
Sched. C - Production & Pkg'g Expenses … or
Sched. C - COGS & Supplies Inventory Exp'd.
Sched. C - UPS / Freight / S&H and Mail Charges
Sched. C - Admin, Sys & Communications Expense
Sched. C - Mktg / Promotional / Selling Expense
Sched. C - Meals & Entertainment Expense
Sched. C - Travel Expense
Sched. C - Facilities Maintenance Expense
Sched. C - Licenses, Fees, Registration Expenses
Sched. C - Other Internet Expenses
Sched. C - Other Expense
Other Tax-Deductible Expense
Other Non-Deductible Expense
Miscellaneous Expense (= Supplies?)
Equity additions & Expenses:


ANNUAL BUDGET RECAP:

Cash On Hand: OVER (SHORT), Beginning Balance
Total Income
LESS: Regular Savings Contribution
ADD: Withdrawals from Savings (except new home)
LESS: Equity additions & Expenses
Cash On Hand: OVER (SHORT),Ending Balance


(Note: if you're SHORT per your Budget, you need to spend less, get a loan and/or to make more money.)

, Follow the subsection instructions for January as to whether to add all the items in a subsection (like INCOME or SAVINGS) or subtract some. Then bring the subsection total or line item down to the ANNUAL BUDGET RECAP bottom section and add or subtract accordingly -- careful, some are reversed from Savings because a contribution to Savings is a deduction from Cash on Hand, and a Withdrawal from Savings adds to Cash on Hand.
, When you have your copy, retitle it Budget. Again make another copy of the Actual sheet and title it OVER (SHORT). Subtract your Actuals from Budget to arrive at OVER (SHORT) by clicking in cell B4 of OVER (SHORT) and entering the formula, =Budget!B4-Actuals!B4.
 Clear any blank rows you may have inserted so you don't end up with cluttering zeroes.
,
They also have a supplemental trust left to them.
They have other investments and are pretty thrifty.
They own a small business they report on Schedule C of Form 1040.
They own their own home and rent out a room to also supplement their income; the tenant also does housework and cooking, etc. in lieu of cash rent.
They have recently refinanced their home to take advantage of low interest rates and to do a remodel, driveway repaving and fix the roof.
However, the refi wasn't as much as they wanted, so they've had yard sales and also sold some recreational vehicles and assets of their youth -- they're semi-retired -- and they also sold one of their two cars. They're going to either buy a smaller home or retire to a senior community -- they haven't decided which yet though.
They do have a fair retirement "nest egg" built up though, that they'd like to avoid drawing down from for as long as possible.
So now, one of them pays a friend to transport her to doctor's and dental appointments, grocery shopping, etc., and this was all worked out on a mileage basis, with amounts factored in for repairs, insurance and fees, etc.
Her husband, though working and helping her run the small business, went back to school, and will need to start paying back an educational loan this year. His employer covered most of the cost of the texts and school supplies but not the laptop or home PC he bought, which he also uses in his home business, and keeps a career library on and other professional software (which is deductible above what was reimbursed by the employer).
The couple has certain medical, visual and other physiological issues -- all deductible, as well as the transportation to and from the offices.
The couple is active politically but these expenditures are not deductible in most cases.
The couple requires assistance with certain aspects of the bookkeeping and accounting for the small business, and they also have hired a part-time production assistant, so they needed help coping with all the payroll, insurance and human resources issues as well.
The new company will operate partially over the internet via a website, which is under development, for a "one-time" fee, which is deductible.
They plan to use Excel to help budget both their business and personal financial activities, by copying these accounts to a second and third worksheet. The leftmost tab or worksheet will contain Actual amounts, the middle worksheet will contain Budget amounts, and the rightmost worksheet will compute the difference as OVER (UNDER) amounts. With this workbook, a Cash Flows worksheet, a Balance Sheet and a Profit & Loss Statement, they will have the reporting they need to not only stay on top of their business but also take all the deductions on their tax forms to which they are legally entitled, so long as they maintain their files, ledgers and receipts in good order.
You will note that, because this document is designed for people in semi-retirement, it contains many tax items faced by other people with fewer years of work behind them (but may be missing a huge item like day care), as well as addressing many of the concerns of many senior citizens.
The following is the Budget for the semi-retired couple. Note that items which have a Beginning Balance and Ending Balance have the Beginning Balance transferred over to the far right YTD column, which otherwise sums across, except for the Ending Balance line, which sums down vertically. Mostly, the Year to Date column sums across horizontally. Months April to October are filled in but hidden.






















