 Fill the water tank with hot water. Set the machine to high traffic and the handle to the recline position.Move the machine back and forth on the carpet while pressing the spray trigger for fifteen seconds. Let go of the trigger, then press it for another fifteen seconds while moving the machine back and forth on the carpet. Release the trigger a final time and vacuum without spraying until the machine stops suctioning water.Flushing your machine with hot water after each use will remove any residual solution which can harden in the spray lines.
Once the carpet has dried, vacuum once more to clear out dry debris like fuzz.
Always clean the machine before putting it in storage.;
, Suction clean water from a bowl or faucet to clean the hose. Once finished, lift the hose by the end. Stretch the hose to clear out the water., Turn off and unplug the machine, wrapping the power cord up securely. Remove the tank and empty it into a sink. Rinse the tank with hot water. Make sure to rinse underneath and all around the bladder. Rinse away any debris from the red filter. Rinse the top half of the tank through the nozzle area.If your model has more than one tank, remove and clean them both., With the water tank off the machine, remove the floor nozzle. Rinse the nozzle under a faucet with hot water.Periodically clean the fluid connection point with a small paperclip by removing the nozzle and turning it over.Replace the nozzle by lining up the locking keys with the corresponding slots. Put the end caps and nozzle back on the machine’s foot. Turn the keys to lock it in place.


Turn the locking keys to remove the floor nozzle.
 Pull or cut off any hair or other debris. Turn the brush with your hand to ensure that it spins freely (there should be just minor resistance due to the motor). Depending on your model, you may need to remove screws to detach the brush roll if you’re unable to remove all debris otherwise.If you’re unsure how to remove the brush roll, consult with your individual model’s manual at https://www.bissell.com/support/user-guides.
If your model has clear brush covers, these can be removed and rinsed as well., Separate any attachments from the machine. Rinse them under running water. Allow them to dry before replacing them on the hose rack., Take out the screws at the back of the diverter’s housing. Remove the diverter housing and rinse it under running water. Take out any debris. Put the diverter housing back and secure it with the screws.Removing any debris from the suction diverter prevents clogs from forming.

