 If a child is not getting enough nutrients, they will not grow at a normal rate. The rate of growth for a particular child varies with their age. For instance, most people grow rapidly from infants to toddlers, then slow their growth until puberty, when they experience another period of rapid growth. If your child does not grow rapidly during these sensitive periods, they might be suffering a nutrient deficit.See a doctor regularly to ensure your child is growing at a normal rate.;
, Nutrient deficits — especially deficits of vitamin B5, vitamin B6, folic acid, and essential fatty acids — lead to unusual problems with the hair. For instance, hair loss is common, and may manifest as thinning around the temples or reduced volume. You might also experience premature graying or even whitening. Check the shower drain and your hairbrush regularly. If there is more hair than there normally is, you might need more nutrients., Osteoporosis — a condition in which holes develop within bones, compromising their integrity — is a common consequence of a calcium-deficient diet. There are often no symptoms associated with osteoporosis, but it makes you more prone to breaks and fractures. When you see a doctor for these injuries, they will be able to detect osteoporosis through a series of painless medical tests that measure bone density at the hip, spine, and wrist., Inflammation of the gums, especially, is an early indicator of periodontal disease, which may in turn indicate a nutrient deficit. If your gums are puffy, red, tender, and bleed when you floss or brush, you might not be getting enough nutrients. In advanced cases, you might have loose teeth. See a dentist if you experience any of these dental problems.See a dentist at least twice each year for a regular dental checkup. Your dentist will be able to refer you to a nutritionist if they believe it is necessary.
 People who do not receive adequate levels of nutrients are more prone to colds and viral infections. A nutrient-deficient immune system cannot fight off illnesses that a healthy one can, leading to a greater frequency of illnesses, more severe illnesses, or both.Nutrient-deficient people might, for instance, experience:


Sore throat
Coughing
Fever
Sneezing
Runny nose
Other respiratory tract infections (like pneumonia and bronchitis) and flu-like symptoms, Muscle spasms are any involuntary contraction or vibration of the muscle tissue. If you suddenly develop facial tics — for instance, a sudden upturning of the mouth, or scrunching up of the nose — you might be nutrient deficient. Eye twitches (closing your eyes with excess force or experiencing difficulty in keeping your eyelids stable) could also indicate you need more nutrients. Painful cramps in your legs (especially your calves or thighs) are also reported in some cases of nutrient deficits.You might be experiencing a magnesium deficit, since magnesium helps regulate the neuromuscular system that allows our muscles to relax.
Deficits of B vitamins and calcium might also contribute to muscle spasms., Some kinds of nutrient deficiencies — especially iodine deficiency — lead to imbalances in the thyroid and an inability to produce and regulate hormones properly. Signs that your thyroid might be acting up include weight gain, decreased libido, goiter (swelling of the thyroid gland that usually produces a large bump in the neck), hair loss, and infertility., In a developing child, a vitamin A deficit could lead to blindness or visual impairment. If your child cannot see well, or suffers from night blindness (an inability to see in the dark), they might not be getting enough vitamin A. Other eye problems like cataracts and macular degeneration also occur in people who have a deficit of vitamin C, vitamin E, zeaxanthin, and zinc.You can detect macular degeneration and cataracts by paying attention to any loss of quality in your vision. Blurriness, clouded vision, and increased sensitivity to light are common symptoms.
 Nutrient deficiencies are one form of malnutrition. Signs of this condition include, notably, sunken eyes and a bony frame with visible ribs. The skin of a nutrient deficient person will be leathery, dry, and inelastic. Jaundice (yellowing skin) could also occur. Finally, a malnourished person will usually feel lethargic and have low energy levels overall.Malnutrition usually indicates that someone is not getting enough calories or is not getting a balanced diet. Malnutrition might also indicate that someone is getting too many calories.
 The many symptoms of nutrient deficits are also symptoms of many other conditions and diseases, so it is important you see your physician and get an accurate diagnosis of what is causing your symptoms. Doctors can draw and analyze your blood to determine concentrations of key nutrients. Some doctors might conduct a cellular analysis as well as (or instead of) a blood analysis. If you suspect you or your child has a nutrient deficit, see a doctor and explain why you’re concerned about your nutrient levels.Your doctors might not need to conduct a blood analysis if signs and symptoms of a nutrient deficit are obvious enough.
Your doctor might run tests to look for levels of specific nutrients, or just do a general screening for major nutrients.

