 Testing a puppy’s temperament is something that you could do on your own. Alternatively, select a tester who knows the genetics of your puppy’s litter.To perform the rollover test, roll your puppy onto his back and hold him there about 15 seconds by gently placing your hand on his chest. Observe how much he resists being held this way.A dominant puppy will show resistance for the entire time that you are holding him. A more submissive puppy will put up little to no resistance, and may start licking you (another sign of submission)., With your puppy standing on all fours, hold down both of his front paws by covering them with your hands and using gentle pressure. Hold his paws like this for about one minute, then do the same with his back paws. Use just enough pressure on his paws to keep him in place, not to hurt him. Just like with the rollover test, observe his level of resistance to being held.Pain will cause your puppy to resist regardless of whether he’s dominant or submissive, so it is important not to inflict any pain while temperament testing your puppy.
 Gently touch his ears, his legs, his belly, etc. Lightly tug on his ears. Pay close attention to how he responds to you. Whether he seems to enjoy it, tries to get away from you, or even tries to bite you, he will be giving you good clues of his overall temperament.Keep in mind that puppy biting is normal puppy behavior, even though it may hurt; it is a puppy’s way of investigating their environment.Puppy biting can be problematic, though, if you do not train your puppy to stop biting as he grows older., Pick him up by interlacing your fingers on his belly (palms facing up), and lifting him in the air. Hold him there for about 30 seconds. If he starts to squirm and wants to be put down, he has a more dominant and independent behavior. If he seems quite content for you to hold him in this way, he is showing more submissive behavior and may even try to start licking you., This will give you a very good indication of his dominant or submissive behavior. If your puppy is showing dominance, he will approach other people and his littermates with an upright posture and perky ears. On the other hand, if he is submissive, he will walk with his head lowered and ears leaning back; he will probably also hunch over a little.If the puppy is glued to your side, it may be insecure. If it shies away, it may have a fearful personality. A puppy that ignores you completely is probably independent, and one that explores the room but comes back to you is confident.
 The goal of this exercise is to observe your puppy’s response to sudden noises. Whether he responds with interest, fear, aggression, or indifference will let you know what kind of temperament he has.Throwing your keys on the ground can be a good alternate test of this response. Most puppies will jump back initially, but confident ones will quickly come over to investigate the new object.
 Try petting the puppy while it is eating, then taking the puppy's food away as it eats, and pushing the puppy away. If the puppy tries to play tug-of-war with the dish, or tries to crowd your hand out of the bowl, it is more dominant. If the puppy willingly relents, it is more submissive.


If the puppy reacts aggressively, it may have an issue with food aggression, sometimes called "resource guarding." This is a serious issue, but fortunately it is easier to correct in puppies than in adults.
If the puppy is large enough to injure you, use a broom handle or other long object to push the food away. Never test an adult dog this way with your bare hand.

