 Troublesome gas is often treated with nutritional advice on what and what not to eat to reduce or prevent flatulence. A range of dietary measures exist, so try experimenting with different combinations until you find one that works for you.Keep a journal of the foods and drinks you consume and record when you have excessive flatulence. There are a host of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and milk products that cause flatulence; by keeping a journal you can narrow down which ones personally affect you the most.
Fried and fatty foods should be eaten in moderation because they cause bloating and the buildup of gas.The inability to relieve this gas is painful.
Foods high in fiber cause flatulence. Fiber is an excellent and necessary food for the body, though, so try to temporarily cut back and then begin to reintroduce fiber in your diet slowly until your body adjusts to it.
Reduce your dairy intake by substituting milk with low-lactose foods like yogurt, or in addition to Lactaid or Dairy Ease which helps digest milk products. If you cannot eliminate dairy completely from your diet, try smaller portions or consuming it with other foods to reduce the impact.
Keep yourself hydrated by drinking enough water throughout the day.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol as much as possible.
 Flatulence can be caused by another health problem. Treating the underlying condition with over-the-counter remedies might be able to offer you relief from excessive  flatulence. Add Beano to reduce the amount of flatulence produced by vegetables and beans. Beano must be taken within the first few bites of food to be effective. It must arrive before the gas.
If you are lactose intolerant, try taking Lactaid or Dairy-Ease to help you digest lactose. Or, you could also try lactose-free or reduced lactose dairy products.
Popular gas relief products — Gas-X, Gelusil, Mylanta, and Mylicon — use simethicone to bust gas bubbles and relieve flatulence. Be aware, however, no studies have proven that these products actually work to relieve gas or gas pain.
Charcoal tablets — CharcoCaps and Charcoal  Plus — use an activated charcoal agent to relieve gas and ultimately flatulence. Similar to simethicone, no studies prove they work.
Other measure include the use of probiotics such as Florastor and Align.
 Many of the foods that cause flatulence are healthy for you and should not be completely left out of your diet.Foods that contain medium carbohydrates like beans and legumes are water-soluble. This means if you rinse them off or soak them in water, some of the carbohydrates will leach out, reducing the impact of gas and flatulence. Make sure you soak for a few hours before cooking them.
It is not a good excuse to cut vegetables from your diet because they make you gassy. Instead, puree your cruciferous vegetables. This increases the surface area of the food particles allowing them to be more readily absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract — and causing less flatulence.
Add inulin, a prebiotic fiber, found in fiber-rich foods to your diet. A prebiotic fiber is a carbohydrate that stimulates the growth of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli in your stomach. Foods such as pears, pistachios, blueberries, and chia seeds are high in prebiotic fiber.
Eat fennel seeds after a meal heavy with vegetables. Fennel seeds are a natural flatulence-fighter used to improve digestive tolerance to beans, lentils, and cauliflower. Either chew on the fennel seed or break it apart and put them in your tea to enjoy their benefits.

