 Select a sturdy tank with a cover for your snails (as they are known to escape). Keep in mind how many snails you will be keeping (and whether or not you will be breeding your snails). This will help you determine what size tank you need.Here are some guidelines:

1-2 snails require a minimum tank size of 5L (1.8 Gallons)
3-5 snails require a minimum tank size of 10L (2.2 Gallons)
6-9 snails require a minimum tank size of 20L (4.4 Gallons)
10-19 snails require a minimum tank size of 37L (8.1 Gallons)
20-50 snails require a minimum tank size of 100L (22 Gallons)
If you plan on breeding, consider buying a tank of 150L (40 Gallons) or more.;
, Snails generally prefer pebbles and gravel, rather than sand. Select a gravel substrate that is nice and smooth, with no sharp edges. Cover the bottom of your tank with this material, no more 5-8 cm (1.9-3.14 inches) thick.Stay clear of painted stones. Often these are coated in harmful paints that will start to flake after only a few months.
Avoid choosing red or orange natural stones, as they may contain copper which is toxic to snails.
Always rinse new gravel/pebbles before adding them to the tank.
 Select some aquarium decorations for your snails' tank. Keep in mind that your snails like to hide, so make sure they can't get stuck. Use only decorations that intended for aquarium use, and do not contain metals.Always rinse your new decorations in water before adding them to the aquarium.
 Select some aquatic plants to include in your snail tank. The more plants the better! Plants oxygenate the water and make use of snail waste.There is nothing wrong with your snails eating your aquatic plants, it's natural and it makes them happy.Some good aquatic plants to choose from include:

Elodea
Wisteria
Hornwort
Java Moss
Java Fern
Hairgrass
Duckweed
Hygrophilia

, You can choose from internal, hang-on, or canister filters. (All are work well, but internal filters are less expensive). You will also select the right size filter, based on the size of your tank.You may want to invest in an under-gravel filter. This creates a natural bio-filter and keeps your water clear.
Purchase an air pump for your under-gravel filter along with air stones.

