 This will determine the candle making supplies you must purchase. Types of candles include:


Taper candles. These long, slender candles must be held upright in candle holders.
Pillar candles. These candles are broad enough to stand on their own, although they must be placed on a fire-safe plate for burning. They may have more than 1 wick and, although they are commonly cylindrical, they also come in a variety of other shapes, including square, oval and octagonal.
Poured candles. This type of candle may come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes, as the candle wax takes the shape of whatever container it is poured into. Be sure to use fire-safe containers when you make candles using this technique.
Votive candles. These short, cylindrical candles are dropped into clear, glass votive containers for burning.
Tea lights. Tea lights are similar in shape to votives, only they are shorter and sit in aluminum cups for burning.;
, The type of wax you use will be determined by the type of candle you choose to make. Remember that different types of wax have different melting points - the lower the melting point, the softer the wax - and that they may each react differently to additives. Therefore, you should always read the manufacturer's instructions before purchasing candle wax.


Paraffin wax comes in a variety of melting points, and can therefore be used for everything from poured candles (low melting point) to molded candles (high melting point). Paraffin does not have natural oils, so it does not hold scented oils as well as other oil-based waxes.
Beeswax is a natural wax that, as its name suggests, comes from bee hives. It has a sweet scent, is slow burning, has a high melting point, and can be relatively expensive.
Tallow is a wax that is derived from animal fats. It is colorless and has a low melting point, but it tends to emit smoke and an unpleasant odor when burning.
Bayberry wax is made by boiling leaves from the bayberry plant. This wax has a sweet, floral scent, is naturally a shade of green and has a very low melting point. Bayberry wax can be very expensive in comparison to the other types of candle making wax.
Soy wax is relatively inexpensive, burns cleanly, has natural oils that blend well with additives and comes in a wide range of melting points. Therefore, soy wax may be used for any type of candle.
Gel wax is clear and odorless, and has a very high melting point. It is generally used for theme candles with embedded objects, as gel candles are typically clear. Gel wax does not have natural oils, and therefore may not mix well with additives, which easily give the gel an opaque appearance.
 The purpose of the wick is to draw fuel up from the candle and to the flame, and the type of wick you choose should be compatible with the type of candle you make, and the type of wax you choose.


Flat wicks are generally knitted or braided of 3 fibers. They burn consistently and are self-trimming, and are widely used for pillar and taper candles.
Square wicks are thicker than flat wicks, making them a good choice for use with additives, as the thicker wick helps prevent against wick clogging. Square wicks are self-trimming, and are generally used in pillar and taper candles.
Cored wicks are thick, braided wicks that have a metal core that makes them stand straight up, as opposed to the curling of flat and square wicks. The stiffness of cored wicks makes them a good choice for poured candles.
Wax coating. Wicks that have a wax coating work well with oil-based waxes, but you will want to use a wick that is not coated in wax if you are using candle gel, as the wax will cloud the gel.
 The supplies you need will vary according to the types of candles you make, and a candle supplies list could include any number of the following:


Double boiler. Use a double boiler for melting your candle wax.
Thermometer. Your thermometer of choice should fit inside the double boiler. Use a high-quality thermometer, as it is very important to keep your melted wax at the appropriate temperature to prevent it from reaching its flash point and erupting into a fire.
Pouring pot. You will pour your melted wax from the double boiler into the pouring pot, and then use the pouring pot to pour your candles.
Candle wax.
Wick.
Additives. There are a number of things you can add to your candles for different aesthetic effects. Fragrances and dyes are the most common candle additives.
Containers. You will need to purchase containers if you plan on making poured candles. Depending on the type of candles you make, you may need to purchase votive holders, tea light cups, vases, bowls or any of a wide variety of containers that can be used for candle making. Remember that you may pour candles into any type of container that is fire-safe.
 Compare prices before purchasing candle supplies. Explore these candle supply resources:


Chain retailers. Search the arts and crafts departments at your local retail department store.
Wholesalers. You can find many wholesalers of candle making supplies on the Internet. Wholesalers are a good option if you want to purchase your supplies in bulk. Just be prepared that you may need to provide a business license or business references in order to purchase wholesale.
Online retailers. There are many online sources for purchasing candle supplies from the comfort of your own home, and shopping on the Internet is a great way to compare prices before buying.
Craft stores. You can purchase candle supplies in person at craft stores, or you may even browse their catalogs online.
Farms. Search online and locally for farms that produce any of the natural waxes, such as tallow and bayberry.
Beekeepers. Local beekeepers are a good source for beeswax, or you may search online for beekeepers who distribute beeswax.

