 Rose Quartz has luminous ringlets nearly half the size of her entire body. A pink wavy or curly wig with a significant amount of volume can replicate this pretty well.;
, Rose Quartz is portrayed in a white, layered dress with a slight train. If you can't find a cosplay outfit, a sleeveless gown would be best. Many stores have greatly discounted formal dresses after Homecoming (September) and Prom season (June) are over. You could also check second-hand or consignment stores or search the Internet.
 Rose appears wearing one of Greg's promotional t-shirts at one point. It covers her gem, which could spare you the following step. The shirt itself is available online. It can also be easily replicated with a plain black crewneck t-shirt and fabric paint. Look it up online for reference.
 Rose's gem is located where a human's belly-button would be. The gem is bright pink, round, and fairly large - roughly two inches across. Luckily, you can find replicas of the Crystal Gems' gems online fairly easily. If that fails, a large rhinestone might work. Her dress has a star-shaped cutout centered on her gem, so you'll have to make some alterations if you got a gown.


Basically, you will have to locate your belly-button while wearing the dress and mark it, then trace around it with a star stencil, then cut out the star shape.
 Rose Quartz's feet are normally covered by her dress, but they're shown for a second in "Story for Steven," and she does not wear shoes. Transparent or "invisible" shoes for cosplay are available online. Alternatively, you could wear a pair of shoes that you feel would suit Rose. (For instance, a pair of sandals or white flats.)


Your feet will probably be hidden by your dress, so you may be able to get away with a pair of athletic shoes - one of the more comfortable options when spending the day walking around a convention hall.
 Rose herself is rarely depicted with her shield, but it might be a nice touch to your cosplay, if you're willing to buy or create a replica. She also uses a sword, so you could replicate that as well, but she is most closely associated with her shield.

