 As a merchant, you obtain the ability to make credit card transactions through your acquirer (i.e., your bank) by paying for merchant services. Your acquirer, in turn, contracts with specific credit card issuers so you can accept their credit cards in your system. The credit card issuer issues credit cards from specific credit card companies (i.e., Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover) to consumers who use them at your store. When a purchase is made at your store, you will retain a copy of each credit card receipt to deposit with your acquirer. Your acquirer will then pass the information along to the credit card issuer who will charge the consumer for their purchase.
 When a consumer is unhappy with a specific credit card transaction, they can dispute the charge with their credit card issuer. In response, the credit card issuer might issue a chargeback to your acquirer, which will usually come in the form of a Chargeback Reason Code. These codes will indicate to your acquirer the reason for the chargeback. Common Visa Chargeback Reason Codes include:Reason Code 30: Services not provided or merchandise not received
Reason Code 53: Not as described or defective merchandise
Reason Code 62: Counterfeit transaction
Reason Code 73: Expired card
Reason Code 81/83: Fraud

, If a chargeback is issued by a credit card issuer, the credit card issuer will send a notice to your acquirer. When this happens, your acquirer has 30 days to send a copy of the transaction receipt back to the credit card issuer. If the acquirer does not have a copy of the receipt in question, it may forward the request to you. If this happens, the acquirer will tell you exactly how long you have to respond.


When you receive a copy request, you should locate the appropriate receipt, make a copy, and send it back to your acquirer. Your acquirer will forward it to the credit card issuer. Make sure the copy is legible so each party can clearly understand the transaction. However you choose to send the copy, make sure you keep records proving it was sent and received.
Some credit card issuers might contact you directly for a copy request. While you are not obligated to fulfill any verbal request from a credit card issuer, you might expedite the process by doing so., Once the credit card issuer receives the required information for their billing error investigation (including your copy of receipts), they will make a decision. If they conclude a billing error occurred, they will issue a chargeback. When a chargeback is issued, the credit card issuer will send back the disputed transaction to your acquirer along with a valid reason code. At this point, your acquirer can choose to resolve the chargeback on its own or it can forward the chargeback to you.If the chargeback is legitimate, you might have to accept it and move forward. When you accept a chargeback, the money you would have received from the credit card issuer, for the disputed transaction, will not be received. If, however, you have already received the money from the disputed transaction, the chargeback will work to reverse the transaction and you will have to pay the credit card issuer back.
 If you do not agree with the chargeback, you can resubmit the transaction to your acquirer. Your acquirer will have to review the submission and, if it agrees with your stance, it will re-present the chargeback to the credit card issuer. When you and your acquirer resubmit and re-present a chargeback to the credit card issuer, you should make sure you have the evidence to back up your claim. Remember, the credit card issuer has already determined once that the transaction was an error. They will not overturn their own decision without clear evidence of a mistake.


If the credit card issuer agrees with the re-presentation of the chargeback, your money will be cleared and you will receive the transaction funds. , If the credit card issuer still does not agree with the transaction between you and the credit card holder, the credit card issuer will usually have the option of submitting to arbitration in order to determine who is financially liable for the disputed transaction. Arbitration is most commonly filed by the credit card issuer with the credit card company. For example, Visa issuers can submit to arbitration directly through Visa.


During arbitration, the credit card company (e.g., Visa, MasterCard, Discover) will decide which party is responsible for the transaction. The credit card company will review any documentation filed by either party and will make a decision based on that information. The credit card company's decision is usually final and it must be followed., When you receive a chargeback, the credit card issuer and credit card company will charge you fees. First, the credit card issuer will charge you "retrieval fees", which are assessed so the credit card issuer can investigate the disputed charge. These fees can range from $5 to $15. Second, if a chargeback is issued by the credit card issuer, they will charge you a chargeback fee, which usually ranges from $15 to $40.


If you work with Visa or MasterCard, they have strict limits on how many chargebacks you can incur before you have to take part in chargeback monitoring programs. These programs will usually be coupled with fines that can reach $5,000.