 Party animals announce their presence the minute the enter the room, and there is no better way to do this than a costume, prop, or killer outfit. Obviously, the outfit will change depending on the party, but the important thing to remember is that you want to wear it with confidence. A party animal wears something because they want to, not because they're worried about what other people think.


For themed parties, you want to commit as completely to the theme as possible. Go big or go home.
If it is a casual party, throw on a silly hat, shirt, or grab a weird prop to bring with you. Anything that calls attention to you will do.;
, You don't want to be drunk when you arrive, but you also don't want to feel like you need to "catch-up" when you get there. If you're going to drink, ensure that you have a driver before leaving.
 Unless you're going to a dinner party (where party animals are generally less welcome), chances are good you're not going to get a whole lot of food at the party. Eat a good meal before the party so that you energy and food in your stomach. Going into a party without eating beforehand isn't just a drag, it can be dangerous if there's drinking involved. Always have a good meal 1-2 hours before going so that you don't have to worry about feeling sick or foraging for food when you're in party animal mode.
 A party animal needs a habitat to party in. It will be difficult to get momentum going if you're the first one in the door, so play it cool and arrive fashionably late. If it is a smaller gathering or party, 15-20 minutes should be fine, but if you're going to a huge party you should try to arrive at least an hour after things have kicked off.


If you do arrive before things really kick off, never fear. Just have fun, be energetic, and the party will soon follow your vibe.
 No one wants to deal with rides home or places to sleep once they've transformed into a party animal. It is smartest and safest to deal with these things in advance. Make sure you have a designated driver if the party has alcohol, and check with the host that you have a place to sleep if you will not be driving home. Check in with your friends to make sure you have a buddy at the party to watch out for you if things go poorly -- the two of you can make sure that you both make it home safely.

