 Try to find a store specializing in pet products, ideally one that will allow you to take your dog in with you. If you can bring your dog in with you, then you can try various sweaters on (or at least hold them up to your dog’s body to guesstimate if it will fit). This will make choosing easier on you in the long run.Seeing the sweaters in person also allows you to determine if they’ll be flattering on your dog, if they’re made of durable material, and if you like the way it looks.
You want to find one that fits comfortably, while also complementing your dog’s physical characteristics.;
, There are many internet sites dedicated to pet supplies and apparel. Spend some time browsing the internet for different dog sweaters and find the one that is right for you. This means one that you like and that you think will suit your dog’s needs.Be sure to read the product information (and any product reviews available) to ensure that it is a high quality product.
 If you’re feeling a little crafty, try making a coat for your dog. You can try sewing together pieces of felt to create a handmade sweater that will keep your dog warm on cold days, while being so cute at the same time!


You can also try knitting a sweater for your dog.
 Check online for measurement charts that tell you what measurements correspond to what sizes for most dog sweaters. There may be a little fluctuation between various brands. But the chart will help give you a pretty good idea of what size your dog needs.Typically, a size small sweater works for a dog whose torso length is 12 in (30 cm), neck circumference is 12 in (30 cm), and chest circumference is 16 in (41 cm). This size typically works for Pomeranians and other similarly sized breeds.
A medium size sweater is for dogs whose torso length is 16 in (41 cm), neck circumference is 14 in (36 cm), and chest circumference is 20 in (51 cm). This size typically works for Cocker Spaniels and other similarly sized breeds.
A large size sweater is for dogs whose torso length is 20 in (51 cm), neck circumference is 18 in (46 cm), and chest circumference is 24 in (61 cm). This size typically works for Chows and other similarly sized breeds.
Most sweaters can also be purchased in extra small (XS) and extra large (XL) sizes.
 If you are unsure of exactly what size to get, try ordering several. If your budget allows, this can be a good way to help find one that fits your dog perfectly. Try on each sweater and keep the ones that fit and that you like. Return the rest, if possible.Most companies will let you return items that don’t fit as long as you keep your original receipt and the original packaging.
 The coat should cover the whole back to the base of the tail and should be comfortable around the neck. The fastening should be firm but not tight. Get an adjustable one if at all possible: dogs grow, just like humans.You want the sweater to be loose enough to allow for a full range of motion for your pup.
But make sure the sweater is not too tight – especially around your dog’s neck and armpits.
 Pick a color and pattern that suits your dog and your own personal sense of style. Make sure the sweater is something you enjoy looking at and that your dog seems to appreciate. The sweater should not make your dog uncomfortable in any way – aside from the initial dislike while your pet adjusts to wearing it.Get creative with patterns and materials. Try something bright and playful. Or maybe choose something made out of an interesting cloth – like leather or knit.
For example, Westies look great in plaid, but Labradors look best in plain coats.
You can even try getting a sweater with a cute or funny picture or phrase on it.
 Picking a sweater your dog will like should be an exercise in comfort and practicality. While a dog sweater should look cute, it should also be made of the kind of material that will benefit your dog the most.If your dog needs warmth, then go for a fleece lining; if you frequently take your dog out in the rain then a waterproof coat is probably a necessity.
Some coats are great at wicking away moisture from a soggy doggy – these are really useful after a wet walk.
 There are tons of options for dog sweaters that are holiday related. Costumes can be a fun way to keep your dog warm or to show your dog off if you take it out in public wearing its costume.


Choose a fun sweater with Santa Clause or a Christmas tree on it for the holiday season.
Find a hilarious outfit/costume for Halloween – consider choosing a dinosaur, ladybug, hot dog, or pumpkin dog costume.
 Don’t force your dog into doing something it clearly hates and that makes it uncomfortable. Yes, it may take your dog a few days to fully adjust to wearing its new sweater; but if your dog continues hating it after a few days, you may want to consider taking it off.You don’t want to make your dog unhappy even if the sweater looks incredibly cute.

