 Before you begin looking for life insurance, you should consider how much coverage you need. The amount of coverage you need will depend on several factors including:the amount of income that would be needed to pay for your family’s expenses
amount of debt you owe
cost of your mortgage
cost of college for your children
whether or not your spouse can or will work after your death
cost of final expenses such as medical bills and funeral costs;
, Life insurance is available in two main forms: term and whole. These forms of life insurance vary in some significant ways.Term life insurance is less expensive than whole life insurance. You may only pay around $200 dollars per year with a term life insurance policy, but a whole life insurance policy for the same amount might cost your over $4,000 per year.
You can cash in a whole life insurance policy, but you cannot cash in a term life insurance policy.
Term life insurance offers a specific term of coverage, while whole life insurance offers permanent protection. For example, you might choose term life insurance to provide financial security for your spouse and children if you die within a 20 year period. Or, you might choose whole life insurance to offer protection for your estate for the duration of your life.
 There are numerous websites that allow individuals to search for life insurance quotes and to compare quotes from different companies. When choosing a website to assist you in finding life insurance, you want to make sure that the site searches across numerous companies (25 to 50) when preparing your quote. This provides you with a variety of options to choose from.


There are several reputable online insurance quote websites that you can consider, including: Quotacy; Policy Genius; Insure; and AccuQuote.You can also conduct an internet search for “compare 100 life insurance quotes,” which should direct you to additional sites.
When you are completing an online form to get a quote, if you are not asked about your basic health, such as age, weight, gender, or blood pressure, you may not be using a reputable company. A company that does not ask about basic health information may be trying to give you an artificially low quote to induce you to work with them., While it is okay to provide basic information about your health, gender, and age, you should never provide any personal identifying information on a quote website. Specifically, you should never provide your social security number or financial information to one of these websites. In order to get a quote, you should be able to provide your information anonymously and only after you decided to move forward with a particular insurance company, you will need to share information directly with the insurance company., An important part of finding the best life insurance quote is that you must provide accurate information about your health, including your actual weight and any health conditions. If you fail to provide accurate information, you will not receive an accurate quote for life insurance. Also, keep in mind that providing false information may negate the company's obligation to pay off the proceeds. Since most life insurance companies require a basic physical and may review your medical records, there is no reason to be less than fully open about your health on the online questionnaire.


Generally, when seeking a life insurance quote, you will be prompted to provide information about the following: gender, age, weight, and whether you smoke. You may also be asked about any serious health conditions., While your instinct may be to purchase the least expensive life insurance option, you want to make sure that the company you choose is financially stable so that the company is around to payout on your policy. Once you choose a life insurance company, you should check how independent companies rate the insurance company’s financial stability. You can find each of the following ratings companies online and they provide a search option for evaluating life insurance providers:


TheStreet.com, which used to be Weiss Ratings.
A.M. Best.
Moody's Investors Service., An independent life insurance broker, meaning a broker who does not work with one or only a few insurance companies, can provide his or her customers a more in-depth explanation of different life insurance options. They can also provide a recommendation based on their experience and information regarding the financial reliability of different companies. In addition to helping you select a particular life insurance policy, a broker should be able to provide you the following information:


A broker can explain the language of the insurance policy in layman’s terms so that you can be sure you understand the policy that you are purchasing.
A broker can discuss whether a particular policy rider would help better protect you. A policy rider is a separate provision in your life insurance that provides additional protection.
Based on a discussion about your life and why you are purchasing insurance, a broker may be in a better position to help get you a policy more suited to your individual needs.
A broker can explain the exclusions in certain policies. Exclusions or limits on coverage may bring down the cost of the policy but they also limit protection.
A broker can explain the financial reliability of an insurance company and provide you advice about which company to choose., You want to work with a broker who asks you specific questions about your life, work, and the reason why your are seeking insurance. A detailed conversation with your broker allows him or her to better judge the amount of coverage you need and the type of policy that works best for your life. A benefit of using a broker is that he or she may ask you questions that raise legitimate concerns that you may not have considered, such as how to keep your family home and also pay for college for your young children.


You should make sure that your broker requests quotes from multiple companies.
Your broker should explain the pros and cons of each policy.
Ask your broker whether he or she is licensed in your state. You can also check the broker’s license on your state’s department of insurance website., Even though there is no additional cost to using a broker versus buying directly from an insurance company, you should still consider running a free online quote search. If you are getting very different rate amounts for the same products, you should ask your broker to explain the reason. By running a separate online search and thereby gathering additional information, you are a more informed consumer when you discuss options with your broker.


Generally, a life insurance company pays all or part of the broker’s cost.
Insurance companies may also offer broker a discount on insurance policies for a customer that the broker provided., For the same reason that you want to use a search engine that compares multiple insurance policies, you may not want to select a broker who only works with a few insurance companies. Try to find a broker who will take the broadest look at life insurance policies, given your individual needs and finances.


If a broker only works with a few companies, he or she may not be able to guarantee that you are getting the best quote.However, it is still possible to get the best deal from a single company agent, so keep this option open.
 Since there is no federal insurance guarantee for life insurance, you want to see whether your state guarantees the particular company in which you are interested and protects the policyholders in the event of a financial failure. Forty-seven states offer some type of state-guarantee fund for life insurance. These funds offer some protection for policyholders if the company they purchased insurance from goes bankrupt. You can check online at your state’s department of insurance to see whether your state offers a guarantee fund and if the insurance company is included in that fund.Keep in mind that some states may pay the maximum benefits in the event of an insurance company's default. Check with your state to see what protections and limitations are in place.
 Insurance companies are rated based on their financial stability and reliability. Ratings companies consider a company’s ability to pay down a claim years later based on the company’s assets and reserves. Each company has its own rating system, which will be explained on the company’s website.


The five major ratings firms that issue financial strength ratings for insurance companies are: Standard & Poor's, Fitch Ratings, A.M. Best, Moody's Investors Service and TheStreet.com Ratings (formerly Weiss Ratings).
Since each company uses a different grading system, you cannot compare letter grades such as “AAA” across rating companies. However, you can look at the top two highest grades for each ratings company and check whether the insurance company in which you are interested is highly rated., Since life insurance is regulated at the state level, each state may maintain its own way of tracking consumer complaints. You should visit your state’s department of insurance and determine whether the insurance company is licensed in your state and whether any complaints have been filed against the company. Complaints against a company can include anything from a consumer’s negative experience with an agent to a company’s failure to payout on a claim. It is important to review the types of complaints as well the number of complaints that are listed on the state’s database., In order to protect consumers, the life insurance industry offers a certification by the Insurance Marketplace Standards Association (IMSA) for life insurance companies. In order to be certified, a company must undergo an examination by independent evaluators to ensure the company is maintaining high standards in sales, marketing, and customer service. If IMSA fails to certify a company, you should not use them as your insurance provider.You can check a company’s certification at: http://www.cefli.org.
 In addition to finding a reputable and well-priced insurance policy, you play an important part in securing a good insurance rate. Your physical health and other factors influence an insurance company’s premium quote. Therefore, if you are thinking about getting life insurance you should take steps to improve your physical health., Using tobacco products can dramatically increase your premium rates. You should take steps to quit smoking prior to applying for life insurance. Not only will this improve your physical health, it will help you secure a lower insurance premium., Most life insurance companies will require that you undergo a quick physical as part of establishing your life insurance rate. Your physical health is an important consideration in deciding how much coverage to extend to a person and the cost of that coverage. By improving your diet, exercising and losing weight, you can improve your insurance rate, as well as your blood pressure and glucose levels., When scheduling your insurance physical, ask for an early morning appointment. There is research that indicates that your blood pressure and cholesterol levels are better in the morning. Any improvement in your physical health may help you get a lower insurance rate.