 That means staying in shape, having good hygiene, and eating healthy. This will improve your outer appearance as well as make you look great in pictures!;
, Makeup is supposed to enhance your appearance, not completely change it. Be sure to use shades of makeup that match and enhance your natural appearance.


Although makeup will help you stand out, be sure to wear as minimal makeup as possible. Not only will wearing too much makeup will hide your true beauty, but it will also clog your pores and damage your skin.
 Maybe it’s your eyes, your legs, or even a signature pose. Whatever you possess, use it to your advantage and gain a reputation from it.
 This may seem like a silly tip, but it is very beneficial. Practice your poses in front of a mirror and see what you can make your body look like. If you do not practice now, then potential clients will not want to pick you for their assignments.
 A portfolio is a book of professionally taken photos of you. It is used to set you apart from your competition and sell you to your clients.


In your portfolio, you should have a headshot, – a photo of yourself from the shoulder and up – a full body picture, and a ¾ body picture of you.
You should use a variety of poses and outfits to make yourself more marketable. You should always have fun during your photoshoots, be friendly, and spontaneous.
Build a relationship with your photographers. The more you network with people, the more you become at an advantage in the modeling industry.



The most important measurements are your bust size, your waist size, and hip size. Other important measurements are your height, shoe size, and dress size.
Also, know your basic statistics. These include your skin color, eye color, body type (Curvy, petite, skinny etc.), and hair color etc. The more specific you are about your physical traits, the better is it is for potential clients to know what they’re working with.
 A comp card, short for composite card, is a thin card with two to three pictures of you on it. It also has your basic stats, measurements, and contact information on it. It will basically act as your business card.


Put only your best photos on it.
You can hire a photographer to make it for you.
 Try visiting well-known agencies such as IMG Models, Wilhelmina, or Elite etc. These agencies will get you jobs anywhere and are known for assigning  models to Seventeen Magazine.


When choosing an agency, consider their models requirements. Usually, they require models to be at a certain location, have a certain body type, age, height, and/or any other statistic.
 While belonging to an agency, do not let them do all the work for you. Go out there and make yourself known to many different faces. As mentioned before, the more you network, the more you are at an advantage in the modeling industry.
 Congratulations on getting the job! Now, it’s your time to shine! Have fun!

