 Remove Joker cards, shuffle the deck, and deal out the same number of cards as you have shot glasses. Place the cards in even rows, slipping one under each of your full shot glasses.


A shot will get taken if the number of the card underneath matches the number rolled on the dice.
Players can sit or stand in a circle around the playing surface.
 The first player rolls the two dice on the table or flat surface.


The first player can volunteer, or you can choose a fun way to pick who has the first turn, like the youngest person in the group, the winner of a rock-paper-scissors battle, or whoever got out of bed earliest that morning., The player drinks the shot on top of the card with the same number as they rolled. If there is more than one card with the number you rolled, just take one of the shots and leave the rest for other players who might roll that number on their turn. Count aces as low (value of 1) and face cards as follows: Jack=11, Queen=12, King=13. Because you can’t roll a 1 or a 13 with two dice, you can make up a rule for who has to take a shot that’s on an Ace or King card, like any player who spills a drink or some other “party foul.”
If there is no card out that corresponds to the number you rolled, roll again until you get an available number, or take a shot that’s on an Ace or King card if there is one out.
 Once a player rolls, don’t let him or her smell or examine their shot too closely before they take it; they must drink it right away.


Players can bluff about what type of drink they got if they want to throw other players off as to how many alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks are left in the game. For example, if someone takes an alcoholic shot and makes that known with a face or an exclamation about it, everyone will know that there is one less alcoholic drink on the table for future turns.
 The person to the left of the first player goes next. Repeat the process of rolling the dice and drinking the shot on a corresponding number card.


As the number of shots left gets smaller and smaller, players roll on their turn until they get the number that corresponds to a card that still has a shot. The round ends when all of the shots are gone.
 The last player to take an alcoholic shot in the round refills all of the shot glasses for the next round. They can be responsible for deciding what alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks go into the shots for the round.