 Magazine subscription telemarketers might offer you the moon, in the form of annual magazine subscriptions for pennies while through complicated maneuvers, they get your permission to bill you for huge sums at a later date. Remember that if a deal sounds too good to be true, it probably is.


Ask callers about all of the eventual costs, not just the up-front costs. Make sure you get clear details on how and when the company will bill you for "free" offers.;
, Many of these scams operate from call lists that are culled from other advertisers or venues.

Ask the caller how the company got your contact number. Talking about this salient detail puts the ball back in the caller's court: it evidences the underlying idea that the call is unsolicited and that you did not ask to be sold magazines. It gives you a stronger basis from which to continue talking to a soliciting telemarketer.
 One thing that victims of a magazine subscription telemarketing scam often forget to do is to ask about the terms of cancellation when a "free" subscription runs out. This is one of the easiest ways for an unscrupulous company to take advantage of consumers. Often, the free subscription is followed by a default renewal and billing. If the consumer who signed up for the free magazines isn't aware of the time period, he could automatically be billed for another year at sky-high rates., One thing that victims of a magazine subscription telemarketing scam often forget to do is to ask about the terms of cancellation when a "free" subscription runs out. This is one of the easiest ways for an unscrupulous company to take advantage of consumers. Often, the free subscription is followed by a default renewal and billing. If the consumer who signed up for the free magazines isn't aware of the time period, he could automatically be billed for another year at sky-high rates.
 This is another sign of potential scams. Don't give out much financial information or personal identification, without thinking about the intentions of the caller., Some public agencies keep lists and details on these kinds of dodgy sales practices and can help you spot scams over the phone.

The FTC keeps a list of known telemarketing scammers selling magazines. Take a look and get a beginning idea for your own list of untrustworthy telemarketers.
Talk to your local Better Business Bureau office. A local Chamber of Commerce is another place that you learn about scams or report them.

