 Once you are diagnosed with breast cancer while pregnant, treatment will depend on the size of the tumor, where it is located, the stage of the cancer, and how far along your pregnancy is. Your doctor may recommend breast-conserving surgery (BCS) if your cancer is in the early stages or if it is at risk of spreading to other parts of your body. Surgery is often the first choice for breast cancer treatment during pregnancy as it is the safest option for your health and that of your unborn baby.For example, you may ask your doctor, "Would BCS be right for me and my stage of cancer?" "What will be involved in the procedure?" "What are the risks, if any, of the procedure?"
Your doctor will tell you where the surgery will be done on your breast or breasts, depending on where the tumor is located. Often, the surgery is done in the breast and near your lymph nodes to remove any cancerous cells.
Your doctor may also suggest removing your entire breast, known as a mastectomy, if the cancer is at risk of spreading to other parts of your body. This may a good option as you will not need to undergo radiation therapy after a mastectomy.;
, If you decide to do BCS, you will need to be put under with anesthesia, which are drugs that will make you sleep during the surgery. Using anesthesia can be risky for your unborn baby, so you and your doctor should talk about this aspect of the surgery beforehand. Meet with your obstetrician, a surgeon, and an anesthesiologist to determine the best time to do the surgery so the fetus is not at risk.For example, you may say to your doctor, "What risks does anesthesia pose to me and my unborn baby?" "Is it safe for me to go under anesthesia during the procedure?"
Often, having the surgery earlier in your pregnancy is safer than doing it later on in your pregnancy.
Your obstetrician may also be on call or present during the surgery in the event there are issues with the baby.
 Once the BCS is done, you will need to follow a recovery plan to ensure you heal properly after the surgery. Depending on the stage of your breast cancer, you may also need more treatment, such as chemotherapy, radiation, or hormone therapy. This type of treatment is called adjuvant treatment. Doing adjuvant treatment after surgery will help to lower the risk of the cancer returning.In some cases, you can delay adjuvant treatment until after you have your baby. Speak to your doctor about this option.
 Do your own research to determine if breast-conserving surgery is right for your stage of breast cancer. Speak to several different doctors and specialists so you are well informed. Read information online from trusted medical sources so you are well aware of the risks of the procedure and are sure it is right for you and your baby.


Set up consultations with several different doctors and cancer specialists to discuss BCS as well as any other treatment options you may have. Getting several medical opinions could help you determine if BCS is safe and right for you.

