 It can be really hard to admit your feelings to someone that you like a lot. You might be nervously sweating, shaking, terrified – but you will probably feel much better once you get it over with. Ask yourself whether you will regret it if you never ask this person out. If you'll regret it, do it.


Think of it like jumping into cold water. You can spend all day staring at the water, feeling it with your toes, and thinking about how cold it will be. On the other hand, you can push your mind aside and jump in – at which point all you have to worry about is swimming, adjusting, or getting out.
If you can't bring yourself to do it, set yourself an incentive. Say, "I need to ask out before Friday, or else I can't go to the party on Friday night." Give yourself a reason to cut through your hesitation and get it over with.
 Try to cut through the games and just tell your crush how you feel. This might be scary, but you also may find that this makes your task a lot simpler. Say, "Hey, I want to be clear. I like you a lot, and I want to spend more time with you. What do you think?" , Don't ask him/her vaguely "out." Don't ask him/her to be your boyfriend or girlfriend if you haven't even been on a date. Suggest something fun and cheap that you'll both enjoy: a movie, a hike, a show, or a school event. If you ask this person to go somewhere with you alone, they will probably assume that it's a date – but you don't need to try to ask them to be your "boyfriend" or "girlfriend" yet.


If there is a school dance coming up, ask your crush to go as your date. This can be a great opportunity to show someone how you feel. Keep in mind that unless you explicitly agree upon it, one date to date a dance does not necessarily mean that the two of you are "going out."

, Ask your crush out on one date, and let that date be exactly what it is. If you have already been going on dates with this person, and you want to ask him/her to date you exclusively, then you're looking at a different conversation. If the person is just a crush, you may want to keep the pressure off and take it slow.
 If you ask out your crush, and he/she turns you down, you need to let that answer stand. It is one thing to be persistent because you really like someone; it is another thing to stalk someone, to pester them, and to make them uncomfortable. There are other fish in the sea. Be a considerate human being!

