 Remember that first impressions are difficult to undo. If you will be the first person greeting new people, put on a smile for them when they arrive. Smiles indicate warmth and friendliness and can make people feel more comfortable.If your guest is greeted with a happy gesture, they are more likely to feel happy.
Encourage other members of your group or office to greet these new people with a smile, as well.;
, Try exchanging simple introductions. Simply approach the newcomer and tell them your name and title if you are on the job or at an organization’s meeting.


You might say something like “Hi, my name is Rebekah and I’m the Treasurer of this organization. What’s your name?”
Try to get to any newcomers as quickly as possible so they are not walking around aimlessly with no one to talk to.
 After your brief introduction, you will want to find out more about your guest. In general, people enjoy speaking about themselves, so allow your guest to do so. Ask them their name, what they do, how they heard about your organization, and any other questions you might find pertinent.You might say something like “So what’s your name?” and when they reply ask “How did you hear about our organization?”

, During this welcoming process, be mindful that not all people are equipped to be social constantly. Many introverts need some time to themselves to recharge. Provide a space that has games, puzzles, or pamphlets so that these guests and others can take a breather.Choose games that most people enjoy and that are quick and easy to play.
Make sure any and all pamphlets that you have are up to date.
 Let them know that you are available if they have any questions at all or just want to talk. If you have a listserv that announces any upcoming dates in your organization or office, see if they would like to be added to that so they can stay informed.


You can also tell them to reach out to you on social media.
 If your organization has a website, make sure that this information is updated regularly so that newcomers can stay up to date. Having misinformation on your site can make you look disorganized and it can deter new membership.Ensure that you have one concise website rather than multiple. The same goes for social media, as well.

