 Buying clothes that flatter you is key to helping you appear attractive. A great outfit should mask your flaws while highlighting your best features. Remember, it's okay to show some skin. If you dress more modest or classy, people may consider you "sexy" or "pretty" instead (both of which are different from "hot").


Take a trusted friend with your shopping -- ask for their opinion if you don't trust your own fashion sense.
Don't feel like you need to go overboard with outfits -- your clothing should be an extension of your own style and preferences above all else., Don't buy clothes that are too tight fitting ("Is that her little sister's shirt?"), or too revealing. It doesn't matter how much you love the style: make sure the clothes fit you. If you can't find anything off-the-rack that fits, buy something that's a bit too big and have it altered by a tailor or seamstress.


A proper fit shows off your body naturally, without having to be revealing or uncomfortable.
Clothes should always feel comfortable on your skin. If you can't wait to get out of an outfit, it is likely not a good choice.

Getting a properly fitting bra is essential for comfort, style, and even health., Love your upper half, but dislike your hips and legs? Wear dark pants or skirts and light shirts to flatter your figure (do the opposite if you like your legs). This naturally draws people's eyes to the parts of your body you want to be accented.
 You might love that shirt, but if it has holes in it or looks visibly worn, it's time to donate it (or save it for wearing on the weekend when you're lazing around the house).
 Don't buy something that looks awful on you just because it's considered stylish. Instead, evaluate trends and pick out what you're willing to wear or what you think could look good on you.


If your parents don't want to buy you clothes, save up money and go on a mini shopping spree for yourself. Second-hand stores are a fantastic place to pick up hidden gems.
Check Tumblr, Pinterest, and Instagram accounts dedicated to fashion to get up-to-date clothing ideas, Pick out a few cute pieces of jewelry and rotate them throughout the week. Wear cute scarves in the winter. Use hair accessories; they're great at making you stand out. Wear leg-flattering heels, a deep necklace, a set of new and unique earrings, or any other extra piece to make an outfit truly "yours."Try and save 1-2 of your really nice accessories for special occasions. That way, when you do break them out, they really turn heads.

