 Lime juice is most commonly used in cuisine from Mexico, Latin America, Hawaii, and other island countries. You can search for recipes from these regions to make use of your lime juice, or you could add a splash of lime juice in toward the end of your cooking to flavor otherwise bland dishes like soups or pastas.
 Cilantro is an especially common herb to use with lime juice. Coconut is another worthwhile flavor to match with lime juice and brings a nice node of sweetness to the sourness of lime.
 Rice absorbs flavor as it cooks, so adding 1 or 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of lime juice can give it a tangy, exotic flavor. The citrus in lime also makes rice fluffier, but the effect is not as pronounced as it is when using a stronger citrus like lemon juice.


Alternatively, you can also create coconut lime rice by substituting half or all of the water for coconut milk and adding 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of lime juice. This rice will be heavy rather than fluffy due to the effect of the coconut milk.
 Key limes are smaller than other lime varieties and have a sharper, more pronounced sourness that creates an interesting contrast in otherwise sweet desserts. Key lime pie is the most common lime baked good, but you can also create cakes, cheesecakes, ice cream, and more using the juice of key limes.
 While not as commonly used as lemon juice, lime juice can add a refreshing splash of citrus to a variety of drinks. One or two teaspoons of lime juice works especially well in water, but you can also try adding a splash to a lemon-lime drink or other soda. Alternatively, you can use lime juice to create limeade.
 Lime juice can give an old sauce recipe new dimension. Try adding 1 or 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 milliliters) of lime juice to a standard barbecue or marinara sauce. Stir the lime juice in and warm the sauce so that the flavors can blend.
 A simple vinaigrette dressing combines olive oil and vinegar in a ratio of 3 to 1. For an exotic twist, you can skip the vinegar and add lime juice in the same proportions. Mix in a little honey to cut the sourness of the lime juice, or add some cilantro, ginger, and salt to enhance the flavor. You can use this dressing over cold cooked pasta, loose leaf salads, and cucumber salads.
 Authentic guacamole tends to use lime juice, since the flavor of the avocado pulp is enhanced by the tanginess of lime. Other ingredients, like cilantro, salt, and garlic, are added in and blended together to create a slightly chunky dip.