 The biggest lifestyle change you can make to combat bad breath is to quit smoking. Tobacco, in addition to causing many other health problems, can seriously affect your breath. If you smoke, take steps to quit.


Both chewing and smoking tobacco products can leave an unpleasant smell in your mouth. You can mask these smells with mouthwashes and mints, but these only cover up the problem. Gum disease can result from smoking, which can worsen bad breath.Quitting smoking can be an incredibly difficult process. Talk to your doctor about taking steps to quit. He or she can recommend the proper course of action for you.
Seek support if you're quitting smoking. Let your friends and family members know you've made the decision to quit. Ask them to help distract you when you have cravings. If you have friends or family members that smoke, request that they not do so in front of you. There are many support groups, both online and in person, where former smokers go to talk about quitting, addiction, and recovery. Consider finding a support group online or in your area.
 Strong smelling or spicy foods, especially foods containing products like onions or garlic, can easily cause bad breath. If you have a diet high in these types of foods, consider cutting back. You may notice your breath improving if you cut out more pungent foods. Sticky or sugary foods can also cause bad breath., Dry mouth can cause bad breath. If your mouth feels dry, drink more water throughout the day. You should avoid coffee, soda, and alcohol as these things can increase dry mouth.


Chew gum or suck on candy during the day. This can stimulate saliva, lessening dry mouth.If your dry mouth does not improve with lifestyle changes, talk to your dentist. He or she may be able to recommend medication that stimulates the flow of saliva., While further research is needed, some studies suggest dairy products can neutralize odors in the mouth. Try adding unsweetened yogurt and low-fat cheese to your diet and see if you notice a difference.