 This step is the same whether you're using a bleach or a vinegar solution. Consider a bucket with a handle, or one that is easy to manage. It's best if none of the bleach solution spills out of the container and onto the floor, or your clothes.






;
, Add 1 tablespoon of bleach to every gallon of water that you choose to use. If possible, use an unscented bleach, as it'll be easier to flush the smell out towards the end.









Mix the solution gently. Use disposable gloves if available (a recommended precaution, but not necessary). Be sure to do this in a space where you can afford to spill some, such as in a large sink., For the mixture, you'll need only undiluted vinegar and a bucket. To ease the scent of the vinegar, you can choose to add a tablespoon or two of lemon juice. Mix in one part white vinegar for every three parts water. So if using a gallon of water, use 1/3 of a gallon (5 1/3 cups) of white vinegar. If including the lemon juice, add it after mixing the water and vinegar.









As a word of caution, using vinegar is only about 80-90 percent as effective as using chlorine bleach to disinfect anything. While bottled water contains a very small amount of bacteria, it's possible for this amount to grow over time if not sanitized totally., Make sure there's no other electronics plugged into the same outlet, or near the area where you've chosen to clean your water cooler. This avoids any possibility, however small, of water meeting live electricity.
 Let it stand for 2-5 minutes (but no more to avoid wear and tear), then drain the solution through the tap (the cool temperature one if there are two) and into a separate container. Drain this container down a sink or toilet.
 Fill the inner reservoir with water four times and pour it out through the (cooler temperature) tap and into a bucket. Be thorough in this to make sure no bleach or vinegar taste is left behind.
 Wash both the tray and the screen (if present) and rinse both in clean tap water before returning them to the dispenser. Be sure to dry thoroughly so as not to leave moisture in any tight spaces.
 Be sure to wash your hands before manipulating the bottle again.
 Ensure a snug fit, and watch for air bubbles rising to the top of the bottle, indicating the bottle has made a seal with the dispenser.
 Fill a glass of water, try both faucets if your dispenser has them. Taste the water to make sure no unpleasant taste has been left behind.







