 When you get your list of classes, double-check to make sure that they're what you wanted, and what you can handle. Some high schools actually recommend not having a full course load and leaving yourself a spare block in grade 12 so that you're not overwhelmed. Make sure that you're not in classes that are too difficult, either. It's great to challenge yourself, but taking Advanced Math if you barely passed last year probably isn't a good idea.;
, In order to pass classes, actually being there is essential. Don't skip classes, because as boring as they might seem, they count for credits towards graduation. Also, always come to class on time so that you don't miss anything.
 Try your best not to zone out in class. Listen to what the teachers say, especially when they're teaching a new concept. Even if you're taking notes, listen to how your teacher explains the subject, as usually they explain it a bit differently out loud, and that way might make more sense to you. Take notes and highlight the information that you find important. Don't let anyone or anything (phone, iPod, etc.) distract you during class, and make sure not to distract others because they have to pay attention too.
 A lot of students are nervous to ask questions when they don't understand something, but don't be! Remember that teachers are people too, and it's their job to help you learn and understand new things. Don't be afraid to ask your teacher questions about the homework if you're unclear about it, or the new concept you're learning. Most teachers will gladly re-explain the lesson to you at lunch of after school if you're having trouble understanding it.
 Always do your homework no matter what, as it counts toward your grade. Always make sure that you understand the homework, and do it to the best of your ability. Don't just ignore it, as never doing your homework could make you fail the class and prevent you from graduating. If you're going to be away, get a friend to collect the homework and notes for you. If you know you will not be able to do your homework a night next week or something, manage your time wisely so that you can get it done the day before! School should be your highest priority; friends, video games, and social networking come second.
 Although being tutored might seem embarrassing, having a tutor will really help boost your grades. If you have a subject you struggle with, or a teacher that doesn't explain things properly, don't just struggle to figure it out on your own. Find a good tutor who can help explain things to you. It will save you the stress of not understanding a concept, and tutors can help you study for tests and do your homework too.
 Make separate folders for your subjects and keep them organized. Keep your room, bookshelf and desk clean so you do not have any trouble finding your books and notes. Keep your planner updated, or use your phone to keep track of assignments and tests.
 Learn to manage your time so that all your homework gets done without you staying up until midnight to get it done. Although it's difficult, avoid procrastinating when it comes to homework (remember that you're going to have to do it at some point, so you might as well get it over with as soon as possible). When you get home, do all of your homework first, and then use the rest of your time to check Facebook, relax, or hang out with your friends.
 Make sure that you give yourself enough time to study for tests. Study in ways that help you, such as making flash cards, a study guide, taking notes, etc. Study at least 2-5 hours a day before exams. Also make sure you go through the information you are studying at least 5 times so that it gets stuck in your long term memory. Although it's time-consuming, tests and especially exams really count towards your marks, and some universities look at your exam marks to determine whether you'll be accepted or not.
 Many high schools have a certain amount of hours that you are required to volunteer for before you can graduate. Talk to your school counsellor about how many hours you need, and ask them if they know of any places/organizations you can volunteer with. Choose a place that you're interested in; it'll make it a lot more fun, and it'll help you learn about future careers you might be interested in. For example, if you like animals, volunteer at an animal shelter or vet clinic. Make sure to start volunteering early in the year so that you don't have to cram all of your hours in in the last month of school - you'll save yourself a lot of stress.
 Many high schools have a "credits" system in place, in which you need to have at least a certain amount of credits to graduate. Talk to your counsellor and make sure that you're on the right track for graduation. Getting the required amount of credits is really easy as long as you pass your courses, but if you've failed some classes in the past you might be at risk of not having enough credits to graduate!

, Remember that all work and no play is bad - don't just study all the time, you should also go for a little exercise and have some fun too. Spend time with friends and forget school for a few hours. Although graduating is important, it's also important to enjoy your senior year instead of spending it with your nose in a textbook the whole time. Find a good balance between schoolwork, sports, hobbies, and your social life so that you'll graduate and still have a blast!

