 Use pliers to bend 18 to 24 inches (45 to 61 cm) of framing wire into a hook. The indentation for the hook should lie at the exact center and should be about 4 inches (10 cm) deep. Bend either end of to the side and away from the indentation in a spiral or curlicue.


Make sure that the framing wire is sturdy enough to hold your plate. Size #2 wire is usually strong enough and holds up to 51 lbs (23 kg) standard. This can vary based on the manufacturer, though, so check the label specifications before you pick the wire gauge.
 Look at the front of the plate to determine where the center top should be. Hold the wire against the back of the plate so that the hooked indentation lies at this center top, oriented upward. Adhere the wire to the back of the plate in this position using a hot glue gun.


Apply hot glue in between the wire and the plate. You should also get glue along the sides and top of the wire. The more you use, the more secure the bond will be.
Do not allow any hot glue to get onto the hook/indentation.
Wait 5 to 20 minutes, giving the glue plenty of time to cool and harden.
The hot glue can be difficult to remove later on, so you should only use this technique if you do not plan on ever using the plate for practical purposes.
 Apply several layers of duct tape over the glued wire and onto the back of the plate.


You should cover all parts of the wire except for the hook/indentation.
Make sure that none of the tape is visible from the front of the plate.
 Carefully bend the exposed wire indentation back, bringing it out at an angle. There should be roughly 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) of space in between the top of the indentation and the back of the plate.


The wire should not wiggle or break off from the plate as you bend the hook out. If it does, you need to use more hot glue and/or duct tape to secure the bond better.
This bent portion of the wire is where the nail will rest.
 Position the plate against the wall to determine where you want it to hang. Mark the top of the plate, then set it down and measure the distance between the top of the plate and the top of your hooked wire. Make a second mark on the wall matching this distance, then firmly hammer the nail into this second mark.


Trace your marks lightly using a pencil so that you can erase them later.
Use a nail with a large head or a special picture hanger.
At least half of the nail should be inside the wall, but you should also have 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) of nail extending out from the wall for the wire hanger to rest on.
 Carefully rest the hooked wire onto the nail in the wall. With this, the process should be finished.


If the hook seems loose as you hang the plate, reinforce it with more glue or tape. If the nail does not seem secure, you may need to use a different nail or choose a different spot.
If the plate appears crooked, try bending the top of the wire so that the nail rests on it differently. If this does not work, you will need to scrape off the tape and glue so that you can reposition the wire.

