 Mindfulness is the art of bringing awareness to the present moment. Consider how many tasks you do on autopilot, not fully aware of what you’re doing. On the other hand, consider the number of activities you try to perform simultaneously. In a busy, distracted world, mindfulness improves your ability to slow down and savor the here and now.


Practice mindfulness with the little tasks you do each day. For instance, you might brush your teeth in the morning paying special attention to the sensation of the toothbrush in your mouth. Notice the smell and taste of the toothpaste. Hear the sounds of running water from the faucet.
For however long it takes to brush your teeth, fully focus on the task. Redirect your mind if it wanders to other competing thoughts.
 One of the main reasons people so frequently zone out in everyday life is they have so few moments of silence. A typical attention span at the peak of a person’s life is really only about 20 to 30 minutes maximum. People absorb information, and remember things better when they take the time to take frequent breaks. To prevent your mind from wandering during important tasks or conversations, give yourself a few daily breaks for silence.


Choose a time when you won’t have any distractions and simply sit. You might do this in the morning when you wake and drink coffee or tea. Don’t talk to anyone. Don’t read or plan the day ahead. Just sit there and bring awareness to your body and the surrounding environment., Another way to improve your attention skills, and reduce stress in the process, is by practicing mindful breathing.This form of breathing stimulates the body’s natural stress response. It can be helpful when you are feeling anxious. However, mindful breathing also helps improve focus and empowers you to turn off autopilot and become an active participant in your surroundings.


Take a few deep breaths to get started. Roll your shoulders and get in a relaxed position, either seated in a chair or on a floor cushion. Breathe in deeply through your nose for a few counts. Hold the breath for a few counts. Then, slowly exhale the breath from your mouth. Repeat this exercise for several cycles. Only focus on your breath. When your attention wanders, refrain from judging yourself and simply refocus on your breath., If you’re like many people today, you probably eat while doing an array of other activities like talking on the phone, watching TV, typing an email or driving your car. Our detachment from eating is one of the reasons researchers say people struggle with overeating. Bringing your full attention to the basic act of eating can help you become more aware of what you’re putting into your body and notice when you are actually full.


Remove any distractions. Set a timer for 20 minutes, which is the amount of time required to consume an average-sized meal. Fully engage your senses. Cut your food into bite-size pieces. Take small bites and carefully chew. Try counting to 20 as you chew before swallowing. Lower your fork or spoon between bites.