 The vampire look is essentially goth style with a twist – both groups wear predominantly black clothing, but the vampire look leans toward a more romantic, Victorian style of dress.Victorian-era fashion references the European style of dress in the 1800s and focuses on clothing with lots of different textures and made with exotic fabrics.


Examples of Victorian fashion would be ruffled shirts, cloaks, long skirts, velvet frock coats, opera capes, corsets, and vests.Examples of some of the more exotic materials would be crushed velvet, fishnet, silk, lace and leather.Referencing Edwardian, Elizabethan or even medieval styles is also common in this subculture.;
, Vintage items have a dated look that a vampire would prefer, since they are supposed to be very old creatures. Check out thrift stores for vintage jewelry, especially old-fashioned items like pocket watches and lockets.


Any vintage accessories made of lace, leather or velvet would also be great.Opera length gloves made of satin, velvet or latex are also popular., Silver jewelry is preferred and anything featuring bats, skulls, ankhs, gothic crosses, coffins and occult symbols is ideal.Wearing ornate silver rings on most of your fingers is another fashionable vampire look.


Chokers and velvet ribbons tied around the neck are popular looks, along with caplets and shawls in decadent fabrics.Consider wearing black and white striped stockings if you like that look, since they are prevalent in vampire goth fashion.
 Plain black leather lace up boots are fine, but if you can find a more ornate pair with buckles and other adornments, opt for those.Many women prefer a pair with heels, but it’s not required.Definitely check out thrift shops for vintage and/or less pricey versions of these boots, since they tend to be on the expensive side.
 In vampire lore, vampires usually can’t go into direct sunlight (which is one of the reasons why they are so pale). Since you can’t realistically avoid sunlight all the time, wear dark sunglasses any time you have to out in the sun or even outside in general.


Whenever possible, actively avoid sunlight.
Even with your sunglasses on, squint and wince a little when you’re forced to be outside in the sun, as though it’s making you very uncomfortable.
 It’s not unusual for all genders in this subculture to wear things that mainstream society considers feminine, such as makeup, skirts, corsets, heels, etc.Dressing outside of the gender you normally identify with is not required, but keep in mind that the gender lines are quite blurred and you should feel free to experiment if you like.


Vampire goths are progressive people and they accept, represent and identify with all genders and orientations.
Learn to embrace the things that make you different. Don’t be afraid to stand out from the crowd and be proud of who you are.

