 Applying a base coat of clear polish is one of the best things you can do when painting your nails. A base coat will give your chosen polish a smooth surface to stick to, will help the color last longer and will protect your nails from becoming stained by the colored polish. Allow the base coat to become fully dry to the touch before proceeding.









You don't need to be too careful when applying the base coat -- it's okay if some of the clear polish gets on your skin as nobody will be able to tell since there's no color!
There are two different types of specialized base coat polishes available - one is a ridge filler, which smooths the nails and provides an even, matte surface for painting on, the other is a strengthener, which protects the nails and helps them to grow longer and stronger. If you like, you can apply a layer of each!

, Don't just leave your hand resting on the table (as this might allow it to shake or move), actively press your hand down on the surface of the table, spreading your fingers wide apart. Start with your index finger, moving along each finger towards your pinky. Then lift your hand and rest your thumb on the edge of the table to paint your thumbnail.









In terms of whether you paint with your good hand or bad hand first, it doesn't really matter, do whatever you feel most comfortable with. Your bad hand is always going to be shakier to paint with than your good hand - but practice will help.
 Having the perfect amount of nail polish on your brush is one of the keys to perfectly painted nails. To achieve this, wipe the brush on the inner rim of the bottle to remove any excess - knowing exactly how much polish should be on your brush is a skill that comes with time!









Also take a look at the brush to see what shape it is. Most nail polish brushes used to be rounds, but more and more brands are introducing flatter style brushes, which allow for easier application and less mess.
 Position the nail polish brush at the bottom of your nail, just above the cuticle, directly in the center. Allow a drop of paint (enough to cover your whole nail) to fall on this spot and pool slightly at the bottom of the nail.









This is a technique used by professional manicurists, so it might take some practice, but eventually it will allow for the easiest and neatest polish application.
 Manicurists and beauty experts agree that the three stripe method is the easiest and most mess-free way to paint nails. To do it, dip the brush in the drop of paint at the bottom of your nail and draw the brush upwards in a straight line through the center of the nail, all the way to the tip. Return the brush to the paint at the bottom of the nail and follow the curve along the bottom of the nail to the left, before drawing a second line, all the way to the tip. Use the remaining polish to draw a third stripe on the right side of the nail.









You should have enough polish to cover the whole nail in a thin layer of color without having to dip your brush back in the bottle. If you apply too thick of a layer of polish, your nails will take much longer to dry and you will be much more likely to smudge them.
When painting the outer stripes, don't take the polish all the way to the sides of your nails -- leave a tiny gap between the nail and your fingers. The gap will barely be noticeable and you will avoid getting polish all over your hands.
 Nearly all nail polishes will require at least two layers, and some will need three. It is much better to apply several thin layers of polish than one thick one -- the results will be much neater and less inclined to smudge. You must allow the nail polish to dry completely between each application - this should take between five and ten minutes, depending on the brand of polish.









Apply the second layer of polish using the exact same method you used to apply the first. Try to be equally careful -- don't become impatient and try to finish the job quickly, or you might ruin your good work. Allow the second layer of polish to dry completely, then decide if you need to apply a third.
As you can see, painting your nails is time consuming, and you will need to allow yourself 30 minutes to an hour to do the job well. For this reason, it is a good idea to have prepared a snack/ gone to the bathroom/ turned on the TV before you begin painting your nails, so you won't be bored while waiting for your nails to dry.
 Once your second (or third) coat of polish is dry, you can apply a final top coat of clear polish. This will help to prevent the color from chipping and add extra shine. Apply the top coat over the colored paint, all the way to the tips, then go around the top of each nail and apply a little clear polish to the underside. This helps to prevent the color wearing from the top, while providing extra strength and support for long nails.
 Once your nails are painted and fully dry you can set about cleaning up any accidents that might have occurred along the way. To do this, simply dip a q-tip (preferably one with a pointed end) in some nail polish remover, then use it to go around the edges of each nail, removing any unwanted polish.









Make sure to do this slowly and carefully - if you try to do it too quickly the q-tip might slip and you'll end up with a polish-free streak across your perfectly painted nails!
Try to use a fresh q-tip for each nail - otherwise the excess polish on the end of the q-tip will just make more of a mess.

