 You can do this by showing up to where you are meeting a little early. Showing up on time will also give you a few minutes to compose yourself and relax.


Being punctual shows her that you’re mature and reliable.
 Chances are you already know some things about her so use what you know to help break the ice. For example: if she likes flowers, get her favorite one and bring it for her.


This can also be a good way for her to find you if you’ve never met before and are meeting somewhere public.
 Don’t come on too strong; instead wait to see how she acts. Is she being flirty or touchy? Or is she more reserved? You don't always have to wait for her to make a move (sometimes it's better to take the lead and be assertive), but acting too comfortable before you get to know each other can put her off.


Even if you’ve talked before and made a connection, assuming she’ll be comfortable with physical touching might be a bad idea and could make things awkward.
If she does go in for a hug or something like a handshake, meet her halfway.
 Like in the earlier methods, employ eye contact and smile.


"I'm excited to finally meet you, . I've been looking forward to this."
Remember that she wants to be there too, and that she’s probably just as nervous as you are, so just breathe and act confident.
 There's a difference here in complimenting a girl and being rude or objectifying.You may be nervous and be tempted to try and act suave, but being a jerk won’t help you.


Be specific when you compliment her.Don't just say "Your hair looks nice." Instead, look for something that she's clearly taken time on. Maybe she has a specific style, like bangs. Don't just say "Your hair looks nice." Instead, look for something that she's clearly taken time on. Maybe she has a specific style, like bangs. Say "I like your bangs, you really pull those off, they frame your face really well."
Compliments don't have to be physical either. Show her that she has that special something that makes you attracted to her. Tell her that as soon as she walked in, the whole room brightened up. Tell her that she has a great sense of humor, or that her intelligence is sexy. You don't have to say that she's turning you on, that may be a bit forward, but you can say something like "I was attracted to you as soon as I saw you, but talking with you has only made me more attracted to you."

You can employ a bit of humor here as well and add something like "I just hope I'll be able to keep up with you."


Remember here that you're on a date, and while being friendly is always a great place to start, you want to show her that you're interested in her as more than just a friend. With a friend you want to keep compliments platonic, but here you can tell her how she makes you feel, that you are attracted to her.

