 Detecting lies involves monitoring a person's verbal and non-verbal responses. Look for inappropriate amounts of detail, which can signal lying. Be conscious of their breathing, which will quicken when lying. People who are lying usually avoid making eye contact and will look around at anything except you. They will also fidget and touch their face, throat and/or mouth for no discernible reason.Try practicing with a friend. Explain that you are teaching yourself to detect lying with your psychic abilities.
Do not mention you will be looking for physical signs that they are lying.
Then have your friend tell you a number of things, some of which are true and some that aren't.
Write down your impressions and compare notes with your friend afterward.
 The skill of persuasion is not as unusual as you might think. For instance, a good salesman knows all about persuading people. There are a number of techniques you can employ. One is the concept of obligation and reciprocity. Giving someone something, no matter how small, usually makes them feel obligated to return your kindness. This will often result in you getting what you want.


Start small and work your way up to your actual goal. Begin by requesting innocuous things from your target that most people would probably say “yes” to. This will condition them.
Get them in the habit of saying yes and they will usually find it difficult to start saying no.
Try mimicking your target’s mannerisms, vocalizations and movements very subtly. Then make your request. Note your success rate., Everyone is believed to have an aura.When you meet someone new, you can determine the color of their aura based on how they project themselves. The main colors associated with auras are: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. The meanings for each color can get very complex:Red can denote a positive ego, but it can also mean anger, anxiety, or nervousness.
Orange can be a sign of creativity and sociability. It can also be a sign of stress or addiction.
Yellow implies optimism, inspiration, and intelligence.
Green refers to health and a love of animals, nature, and people.
Blue means that the person is calm, caring, loving, sensitive, and intuitive.
Violet can be a sign of psychic powers. It can also mean that the person is artistic.

