 Dampen a piece of cloth, then dab the stain with it. Do not rub or scrub. Once the stain is gone, blot it dry with a piece of dry cloth. Let the fur dry on its own.








Do not use soap on fur.
 Spread the fur down on a flat surface. Sprinkle sawdust over the stain and leave it there overnight; the sawdust will absorb the stain. Vacuum the sawdust from the fur the next morning using the upholstery (or a lower setting) on your vacuum. A stronger setting might damage the fur.








Furriers often use this method to clean fur.
Consider taking your coat to a professional cleaner or furrier for stubborn stains., Pour 1 part liquid soap with 8 parts filtered water into a spray bottle. Shake the bottle to mix, then spray the solution onto a cloth. Wipe the stain down with the dampened cloth. Try to go with the leather grain rather than against it. Once the stain is gone, let the leather garment dry on its own, away from sunlight. Consider treating the spot afterwards with some leather conditioner to keep it supple.








Use a mild soap, such as face soap or dish soap.
If you don't have access to filtered water, use bottled or distilled water instead.
Never spray the solution directly onto leather. This will cause the leather to become too damp, which in turn can damage it.
 Simply press the tape over the stain, then peel it off.The tape will have lifted the dirt away. Some people find that this also works on removing lipstick stains from leather as well.
 Spray the stain with some hairspray, then wipe it away with a clean cloth or towel. Clean off any leftover hairspray, then apply some leather conditioner to keep the leather smooth and supple.
 The bristles will also help loosen the fibers and make them easier to work with. Sometimes, this is all that is needed to remove stains from suede.








If you don't have access to a suede brush, a regular eraser will do in a pinch.
A piece of stale bread is great for removing dirt stains., Sprinkle some cornstarch over the stain. Leave it there for a few hours to overnight, then buff the stain with a suede brush. The cornstarch will have absorbed the stain, and the brush will sweep the cornstarch off.








This method works great on oil and sweat stains.
If you can't find cornstarch, try cornflour instead.
 Hang the garment in the bathroom just after you take a hot shower. The steam will help loosen certain stains.If necessary, brush the stain out using a suede brush.
 Make sure that you are using a leather cleaner that is specifically formulated for the type of leather you are working with. The wrong type of cleaner can damage your garment.Most leather cleaners will say what type of leather they are good for, and most garments will say what type of leather they are made from. The same will go for suede.









You may need to use the cleaner all over the garment to hide any potential discoloration.