 Vitamins are organic compounds which are important for the normal metabolism inside our body. They function there as co-enzymes. Vitamins are divided according to their solubility in water and lipids. There are water soluble vitamins and fat soluble vitamins.;
, Fat soluble vitamins are designated vitamins A, D, E, and K. Water soluble vitamins are the B vitamins and vitamin C. Vitamins B include: thiamine, riboflavin, nicotinamide, pyridoxine and folic acid and vitamin B12.
 It is absorbed in the intestine and is transported to the liver for storage. The clinical manifestation of vitamin A deficiency includes night vision loss which is called medically nyctalopia. In complete deficiency of vitamin A vision during the day is also lost. Vitamin A is lipid soluble.
 It facilitates the absorption of calcium ions in the intestine. It has two sources. One is from the diet and the other is from exposure of the skin to UV radiation from the sun.


One of the disorders of vitamin D deficiency is called rickets. It is common in children.

Osteomalacia is a similar disease which occurs in the elderly people.


Vitamin D overdose can lead to hypercalcemia with its consequences of deposition of calcium salts in different body tissues such as the kidney and the blood vessels. This can form stones in these tissues.
Vitamin K is another lipid soluble vitamin. It is important for the proper function of an enzyme that is responsible for the synthesis of clotting factors for the blood. Deficiency of this vitamin can occur due to malabsorption or due to administration of antibiotics.
 Killing these bacteria by the administration of antibiotics can lead to shortage of vitamin K and subsequently to hemorrhage symptoms. The presence of vitamin K antagonists such as those poisons used to kill rats can lead to vitamin K deficiency.
 It functions as an antioxidant in the cells. Thus it can protect the cell from the effect of free radicals that can be generated from ionizing radiation such as UV radiation.
 It has also an antioxidant effect on the cells. It is necessary for the proper synthesis of collagen of the connective tissue. Its deficiency can cause scurvy.
 Thiamine or vitamin B1 is another water soluble vitamin. It is important as a coenzyme for the energy making process in the cell which is called glycolysis. It is important for the decarboxylation of pyruvate and alpha-ketoglutarate in this process. This step is an important one in the glycolytic pathway. A medical condition that is caused by a deficiency of thiamine is called beriberi.
 Riboflavin or vitamin B2 is another water soluble vitamin. It is an important part of the protein flavoprotein which participates in electron transport in the cellular respiratory chain. Clinical manifestation of riboflavin deficiency includes inflammation of the lips, a condition that is called medically cheilosis.
 Niacin is another water soluble vitamin. Niacin is an important part of the NAD molecule which is a coenzyme for oxidation / reduction reactions in the body. Niacin deficiency can cause a medical condition that is called pellagra. Pellagra is characterized clinically by a dermatitis and diarrhea and dementia.
 Pyridoxine is another water soluble vitamin. It is changed in the body to pyridoxal 5-phosphate which is an important coenzyme that is involved in enzymatic processes in the cell. Clinical manifestations of the deficiency of this vitamin include: seborrheic dermatitis and blepharitis and cheilosis.
 Folic acid and vitamin B12 are the last water soluble vitamins that I discuss here. Folic acid is involved in DNA bases synthesis. Vitamin B12 is also important for the blood cells. Its deficiency can lead to megaloblastic anemia.

