 If you feel your hair loss is excessive or you are depressed or anxious about it, make an appointment with your doctor. She may be able to reassure you, prescribe medications to help you cope with your hair loss, or may even suggest medical treatments to help you stimulate hair regrowth that will not harm your baby when you breastfeed.Your doctor may order blood tests to assess your postpartum hormone levels, which can cause hair loss., When you are pregnant, the increased levels of estrogen stop your hair growth and hair that would have normally fallen out stays attached to your scalp. This results in the thicker hair most women experience during pregnancy. Once you’ve given birth, your estrogen levels will drop, and the hair that didn’t fall out during your pregnancy, will.You don’t need to worry about going bald. Remember that you had increased amounts of hair during your pregnancy and your body is just getting itself back to normal after you give birth and breast feed., You cannot completely prevent or stop hair loss after birth or when you are breastfeeding. It may take anywhere from 6 to 12 months for your hormones and hair to return to their pre-pregnancy stage, at which point the loss may slow down and return to normal.While you are waiting for your hair loss to cease, you can cope with your new hair by being adventurous in other ways with the hair you have. You can try a new cut or color or even new styling methods.
It can help to speak to other mothers who have experienced hair loss while they were breastfeeding. This may help you to manage your anxiety about your hair loss and more readily accept that you will likely return to normal within the first year of your child’s birth., If the hair loss is bothersome or heavy, try new hair-care products designed to help thicken your hair. These products can make your hair appear fuller and give you confidence until your hair returns to normal.Products such as mousse and hair texturizers are formulated to give you more volume as well as “bulk up” the appearance of your hair., Hair loss can be less obvious in shorter or layered hair. With a new baby at home and trying to keep to a breastfeeding schedule, you may want to consider a new hairstyle that is simpler.You may also want to consider a new style to pep yourself up if you are feeling sad or depressed about your hair loss.You don’t automatically have to consider cutting off all of your hair. If you’re loathe to lose length while you’re breastfeeding and losing hair, consider a layered style, which will increase the appearance of your hair’s volume.