 This means very few junk foods and more of the hunk foods, namely vegetables, fruits, nuts, protein sources and a little dairy. You can do your research on healthy eating, starting with How to eat healthy and you might do well to discuss it with your doctor or another qualified professional before making major dietary changes.


Drink sufficient water daily.;
, Preferably, do some form of exercise every day, at least 30 minutes in 10 minute bursts of activity. This could be as regimented as gym workouts or as random as long walks with the dog. Do whatever keeps you fit and that you'll stick at.
 For example, acne or dandruff. List these and come up with solutions, such as:


Bad breath: Brush teeth two to three times a day, floss daily and carry breath mints.
Acne: Get acne treatment and use this on a regular basis.
Dandruff: Use a shampoo specifically able to clear up dandruff.
Smelly feet: Use deodorant powder or see a doctor for advice about dealing with sweat issues or sores.
Bad nails: Cut them short and start over. See a beautician for assistance with improving the nails, or see a doctor if your nails appear unhealthy.
Yellow teeth: Use a whitening toothpaste. Most importantly, keep your teeth clean and ingesting or using things that can stain teeth long term.
 Skin care is important.


Your best bet, if you're acne prone, is to visit your local dermatologist/GP. Don't be embarrassed.
 Keep hair healthy and combed. Wash regularly (but not daily) and get it trimmed about every eight weeks( but it changes from person to person, so if it stays neat and split free for 3 months then only get it cut when you need it).


Change your style, have it up one day, down the next, etc. But don't use heated appliances too often - the heat will damage your hair.
 Remember that makeup is meant to enhance your natural beauty. For example, if you have beautiful cheekbones, learn how to use blush and bronzers to bring them out to their best advantage.


Only use the makeup that you need. The best forms of makeup to use include: Mascara, light foundation or concealer, light blusher and lip gloss.
However, you may not be a 'natural' kind of person. If you're going for a more daring look, make sure it's dramatic yet attractive, and not overdone.
 A mini manicure set is useful to have, so you can trim, file and push back your cuticles. Or, get a manicure done professionally.


Only use nail art if you really know how to do it well. Otherwise, it can look sloppy and will detract from your appearance.
 Disregard the sizes on the labels––they're there for guidance, not for self-judgment or proof of anything. If your clothes are too tight/loose, they let you down. The key is to try things on, check the look in the mirror and be absolutely honest with yourself. If the size up from the one you feel compelled to wear looks and feels better, then go for it instead; you'll be much more likely to look stunning.
 Glamorous shoes don't have to kill your feet or hobble your capacity to move gracefully and swiftly.
 Beauty starts from the inside.
 Cliché? Yes. But a true one? Yes. Don't look at this and think, "Smile? Really? How cheesy can this get?" Just do it. It'll help you to appear approachable and beautiful from the inside out.
 Walk tall, with a good posture. Be confident but not cocky.

