 An advocate who doesn't even work for your company is the best salesperson you could ask for. First and foremost, treat all existing customers with respect, kindness, and generosity. People trust their friends, so creating happy customers is a key way to grow your business and gain leads. This doesn't have to be subtle either -- there are a variety of ways to promote client recommendations:


Provide "referral discounts." If a customer gets another person to sign up, buy, or contract your services, give them a 5% rebate or a small gift.
Hand out extra business cards, magnets, etc. and ask your customer to pass on the information to anyone else in need.
Keep customers engaged. 1-2 weeks after service or shipping, contact them again and ask them if they're satisfied with your company. Provide links or ways to share your information.
Just ask -- tell your customers you're a new company looking to expand, and to please recommend you to any friends if they liked your work. People love to feel needed and helpful.;
, You can also offer them incentives to them for recommending you as a way to create a small, impromptu "sales force." Note, however, that you don't want to just unleash your friends on the world. You should:


Provide them small packets or brochures with business information, pricing, and a basic FAQ to give to potential customers. There is a reason that Chinese food always comes with new sets of menus!
Fill them in on your company's basic policies, products, and business philosophy. Developing customer relationships early on will pay dividends later.
Brainstorm good leads with customers. Don't just send them out expecting them to find great clients. Let them know the kinds of people you normally help, or who might love your product, and brainstorm a list of people they might be able to talk to.
 Bring a big stack of business cards and, if appropriate, some models of your product or testimonials of service. Mostly, be ready to be your company's number one advocate. Hand out and accept contact information, and have your facts and pitch well-practiced ahead of time


Giving talks, speeches, or panel discussions is a great way to get in front of the crowd and create instant buzz about your product.
After the event, follow up with any promising contacts. Thank them for their time and let them know you're there to answer any questions., The biggest thing here is not to rush. You want to develop a human relationship, one that lets them know they can trust you as more than just a salesperson. It may feel like an eternity until it pays off, but cultivating high-value contacts in your industry poises you to swoop up that big contract when it finally comes through.


Many businesses cannot change clients or vendors on a dime, they have contracts to uphold. Your goal is to be there with an attractive offer when that contract ends.
 The way to do this is to let them educate themselves. This B2B (business to business) marketing process, called lead nurturing, consists of making informative white papers, seminars, case studies, videos, posts and demos available to the leads. The goal is to earn the permission to stay in touch and progressively deepen the relationship so that when the leads do become "sales ready", they will want to engage with your firm.