 Many snowboarders choose not wear helmets but they are often making a big mistake. While snowboarding, you may catch an edge and you could slam your head on the snow very hard, potentially causing brain injuries. If you're just learning, you're going to fall and you should protect your head. If you're pushing your skills in the terrain park, you're going to fall, and no one wants to bang their head on the rail or land on it after falling twenty feet out of the sky. If you're on a steep trail, there are likely rocks, and if you're in the glades, you really need to keep your head up. If not wearing a helmet, definitely bring a wool hat.






;
, Different lenses are useful for different times of the day. For bright conditions during the day, you want a dark lens or a mirrored lens so that it protects your eyes from the sun. If you like to go fast, or it's windy or snowing (or they are making snow), a clear lens works well at night. If you aren't wearing goggles, you'll find it very difficult to snowboard behind people, as they pick up snow with their skis and spray it in your face.
 Layers are the key to matching the environment around you. Bring at least one extra in a bag to the ski area. If you're hot, take one off, conditions can and will change while you're on the mountain. A breathable waterproof shell is also very helpful.
 Cold days demand thick gloves or mittens. On warmer days, thin gloves will work much better.
 Though not too attractive, thermal underwear works very well. Over that, you should wear breathable waterproof snow pants. Waterproof is a big asset, because if you are a beginner boarder you will spend a lot of time with your butt in the snow, which will cause an uncomfortable wetness on your behind.
 This is one case where layers don't work. One pair thick socks is ideal. Two pairs of socks actually makes your feet colder in tight-fitting snowboard boots (which your boots should be). Consider boots with a removable lining for the most warmth. Remember to pull your socks up as high as they can go, or the top of the snowboard boot will irritate your skin.
 Your board size will vary by weight and preference. If you're renting, there will be someone there to help size you; if you're buying, the clerk will help you out too.








