 It really doesn’t matter which kind of popcorn you use, as long as it’s plain. You can use microwave popcorn for this recipe, or you can use an air popper and kernels. You’ll be adding your own butter to the popcorn, so don’t worry about buying any that’s already buttered– unless you really, really like butter!;
, Depending on your method, cooking times will vary. Check the microwave popcorn bag or the container of kernels to get specific instructions. Different brands have different cooking times, depending on amount and voltage of the microwave.


For microwavable popcorn, place the bag in the microwave and don't move.The sounds and smells of the popcorn will let you know when it’s finished. Once there is about a two second pause between popping noises, your popcorn is finished. Obviously, if you smell the scent of burning, remove sooner.
To use an air popper, first plug it into an outlet. Make sure that the plastic chute, which will guide the popcorn into your bowl, is unattached. Let the popper heat up for about a minute, and then pour your kernels into the chamber. Your container of kernels will say how to measure your kernels to get a certain amount of popcorn. Put the chute back onto the air popper, and place a large bowl under the chute. Stand back, and watch your bowl fill up!, If you used an air popper, the popcorn will already be in a bowl, so just unplug the popper and let it cool. If you chose to make microwave popcorn, you will need to transfer your popcorn from the bag to a large bowl.


The bag will be hot, so be careful. Grab the bag cautiously from the ends to pull it out of the microwave. The bag will indicate which end is the opening. Be aware that hot steam will be released when you open the bag, so don’t open it too close to your face.Dump out all of your popcorn from the open side. You’ll want to use a fairly large mixing bowl so that you can easily stir the ingredients into your popcorn without pieces falling all over your counter. Don’t worry about any unpopped kernels that fall into the bowl, because they’ll just move to the bottom.
 You can melt it in a pan on the stovetop or in a bowl in the microwave– whatever you prefer. The amount of butter that you'll need to melt depends on the amount of popcorn you have, but most microwave bags yield about ten cups of popcorn.About three tablespoons of butter should coat all of the popcorn, but the amount of butter you choose to add is really a matter of personal taste.There are typically tablespoon lines on your butter wrapper, but if not, three tablespoons is a little less than half a stick.If you love your popcorn drenched in butter (and no shame if you do!), just melt more.
 There are different ways to go about this. If you melted the butter over the stovetop, keep it on low heat and mix in your garlic powder. If you melted your butter in the microwave, add your garlic powder and put it back in the microwave for about ten seconds.


Again, the amount of garlic you add depends on your personal taste. For a delicious hint of garlic, add one teaspoon of powder. For some eye opening, super garlicky popcorn, add a a tablespoon.
It's always better to add a little bit of garlic at a time, so that you don't over-do it. Take a small taste test until it tastes exactly how you like.
 Add a pinch of these seasonings to taste. If you love your buttery, salty movie theater popcorn, this is an important step. It's much easier to add your seasonings to the butter, rather than sprinkling directly on your popcorn., If you want to add even more pizzazz to your popcorn, you can add other seasonings to your popcorn. You can add things like onion powder, rosemary, dill, or even chili powder.Every time you make this recipe, you can try a new addition. However, it’s certainly good with just butter and garlic!

, To make this a bit easier, use one hand to pour the butter while the other hand stirs the popcorn in order to coat all of it. After all of your butter is dispensed, continue gently stirring the popcorn so that every piece is coated. Don’t stir too vigorously, or you’ll break popcorn pieces. Once you think the butter is evenly distributed, you’re all set.
 This yummy garlic popcorn is a perfect treat for a movie night, a party, or a midday snack. Once your popcorn is coated with the garlic butter, you're ready to dig in. Just make sure to keep a stack of napkins next to the bowl. Buttery hands can make a mess– but they're also the sign of a great snack!

