 Whether this is your first episode or one in a series, it is a good idea to make an appointment with your doctor to talk over what you experienced. They will decide if any additional action is necessary and this will give you peace of mind moving forward. They might also ask you to watch for particular warning signs, in addition to fainting, such as increased thirst.


Your doctor may order tests such as a blood sugar draw, a general blood test to check for anemia and nutrient levels, and an EKG (to scan for heart issues). These are all fairly standard diagnostic tools.Your doctor may also place restrictions on your behaviors until the cause of fainting has been established and treated. They may request that you limit your driving and avoid operating any kind of heavy or complex machinery.It is helpful if you can bring with you a statement or brief note from someone who witnessed you faint. After all, you were unconscious for part of this time and this person call “fill in the blanks” regarding what happened to you., There is a possibility that your doctor will prescribe medication to you to treat and prevent future fainting episodes. These medications usually address the underlying cause of the fainting. For example, corticosteroids are drugs that help to boost hydration via the elevation of sodium levels.Make sure to follow the exact directions on any medication that you receive. If you fail to do so, you run the risk of your fainting spells getting worse.
 This is good advice in general but is especially helpful if you’ve fainted in the past. Carry small snacks with you that are high in sugar and salt. For example, drink some juice or eat some mixed nuts. This will to help to prevent your blood sugar from dropping too low, a common cause of fainting., Focus on substances that will improve circulation and heart health overall. Omega-3 fatty acid supplements are good in that they minimize inflammation allowing your blood to circulation more efficiently. You can also focus on herbal remedies, such as green tea, also praised for its anti-inflammatory properties.Carefully discuss all herbs and supplements with your doctor to ensure that they do not interfere with your current medications or possess problematic side effects.
 You’ve probably seen these before and they are easy to order from your doctor or even online. A medical ID, certificate, or card includes your name, medical status, emergency contact information, and known allergens. This is an especially good idea if you suffer from frequent fainting episodes or if you plan to travel., Fainting can also result from emotional events or stress. Learn to control your body’s reaction by practicing deep breathing techniques. Enroll in a yoga or meditation class to learn the methods that are best suited for you. Some even suggest hypnosis as a way to lower overall stress levels and regulate blood pressure., These can help with circulation by improving blood flow from your legs back up to your heart and brain.However avoid wearing girdles, garters or other constricting garments that may decrease venous return.
 Rising too quickly from a seated or lying position may lead to fainting. Try to transition from one position to another slowly to help prevent fainting.For example, sit up on the edge of the bed in the morning before standing up.
 Make a habit of periodically flexing your leg muscles or wiggling your toes when standing or sitting for periods of time. This will help to improve your circulation allowing your heart to work a bit less. Even swaying slightly from side-to-side will help when standing.You can also wear pressure stockings that encourage the blood to move from your lower extremities up into your upper body and head., Each time that you faint consider the underlying causes in consultation with your doctor. You may need to avoid seeing blood or perhaps overheating is the issue. Standing for long periods might be the problem for you. Or, perhaps you get overwhelmed with fear and pass out. When you know what triggers your fainting you can actively work to avoid those situations.