 Aside from reading your child a story to get them to sleep, you may also want to consider touch or lullaby therapy.


Massage has been a favorite therapy due to its healing and balancing powers. Studies show that it also helps promote a regular sleeping pattern.
But before you engage on this, here are some tips on how it should be done.
 Be prepared, as toddlers love to say “no!” It will help if you give the kid a choice such as asking if he or she wants her legs or back (or any other body part) massaged.


Toddlers like the feeling of being in-charge so they have to be involved in receiving the message rather than just having the massage done to them.
 You may involve Dad by incorporating some tumbling and wrestling games. But these shouldn’t be too wild if your intention is to put the tot to sleep. Although they aren’t massage in the strict sense, they still provide opportunity for touch and physical closeness.
 Story time before going to sleep is an ideal time to give the massage. You may be creative by involving the characters in the massage process.


For instance, if a dog is walking in the story, you may walk your fingers over the toddler’s body.
Think of different finger movements for the various action words found in the story.
 Generally, it is best to use smooth, long, slow movements and to repeat every stroke used a few times. Firm pressure is also said to be more calming than light stroke.


Use natural oil like those from grape seed or sweet almond. Gel, lotion or cream are options as well.
The duration of the massage may be from 20 seconds to 20 minutes. This will depend on your toddler’s personality and mood at that time.
Allow your child to massage you too. Let him or her think of his or her own techniques as this may be a way of expressing love to you.
 The following techniques are also suggested for the different body parts :


Have the toddler’s thigh wrapped in your hand, then slide your hand going to the ankle. Repeat it with your other hand, one hand following the other, following a smooth rhythm.
Using your thumbs with firm pressure, rub the sole of the foot, from heel to toes. Rub each toe, identifying each toe as “This Little Piggy…" Roll the kid’s leg between the palms of your hands.
With flat hands, do paddling strokes on the tummy from the rib line to the hips. With flat fingertips, make clockwise circles on the tummy.
Lay your hands on the chest, then stroke in an outward movement and back to your starting point, as if drawing a heart on the child’s chest.
For the back, use the same movements as on the chest. With your hands across the back, stroke in opposite directions.
 Lullabies around the world follow a similar tempo, one that matches the tempo of a human heartbeat. Love is nurtured and communicated when a lullaby is sung, hummed or played. It provides comfort to children and makes young toddlers feel secure when going to sleep.

