 Yes, you have taken on a huge responsibility, but you need to learn how to not sweat the small stuff. Find the humor in your days. Kids are constantly saying hilarious things and if we are not careful we can be all too busy to catch them.
 Some days things are just going so far south that it’s time to simply throw in the towel for the day and head to the park or turn on Netflix or just send the kids outside to play while mom takes some time to scream into a pillow., Go on a date with your spouse or partner, hang out with friends, or simply go shopping or get your hair done. You need this time to get away from your children and be in adult company. It's so important to foster relationships that matter to you, and assure your family and friends, that they don't always take a back seat to homeschooling., Sometimes the burnout may be due to using a curriculum that is not best suited to your needs. You may want to take a good look at what you are using and reevaluate its usefulness for you. Do your kids balk at using it? Is it difficult for you to understand how to use? These may be indications that this curriculum is not a good fit for your family., Nearly every state and county has a local homeschool support group. You can most likely find one in your area by googling “homeschool support group”. There are also online support groups. You don’t have to do this alone. This can go a long way to helping avoid burnout., Homeschool parents have a tendency to neglect themselves. Having a hobby that you enjoy addresses this issue and makes sure that you are spending some time doing something that you like to do, at least a few hours a week. It can be anything, from scrapbooking to running. Even just finding time to read a book you've been wanting to read., This can apply no matter what age they are. Of course, the way you play with a teen looks a lot different than how you play with 1st and 2nd graders. However, you will never regret this one. After all, isn’t this one of the major reasons you decided to homeschool in the first place?