 There are many different types of harmonica available for purchase, which vary in use and price. For now, purchase either a diatonic or a chromatic harmonica. Either type can be used to play most popular music, such as blues or folk.









The diatonic harmonica is arguably the most common type available, and certainly the cheapest. It's tuned to a specific key, which can't be changed. Most diatonic harmonicas are tuned to the key of C. Types of diatonic harmonica include the “blues harmonica,” the “tremolo harmonica,” and the “octave harmonica.”

In the western world, the blues harmonica is common; in east Asia, the tremolo harmonica is seen more often.


The chromatic harmonica is a type of harmonica that uses a mechanical apparatus to control which holes make noise. Basic chromatic harmonicas with 10 notes can only play one full key (the same as a diatonic harmonica), but chromatics with 12-16 holes can be tuned to any key. Chromatics are considerably more expensive than most diatonic harmonicas; a quality chromatic from a reputable brand can cost several hundred dollars.

Because of their flexibility, 12-plus-note chromatic harmonicas are generally preferred for jazz music.


A common shorthand term for the harmonica is the “harp.” This comes from its other traditional names, including “French harp” and “blues harp.” As long as the context is clear, the words “harmonica” and “harp” can be used interchangeably.;
, The harmonica is a reed instrument that uses brass reeds. The reeds are what split the air you push or pull through the holes to create tones. Reeds are mounted on a plate, sensibly called the reed plate, which is also usually made of brass. The part of the harmonica that the reed plate is mounted to is called the comb, and is typically made of plastic or metal. The mouthpiece of the harp may be integrated into the comb, or in chromatic harmonicas, screwed on separately. The cover plates cover the rest of the apparatus, and can be made of wood, metal, or plastic.









A chromatic harp's sliding bar is also usually made of metal.
Depending on whether you inhale or exhale through your harp, different notes are produced by the reeds. A typical diatonic harp tuned to C on the exhale is tuned to G on the inhale. These scales complement each other nicely, each filling in the other without having to add extra holes.
The reeds inside your harmonica are delicate and will wear out over time. Gentle playing and regular care are required to maintain a good tone as long as possible.
 Like guitars, harmonicas can be played by following tablature, which reduces the notes on a sheet of music down to an easy-to-follow system of holes and breath patterns. Tablature is useful for larger chromatic harmonicas as well, but it differs somewhat from diatonic tablature, and is less common.









Breathing is marked by arrows. An up arrow indicates a breath out; a down arrow indicates a breath in.

Most holes on a diatonic harmonica produce two “neighbor” notes on a given scale; thus playing C and then D on the same scale is accomplished by blowing into the appropriate hole, and then drawing in from the same hole.


Holes are marked with a number, starting from the lowest (left-hand) tone and moving upward. Thus, the lowest two notes are (up) 1 and (down) 1. On a 10-hole harp, the highest note would be (down) 10.

Some notes on a regular 10-hole harmonica overlap, notably (down) 2 and (up) 3. This is necessary to allow proper range for playing scales.


More advanced techniques are marked with slashes or another small mark. Diagonal slashes through the arrows indicate that note bending (covered later) is required to get the proper tone. Chevrons or slashes on chromatic tablature can also indicate whether or not to hold the button in.

There isn't a standardized system of tablature that's used by all harmonica players. However, once you practice and get comfortable reading one type, most other types will make sense to you quickly.



