 When your fingernail has broken almost completely from the nail bed, it is generally necessary to remove the broken part to prevent infection. Use fingernail clippers or a pair of sewing or nail scissors to carefully clip off the nail only to the point at which the break ends. Carefully remove it from the nail bed using either your fingers or tweezers.
 If there is any bleeding, apply direct pressure to the area. Use a clean cloth, medical gauze or cotton balls. Press firmly and evenly for several minutes. Try to ensure the cloth, gauze or cotton doesn’t become caught on any rough or jagged edges around the breaking point. If it does, slowly and carefully disentangle it so the nail doesn’t tear more. If it starts bleeding again when you remove the cloth, gauze or cotton ball, repeat the procedure., To avoid more of your fingernail breaking and to help it grow out evenly, trim off any remaining pieces or edges. If the break was more vertical, for instance, and didn’t go the full length of your nail, use fingernail clippers or your scissors to cut the remaining nail closer to the nail bed. Next use the finer-grit side of an emery board or the second-finest grit of a 4-way nail buffer to smooth the now-short tip.If, however, the tear went the full length but is still jagged in places, such as in the corners, carefully use either the emery board or buffer to gently even out and smooth the nail so it’s more uniform.
Additionally, if the break was deep into your nail bed and bled a great deal, don't remove the nail but instead apply pressure to stop the bleeding and see a doctor.
 Fill a bowl, sink or a large cup with cool, not cold, water. Soak your finger in it for 20 minutes. Afterward, pat it dry using a clean, soft cloth and allow it a few minutes to completely air dry. Apply a pea-sized amount of triple antibiotic ointment to the area, which will help it heal more quickly and reduce the likelihood of infection., After applying the antibiotic ointment, immediately wrap your fingernail and nail bed fairly tightly in a band-aid. Alternatively, you could use gauze pads and medical tape to cover the nail and nail bed. Wear bandages the rest of that day and for the next two days., On day four, you can stop wearing a bandage. Mix 8 ounces of warm water with 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Make sure you stir it briskly so the salt doesn’t settle to the bottom. Soak your finger in the salt water for 20 minutes per day for the next seven days to further prevent the risk of infection. Halfway through each soak, remove your finger for just a minute and again stir the salt water.Make sure you keep your finger as clean as possible during this time, washing frequently with an antibacterial soap like Dial. If it becomes extremely dirty, wash it with soap and warm water as soon as you can and dry it with a clean cloth.
Monitor your fingernail as it heals. If, after the 7th day of soaking it in salt water, there are signs of infection, such as pus, redness, heat around the nail and swelling, see a physician.