 You can give to the the American Cancer Society, the Susan G. Komen Foundation and many others. You can make a general donation or give in memory of a person who has lost his/her life to cancer.


Most organizations allow you to give online, through the mail or over the phone. Some programs also allow you to establish a payroll deduction or a recurring donation where you give a certain amount each month.
See if your employer has a matching gifts program, in which the company will match part or all of your contribution.;
, Alternatively, you can participate in a charity event yourself and solicit your friends and family members to make donations. For example, the American Cancer Society hosts the Relay for Life and the Susan G. Komen holds Race for a Cure.
 You can also set up a trust or annuity to benefit cancer research. Work with your estate planner to ensure that you abide by applicable laws when making this kind of a donation. An estate planner can also help you make sure that your money ends up where you intend for it to go.
 Many cancer research charity organizations, such as Cancer Research UK, accept clothing, music, jewelry, movies and other goods for resale. You can shop at these stores as well, and the proceeds from your purchase will support cancer research.
 If a cancer organization does not have an actual shop, it may have a section of its website where you can shop for jewelry, clothing and other merchandise whose proceeds support cancer treatment and research.
 By donating securities or stock, you may be eligible for a tax break.
 Often, all you need to do is hand over the title and keys to a vehicle, and the organization handles the rest. The charity may use the vehicle, or fix and sell it to generate a profit for the cause.
 Many organizations raise money throughout the year. Find an event that you're interested in and offer to help.
 An endowment gift is quite large, usually a pledge of $10,000 and up, that you give over a period of 5 or 10 years, depending on the organization.
 For example, you could make a donation in lieu of a Christmas or birthday gift, or as wedding favors for your guests.

