 You need to believe that even when your husband hurts your feelings or does something wrong, it is usually not malicious. People don't usually do hurtful or annoying things for the sake of being annoying or hurtful. They do things because they're not thinking or because they think they're doing the right thing. Try to give him the benefit of the doubt before getting really angry.
 That said, your husband might do something hurtful on purpose or might not care about you enough to work on problems. Sometimes, we marry people who aren't who we think they are. You need to recognize when you shouldn't be loving your husband and solving your problems....you should be getting away as fast as you can! If your husband is mainly leaving a negative impact on your life, it's time to hightail it out of there.


If your husband is violent with you, you need to seek help. His violence is never your fault and you need to do whatever is necessary to protect yourself and your children. There is no excuse for violence.
The same can be said for emotional abuse. If you husband is constantly insulting you and making you feel trapped and worthless, you deserve better.
If you need advice, call the National Domestic Abuse Hotline at 1-800-799-7233. If you're from outside the US, go to http://www.hotpeachpages.net/ to find resources for your area.
 When your husband does something to hurt your feelings, say so. When you feel like he's ignoring your needs, tell him that. If you don't tell your husband that something is wrong, he might never know. But in the mean time, the more you keep those hurt feelings bottled up, the more you're going to grow angry with your husband and maybe even hate him.
 If he does something very serious, like cheating on you, you need to sit down with him and talk through the situation. Even if it's something smaller, like continually ignoring his half of the chores, it's important to sit down and lay out what went wrong and how the two of you can work together to make things better in the future.


In some cases, like with the cheating, the answer might be that you're not really good for each other and that you might be better people without this marriage. However, sometimes big problems can be worked through. Each situation is different.
 When your husband does something to make you mad, don't add it to the list in your mind. Don't save it to use as ammo later when you do something to make him mad. This isn't productive and it just leads you to cling to negative feelings. It may even make problems seem bigger than they really are. Instead, let small, unimportant problems and deal with bigger problems when they happen.
 Even if your husband can be petty and childish sometimes, don't stoop to his level. Acting childish and being really hurtful will only lead you to do things that you regret. You'll find, before you know it, that your relationship makes you into a person you don't like and it will escalate the conflicts that you do have with your husband.


Don't sling out insults, like calling him an idiot in the middle of an argument.
Don't do petty things, like "forgetting" to do the dishes until it's his week to do them.
Don't use sex for blackmail. Ever. Really bad idea.
 When you do have problems with your husband and you're all fired up and angry, find a more productive use of that energy. Instead of yelling at him or exploding, work really hard to team up with him to find a solution. Use that anger to power a real change in your relationship and how you treat each other, turning it into a positive force in your marriage. This way you get release while also solving the problems that you have.

