 If you struggle to connect with extended family members who are really into their electronics, you may ask them politely to put them away for a period of time. Perhaps you have a niece who always seems connected to her phone. Or maybe you have a cousin who has a laser beam focus on his tablet. You may go up to the family member and ask them if they could perhaps put the electronics away for a few minutes so you can all bond as a family.


For example, you may say, "Would you mind putting your phone away for a little so we can chat?" or "Do you think you could put your tablet away for a few minutes so we can all hang out?"
Try placing a basket by your front door for people to leave their cellphones in when they enter your home, similar to asking guests to take off their shoes when they enter your home.
 To carve out some quality time with extended family, you may suggest that everyone in the house have an electronics free meal. You may have a basket set up at the front door where everyone can put their electronics and unplug for the hour long meal. Or you may suggest that everyone turn their electronics off during dinner so you can enjoy a meal together without any distractions.


Try to get everyone at the meal to agree to an electronics free time so your extended family do not feel singled out. Having everyone participate can make the meal less stressful and make bonding easier for all.
 To draw an extended family member away from their electronics, you may try starting a casual conversation with them. Chatting with the family member in an engaging way can help them put down their phone and connect with you.


You may ask the family member questions about school, their job, or any other activities that they do on a regular basis. Talk to the family member about their hobbies or interests and ask follow up questions so you appear engaged by what they have to say.
You may ask, "Have you finished that painting you started last month?" or "How have you been doing at your new job?"

