 Your doctor will be able to help you develop a treatment plan to combat and manage your chronic headaches. They might recommend self-care techniques, prescribe medication, or refer you to a specialist who can better help you cope with your condition.If you’re suffering from a secondary headache, a doctor may be able to treat your underlying condition and – hopefully – eliminate the headaches., If you have a chronic primary headache, you might be able to identify a trigger that causes the headache.For instance, if you experience a headache every time you eat figs, you should avoid eating figs. Take careful note of the conditions under which your chronic headaches begin and end in order to identify factors that might contribute to your headaches and avoid them when possible.Other foods that might cause headaches include canned soup, nuts, peanut butter, raisins, soy sauce, sauerkraut, lentils, papaya, passion fruit, avocados, aspartame (i.e. Equal or NutraSweet), processed meat, and alcohol.
Other potential triggers include allergens (dust, ragweed pollen, or other environmental contaminants) that could cause intense sneezing fits and headaches. If these are your triggers, dust and vacuum more often, keep your windows sealed tight or open (depending on your trigger), and invest in a small air purifier or air filtration system.
Cold or hot weather, or rapid changes in temperature, might also produce headaches., Some OTC medication can help you fight your chronic headaches. For instance, you might be able to take aspirin, acetaminophen (commercially available as Tylenol), ibuprofen (commercially available as Motrin), naproxen (commercially available as Aleve), or ketoprofen (commercially available as Orudis KT). You might also benefit from an OTC dug that combines more than one of these ingredients (such as Excedrin Migraine).Always be sure to follow the dosing instructions on the medication package. If the dose specified on the package is not relieving your pain, do not take a higher dose. Contact your doctor.
 If your chronic headache pain and side effects are severe, you’ll likely need prescription medication. Consult your doctor to obtain prescription medication and make sure to take them exactly as directed. Let your doctor know about any side effects you have from the medication as well. They might provide you with drugs like ergotamine (commercially available as Ergostat) or dihydroergotamine (commercially available as Migranal or D.H.E. 45). Your doctor might also recommend:Sumatriptan (commercially available as Imitrex)
Zolmitriptan (commercially available as Zomig)
Naratriptan (commercially available as Amerge)
Rizatriptan (commercially available as Maxalt)
Almotriptan (commercially available as Axert)
Frovatriptan (commercially available as Frova)

, There are several simple remedies that might help you relieve your headache pain. For instance, you might lie down in a quiet, dark room and close your eyes. Put a cool cloth over your forehead. If you are not at home, you could place your index and middle fingers on your temples and massage them using gentle pressure. Move the tips of the fingers of your right hand in a slow clockwise motion against your right temple and move the tips of the fingers of your left hand in a slow counterclockwise motion against your left temple., Deep-tissue massage can be beneficial for relieving chronic headache pain. Many hospitals offer massage therapy as part of their services, but if your local clinic does not offer such a service, you can just as easily go to a regular massage parlor to reap similar benefits., Living with chronic headaches, no matter their severity, is unpleasant. You might begin to feel worn down, depressed, and defeated. Talk to your family and friends about your condition in order to help them understand what you’re going through. Unburdening yourself in this way might improve your mood and energy levels.Check out chronic migraine or headache support groups in your area. It often helps to talk to others who are experiencing the same thing you are.Get counselling if your headaches are severe and lead to deep anxiety, anger, or depression. A trained therapist can help you find positive ways to cope with these feelings.
 Stress is one of the most common headache triggers.If you have chronic headaches, rest can help you relieve your pain. Spend extra time in bed reading a book, watching TV, listening to podcasts, or engaging in activities you enjoy (if possible). If your chronic headaches are truly disabling, cut back on your hours at work and ask family members to take on additional household chores for you.