 Place a small saucepan filled with a few inches of water on the stove. Place a glass mixing bowl into the saucepan. It should fit snugly, but shouldn't touch the water. Heat the water till it starts to simmer (bubble lightly). Add 1 cup (175 g) of semi-sweet chocolate chips and stir the chocolate until it melts. Stir in 1 tablespoon of coconut oil.The coconut oil will help the chocolate remain shiny once it's cooled. It will also help it harden on the sliced apples.
You could also melt the chocolate and coconut oil in the microwave. Just microwave on the lowest setting for 30 seconds at a time. Stir the chips frequently until they're melted.;
, Wash 2 large apples and carefully slice them into 1/2” to 3/4” slices. Take a small knife and make a small notch at the bottom of each slice so you can easily insert the stick. Push one popsicle stick into each apple slice.To ensure that the chocolate coats and sticks to the apples, consider patting them dry with a paper towel.
 Lay a piece of waxed paper onto a large baking sheet. Spray the wax with cooking or baking spray. Pour a little of the melted chocolate onto a small rimmed plate. Dip both sides of each apple slice into the chocolate so the slice is completely coated. Set the slices on the prepared baking sheet. Refrigerate the apples for 5 to 10 minutes so the chocolate hardens.If you don't have waxed paper, you could also lay a silicone baking mat on the baking sheet.
 Remove the baking sheet of chilled apples from the fridge. If the caramel sauce is in a squeeze bottle, just squeeze the caramel sauce over the apple slices. If the caramel sauce is in a jar, dip a spoon in the caramel and drizzle it over the apples. You can also drizzle melted white chocolate over the apple slices for an even sweeter flavor. Chill the apple slices for another 5 minutes.To melt the white chocolate, you could microwave white chocolate chips in 30 second intervals. Or purchase a white chocolate sauce. Just ensure that cocoa butter is listed as an ingredient.
 Set out small dishes filled with additional toppings. Let people choose their own toppings or create a variety of apple slices to serve. For example, set out:Shredded coconut
Chopped peanuts
Crushed Oreos
Crushed pretzels
Rainbow sprinkles
M&Ms

