 Many times, a multivitamin isn't needed as long as your child is eating a healthy diet. Even if your child is picky, it's likely they are getting what they need from their diet, even if they aren't eating as many vegetables and fruits as you'd like.For instance, many foods are fortified with vitamins, such as milk and cereals.
However, if your child has a very strict diet, a multivitamin may be appropriate. A diagnosis of anorexia, failure to thrive, or simply following a vegan diet are all good reasons for your child to take a multivitamin."Failure to thrive" is a specific, potentially quite serious diagnosis that means a child isn't growing and gaining weight as expected, which can be caused by sickness or food problems.;
, Your child's doctor is the best person to make the decision about whether your child needs a multivitamin. Plus, the doctor can evaluate whether the multivitamin will do more harm than good. Ask your child's doctor if a multivitamin is a good idea for your child.You could say things like, "I'm concerned about my child's nutrition. She doesn't seem to be eating enough vegetables. Do you think a multivitamin would be a good idea? Would it cause any harm? Would it interact with any medications she's on?"

, Your kid is likely getting plenty of vitamins from diet, but they may be missing out on a key few. The vitamins most children are at highest risk of deficiency in are: vitamin D, calcium, and omega-3 fatty acids.A fiber supplement may also be a good idea for some kids.
Discuss the appropriate dose with your doctor, as each kid is different. For instance, by some recommendations, kids 1 to 4 years of age should be receiving a supplement of 10 micrograms of vitamin D, but that might not be the case for your kid., These vitamins are specially formulated to give your kids what they need in the right amounts. Adult multivitamins would provide too high a percentage of the individual vitamins for your child, and your child can take too much of some vitamins.Vitamins are divided into two types: water-soluble vitamins and fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored by the body in fat, making them easier to overdose on., The label will list what vitamins are in the multivitamin, along with the percentage of daily value. No individual vitamin should be listed as more than 100 percent of the daily value, as your child does not need more than the recommended daily dose., Kids are generally not big on taking medications, so picking a form that's more kid friendly may encourage them to take them. For instance, you can find gummy or sprinkle forms of kids multivitamins, which your kid may be more willing to take than liquids.
 When dosing your child, make sure you are careful with your dosages. Never give your child more than is recommended for their age, as they can overdose on vitamins. Also, make sure that you measure precisely instead of “eyeballing” doses.
 If your child thinks the vitamin is "candy," they're more likely to down a few when you're not looking. Don't refer to them as candy. In fact, it's best to make it a point to tell them that they are NOT candy., Kids may think the vitamins are candy, or just really enjoy the sweet taste, and they may be tempted to down a few when you're not looking. Kids can actually overdose on some vitamins, so make sure to keep the vitamins where your kids can't easily get to them., Look at any medications your child is on. Check them for interactions with vitamins that are in multivitamins. You may find an interaction that means your child shouldn't take the multivitamin. Your doctor or pharmacist can also help you figure this part out., If you suspect your child has eaten too many vitamins, you should be on the lookout for symptoms of overdosing. The most likely vitamins to lead to an overdose are iron, vitamin B6, vitamin B3, vitamin E, vitamin K, vitamin D, and vitamin A.


The symptoms you should look for include bleeding issues (vitamin K and E), flushed skin (vitamin B3), difficulty walking and numbness (vitamin B6), trouble seeing and klutziness (vitamin A), and stomach issues like nausea, cramps, and vomiting (iron).
Seek medical care if you notice any of these symptoms in your child. Call your child's pediatrician or poison control., Of course, many kids are picky eaters, but the majority of your child's vitamins should be coming from their diet. Try to encourage them to eat more fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, as well as dairy and lean proteins.It takes a much smaller amount than you probably think for your child to get their daily vitamins.
 If you are having trouble getting your child to take the multivitamin or if you frequently forget to provide it for your child, consider creating a regular routine. For instance, every night right after dinner or first thing in the morning before brushing their teeth, each child gets one multivitamin. Make it a routine and you’ll be more likely to stick with it and your kid(s) will get consistent, proper doses.