 Books can apply an exciting, sensational power: you may develop an instinct called concept. Conceptualize the books. The more books you read, the more rational you may become!;
, A relationship between two books/as concepts will combine both -- effecting a "super concept". Relate books with common similarities, disregarding their various fields. Hybridize concepts, as ongoing blending.
 Do not read all the time!.......it will attenuate(weaken) your brain energy. This will make it very hard to imbibe. Read for 2-3 hrs(Standard reading time).
 Well, your words can. You can develop soaring rhetoric like projecting your dream! Like "I have a dream! I have a dream that some day...!" How? By skillful wording, phrases, building communication skill, with deeply felt combinations of words, making choices on the wing, as you fly (inch or crawl) through the minutes and years on God's green earth.
 For example layer definitions into your context: "loving your vocation and avocation, enjoying work and leisure time, and stepping up your earning and relaxation potentials". That was, perhaps, two-ply triplexing: "vocation -- work -- earning" and contrasting that with "avocation -- leisure -- relaxing" in manifold exporting of knowledge. So if avocation is an unfamiliar word, yet it becomes easy to access its denotation. That kind of phrasing doubles and triples your impact while concurrently defining words for various levels of readers or listeners to whom you wish to communicate while elevating their comprehension. But it can be tiresome, if overused. So, though that can extend and expand your progress, into multiform advancements, yet do it modestly and moderately.
, Every living organism or mechanism needs rest or cooling down and recuperating, repair. In the perspective of reading, your brain accumulates/decodes words depending on your reading speed and comprehension level, of what matters to you spiritually and physically. If your mind and soul is overworked, you won't understand what you are reading as you skip/smash through it. Let your mind have a chance to sleep and mull ideas, in the depths of the well of your creative subconsciousness.
 Words are grain for your "grinding-mill", but give your mind a chance to, figuratively, package the product, to make confections, candy and cake -- not just stirring up a choking dust but generating word-power to emit, folding in various ingredients and putting it out as nourishment, as soul-food for a friend or the human race, on the Internet.
 Casual exercises like riddles, puzzles, quizzes will contract and extend the brain "muscles", thereby accumulating more ways to access neurons (units of storage). What good are words that are not enjoyable, but dull or dusty.
 One unabridged dictionary won't help an avid maestro. Even two dictionaries might not be enough. Study an amazing dictionary at the reference department of a library such as the OED (20 volume Oxford English Dictionary), relate meanings, derivation, do cross checks, outline. Earmark scintillating words. Set up an optimal number of new words to learn, per day or per week, a quantity which is "right for you". You will be glad you decided to have fun, adventure and challenge yourself with new words.
 A thesaurus is a corpus of synonyms and antonyms (a body of words with the similar and contrasting meanings). They are very handy/helpful as to write an article, essay, poem or song, etc.
 Make it a labor of love to share your findings with persons who might be interested. Don't push too hard. Discuss new words (words embody ideas).
 Showcase your strides in word-power on social media. This way, you will potentially assess the commendation (or confused silence) you inspire in models of "comments" or "likes".
 Repeating the above steps "continually" will extrude (continuously mold under persistent pressure) your avid/enthusiasm and growth in the English language.

