 Basically there's 3 options: 1 big binder (3 inch) for everything, a bunch of little binders, (1 inch or half inch, 1 for each class) or 3 or 4 medium sized-binders (1 and a half to 2 inches). Some people like to carry around a small binder at school and transfer their old work to a bigger binder at home(3inch). Then their bag won't be too heavy with the extra weight from textbooks and notebooks. Pick whichever one your school allows/you want.
 Your binder is something you want to last through the whole year and some of the binders available definitely will not. Remember that sometimes it is worth the extra couple of dollars to get a long lasting binder.
 You must have dividers. Preferably with pockets, so you don't need folders. They're not expensive, depending on how many you buy. They usually come in packs of 5 and 8. Get dividers with pockets.
 It's helpful to have the dividers in order of your classes. i.e. If math is your first class, then your first divider would be math.
 Notes are an important part of getting into higher grades. The older you get, the more notes you'll take, so have a spiral or some paper to take notes. (If your school doesn't allow spirals, because some don't, get a composition book and put it in the pocket of that subject's divider.
 Your pencil bag, and your planner/agenda at the front of your binder, because these are important materials that you use most often. Keep your schedule in a page protector at the front, or slip it in the clear front of your binder.
 If you keep your binder in order either by color or by classes or any other method, you will have no trouble whatsoever during the school year. It'll be so much easier to find your papers!

, Some classes require a binder specifically for their subject.
 Organize your work and notes into categories such as notes, grades, homework, assignments.
 For example: let's say science is blue. You'd get a blue half-inch binder, blue dividers (if you can, because most dividers come multicolored), a blue folder, blue highlighter- whatever else you need for science would be blue. Everything. So if you you're trying to pack for science, in your locker you'd see a blue binder and folder- you'd know immediately that's science.
 For some subjects you need specific things and it is easier to keep that object in your binder. Another thing which is really useful is an insertable binder hole punch which will ensure you place all your papers in WHEN you get them. If you don't do this then your binder won't be as organised.

