 One important step in preventing periodontal disease is taking your dog to get oral checkups and cleaning by the vet.Depending on the state of your dog’s mouth, you may want to schedule quarterly or half-yearly checks.Oral cleanings help reduce bacteria that can lead to periodontal disease.;
, Examine your dog’s mouth by lifting his lips.If you see any tartar build up, gingivitis, or any other sign of periodontal disease, make an appointment with your veterinarian to have the mouth examined and to schedule a tooth cleaning.


You cannot remove the tartar from the teeth on your own. Your dog will need to be anesthetized and special tools will be used to remove this concrete hard substance from the teeth and below the gum line.
 One of the best ways to prevent periodontal disease is to brush your dog’s teeth. This process is simpler than it may seem. You will need to purchase a dog toothbrush, which can be either an actual brush or a finger brush, or a child’s soft toothbrush. You also need a dog toothpaste.To get your dog used to having their teeth brush, start by putting a dab of the toothpaste on your finger to let the dog taste it. Then you can put another dab on your finger and rub it in a circular motion along the outside of the teeth.
It may take a few days for the dog to let you rub your fingers along his teeth. Once he does, you can over a few days slowly introduce the brush with toothpaste into the dog’s mouth.
The process of brushing should only take less than a minute since you will mainly concentrate on the outer tooth surfaces.
Do not use human toothpaste because the fluoride in it can be toxic to dogs, and do not use baking soda because dog's shouldn't swallow that either. Anything you brush your dog's teeth with will be swallowed. Buy dog toothpaste that is made so it can be safely swallowed., Oral rinses and gels contain chlorhexidine or zinc. You can place the rinse or gel in your dog’s water bowl. You can also wipe them on your dog’s teeth to help control plaque.Since the rinse or gel can be added to the dog's water or wiped on the teeth, the products are safe to swallow.These are best used in conjunction with tooth brushing and regular dental cleanings by your veterinarian.
Do not use these products if your dog has medical conditions unless you consult your veterinarian first.
 You can start feeding your dog food specifically designed to help with dental care. These specialty foods have built in product or particle sizes which either mechanically or chemically remove plaque. These feeds can be kibble or rawhide type chews. They will be labeled specifically as dental food or designed to clean dog's teeth and prevent plaque on the bag.Examples of dental food include the Science Diet Oral Care by Hill's Pet Nutrition, Iams Chunk Dental Defense Diet, and Purina Pro Plan Veterinary Diets Canine dry dog food. Check the Veterinary Oral Health Council's list of accepted products for further options.Look for dental foods that have the VOHC seal. This means the food has been tested by the Veterinary Oral Health Council for its effectiveness in cleaning teeth and preventing plaque.If your dog has a medical condition, do not use unless your veterinarian okay’s it for your dog.
 If your dog loves to chew, you can purchase toys that are specifically designed to help rub the plaque off your dog’s teeth. You can also give your dog dental treats to help clean his teeth. Many of these dental treats and toys are labeled on the bag to specifically treat tartar build up and plaque.Dental treats and toys are sold at all pet stores and most supercenters. Examples include Greenies band, Tartar Shield Soft Rawhide Chews, and Purina Busy HeartyHide Chew Treats.If you use chewing toys, make sure to wash them frequently to remove any bacteria.
Never let your dog chew bones, hooves, antlers, ice cubes, or any other item that may break his teeth.

