 The unknown often causes fear. Educating yourself about your procedure is an important first step in overcoming your fear of surgery. You can do this by reading relevant material from reputable sources both on and offline, and – most importantly – talking with your surgeon about your specific surgical procedure. You could also talk to others who have had similar or identical surgeries as the one you’ll have.Questions you might want to ask your surgeon include:


How long will the surgery take?
What are the risks associated with this surgery?
What kind of aftercare procedures does this surgery require?;
, Find a surgeon you trust. If you have a surgeon you know well, or a surgeon who comes highly recommended from friends or family, you will be more comfortable with the operation. When you really believe in your surgeon, your fear will dissipate.Plus, if you trust your surgeon sincerely, you’ll be more likely to open up to them about your fears. When you do, a good surgeon will understand and sympathize with your position, and take steps to help you cope with your fears.
 Once you know your surgical team, you’ll realize that they only want to help you get well. Feel free to ask them specific questions. For instance, if you’re scared that your medical team is inexperienced, you could ask them, “How long have you been doing surgeries like this?” If you’re afraid that they will not care about you, meeting your surgical team before the surgery can help lay those fears to rest and humanize the whole surgical process. Your surgical team might include:an anesthesiologist. Anesthesiologists are in charge of administering the gas that makes you unconscious before surgery. You could ask your anesthesiologist questions like, “Do I have to be unconscious during the surgery?” or “How long will I be unconscious?”
a surgeon. You might ask your surgeon “How many procedures of this type have you done?” or “Do you have a high rate of success for surgeries of this type?”
a surgical nurse. You might ask your surgical nurse, “How many times have you assisted with this type of procedure?” or “How will you be monitoring my condition during the procedure?

, One of the most important questions many people have about their surgery pertains to the recovery period. It’s understandable that you want to return to functioning normally and get back to work, school, and family life. Keep in mind that recovery periods differ from person to person due to factors like medical history. For example, if you have diabetes, then your healing will be slower than someone who does not. The type of procedure you are having may also affect your healing time. Talk to your surgeon to find out what you might experience during your recovery. You might ask, for instance:“What is the typical recovery time for this procedure?”
“Will my recovery be slower than normal for any reason?”
“When can I start exercising again?”

, Humor and positive mental imagery can help you to cope before your surgery. If you let your surgery play out in your mind, you might become desensitized to it, and it will inspire less fear. You could also use mental imagery to imagine a happy ending for your surgery story. For instance, instead of picturing a frozen image of yourself cut open on a hospital table, imagine the whole surgical process from start to finish.
Use positive self-talk. In other words, tell yourself everything will be okay. When you experience intrusive thoughts like, “I will not live through this,” respond to your own thoughts with a counter-thought like “I will be fine and recover quickly.”

