 If you really want the scent to last all day, it helps to use other products that have the same scent with your cologne. Many fragrance companies offer complementary products for their colognes, such as body washes, deodorants, and body creams. Because the scent is the same, wearing the cologne over a soap or lotion strengthens the fragrance and makes it last longer., Applying your cologne to the right areas of the body is key to making the scent last. You want to spritz your pulse points, including behind your ears, the base of your throat, the inside of your elbows, your wrists, and behind your knees. That’s because these are the warmest spots on your body, which will help keep the scent strong.Other areas where you may want to apply your cologne include the stomach and back of the neck.
Forget the common advice of rubbing your wrists together after applying your fragrance. Rubbing the cologne actually helps break it down, so it doesn’t last as long.
 If you’re only spraying your cologne on your skin, the scent isn’t going to last as long as it possibly can. By spritzing some on your hair, you can boost the staying power because your hair is more porous and hangs onto the scent even longer than your skin.If you’re worried about the alcohol in your cologne drying out your hair, you don’t have to spray it directly on your locks. Instead, apply some to your brush or comb before running it through your hair.
 Because of the natural oils in your skin, a scent can wear off over time. If you apply some cologne to your clothing, though, the fragrance will cling to the fabric until you wash it. Spray some on your shirt, jacket, or even an accessory such as a scarf to make sure the scent lingers all day.Some colognes may stain delicate fabrics, such as silk, so it’s a good idea to test a clothing item before spraying it with a fragrance. Apply some to a small, inconspicuous spot, such as the inside bottom hem of a shirt, to see how the fabric reacts.
 Sometimes, depending on the weather or what you’re doing, the scent of your cologne may fade no matter what steps you take to make it last. If that happens, refresh the fragrance by reapplying the cologne to your pulse points.Carrying a full-size bottle of cologne around all day to reapply isn’t always practical. Fortunately, many fragrance companies make smaller bottles that are travel-friendly, so you can easily toss one in your pocket or bag.

