 One of the keys to being attractive is actually in your head. People who are incredibly negative about themselves (their looks, their personality, etc.) translate that negativity to other people. You have to figure out how to accept and release your negative thoughts.Pay attention to thought patterns. Notice the kinds of labels and thoughts you put on yourself. Do you, when something doesn't quite work out, think "I'm worthless?" Do you tell yourself that you're stupid, or you're fat, your undesirable? None of these things are true unless you make them true (except for being fat, but that doesn't have to be unattractive unless you make it so).
When you notice that you're having a negative thought, replace it with a positive or a neutral thought. In the beginning it might be easier to use neutral thoughts. So for example, if you think "God, I'm ugly," stop yourself and say something like "I'm having a thought that I'm ugly, but that isn't true. My body serves me wonderfully, keeps me healthy, and lets me do all kinds of awesome things."
Avoid having negative people in your life as much as possible. Negative people, the ones who tell you that you need to look different, that you're too fat, or too hairy (and they're only telling you because their concerned about you), need to get out of your life. Their negativity is only going to feed your own and frankly, who needs that kind of constant stress?;
, People are drawn to confidence, because it's an incredibly attractive quality. It shows that you believe that you matter and that you deserve to take up space in this world. If you believe that's true then other people are going to, as well.


Avoid judging yourself as much as possible. This doesn't mean that you give yourself a free pass to be rude to people or mean, but it does mean that you stop micromanaging your every movement. For example: instead of saying "I'm so stupid" you might say something like "I'm having a bit of trouble with directions."
Avoid judging other people. What you say and think about other people correlates to how you think about yourself. Work on thinking positively or neutrally about other people.Don’t compare yourself to others. This is one of the useless things you can do, because someone is always going to be more attractive, more confident, etc. than you. You can constantly strive to be better than you are, but only in comparison with yourself.
 Good traits are just as attractive as physical appearance. It turns out that, while people do notice physical attractiveness first, they tend to rate people as more attractive if they have attractive qualities like kindness, real listening skills, and so on.Practice being kind. Do things for other people without expecting anything from them like helping your mom clean her house one day, or offering to drive your friend to the airport early in the morning.
Be respectful towards other people. You don't have to be a pushover to be respectful. It just means that you give people a fair hearing, you consider multiple points of view, and you don't jump to conclusions about people.
Really listen to other people. People are attracted to those who take an interest in them. When you're in conversation with someone, give them your whole attention. Make eye contact, avoid checking your phone, and ask pertinent questions.
 Being healthy (or as healthy as possible) is an important part of being attractive. Even if you have an illness of some sort you can still practice healthy habits.


Have a healthy diet. Go for lots of good fruits and vegetables (some top ones are blueberries, kale, red peppers), plenty of good carbohydrates (brown rice, sprouted grains, quinoa), protein (like salmon or eggs).
Get plenty of sleep. Not only does enough sleep help your physical appearance (skin, weight, and so on), it's important for your overall health. Try to get at least eight hours of sleep each night, with as many hours before midnight as possible. Turn off all electronics at least half an hour before bedtime.
Get at least 30 minutes of exercise every day. Pick an exercise routine that you enjoy (you don't have to go to the gym). Go for a 30 minute walk each day, go for a run, practice yoga, pop in some music and dance for 30 minutes.
 Skin types usually fall into five categories: normal, oily, dry, sensitive, or a combination of these, also called "combination."


Oily skin typically appears greasy only a few hours after washing. Treat oily skin by washing both morning and night with a gentle cleanser. Stripping the skin of oil entirely only causes your body to produce more oil.Dry skin tends to be flaky. Treat dry skin by washing with warm, not hot water, and by moisturizing skin while it's still slightly wet. Dermatologists think that this helps lock the moisture in.Sensitive skin is often tight or itchy and tends to react allergically to certain chemicals. If you have sensitive skin, get products that have no fragrance or alcohol; always wear sunscreen when going out (SPF 30 or higher); and wash your face gently using your hands.Normal skin has the right balance of moisture, oil, and durability., Your face is probably the first thing people will notice about you, so you want to make sure that you're caring for it properly. Make sure that you're using a skincare regime that is simple; you can wind up over-treating your skin, making things worse.


Typically you want to wash your face twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening, to remove dirt and excess oils. If your skin is sensitive or dry, you may want to do it only once, or make sure you have cleansers and moisturizers that are made for your skin type.It's best to pick your cleanser based on your skin type, how often you wear make-up, and how often you tend to work out. So, as an example, if you have oily skin, you'd want to pick a cleanser that had a low pH level, because that would clean the oil on your skin more effectively.
 Exercise not only helps mental and physical health, but it can also help to improve your skin. It reduces stress, which can have a negative impact on your skin, and the increase in your blood flow leads to a healthy glow. Make sure that you're wearing sunscreen if you're going to be exercising outside during the peak sunlight hours., More than five portions of fruits and vegetables each day can help improve skin. What you eat has a big effect on your skin and how healthy and vibrant it looks. The more fruits and vegetables (especially fruits like blueberries, or veggies like leafy greens) the better your skin is going to look.Probiotics also help improve your skin, so eat plenty of sugar-free yogurt. Yogurt helps to regulate your digestive tract by providing millions of beneficial bacteria. The better your digestive tract is working, the fewer problems it's likely to have.
 People with whiter, healthier teeth tend to be rated as more attractive than people who have yellower and less healthy teeth. That may be because white teeth signals that you take care of yourself, an important quality in finding a potential mate.Make sure you're brushing your teeth at least twice a day. You also want to floss them at least once a day, a step which many neglect, but which is very important for maintaining dental health.
You can whiten your teeth safely and effectively using over-the-counter treatments, or you can have a professional whiten your teeth. This doesn't contribute to the health of your teeth, but it can look nice. Make sure that you are still getting your teeth checked out by a dentist at least once a year to check for cavities. If you have sensitive teeth, or inflamed gums, avoid whitening your teeth until after they've healed.
 Whether you're a guy or girl, and no matter what type of hair you have, healthy hair is the most attractive hair. You know your hair best, so you'll know how often you should wash it without drying it out or leaving it too oily. Make sure that you're only washing the scalp of your hair. Washing the ends dries them out.Fine hair tends to need washing about one a day to about once every three days. You'll have to experiment to see what works best for you. Shampooing every day might cause your hair to dry out more quickly and to start producing oil, so consider changing your shampoo or seeing how long your hair can support going without washing.
Greasy hair needs to be shampooed about every day. Additionally, it might help to change your shampoo, because that can often be the cause of greasy hair (even if it says it's specifically for greasy hair).
Curly or coarse hair needs less washing than the other types. At most, you should shampoo curly or coarse hair a couple times a week, three at most. More than that will dry your hair and scalp out and lead to more frizz.
 Girls tend to have more options than guys for hair, but this also means that guys tend to be able to get away with the same hairstyle. However, for both genders it's a great idea to try out different cuts and styles to see what works best for you.Hairstyles for men:


Straight hair of any thickness: short sides, fade down shorter onto nape of your neck and sideburns, at least an inch and a half on the top; wavy to curly hair: keep the sides at a medium length; top to side ratio should be 2:1 and blended; for fine straight hair, let it grow to your shoulders, top of collar.

Wavy or curly hair: grow out your hair until there's about two inches on the sides and three on the top, ask your barber to add some texture.Hairstyles for women:


Straight hair: side part with the rest of your hair down; or a pony-tail with volume at the crown with a little hair spray; or french braid on either side of your head that you secure in the back, while leaving the rest down.

Wavy hair: a messy updo with soft face-framing tendrils; or pull up the sides of your head and secure them in the back, letting the ends curl; or try an no-fuss low, side bun.

Curly hair: a short cut; or let it loose with a little product and a severe side-part to create volume on top; or gather a small section at the top of your hairline and pull back, leaving the sides and back down; or grab small sections of your hair and pin them up in the back.
 You want to get a few items that are individual and that you can build an outfit around. This is important for both men and women, because it helps draw out your individuality (which in turn demonstrates your confidence in yourself).


Jewelry, clothing, shoes can all be important pieces. For example, you might favor chunky, bulky jewelry so you tend to wear more neutral clothes to show it off, or you might favor waistcoats in fun colors and so you build your wardrobe around that.
Bags are also a great statement piece. You can easily switch them up, depending on the outfit you want to wear. They can be subtle, or exciting and they're also useful.
 Part of attracting people to you is being noticeable. You want to stand out from the crowd. To do this you should look for clothing that is unique, that other people don't have.


Consignment shops are fantastic places to get fun and cool clothing for cheaper. You can get designer clothes for less if you go to consignment shops located in the high-class part of town.
Antique stores and vintage shops are great places to locate vintage clothing (which happens to be very in right now). A lot of older clothes are very durable, so they tend to have a longer life-span than current clothes.
Artist bazaars often have clothes and accessories that are one-of-a-kind. By supporting your local artists you're making the statement that you are involved in your community, and you have unusual and interesting accessories and clothes. You can also find interesting and unusual clothes online from websites like Etsy and eBay. Make sure you're clear on what your clothing size is so that you don't get the wrong size.
 You want to wear clothing that you feel comfortable, confident, and attractive in. This means that you'll have to do some experimenting to figure out what works best for you.


Have your “uniform.” This is the few outfits that you base your style on. You can rotate through these, changing them up a little, and adding accessories and such to them. For example: you might favor jeans and a t-shirt as your "uniform." You can vary this up by wearing a long-sleeve t-shirt, or a nice button down over a t-shirt, or a sweater when it gets cold.
Using neutral bases to ground the more exciting and out-there pieces. Neutral bases are clothes that come in black, or grey, or natural colors like brown or cream. These help balance and ground your brighter and more colorful clothes.
Wear red. For both genders, red attracts. It signifies power and confidence. So wear that red dress, or red lipstick, that red scarf, or shirt and see who it attracts to you., One of the keys to looking good is having clothing that fits you properly. Too tight and you'll look uncomfortable, too loose and you'll look sloppy.


Even your jeans should fit you properly. They should conform to your body without squeezing too tightly, or sagging below your waist. If they're too long, make sure to hem them so that they don't drag on the ground.
If you're female, make sure that your bras are fitting you properly. You want support without feeling squeezed and without having the straps leave lines on your skin.
 People of both genders notice footwear, even if they don't realize they do. Wearing the right shoes can definitely attract people to you, especially if your footwear complements your outfit.


For women, flats are wonderfully versatile. They can dress up or dress down depending on what you need. They can be as attractive as high heels without the pain of walking in them.
Boots can class up an outfit and they can be perfect for autumn or winter. High heels can also class up an outfit, but you need to practice walking in them. There's nothing attractive about somebody tottering down the street.
For guys you want to make sure that your shoes fit you properly and go with your outfit (no brown with black, please). If you're going on a date, make sure that your shoes look good.
 Make-up can be a lot of fun and it can be an added benefit to your already lovely face. Using make-up correctly you can attract all kinds of people. Experiment to figure out what works for you.


If you're having a bad skin day, you can use make-up to cover up the blemishes. Make sure that the cover-up matches your skin tone, otherwise it will simply draw attention to what you're trying to hide!
Help contour your face how you want it. You can use bronzer to bring out your cheekbones and blush to contour your face and add length or width, depending on what you want. Apply your blush in a horizontal line to widen or across temples and jaw to lengthen it.
 Eyes are the "window to the soul," right? Enhancing your eyes is a great way to draw people in. You can do a simple "natural" look, or try out the smokey eye (which is always in fashion and great paired with red lipstick).


For the smokey eye look, sweep nude eyeshadow over your entire eyelid. Apply a shimmering eyeshadow from base to brow of eyelid (whatever color you'd like). Like your top and bottom lash lines with dark eyeliner, in a brown or black shade. Use a Q-tip to smudge the liner. Sweep a darker eyeshadow over your eyelid and into the crease. Blend that color upward and outward. Place the highlighting tone (a lighter color) under your brow bone and in tear duct. Line your inner lash line with eyeliner to intensify the effect. Now use two or three coats of mascara on your lashes and curl them upward.
For the natural look add a little definition to your eyes with eyeliner, in a subtle and natural shade (like brown). Brush on a little light colored eyeshadow, such as champagne or light brown. Open up your lashes with a little mascara (a coat or two). Test out different mascaras until you find one that doesn't make your lashes all clumpy and goopy.
 Make-up should be a fun accessory, so get a little creative with it. Show your wild side. Cool, interesting make-up can attract people just as much as subtle, almost un-seeable make-up.


Go fifties with some cat’s eye make-up, or try out some other era's make-up techniques (a little ancient Egyptian, anyone?).
Go crazy with fun colors! Use bright colors to enhance your eye color and make it pop. For example, use a silvery or turquoise shade to bring out blue eyes; or dark emerald green to bring out the bring in hazel eyes.

