 The more you practice, the better you get, and you can practice some aspect of baseball every day. Make a weekly schedule that includes conditioning as well as working on skills. Following a regular routine will make it easier.Consider alternating days between specific baseball skills (throwing, batting practice, fielding drills, etc.) and targeted conditioning exercises (interval workouts, running drills, etc.). This might prevent a sore throwing arm or calloused hands (from swinging a bat too many times), and can also reduce potential boredom.
 If you've had a long season or an injury, it is important to take some time to recover. Repetitive motion injuries are common among serious athletes. Even if you have to alter your offseason program, give yourself time to rest and recover. You definitely won’t make the team if you’re still injured during tryouts.If you have a “dead arm,” for instance, running cross country and/or doing a sprint training program can help keep you in shape while giving your arm a rest.
 So long as you’re not dealing with soreness or injury, incrementally build up your arm strength and stamina during the offseason. Start early (at the beginning of winter, for instance) and work slowly so you don’t have a sore arm or blisters interfering with your tryout.


Look for arm strength training programs online, or even better, talk to a knowledgeable coach or trainer. The program should focus specific exercises on specific areas — like the wrist, elbow, shoulder, hips, legs, etc. — and typically culminate with long-toss exercises., Most baseball coaches used to advise against weight training, and even today some are not big proponents of it. Talk to the coach about their views on strength training and the type of workouts they prefer their players to do. Remember, it’s never too early to get on the coach’s good side.In many cases, basic exercises like push-ups, pull-ups, and working with a medicine ball may make up the backbone of your strength training program. If you do choose (or are advised) to do weight training, lift safely and sensibly and give yourself adequate rest between workouts., Baseball is largely an anaerobic activity — that is, it requires short bursts of energy as opposed to aerobic endurance. So, while distance running is good for your health and may help loosen up a stiff arm (and all your other joints), focus primarily on short-burst workouts.Talk to a trainer or coach, or look online for a sensible workout plan that incorporates sprints, interval training, and other exercises that involve bursts of energy.
 You might hear baseball coaches say “you can’t teach speed,” but you can in fact train to make yourself at least a little faster. Sprint and interval training sessions can help, along with improving your running form and technique.Make sure to incorporate sport-specific drills into your program — in this case, base running drills, for instance. Being a faster runner won’t help you much if you’re still a subpar baserunner., Eating healthy — lean proteins, fruits, vegetables, whole grains and a minimum of processed carbohydrates and sugars — will make a difference over time. The appropriate intake for your activity level is also important. This may mean eating five small meals a day instead of three larger ones. Consult with your doctor or a trainer or dietician to find the best diet for you.Don’t forget that you need to sleep well also. Getting the right amount of sleep will give you more energy and focus, and reduce recovery times. As a teen, aim for at least eight hours per night.