 The dictionary definition includes external obligations both personal and civic. External obligations, however, can feel like forced behavior. The real importance of loyalty in a relationship is internal: your own moral compass regarding those personal obligations.Know that love, dedication, devotion, and commitment are personal choices. These cannot be held by an outside source; they must come from within. Therefore, first and foremost, you must understand your own personal idea of loyalty and adapt/change to circumstances only as long as they don’t conflict with your moral compass.
Changing your concept of loyalty to make someone else happy will lead to your own unhappiness down the road. Be realistic and honest with yourself and know what you can or can’t change in your beliefs.;
, Once you know what loyalty means to you, you also know how you expect to be treated. That, in turn, tells you how you need to treat your partner. For example, if you want to be able to rely on your partner's support, you should show your partner that you support him or her emotionally and financially in good times as well as in bad times.
 There are very few absolutes in life but one you can count on is this: no one is perfect. Your partner has strengths and weaknesses, admirable qualities and faults. Don’t expect them to be anything but human. In turn, don’t expect yourself to be anything but human.


Accept your partner for who they are, warts and all. Our imperfections define us just as much as our strengths do. Showing that you accept it all unconditionally greatly strengthens mutual feelings of loyalty.
 There is a reason why you love your partner. Remind yourself of this regularly as you take the time to reinforce what your partner means to you. This makes staying committed to a relationship and loyal to your partner much easier. Having regular dates with one another, setting aside time to talk about each other's days, and showing each other appreciation are good ways to reinforce your relationship.
 It is a generally accepted belief that loyalty doesn’t include cheating on your partner. This is a very hurtful act that will, in most cases, lead to the end of your relationship. Having a discussion with your partner about relationship openness or secretiveness and what constitutes faithfulness versus being unfaithful is important. Make sure to discuss your relationship expectations and what actions you each need in order to feel secure and respected.

