 Make your Sim walk to a relatively clear space in the garden and build a wall around them. The wall should be as small as you can make it and it should have no doors. Your Sim should eventually starve after a few Sim days.

You can then delete the walls. 
This is the easiest method, but it is very long and drawn out and you have to put up with many Sim days of Jim Sim complaining at you to feed him, take him to the loo, shower him etc. etc.
If your Sim is unable to move for some reason or you don't have enough space in your garden, then just remove all doors, food and telephones from the room where the Sim is in.;
, Make your Sim jump into the swimming pool using a diving board, then remove the ladder or build a wall right around the pool. Your Sim will keep swimming but eventually he/she will get too tired and drown.

It's a cruel way to go, but relatively easy and quicker than starvation. Your Sim will still complain while swimming, though.
 Buy some fireworks and set them up in Your Sim's room. Make sure there are lots of wooden objects in there. Make your Sim explode a firework in his room. The room will set on fire and your Sim will die.

No complaints, but a torched room to deal with, and a lot of ashes to be swept up by your Sim's roommate.
 This will work 80% of the time. If it doesn't, you can just turn it into death by starvation. Make your Sim walk to a clear space in the garden and build a medium-sized wall around him, about the size of a small room. Don't build any doors. Put a fireplace inside it and put a wooden chair right in front of it. Make your Sim light the fire and sit on the chair. The chair should catch fire, along with poor Jim Sim. 

You can then delete the walls and the fireplace, and there is only a small pile of ashes for your Sim's roommate to deal with.
You can also simply get your Sim (if he/she has no cooking skill) to try and cook a hot meal without a fire alarm, and a fire will probably start. He/she will burn if he doesn't run away or try to put the fire out. However, you will have to renovate the kitchen and you will leave a lot of mess for your Sim's roommate to clean up.
 Wait until your TV is broken, then get your Sim (if he/she has no mechanic ability at all) to try to fix it. Jim Sim will unfortunately be electrocuted and die.

Sometimes your Sim will get lucky and miraculously fix it without injuring himself/herself at all, so this will also work if a Sim with any amount of mechanic ability attempts to fix a broken TV while standing in a puddle of water. If your Sim has an... er... accident while standing in front of the TV, then tries to fix the TV, he/she will discover an unfortunate end.
If your Sim tries to fix a flat-screen TV with no mechanic ability and no water, he will definitely die, but flat-screens cost a lot of money.
 Buy a Guinea Pig, and remove all 'Forgotten Guinea Pig' paintings from the house. Make your Sim forget about his Guinea Pig for a few days, until the cage gets dirty. Then make him/her randomly play with the Guinea Pig. The Guinea Pig will probably bite poor Jim Sim, who will be infected by the dreaded Guinea Pig disease.

The symptoms are coughing and sneezing, as you would expect from a normal cold. Don't care for your Sim at all. Delete all of the doors and leave your Sim outside if you have to. Your Sim's poor roommate will be confined inside the house for a few days, but your Sim will eventually die.

