 Draw an Easter themed shape on a sturdy piece of card stock or cardboard. Some ideas include rabbits, eggs, baby chicks/Peeps, and so on. These should be roughly the size of your open hand. Cut these out from the paper/cardboard, then:


Decorate the cutout. Cover it in bright Easter colors with markers or paint. Add glitter, sequins, and faux gems. These accents look especially nice on egg cutouts.
Use a hole punch or a pair of scissors to create a hole in the top of the cutout. Tie a loop onto this hole with ribbon. The loop should be large enough for a doorknob.
Hang your Easter door hangers on the handles of doors into your home. To protect them from the being ruined by weather, you may want to laminate them.
 Similar to the tree hanging egg decorations, use a sharp tool, like a knife, awl, or pair of scissors, to make holes in both ends of plastic Easter eggs. Thread fishing line through these holes to string the line with eggs. Tie off both ends of the line.Drape your garlands from wall hangers, nails, door jambs, and so on. Add a large ribbon tied in a bow to the garland to add flare.
Some plastic eggs are made with holes in them and won’t require you to poke holes the ends of the egg. Look for these at the dollar store.
A simpler garland can be made by stringing paper cutouts of eggs on a line of twine or string and hanging this much as you would the plastic egg garland., Old boots that children have grown out of often have cute patterns on them, making them ideal for this craft. Clean the boots and let them air dry somewhere not in direct sunlight. Fill the boot with colorful shredded paper, nestle some plastic eggs in it, and your “basket” is done.


Bright and colorful accents are a great addition to these boot-baskets. Stick pinwheels into the boot, toy rabbits, and more.
Place these boot-baskets at entrances to your home, where they will be somewhat protected from the elements. The shredded paper will break down when exposed to moisture., Gather a 12 x 36 in (30 x 91 cm) piece of Styrofoam, a wooden dowel, Peep colored spray paint (like bright yellow or pink), spray glitter, brown paint, a paint brush, a utility knife, a drop cloth, and a pencil. Draw the outline of a Peep on the Styrofoam, then:


Use your utility knife to cut away the pieces of Styrofoam that aren’t part of the design. When you finish cutting, soften the outer edges of the Peep by rubbing a piece of excess foam against the Peep’s edges, wearing away the foam until it’s more Peep shaped.
Lay down a drop cloth in a well ventilated area and set the Peep cutout on the cloth. Spray paint the Peep entirely. Allow this to dry according to the label instructions.
Use a paintbrush to apply two dots of brown paint for the eyes of the Peep and a dot of brown paint for the nose as well. Spray on glitter afterwards.
Stick a dowel into the bottom of the Peep. You can insert the dowel in the ground for a lawn ornament, add the Peep to a vase, basket, or pot, and so on.