 Only lie when you have something gain to give your self motivation. If you limit your lies then people won’t realize when you have finally broken. People who lie a lot, like pathological liars, can’t help themselves and tell a lot of little lies that can easily get them caught. It’s difficult to keep track of a lot of lies and people know that they can’t trust you once you’ve been caught lying several times., Work out all the details prior to telling your lie. Like anything, practice makes perfect. The more you tell the same lie, the easier it will become. It’s easy to find out if a person is coming up with a lie on the spot as details become vague and nervousness begin to set in., The more truth you can add to a lie the easier it will be to tell. It is more like you’re leaving a false impression rather than blatantly lying. Attempt to avoid follow-up questions by colouring in as much truth as you can., Get inside the head of someone listening to your head. A good liar uses the same tools as a good communicator. Empathize with your listener and anticipate what he wants to hear. Learn what your listener knows and identify his interests and schedule to avoid any missteps in your story that may trigger any suspicion., Lying can make you nervous and scared. You may not notice yourself fidgeting, stuttering, or breaking eye contact. People can pick up on your non-verbal cues so try to limit gestures that aren’t already natural to your personality.Some people talk faster than normal or give too much eye contact to overcompensate for a lie. Rehearse in front of a mirror or a friend to get the most natural delivery you can.
 Liars will memorize the details about the lie but may get caught off guard when asked about the emotions associated with their actions. They may sound mechanical when delivering their answers. Be prepared to add emotion to the details of your lie., Lip compression may be a negative reaction when telling a lie. People testifying often compress their lips just before relaying something negative. Get through a tough line of questioning with relaxed lips., Whether your breathing increases or even hyperventilates, it’s usually a sign that you are nervous or psychologically uncomfortable. Even taking a long deep breath can be a sign that you are collecting yourself before a lie., Many people unconsciously touch their neck when they are nervous or anxious. Usually people reach for the dimple of their neck. Many may adjust their tie or fidget with it instead of touching their neck., A contentious topic or difficult conversation may cause you to turn your body away. You may subtly shift in your seat and turn your stomach away from an accuser or from someone you are lying to. You may even create a barrier by crossing your legs while still keeping eye contact. Keep your torso facing your listener especially if they have just asked you a question that you need to lie to answer., People may reach for their glasses or rub their eyes when in a difficult conversation. Keep your hands in a neutral and natural position when telling a lie to avoid suspicion., Hiding or lowering your thumbs may reveal that you are insecure or aren’t committed to your statement. When people are more emphatic they tend to have their thumbs straight and apart., Any changes in your regular speech patterns and behaviours may raise suspicions. Some people may talk faster, high-pitched, or give more errors in speech when nervous. Liars also want to convince you of a lie so they may repeat details to hammer it home. Avoid overly repetitive information as you speak naturally.Liars may probe with repetitive information and their spoken words may be weaker at the start and end of a statement as they try to read their listener to see if their lie is being believed.
Repetition may be difficult to read especially if using a cellphone as coverage may become spotty and cause repetition.
 Cultural context may dictate how you utilize pauses in your delivery. However, if you use a pause, it may come off as regrouping to deliver a lie. Saying something like, “That’s a good question” may come off as you delaying to gather your thoughts as you commit a lie.Both honest and deceitful people use pauses in speech so this will be a difficult factor to detect without proper context.
 Keep consistent. Depending on how big of a lie you tell, it may be hard work keeping everything in order. Remember every detail you lay out even if it is not asked of you. Make sure not to give different information to different people., You must commit to your lie. Any wavering makes it obvious that you’re lying. Lying may feel unpleasant as fear and guilt set in. Your body language and facial expressions may give away your emotions as you want to get the lie over with. You must commit to your lie as if your were telling the truth.Some people enjoy the thrill of lying and don’t show shame or remorse. Lying is not a socially acceptable activity so it’s okay if you don’t get any joy from what you’re doing and find it difficult to commit.
 If you are being accused of a lie, turn the table and manipulate your accuser. You may ask questions like “Why were you there, do you not trust me?” or “I’m sure you don’t want your friends hearing what you’ve been up to either”., Politicians use this technique to drive people away from other issues. People are uncomfortable accusing others so any chance they have to change topics may be seen as welcomed relief. For example, if a politician is asked about his views on the economy, he may drive the conversation to immigration. Similarly, if you are being accused of missing curfew, you may move the conversation to your brother driving without a license., Avoid responsibility from your lie by softening or even erasing anything you’re being accused of by admitting to things that your accuser will find satisfactory. If you can deflect blame you will also deflate the anger associated with it., People may ask you questions several different ways to try to catch you in a lie. Make sure that you not only know the details but also the specifics when more precise questions are asked.