 Although you can make a rough diagnosis at home, it is important that you check with your doctor or a specialist (podiatrist or an orthopedic surgeon) right away, once you experience pain while doing weight-bearing exercises such as walking, running and jogging. Remember that in the case of a stress fracture, the pain usually subsides at rest, but when the pain, discomfort and swelling do not subside, it is best to head to the emergency department of the nearest hospital or treatment facility.


If left untreated for too long, a stress fracture can cause quite a bit of damage.
 The doctor will interview you and ask you some questions are necessary to gather information. This information will aid the doctor in accurately diagnosing a stress fracture. The doctor can also evaluate the patient’s risk factors for developing a stress fracture.
 A thorough physical examination is done where the doctor will inspect, palpate and percuss the affected area. Symptoms such as tenderness, pain, and swelling are determined in this manner.
 Imaging will help the doctor confirm the diagnosis. Since stress fractures might only appear to be a crack in the bone, their extent and severity may not be seen in a routine x-ray. If the x-ray is unsuccessful, further imaging will be ordered. Some possible types of imagine are seen below:


X-ray. May not show evidence of stress fractures, but can be used several weeks after the symptoms begin. This can show when the bone starts to remodel and heal, evidence that an extra bone is being formed at the fracture site.
Computed tomography scan. A modernized method of evaluating the internal structures of the body. CT scans take computerized images and convert them into visual to provide a clearer picture of what is happening within the affected site and its surrounding joints, ligaments or bones.
Bone scan. Can identify a stress fracture. This scan uses a radioactive tracer injected through an intravenous line to demonstrate areas where bone cells have increased activity and blood supply, suggesting bone repair. A bright white spot is shown on the scan image.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A procedure used to establish the degree of injury acquired by the patient through a scan. It uses radio and magnetic field waves to form a more detailed and clear picture of the scanned body structure.

