 It can be upsetting if the person tells you that someone you know is responsible for their hard childhood. It can also be distressing if you care a lot about the person and the events were extremely traumatic. You may need to work through your feelings about what they have told you.Think about if your feelings are an appropriate emotional reaction to what this person disclosed, or if you are experiencing codependency and this person's emotions are controlling you.


For example, if your cousin tells you that a relative abused them it might be emotionally challenging for you to handle.
Or, for instance, if your spouse was a young runaway it might be hard for you to accept.
Think about what they told and write down all the emotions that you feel as you’re thinking about it. For example, you might write, “frightened, sad, disappointed, confused.”

, It can be challenging for you as well as the person when someone is describing a difficult childhood. You might find that you feel sad, angry, or confused. You may need to do something to relax yourself and calm down.You might go for a walk after you get through talking to the person. Even a brief walk can help clear your mind and calm you down.
Try meditating for a while. Sit or lie somewhere comfortable. Close your eyes and try to focus on your breathing.
 In some situations you may need to seek support yourself because of something someone told you about their childhood.Turn to your close family and friends and let them know that you need help working through something.


If you don’t feel comfortable telling them what has you upset, you might say something like, “I don’t want to go into details, but I’m upset and just need someone to be with me.”
Or, if you’re trying to respect the privacy of the person that confided in you, you could say, “It’s someone else's private matter, but it has me upset. Can we just talk about my feelings?”
Spend some time doing something relaxing, calming, or even fun to help you release your stress and tension.

