 Roughly 10 percent of youths at runaway shelters have traded sex for food, a place to stay, or other benefits. That number jumps to roughly 33 percent for homeless youths. This level of desperation leads to a higher likelihood of physical and sexual abuse, especially for females. , Potentially living on the streets will put you in contact with many people who abuse alcohol and drugs. If you have a pre-existing addiction then running away can make you even more vulnerable to substance-related health issues. Teens who run away have higher instances of depression and addiction so it’s important to consider whether running away will exacerbate your likelihood to consume dangerous substances. , Roughly 25 percent of teen runaways have suffered serious health issues such as gastrointestinal problems and various infections. Sign up for basic healthcare if at all possible before you leave. Easy to treat problems such as pneumonia or the common cold can turn life threatening without proper medical care. For those in the US, go to https://www.healthcare.gov/blog/4-ways-to-apply-for-coverage-in-the-health-insurance-marketplace/ for information on how to sign up for healthcare.
 Sexually-transmitted diseases run rampant throughout runaways and homeless populations in addition to unwanted pregnancies. Be sure to pack condoms and other forms of protection to protect your sexual health. Those living in the US should locate the nearest Planned Parenthood, which should provide condoms for free or at reduced prices. Check out their website at https://www.plannedparenthood.org/health-center.
 When running away there will inevitably be many days when you won’t have immediate access to food or you may lack enough money to purchase some. Make sure you pack a decent amount of hearty, calorie-rich food to keep you energized on the run.


Consider purchasing a small, canister stove that you can use to cook meals on the go. Having a portable stove allows you to bring light, hearty foods such as rice and oatmeal that can keep you satiated for long periods of time. Try and pack healthy, natural foods such as dried fruit and vegetables, energy bars, nuts such as cashews and almonds, trail mix, jerky, bread, and nut butters. Perishable items such as cold cuts and cheeses are nutritious as well but need to be eaten quickly to avoid getting stale.
Save space in your pack by consolidating foods as much as possible to bigger containers. Use large, resealable plastic bags instead of bulky hard plastic containers. , Do not even consider running away unless you have a sturdy water bottle with a filter. You will need to fill up water often so having a bottle will allow you to fill up for free whenever you run across a water fountain, sink, or any other source of tap water. Consider bringing water purification tablets as well in case you need to purify water from a running creek. , Bring a sturdy, waterproof backpack that will carry all of your food, clothes, and tools. Pack like you’re going backpacking through the wilderness, which requires a series of practical and potentially life-saving equipment.


Bring a warm sleeping bag, preferably a mummy sleeping bag that will keep you toasty during cold evenings. Keep a small but firm pillow with you as well.A large flashlight is crucial for navigating in the night, whether you’re on city streets or in the woods. Be sure to pack extra batteries.
A compass is necessary to orient yourself in unfamiliar surroundings. You won’t have the luxury of a smartphone so learn to use the compass before leaving.
A swiss army knife is an essential tool. Not only will the knife prove endlessly useful for defending yourself, but the assorted attachments will be important for opening cans or other daily necessities

, Be smart when packing your clothing as you need to pack light but also be prepared to face the elements. There are multiple layers you need to bring in order to ensure comfort under all weather conditions.


Outerwear is necessary to have layers that repel rain and snow. Pack jackets or coats that are completely waterproof, equipped with features such as zipper guards, sealed seams, and cinchable hoods.
The outerwear will keep you dry but staying warm is equally as crucial. Look up the temperatures for the area you will be traveling in and pack accordingly. For colder temperatures bring fleeces, wool, or light down jackets.
Underwear might seem like an afterthought but having high-quality protection is vitally important. Stay away from cotton underwear as it absorbs moisture, which can become problematic when you sweat or during heavy rainstorms. Find synthetic fabrics that are water resistant or waterproof. , Never run away with a stranger or someone who you wouldn’t entrust with your life. Ideally, you should know your friend for at least a few years and you should know how well they act under stress. Remember, both of you will be put in situations that will require mental and physical endurance so a good partner to run away with should be someone fit of mind and body.
 For example, if your name is 'Taylor' you could change it to 'Mary'. Be sure to make it easy to remember. Having a new name is key if you’re trying to lay low and stay hidden from those who are trying to find you.
 Dress in a way you usually wouldn't to avoid being recognized. Consider wearing makeup and/or a hat. Also consider giving yourself a new hairstyle or an unusual piercing.
 Be sure to know what your endgame is before running away. Do you have a friend or family member’s house you can stay at? It’s best if you have some sort of shelter in mind so you won’t have to sleep outside for an undefined amount of time. Try checking out a youth shelter for you and your friend as a last resort.
 Stay away from roads and familiar houses. Your chances of being caught are especially likely with a friend as you have two families on the lookout. Remember what your family's cars looks like as well. Keep away from your neighborhoods or obvious places where your parents might look.
 Both you and your friend should be saving up for months before the escape. You will need to have a few thousand dollars between the both of you - the more the better. Keep your money in a safe place, such as a money belt or a wallet tucked away in a hidden compartment in your backpack. Always keep your money close and know where it is located at all times.
 Whether it’s by car, train, bus, or airplane, prepare for the transportation you plan on using to reach your destination. There are important things to remember for each method of transport, so give special consideration to each before making your decision.


Your first thought may be to drive one of your cars. However, if you’re sure there will be people trying to find you then you should leave your cars at home. Your license plates will be easy ways for people to locate your car, so consider trading your car with a friend’s if possible.
The bus is one of the easiest and most inconspicuous methods of transportation. Take a look at the bus schedules and plan your route ahead of time. If you’re going across borders try to travel within the first day before the police notify authorities to look out for your passport photos.
Trains are a quicker but more expensive route. In the USA, most mid-size to large cities have an Amtrak station that can easily criss-cross the country.
Flights should be reserved at least three months in advance and must be booked without the knowledge of those who you are trying to run away from. Be sure you are committed to running away before booking a flight as you often cannot cancel your flight without spending a significant amount of money.
 Depending on your location you may be able to find drivers who are willing to drive you to a desired location. However, it's important to understand how welcoming the hitchhiking conditions are in your area. For example, in the Southeastern United States police often pick up hitchhikers and may put them in jail. Try reading over websites such as http://hitchwiki.org/en/Main_Page to see what hitchhiking conditions are like in your region.
 Cell phones are easily traced and should be abandoned before running away. Consider purchasing a “burner” cell phone before leaving. Most major electronic stores will have cheap temporary phones you can buy with enough minutes to allow you to make any necessary calls. Avoid posting to social media as this is an easy for people to track your location and figure out your intentions of running away.
 You and your friend may get the temptation to wander away from each other when running away but any separation should be limited. When both of you lack cell phones or other forms of communication it can be easy for the two of you to get lost from each other, which could lead to disastrous consequences.
 Buffets are your friend. All-you-can-eat buffets and restaurants will be easy ways to keep you and your friend satiated for little money. Try stuffing some food in your bag as well when no one else is looking. Pay special attention to your diet on the road. Fast food may be your go-to option but eating it constantly could contribute to depression, diabetes, and heart disease, all of which can hinder your ability to stay healthy on the road. Check out bakeries and places where they serve fresh bread. Go to these places right before they close as they often have old bread and pastries that get thrown away at the end of the day. Even chain bakeries like Panera will be likely to give you their dated bakery goods if you ask nicely.
Go to farmer's markets and ask farmers for their wilted produce. Farmers typically have a batch of wilted or misshaped produce that they would throw away otherwise.

Consider dumpster diving. Lots of restaurants have decent food they throw away at the end of the day, making it worth your while to explore their dumpsters. Be sure to avoid moldy or contaminated food.
 If you live in the USA, it is illegal to run away from home under the age of 18 in Georgia, Idaho, Kentucky, Nebraska, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Police will escort you back to your home regardless of your situation. Other countries may have different policies that are more relaxed. If you run away multiple times in the United State you may get put into a foster care system against your will. , Many of you and your friend’s woes could easily be solved by having a steady source of income. Thankfully there are a multitude of options for skilled and unskilled work that can be easily obtained on the road.


WWOOF, or the Worldwide Organization of Organic Farmers, represents a network of farms that give you a place to stay in return for manual labor, sometimes even a stipend. WWOOFing can be a great way to discover temporary shelters while learning marketable skills. Try looking for online work if either of you have laptops. You can easily get part-time sources of income through online transcription work, content writing, or search engine evaluation. Check craigslist often to see what work is available. There are almost always entry level positions such as dishwasher jobs that are available with little requirements. If either of you have good interviewing skills then you could land a job above your skill level to make a little more money. , Aggressive and destructive behavior can be an everyday occurrence on the street. The combination of desperation, drug abuse, and untreated mental illnesses can be a recipe for violence. Know how to recognize the warning signs of violent behavior and how to avoid dangerous situations.


Violence often sprouts from verbal arguments that become heated. If someone is being verbally aggressive, or you see an argument bordering on violent, walk away from the situation. An argument is never worth getting hurt over. Stay away from situations where alcohol or drugs are involved. Drunkenness and addictive substances such as crack-cocaine, heroin, and amphetamines exacerbate violent behavior and make people prone to desperate actions they wouldn't consider otherwise. Avoid areas where alcohol and drug use is prevalent. Above all, never fight. If you do find yourself in a violent situation, the best course of action is to run away. Pay attention to your surroundings and know what routes you can use to escape. Stay to the edge of groups of people so you don't get surrounded by multiple violent attackers. Make sure you have a safe haven in mind so you're not potentially running away to another unsafe area. , If you and your friend run out of money, become ill, or can’t put up with the lifestyle of a runaway, you need to have back-up plan. Always have the contact number for your original home in case you need to return. Remember that youth shelters are always an option if both of you need a place to stay and a warm meal at the last minute. 