 You will be baking your easy peppermint meringue cookies in a standard oven. Before mixing up the cookies, preheat the oven to 225 degrees Fahrenheit or 110 degrees Celsius. The oven should be completely heated to this temperature before baking to prevent the cookies from collapsing., While the oven is preheating, tear off pieces of parchment paper that are roughly the same size as your baking sheets. Place the parchment paper on the baking sheets. If you don’t have parchment paper, you can use aluminum foil instead., Place these ingredients in a large metal, or glass, mixing bowl. Using a whisk, whip the ingredients together until they begin to form soft peaks. This process should take about 2-3 minutes., Continue whipping the egg whites, vinegar, and salt while you gradually add the sugar to the mixture. Whip all ingredients together until stiff peaks form. This process should take about 5 minutes., Add the candy canes on top of the egg mixture. Run a rubber spatula around the sides and then along the base of the bowl. Next fold the mixture on top of itself. Repeat until the candy canes are just combined with the egg mixture. Set aside the remaining 2/3 of the candy canes., Using a teaspoon, scoop the batter up in a heaping teaspoon. Drop the batter on to the parchment paper lined baking sheets. Repeat until you have filled the baking sheets. You should place the cookies one inch apart on the baking sheets., You should have 2/3 of the crushed candy canes set aside. Using your fingers, lightly sprinkle the crushed candy canes on top of the cookies., Once your oven is preheated to 225 degrees Fahrenheit or 110 degrees Celsius, place the baking sheets in the oven. Bake the cookies for 90 minutes. They should be completely dry when you remove them from the oven., After removing the cookies from the oven, cool them on the baking sheets. This process will take about 5-7 minutes. Use a spatula to gently remove the cookies from the parchment paper once they are cool. Place them on a serving platter or plate and enjoy!

