 Making eye contact is a powerful way to show a guy that you are interested in him and smiling shows that you are happy and approachable.The next time you are around a guy who you think is cute, try locking eyes with him for a few seconds and flashing him a smile. Doing this will let him know that you think he is cute and you’d like to speak with him.


This might feel awkward the first time you try it, but keep in mind that he is probably nervous too.
 Mirroring is when you adopt a similar posture to the person with whom you are speaking. For example, if a guy leans in on his elbow, then you could lean in on your elbow as well. Doing this shows that you are interested and increases feelings of closeness.Try using mirroring when you are first getting to know someone. You may even start to do it without noticing if you are really enjoying the conversation.
Don’t copy every move your conversation partner makes. Just mirror him occasionally.
 If you want to talk to a guy, you don’t have to wait for him to talk to you. You can just go right up to him and say “hello.” If he responds with a smile and a response, then he probably wants to talk to you too. If he ignores you or gives a curt answer with little or no facial recognition (no smile, no eye contact), then move on to someone else.Try asking a question to get a conversation going. For example, you could say something like, “Nice day today, don’t you think?” Or, “I love this café! Don’t you think they have the best coffee?”

, Being a good listener is also important when you are talking to guys. You may be seen as more attractive if you have the ability to show that you are interested and paying close attention to what a guy says. Some good listening skills include:Paraphrasing. Try repeating back what a guy says now and then to show him you were paying attention.
Nodding. Giving an occasional nod will show that you hear and understand what he is saying.
Avoiding distractions. Never get out your phone or look away when you are talking to a guy you like because it will lead him to believe that you are not interested in him.
 Asking open-ended questions will encourage your conversation partner to talk more than asking a closed question. Closed questions only require short answers, but open ended conversations invite the other person to elaborate.For example, you will get a yes or no response if you ask, “Did you have a good day?” Instead, try asking, “How was your day?” This question will show the guy that you want him to talk and that you want to listen.

