 How you sit or lie is an important part of getting a good latch. Find a comfortable chair or sofa that has great back support or lie in your bed. This can make you comfortable, which may ease breastfeeding and help you get a good latch.Try out different places to sit until you find one that makes you most comfortable while breastfeeding. Using a stool or ottoman to rest your feet can help with good posture and prevent strain in your neck and shoulders. This position is the easiest for breastfeeding.Consider reclining to a 45 degree angle, which may take some of the burden off of you and help your baby latch better.Lie on your side if it is more comfortable for you than sitting. The side-lying position may be better for night- or nap-nursing or if you’ve had a C-section.;
, Using a pillow to support your baby can make a big difference in getting your baby to latch properly. It brings the baby up to the level of your breast and can also prevent strain in your arms, neck, and back. Put a breastfeeding pillow or any pillow you may have on your lap once you’ve found a comfortable position.Any pillow will work, but you may need more than one regular pillow to be comfortable and encourage the best latch. A pillow designed specifically for nursing, such as those made by the brand Boppy, may be a better option.
 It’s important for you to be comfortable when breastfeeding, but it’s also crucial that your child lie in a cozy position. This can promote a good latch and make breastfeeding easier and more enjoyable for your and your child.Nestle your baby in one of your arms—choose which one is most comfortable for you. Make sure the baby’s neck rests in the bend of your elbow, their back along the forearm, and their buttocks in your hand. This type of support makes swallowing easier. You can check this by seeing if your baby’s ear, shoulder and hip are aligned. The baby’s nose should be opposite your nipple.Bring your baby to you and don’t lean into them. This helps prevent strain to your neck and shoulders.
Make sure your baby’s tummy is facing your stomach. Pull them close to you and make sure the baby is still properly aligned.This skin-to-skin contact stimulates your baby’s natural reflexes to breastfeed.Place any flailing arms under the baby’s body or into the soft pocket of your midriff. Swaddling your baby can also keep arms from flailing., Before you offer your child your breast, it’s important that they are awake and alert. A sleepy child won’t be able to nurse properly. You can say your child’s name and gently talk to them until they are awake or alert enough to nurse.Unwrap your child if they are in a blanket. The chill will wake them. Skin-to-skin can also help the baby breastfeed better when you are still teaching the baby to breastfeed.
Change the child’s diaper before you start nursing, which can also cause a baby to wake from the chill.
Rub your child’s feet gently to get them to wake up before or during nursing.
Calm and soothe your baby before you start breastfeeding if they are crying or fussy.
 Before you guide your baby to the nipple, squeeze out a few drops of milk. This can help your baby find your nipple and may make breastfeeding easier and more comfortable for you and your baby.Avoid moistening your nipple with oils or creams that may be harmful to your baby. If milk isn’t moistening your breast enough, try a medical-grade, modified lanolin ointment., Your baby might need some help finding your nipple and areola. Gently squeezing your breast in a “C” or “U” hold can guide your nipple to your baby’s mouth.Grasp your breast on its sides. A “C” hold will grasp the sides of your breast making a “C” shape with your hand from the outside of the breast. A “U” hold grasps the sides of the breast from underneath. Keep your fingers far from your nipple so that they don’t affect your baby’s ability to latch properly.
 Tilt your baby’s head back slightly as you lift them to your nipple.This should stimulate your baby to open their mouth wide, giving you a chance to gently give your child your nipple., A wide-open mouth is the most important part of a good latch. Babies’ mouths close as quickly as they open, so it’s important to make sure their mouth stays open to achieve a good latch.Tickle your baby’s lower lip with your nipple to encourage them to open their mouth really wide. This will allow you to direct your nipple into the center of the mouth. You can talk to your baby and say, “Open,” to get them to open wide.
Use the index finger of your hand supporting the breast to gently push down the baby’s chin. This can also get them to open wide.
Avoid getting discouraged. It may take a few tries to get your baby to open their mouth wide.
 You want your baby to get as much of your nipple and lower areola, which is the area around your nipple, in their mouth as possible. This encourages a good latch as well as comfort for you and your baby. Seeing if your baby’s lips are flanged out like fish lips is a good way to figure out if they are properly positioned on your breast.Pull gently on the baby’s upper or lower lip to achieve a wider latch. Their chin should indent the lower part of your breast if you’ve done this.
Keep squeezing your breast in a “C” or “U” hold to help ensure that your baby gets as much of the nipple and areola as possible., Once you’ve placed your baby on your breast and checked for fish lips, you may want to look for other signs of a good latch. You likely have a good latch if:You can see the baby’s tongue when you pull down their bottom lip
The baby’s ears wiggle
The baby’s jaw moves in a circular motion rather than the chin moving rapidly
The baby’s cheeks are rounded
You don’t hear any clicking or smacking
You hear swallowing
The baby’s nose or chin is touching your breast
Your breast and nipple are not flat or misshapen when the baby comes off of your breast
Discomfort ends quickly after your baby latches on
Your baby shows the signs of satisfaction at the end of the feeding such as open hands, looking relaxed, “falling” off of your breast or falling asleep
You are relaxedYour baby is sucking the nipple and areola

, There are three common challenges that you may face when breastfeeding: painful nursing, back pain, and a fussy baby.You can easily fix these problems by changing how you’re feeding. Nursing should never be painful or cause discomfort.If you have continuous pain when nursing, it can be the sign of a bad latch. Trying for a better latch may relieve any pain you’re experiencing and help your baby feed properly.Remember that a little discomfort is normal when your baby is first latching to your breast. If it continues after this, break the suction by placing a finger between your baby’s lip and your skin. Remove your baby from your breast and try for a better latch.
See your doctor as soon as possible if you have pain accompanied by swelling, warmth, and redness. You may also have a fever and chills. These can be signs of mastitis, which is an infection of breast tissue that most commonly affects nursing mothers., You may also experience back pain when you’re nursing. This is often caused by leaning forward to nurse instead of pulling your baby close to you. You can relieve the pain by sitting up straight and repositioning your baby so that they are at the level of your breast.Place a small stool under your feet to lift your knees higher than your hips. This can help you sit tall and take pressure off of your lower back.
 If your baby is fussy while breastfeeding, they may be uncomfortable. Signs of this include pulling off and on your breast and wiggling. If you notice fussiness or other behaviors that may indicate discomfort, check that your baby is on their side and in proper alignment. You may even need to prop up your baby with an extra pillow.Burp your baby if they continue to be fussy after you’ve checked and made changes to their position.
 If you are still having problems with getting a good latch, you may want to see a lactation consultant. This person can give you tips and guidance on how best to nurse your baby.Ask your medical professional or another person for a recommendation. You can also call the National Breastfeeding Helpline at (1) 800-994-9662.