 Unless you added the patch yourself, you will first need to make sure your item won't be damaged by ironing it. Not all "iron on" patches are actually applied with heat.


Pick a small, inconspicuous part of the item not easily visible during normal use.
Place wax paper or a thin dish towel on top of the area.
Press down with a pre-heated iron on the small area you're testing. Hold it for about 15 seconds.
Remove the iron and check for damage or discoloration on your item.
If you are treating a delicate item, make sure the iron is on the proper setting. If you don't have experience ironing this type of fabric, the adhesive remover method is probably a better idea.;
, Position your item so that the cloth part of the patch is exposed. Place either wax paper or a thin cloth towel directly over the patch. Make sure the covering is completely clean and free from any substance that could melt into the fabric of your item.
 Pre-heat your iron to its highest setting before use. Press your iron down on top of the paper/cloth where the patch would be. Hold it there for about 15 seconds. Remove the iron and the covering from your item.


If the glue does not appear to have softened, apply the iron again. Keep adding heat until the adhesive melts.
 The heat from the iron should be enough to melt the glue and temporarily make it sticky. Lift the edge of the patch up and peel it off of your item.


Hold onto the item with one hand and peel with your other.
You can use your fingers to do this, but be cautious, as the adhesive will be hot.
If you have trouble lifting up the first part of the patch, try using tweezers or a butter knife. Tweezers will be able to slide between the patch and your item and grip the patch well. If you don't have tweezers, slip a butter knife between the patch and your item. Lift up to start the patch and remove the rest of it with your fingers.
If the patch is large, you may have to make a few passes with the iron. Peel up large patches section by section.