 If you don’t already know why your parents dislike your fiancé, you should ask them. Once you know exactly what their concerns are, you can take steps to address them and hopefully improve the relationship.


You might say, for example, “Mom, Dad, I know that you don’t care for my fiancé very much. But I’m not sure why. Could we talk about it?”
Or, you might directly say to them, “Could you tell me why you don't like my fiancé?”;
, It may be easier for you to begin the process of overcoming your parents’ dislike for your fiancé without your future spouse’s presence. You’re likely to have a greater comfort level this way, and your parents may be more willing to speak freely.You don’t have to hide this from your fiancé, though; say something like “I’m going to talk to my parents about why they seem to dislike you. I think it will be best if we bring you into the discussion a little later.”
Listen carefully and calmly to what your parents have to say. Find out if the problem is finances, prospects, attitude, background, beliefs, or some other factors.
 After you’ve spoken to your parents alone, or, right from the start if you prefer, sit down with them and your fiancé and talk about the situation. Having open and honest communication about what is going on and how your parents feel may bring a peaceful and happy resolution to the situation.Try to talk at a neutral place like a restaurant or a park. You all may be less likely to get upset in a public place like this.
You might tell your parents and your fiancé, “We’re all going to sit down and talk about this situation so that we can work it out.” Be calm but firm in your insistence that your marriage plans will not be derailed and that an accommodation must be reached.
 Sometimes parents have concerns about their future in-laws because of worries they have for their child’s happiness. Talk to your parents about your decision and let them know that they have nothing to worry about.This can help alleviate some of their worries and help them like your fiancé a bit better.


For example, you could say, “You guys raised me well and I hope you can trust that I’ve thought this decision through. I know that I’m making the right choice and that I’m planning for a successful future with my fiancé.”
Or, you might say, “I know that you want the best for me. If you give my fiancé a chance, I’m sure that your feelings will change.”

