 When a publisher reaches out to you, you should only accept an assignment if it is appropriate. Analyze the following to make sure you are an appropriate reviewer:Do you have the required expertise? You need to understand the subject matter well enough to analyze whether the author has made an original and meaningful contribution to the field. If you can’t accept the article, ideally you will recommend a reviewer with sufficient expertise.
Do you have the time? There’s no reason to accept an assignment if you can’t complete it by the deadline given.
Is there a conflict of interest? There are many kinds of conflicts. A conflict exists when you are collaborating with an author of the paper. A conflict also exists if you are friends or a direct competitor of an author. Your journal or publisher should have specific conflict of interest rules.;
, Once you get the manuscript, you should take out a pen. Underline any sections that seem important and correct mistakes as you are reading. If you have a question, write it down in the margin of the manuscript., A manuscript should make an original contribution to the field. Analyze whether the contribution is significant or only incremental. Determine whether the research would interest other researchers in the field.Also check whether parts of the manuscript have already been published.
No matter how original the research, remember that it must fit the general scope of the publisher. For example, a journal may focus on eighteenth century British literature. If the article focuses more on nineteenth century visual culture, it might not be appropriate.
 A solid manuscript should lay out a problem or question and answer it. You must assess how convinced you are by the answer. Did you find it compelling? Intriguing? Unconvincing? Drill down and assess the following:Does the data properly support the thesis? Would additional data make the argument stronger?
Is the argument free of obvious errors? Were there mathematical errors made when computing data?
Were the techniques or methods appropriate for the field? Could you recommend different ones?
Was important information missing from the paper? If it was supplied, do you think the argument would be stronger?
Has the author synthesized the current literature properly?Does the manuscript need more background information as context?

, A manuscript should be properly written. A poorly written manuscript can impede understanding of the argument and may exhaust the reader’s patience. Note the following as you read:Can you understand the English? Some authors might have English as a second language. In certain scientific fields, this is common.
Is the tone appropriate for the publisher?
Does the manuscript need a good copyedit?

, The manuscript should come with a list of references. As you read, you should note the works being cited. However, take out the list of references and give it close scrutiny. Ask the following:


Are there too many references or not enough for the publisher? Some journals might set limits.Are the references to reputable sources?
Is there a work the author has neglected to cite?
Is the citation format accurate and standard for the field? For some journals, you may need to check the formatting of citations.
 Many publishers offer guidelines on how your peer review report should be structured. Be sure to follow any guidelines given or available on the publisher’s website.You may have been given a reviewer form to use.This makes structuring your report very easy.
 You might want to summarize the work immediately after reading it or wait a day.Summarizing the article is helpful because it lets you know whether you understand the work.In particular, identify the question presented and the goals, approaches, and conclusion of the manuscript.If you can’t write a brief summary, go back to the work and try to identify why. Perhaps the argument is internally inconsistent, or the author is a poor writer who cannot make points clearly or logically.
 You should follow with a high-level summary of the article. Summarize your overall impressions with the work. For example, you should mention the following:Is the main question interesting and important?
How large of an advance in the field does the manuscript make?
Is the conclusion well-supported with data?

, Some manuscripts are fatally flawed. For example, the author’s evidence might prove the opposite of the thesis. Alternately, the author might use a method that is no longer considered credible.However, even strong manuscripts have assumptions or theoretical errors the author should address.
Make sure to put all of your criticisms in the report. If the author revises and resubmits, you shouldn’t make new criticisms when assessing the revision.
 Even if you are reviewing anonymously, you shouldn’t trash someone or offer pointed, personal criticisms.A good rule of thumb: don’t say something in a peer review that you wouldn’t say to someone’s face.For example, don’t write “The author has never read a work of feminist art history, obviously.” Instead, you can write, “The author’s summary of feminist art history is not as detailed as it should be.”
Ideally, criticisms should be couched as actionable steps the author can take to improve the paper.For example, you can point to other research or primary sources that could bolster the author’s argument. Suggest they read this research and explain how it will help strengthen the argument.
Clarify whether the suggestions are optional or mandatory.Generally, you should list the mandatory corrections first, since they are probably the most serious.
 A reviewer does more than merely criticize. Also identify what is good or interesting about the work.Some manuscripts might be undeveloped and poorly argued but nevertheless contain glimmers of insight that could be strengthened.
 A manuscript might have great ideas but need to be reorganized or carefully rewritten. Note the following and suggest improvements:


Whether the title accurately captures the content of the article.Suggest a different title.
Whether the section headings accurately describe the material.
Whether the abstract is complete or needs to be revised.
Whether the paper is too long or too short.
Whether the paper needs to be reorganized for clarity.
Whether the writing is poor. Some journals won’t require that you copyedit the manuscript but some smaller journals might.Check with the publisher.
 The reviewer’s job also includes making a recommendation for or against publishing the manuscript. Support your recommendation with specific reasons.For example, if you think the manuscript merely repeats prior scholarship, you should provide a list of works that contain the argument already.


You can also recommend rejection but possible publication after revision. If you make this recommendation, go back to your suggestions for improvement and make sure they are sufficiently detailed and helpful.
 Set aside your peer review report and let it sit for a day or two. You will have fresh eyes when you come back to it. Make sure to do the following before submitting:


Develop any thoughts that are skeletal or not well-supported. Provide as many specifics from the manuscript as possible.
Clarify your argument.
Proofread. Eliminate typos, missing words, and grammatical errors.
 Sometimes, editors will override the suggestions of their reviewers. This can happen for a variety of reasons. For example, the reviewer might have expected too much of the paper, especially if solid data is missing.Don’t be offended if the editor overrides your suggestion. So long as your review was solid, you should be sought out as a reviewer in the future.
 A manuscript might have been weak but nevertheless contained enough valuable material that resubmission was warranted after a revision. It may be sent back to you for review.


Ideally, the author should have adopted most of your suggestions and strengthened the manuscript accordingly. However, an author might have dismissed a recommendation or criticism. Analyze whether the author has reasonable grounds for rejecting your suggestion.Do you think the paper is still weak without the author making the changes requested? If so, don’t feel like you should recommend publication.
 The manuscript is confidential before publication, and you shouldn’t discuss it with the author or with anyone else.You also shouldn’t reveal your identity to the author even after publication.If you reveal your identity, you might be perceived as currying favor with someone by telling them you were their reviewer.
Be careful not to take advantage of the research provided in the unpublished manuscript. For example, you can’t incorporate it into your own scholarship until the manuscript has been published. It is an ethical violation to do so.

