 It's important to start with dry hair because it's more easy to damage your hair when it's wet. If you are going to be creating curls all the time, you could end up with severely damaged hair if you start when it's wet., Before you start curling, make sure your hair is free of tangles and snares by running a brush or comb through it., Before you use your curling iron, spray in hairspray to help the curls hold. Let it dry before you start curling your hair., To get extra curly hair, you need to use a small curling iron to create fairly tight curls. A good size is 3/4 of an inch., It's easier to work your way down when curling your hair., Take a chunk of your hair in your hand to begin curling it.Capture the hair in the iron. Open the handle, and close the hair in it. Pull the iron down until it's almost at the end. Wrap the hair around the iron. Begin twirling the iron so that the hair wraps around it. Stop when you get a few inches from the roots of the hair.Stop with the curling iron perpendicular to your head. Hold the curl in place for about 5 seconds.Release the curl. Open up the iron, and pull the handle down, letting go of the curl., That is, after you make the curl, wrap it around your finger. When you have it wrapped, use a bobby pin to secure it to your head. This process will help your curls set, and it keeps them out of your way as you curl the rest of your hair., As you go, alternate the amount of hair you curl at a time. Doing so will give you curls in different sizes, which will make them look more natural., That is, on one curl, wrap it one direction. On the next curl, wrap it the other way. People with naturally curly hair have curls that go both ways, so it will look more natural if you alternate., Add another layer of hairspray before unpinning the curls., Release the bobby pins, and shake out the curls. Use your fingers to separate them., Use a wide-tooth comb to lightly comb up from the ends. Don't not use a brush on your curls, which causes frizzing. You can also use the comb to tease the top of your hair. Both can add volume and body., That is, scrunch up the curls with your fingers, creating the shape you want.You can also use a product, like wave-enhancing spray, mousse, or gel, to help give your hair body and set the curls. In fact, some people use all three to help hold the curls.