 When you shop for nose hair removal cream, you must be very careful about what you purchase for this purpose. Most hair removal creams are not intended to be used in the nose because their odors can cause dizziness and nausea. Read labels carefully to be certain that the cream you get does not specifically say to avoid using it in the nose.The truth is that no hair removal cream is designed for the nose, so you should be very careful if you find a cream that does say it is safe for the nose.These creams also place you at risk of ingesting them through the mouth if they drip down from your nose, so be sure a cream is safe if accidentally swallowed.;
, A nose hair removal cream made with 100% natural ingredients may be safe for the nose, since it is not composed of chemicals and would not pose a toxic fume threat. Instead, this natural type of hair removal cream may contain ingredients like lemon juice and aloe vera.You may be able to find natural nose hair removal creams at herbal or vitamin stores.
 Use removal cream combined with other techniques. You may find that because you have to use natural ingredients, your nose hair removal cream may work more to soften the hairs rather than to completely dissolve them. You need to have a backup plan. Alternatives to nose hair removal cream include clippers, trimmers, and tweezers.
Consider nose hair wax, such as the one Nad’s, a popular hair remover brand, has developed. The waxing system promises to be safe and effective.The Nad’s nose hair waxing system uses wax containing chamomile and aloe vera, and includes a uniquely designed ergonomic hair removal stick., Once you have found a nose hair cream that is safe for the nose, you should apply it carefully by wrapping your finger or a q-tip in a warm, wet washcloth. Coat only the hairs that are visible to avoid getting the cream inside the nose.


Only use enough cream to coat the hairs, a pea sized amount at most.
 Since you are using a natural cream rather than one made with powerful chemicals, the cream may only end up softening the hair rather than dissolving it. In order to maximize the results of the cream and soften them as much as possible, try to leave it on the hair for three or four minutes.
 After allowing the cream to do its work, you may wipe it away with a dry washcloth. Be careful not to spread the cream around on the skin near the nose.


Some brands of natural hair removal cream warn against getting it on skin that has been irritated by chapping or sunburn., Since your nose hairs might only be softened rather than dissolved, you may need to follow up with an alternative nose hair removal procedure. The softened hair will most likely remove much easier now.


If you use clippers, be careful to only use clippers designed for nose hair so that you don’t risk clipping the skin near the hair.Electric trimmers are available on the market and are specially designed for nose hairs. They involve rotating blades that cut the hair without getting skin involved. Be careful not to stick this deeply into your nose.
If you use tweezers, be sure to find a pair that is high quality and where both points meet.
Wax works by coating the offending nose hairs. Allow the wax to harden for just a minute, then use an ergonomic applicator (or a q-tip) to pull the hairs out. Be careful to only coat the nose hairs at the front., Although waxing usually lasts longer than any other method of nose hair removal, avoid using regular body wax in the nostrils. The nose is a sensitive area and precautions should be taken to make sure all substances that come in contact with it have soothing elements, such as aloe vera and chamomile.Don’t forget that waxing can be painful, bringing involuntary tears to the eyes.
Be very careful not to get the wax on any skin because waxing off skin can cause infection and sores in the nose, which is uncomfortable and embarrassing., If you reach for hairs that are beyond the visible, you risk interrupting the important biological role that nose hairs play.Instead of trying to rid your nose of all its hairs, focus only on the hairs that cause you embarrassment: the ones that stick out at the end of your nose.


Nose hairs function to strain out particles in the air so that you don’t inhale them into your lungs, including bacteria and viruses., No matter how you remove nose hairs, you need to be cautious. Every method has its risks. Make sure you only go after hairs that are in the front of your nose and visible to others. If you choose to pluck or wax, try not to snag skin as well. If you use trimmers or clippers, avoid catching skin.


Other methods should also be avoided when dealing with nose hairs, like shaving, electrolysis, and laser treatment. All of these methods can cause harm to the nose.