


If you have warm undertones in your skin, you’ll look great in yellow, orange, brown, ivory, and warm-toned reds.
Cool undertones in your skin mean that greens, pinks, purples, blues, magenta, and blue reds will flatter you.
To figure out if you have warm or cool undertones, check the veins on your wrist. If they appear very blue, you probable have a cool undertone. If they appear slightly green, you have a warm undertone.
Above all, wear what makes you feel confident. If you want to wear your favorite color, regardless of skin tone, feel free to do so.;
, When you’re shopping for formal dresses, you can choose a floor-length full gown style or a shorter dress. Generally, if you are taller, long dresses look best, and if you’re shorter, a short dress might look better in proportion.


For example, if you are petite, you would look great wearing a shorter dress or a dress with an asymmetrical hemline to make you look taller.
Taller girls look great in floor length dresses or dresses that come past the knees. If you’re taller, you can also wear a short dress if you want to show off your legs.
 Different types of dresses flatter different body types.


If you are busty with a large bust, narrow hips, and undefined waist, you want to add dimension to your hips, and bring attention to your face. Choose a dress with tulle or pleats at the hips and a defined waist.
If you're slender, you will look best in a dress that is very fitted with a belt or cinching at the waist.
If you have an apple-shaped figure (that is, if you carry weight in stomach with slim legs), you’ll look great in a dress with an empire waist or embellished top section and a full skirt.
If you have an hourglass figure with a small waist and proportionate bust and hips proportion, any dress that accentuates your naturally small waist will make you look great.
A pear-shaped figure with a defined waist and hips larger than bust looks great in a strapless dress or open-necked top and a full skirt or an A-line skirt.
If you are petite or shorter than 5’3”, a slim fitting, shorter dress will look great on you.
 For an eighth grade formal, you can wear any type of nice dress. It doesn’t have to be a dress made specifically for a prom or formal. Many department stores have wide selections at reasonable prices.


Buy a secondhand dress. Buying your dress secondhand is a great way to get something beautiful at a good price. This is an especially good option if your school’s formal is styled after a prom, and you want a true gown to wear.
Check out thrift stores in your area.You never know what you might find.
Ask around to see if anyone has old prom dresses they’d like to sell. You can ask family friends or the older siblings of your friends. Chances are good they’ll sell you the dress for much cheaper than if you were to buy it. If it’s slightly big, you can have it altered.
 Wear whatever makes you feel your best.


Consider a fitted suit or a cool pair of pants and a formal shirt.
Another great alternative to a dress is a skirt and top.
 When you’re dressing for formal, you want to wear shoes that complete your outfit and make you look great. If you do decide to wear heels, make sure that you are comfortable walking in them. Remember that at a formal you will be on your feet a lot.


Consider alternatives to traditional high heels.Wear nice sandals or pretty flats.
If you want to stand out, you can even wear sneakers like Converse or Vans with your dress or formal attire.
 Before you buy your outfit for formal, you want to make sure that it complies with any dress codes your school has. Ask a teacher or administrator to find out if there are any regulations on dress length or strap type.

