 If you are entertaining in your home or another venue, look for a space that can accommodate the smokers who are attending the occasion. You may want it to be outside or in a designated “smoker’s room.” Consider designating two spaces in the case that the weather doesn’t cooperate.Consider how many smokers you know of and plan for more. Many people smoke socially when they’re with others or having a drink.
Look for a place that is far enough from non-smokers that any smoke won’t affect anyone with smoke sensitivities or respiratory conditions. If you are at home, this might be your yard or other outdoor space. If you are at another venue, ask if there are designated spaces for smokers.;
, If you’re not sure if your designated space is optimal or how to set it up, enlist the help of a friend who smokes. This friend can give you tips on what types of items you may want to have in the area and if the space itself accommodates smokers.Tell your friend what your expectations for smokers and the smoking space are. For example, “Avery, I want to make sure that my smoking and non-smoking guests feel welcome. I think I found a nice space that will accommodate both groups. Since I don’t smoke, do you mind checking it out and suggesting some ways to make it comfortable?”

, You want your smoking guests to feel as welcome and cozy as you and other non-smokers. Making your designated smoking spot inviting to smokers can help them have as good of a time as non-smokers. Incorporate elements such as comfortable seating, tables, and ashtrays so that smokers have everything they may need while away from the main event.Arrange several comfortable chairs in a way that allows your smoking guests to have a conversation. Consider using chairs that you can easily wipe off or wash if you are concerned about the smell of smoke lingering on fabric.
Have several ashtrays on hand and place them around the seating area. You may need to purchase a few small ashtrays if you don’t already have them. Consider getting non-flammable materials such as glass or metal. You can use these for future events, too.
Set up a trash bin in the space. This gives your smoking guests the opportunity to take food or drinks with them and can help keep your spaces free of trash. Make sure to designated the bin as “trash only” so that guests don’t use it as an ashtray, which may spark a fire.
Take the weather into consideration. If there is rain in the forecast, provide a canopy or set up your alternative space so that smokers aren’t left out.
 Part of making sure your smoking guests feel welcome is paying attention to them as much as your non-smokers. Occasionally slip to the smoking space to make sure that your smoking guests are comfortable and don’t need anything.Go to the space and say, “Hello! I wanted to stop out and check on everyone. Does anyone need anything?” If you are able, sit down and talk to the group for a few minutes. If not, you can always excuse yourself politely with, “I’m sorry to leave so quickly, but I have a terrible allergy to cigarette smoke. I’ll be inside and would love to chat more with each of you.”
Empty any ashtrays that appear full. You may also want to throw out any lingering trash so that people feel comfortable using the space.

