 The early signs of food aggression are usually subtle. While the dog is eating, he may tense his muscles or hold his tail up when a person or another pet approaches.;
, An aggressive dog may show her teeth and stick her ears straight up. On some dogs, the fur on the back will stand on end.


If the ears are pressed against the dog's head, the dog is most likely frightened, not aggressive.
 This will usually start as a low rumble before it becomes a growl.
 This behavior is also called food guarding, since the dog becomes overprotective of his food. He may hold his head down very close to the food, and look up at anyone that approaches. This can happen with edible scraps or even objects, as well as with his regular food.
 A dog that snaps the air or attempts to bite you while eating is definitely food aggressive. Stay away from the dog until it is done eating to avoid injury.
 Start feeding the dog in a room by itself, away from all other people and pets. Give it a bowl of food two or three times a day only. When each meal is over, remove the bowl and place it out of sight.
 While the dog is eating, sit near enough that it stiffens or looks at you. When the dog relaxes again or returns to eating, say "good dog" and throw it a small treat, such as a little piece of chicken or cheese. Repeat this each meal until the dog is used to you being near.


Use small pieces of treats while training, since you may need to use quite a few.
 Slowly move toward the dog and begin to pet his back. Stop if the dog shows signs of aggression and give him time to relax. When he accepts your hand, praise the dog and give him another treat. Repeat this each mealtime, gradually moving on to petting his head and playing with his ears.
 Once the dog is used to you petting him during a meal, put your hand down near the food bowl. Leave it there until the dog is used to it, then reward the dog. Repeat this training each meal, gradually moving your hand a little closer each time.
 Eventually, you should be able to put your hand on the food bowl without the dog reacting. Once you've reached this point, gradually move on to moving the bowl a little, then picking it up. Finally, try picking up the bowl a few inches, putting a treat in the bowl, and instantly lowering it to the ground again. This teaches the dog to trust that you aren't going to take away his food.


The dog might start eating faster because he thinks you're taking the meal. That's fine; this is not a sign of aggression.
Do not remove the bowl before the dog is done with it. This could make the dog more anxious.
 Just because the dog is used to you does not mean he is fine with everyone. Have each other member of the household repeat these same steps, one at a time. Supervise children closely while they do this.

