 Look along the bottom of the front of your machine. Find the small panel that covers the drainage filter. Most panels these days are hinged and can be easily removed without tools, but if your panel is screwed into place, find an appropriate screwdriver. However:Don’t remove the panel just yet. For now, just note its location.
 Note that the drainage filter is along the very bottom of your machine, which means you’re going to have to use a very shallow dish to catch water coming out of it. To make life easier, pull the machine away from the wall just enough for you to tip it back a little. Lift the front end a few inches off the floor. Slide bricks or solid blocks of wood underneath the front corners for them to rest on while you work so you can use a deeper dish. However, keep in mind that:The washer weighs a lot on its own, and the water inside makes it even heavier. If possible, have a partner help you with this step to make it easier.
Do not attempt lifting your machine if you don't think you're able to do so, even with a partner. Skipping this step just means more trips to and from your drain. This may be a pain figuratively speaking, but it’s better than injuring yourself for real.
 Unscrew or unhinge the panel to your drainage filter. Lay a towel over the floor directly underneath. Then, depending on your machine’s design:


Set a shallow bowl, dish, or similar container directly below the filter if no funnel or similar device is included behind the panel.If there is a funnel or similar device to carry water away from the machine, extend it and set your dish below that., Once your towel and dish is in place, start unscrewing the drainage filter very slowly. Once it opens just enough for water to start trickling out in a manageable stream, stop unscrewing. Let the dish fill close to capacity, then screw the filter shut again. Dispose of the drained water, then repeat until no more water empties out of your machine.Don’t unscrew the filter all the way. This will enable more water than your dish can hold to spill out of the machine all at once. It will also make it difficult for you to fit the filter back into place and seal it shut as water continues to empty out.
 If you propped the front of your machine up on bricks, keep in mind that there is still some water inside, even though it has quit draining. Make sure the filter is sealed tight, then remove the bricks and set the machine back on the floor. Now finish draining your machine as you did before, using a shallower dish if necessary.Tipping your machine backward and propping the front up on bricks causes the water inside to gravitate toward the back.

