 Choose shapes that are appealing and will be large enough to hold the things you'd like to keep in them. If you haven't saved your own, ask your neighbor, a friend or family member for theirs. Some jars also end up in thrift stores, so you might be able to find some good ones there.
 This will wrap around the jar. The amount needed depends on how many jute jars you intend making. As for the width, this will depend on the end use. If you're using the jar for a vase or for stationery, then the webbing could cover all the way up. But if you're using it for a candle holder or to hold pretty pebbles, you'll probably only want it covered about halfway up.
 This will be the length of the webbing, plus an overlap allowance of 1/2 inch/12 mm.
 Check that it still fits properly by wrapping it around the jar.


If you don't want to cover the whole jar, cut the webbing down to half or three quarters the size of the jar.
If the webbing doesn't cover all of the jar and you want it to, do it in sections, carefully layered one on top of the other until the whole jar is covered.
 Or, skip to the next section if only making one.
, Hold in place for a few seconds to ensure that it has set.
 Do this only at the edge, where it will overlap when wrapped.
 Once again, hold firmly in place for a few seconds to set.


If gluing more than one section of webbing, carefully align each new layer flush with the last glued layer, to avoid any glass glinting out from the join.
 As well as using this as a vase, you can now use the jar for various other purposes, such as:



A candle holder: Fill three quarters of the way with sand and place a tea light candle on top. (This only works with jute webbing done halfway up the jar)

Stationery holder: Add pencils, pens and other writing implements for ease of finding

Funky storage jar: Keep buttons, pebbles, craft bits and pieces, stationery pieces, etc. safely together in the jar

Gift: Give the jute jar/vase away as a gift. Create a label to say what it is and that it's handmade and wrap the label around the top of the jar using raffia.
