 Spread a cloth or a newspaper to avoid leaving marks.;
, There are many such chips available. This chip will be the heart of your Pen Drive.
 Make sure that the combined size of both does not exceed the maximum size of a standard USB Connector.


It is a good idea to wear goggles while doing this, as drill bits and flashing can fly.
 Cut off any excess plastic. Remember to maintain absolute precision.



Avoid using normal glue or superglue, this can leave stains on your work area and might mess up the components. Use a glue made to glue plastics together.
 Be very careful not to mess up the alignment.
 Leave your Pen Drive for a while as the glue dries. Keep it under a fan to help it dry faster.
 Leave a 2 centimeter (0.8 in) gap starting from the front of the pen drive, making sure not to cover the connector. It is better to leave more gap than less gap, as your pen drive may not go in at all if improperly designed.
 The head of the pen drive is the part that plugs into the computer, whereas the body stays outside and can be decorated. Use the measurement you made in the previous step to facilitate this task.
 All the steps below should be applied only to the body of the pen drive.
 This is not necessary, but can go a long way toward protecting your pen drive from mechanical damage. It also makes it look better. This should be done only to the body! Follow the steps below to encase the pen drive:


Lay the pen drive on your work surface, and measure its dimensions.
Drill a hole of the dimensions of the pen drive into a slab of plastic.
Cut out any excess plastic, leaving a border around the hole.
Place the pen drive in the hole and use some glue to lock it in place, if necessary.
, This is up to your imagination. Here are some ideas:


Put the pen drive in a 3D case
Add a tag or a hole to it to use it as a keychain.
Add some papier mache, or glitter.
 Pen drives have a wide variety of uses, and some of them are given below:


Bootable OS Drive
Simple Flash Memory Drive
Portable App Drive
System Restore Drive
Ram Drive
Encrypted Data Drive
System Unlock Key

, If you want to use it as a bootable drive, you will need to install a bootable image of an OS (Often Linux) on it.
