 Training in-house staff and funding office space and equipment for new staff may result in higher costs than outsourcing tasks to a third-party.


Consider contract maintenance costs. In-house personnel must oversee outsourcing contracts, which might involve an investment of time, equipment and travel expenses.
Determine if necessary skills exist in-house. Salaried employees might possess required skills, making it unnecessary to hire outside vendors or consultants.
 Outsourcing can be risky if an outside vendor, contractor or consultancy firm does not meet quality expectations. In these cases, organizations typically incur greater costs because they must have the work revised by another vendor or hire in-person staff to correct issues. Establish quality standards by talking to clients and holding internal meetings to develop a list of must-have qualities.


Distribute quality requirements. Make sure that your outside vendors and consultants receive a clear explanation of quality standards, both verbally and in writing.
 The nature of the work might dictate that you outsource to domestic firms that understand the culture of your clients. Alternatively, your needs may be technical in nature, making it more affordable to outsource offshore.
 Examine tax laws, contract language, data protection responsibilities and other factors relevant to your industry and workplace before signing an outsourcing agreement.



Consider internal relationships. Outsourcing a significant portion of the responsibilities of in-house staff should be accompanied by an explanation. Always communicate openly with personnel to avoid misunderstandings and low employee morale.
Examine relationships with clients. Determine how your clients will be affected by your outsourcing plans. For example, a client who is accustomed to receiving blog posts written by your in-house staff might not want the content to come from another vendor or a different part of the world.
Discuss outsourcing plans with existing clients. Keep clients informed about upcoming outsourcing plans before implementation.

