






The body cells resist the action of insulin especially in Type 2, when the pancreas overproduces insulin. Insulin resistance, when the your cells do not use insulin the right way, and then more insulin may be needed for getting enough food into your cells.





;
, Diabetes, unlike the common myth, does not begin with Type 1 and then progress to Type 2.
 They need to be treated with insulin given by insulin syringes and injection or via insulin pumps for diabetics (insulin via a tablet would not be effective as it would be destroyed in the digestion process).
 Obesity is the primary reason for Type 2 diabetes. People diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes do not produce sufficient quantities of insulin for the increased numbers of active fat cells that need it. Initially your pancreas responds to the demand (created by obesity), by producing more insulin. However, it is overworked and cannot do so indefinitely. Corrective action includes reducing body fat by choosing lower caloric diet and being more active, with an exercise plan (your new, healthier lifestyle). If corrective action is taken soon enough, then people suffering from Type 2 diabetes need not take any medication such as diabetes glucose tablets or diabetes supplements and can begin to lead a healthy normal life. Failure to take corrective action will create a need for insulin injections to supplement the inadequate quantity of insulin units produced by your pancreas.
 Myth: Type 1 diabetes is serious, Truth: Yes and No. Type 2 is likely to be more harmful because people often have it for years before realizing any problem -- and so, not being diagnosed and not changing eating habits. Having it for years can lead to long term damage to your vital organs and systems (pancreas, heart, kidneys, digestion, immune system, nerves, eyes) and toes, feet and legs.
 Diabetes is a silent killer. Plus, Type 1 diabetes occurs in kids and young adults. Plus, there is no cure for Type 1 diabetes. Compared to Type 2 diabetes -- at least with type 2 diabetes you have a chance to reverse it by dieting and losing weight.

