 Select a piece of paper that you will use for your book cover. Consider using colored paper or paper with a heavier weight or decorating the cover with stamps, stickers, or other personal touches.








Prepare your book cover by folding it in half short end to short end and sharply creasing the edge.
When you put the cover on your pages depends on the type of binding you choose.
 This method is particularly useful if your book has multiple page sections that have been stapled together.









Cut a piece of sturdy tape, such as duct tape, slightly longer than your book.
Carefully place the tape on the front of the book spine and wrap it around the back, so that half of the tape is on each side of the front and back book page.
Cut excess tape from above and below the book.
 If you want to affix a cover to the book sections you have taped together, begin by placing the folded cover of the book over the taped book section pages.









Cut two pieces of tape the same length of the book.
Fold the tape in half long ways, sticky side out.
Open the back of your book and place the folded tape along the crease on the inside back cover. One side of the tape will be on the inside of the back cover and one side will be on the outside of the last inner page.
Open the front cover of your book. Place the second piece of tape, also folded lengthwise sticky sides out, along the crease between the inside front cover and the outside of the first inner page.
Close the book and firmly run your hand along the folded edge to secure the taped pieces.
 With this method, you do not need to staple or tape your individual book sections.









If you are using a cover, place the folded cover over the stacked book sections.
Use a hole puncher to punch holes in the entire book where you would like the binding to be. The holes should be close to the folded edge of the book, but be sure you do not punch the folded spine.
Make at least two holes. You can have more if you would like, but be sure the holes are spaced apart evenly so that the binding is aesthetically pleasing.
If you have more than six pieces of paper, you may want to punch holes in each book section separately, but be sure to measure where the holes go so that they will align neatly when you combine the sections.
For shorter journals, try using decorative brads through the punched holes.Thread string or ribbon through the holes in your book and tie neatly. String can be woven in and out of multiple holes, then run down the back cover of the book along the spine and tied together, or separate small bows can be tied for each hole, with the string going through a hole, around the spine of the book, and being tied to itself.For much longer journals, consider sewing the book sections together with strong thread by punching holes in each section and passing needle and thread in and out of the holes until all sections are bound together.