 If you’re assigned a profile piece, conduct an in-depth interview and humanize the subject for your readers. If given the chance to write an opinion column, be bold and invite a reaction/response from readers. As mentioned in Method One, know what type of sports article you are writing and study best practices for success.
 Writing is work, often very hard work. Try to remember why you wanted to write about sports in the first place. Think about what you love about sports and let it be reflected in your writing.


If you are covering your alma mater in a basketball game or interviewing a pro golfer who happens to be a childhood hero, let your fan-dom be revealed. Sports are about passion, enthusiasm, and often silly biases. Be impartial with the facts but let readers see you as a sports fan as well as sports writer.
 Most readers of sports articles have, at some point, dreamed of being at the plate with the World Series on the line or serving for the U.S. Open title. Even if they never reached that point, they probably remember what it’s like to grip the bat or toe the service line nervously. Find creative ways to make them feel like they were there at the event you’re covering, not just in the crowd, but on the field.


For example, draw from interviews to place the reader at the foul line with the game on the line: “As she looked at the basket, trying desperately to block out the crowd behind it and the emptiness in front, Jane Davis could swear she caught a glimpse of her old garage wall holding up the hoop, felt the crumbling driveway beneath her feet, and sensed her Dad at her side.”

, Sports writing can sometimes get a bad rap as a lesser form of journalism, but some of the best writers and writing today and historically have covered sports. Hemingway famously wrote about bullfighting, and more recently, one of novelist David Foster Wallace’s most remembered pieces was about tennis star Roger Federer. Don’t sell yourself or your readers short, even if you are covering a youth soccer game. Those kids are giving their best, and so should you.

