 Then head toward a large door leading into a structure.
 Jump up and move along the cliff to spot a skull precariously placed near the drop.

This skull allows uncommon dialogue to become more common, and common dialogue will be heard less.
, There's a narrow dark alcove here you can reach with a drop into a vent.,

The Black Eye Skull enabled, players must melee enemies to regenerate shields, as shields will no longer regenerate automatically.
, As you drive the tank, the Cargo Ship (and Phaeton) appears above and to the left as you move up the hill., After you do this, the skull will spawn in the area. It always spawn in one of three locations; on the roof of the Scorpion garage, next to the fence on the left before you reached the hill that triggers the Cargo Ship/Phaeton, or under a natural archway beneath the garage. The skull always spawns under grey metal boxes or yellow barrels.

The Iron Skull forces players to restart at the beginning of the mission rather than the last checkpoint, so use this Skull at your own risk.
 Then enter a large door inside the mine with a forklift., When you're on the pipes, go right and enter a short cave / vent where the skull is easily visible.

The Blind Skull removes all aspects of the Heads-Up Display (HUD), while also removing the appearance of your hands & weapons, causing players to play without knowing which gun is equipped or how much ammo is left.
 The first cone appears on the left past the stairs near a covered yellow crate., You'll see the second cone near more steps to the right of the tunnel door that leads to the bridge. Past the ruined center of the bridge, there's a charred car. The third cone is behind that car., Turn right and look behind the huge truck. To the right of the truck there's a yellow mining pylon with the fourth cone sitting on a corner., The last cone is near the ship. Shoot it and the skull will spawn at the very end of the mission before you escape the area.

The Thunderstorm Skull causes all Campaign enemies to upgrade to their highest ranked versions, for an added challenge.
 Early in the mission, you'll enter an area with a crashed Phantom surrounded by Covenant enemies. Clear the soldiers and then climb on the cliff side to the right of the combat area.

Look behind the Phantom to spot a tunnel -- jump to it. At the end of the path you'll find a Grunt talking to a skull. Melee him and the skull will spawn where he was sitting.
This Skull causes all Grunts killed by headshots to burst into confetti, while Grunts killed without headshots explode like a grenade, dealing damage to anything nearby.
 At the very end of the level, you'll encounter a familiar face in an alien installation. Before approaching her, turn right and move up the hill. Move onto the small Forerunner landing to spot the skull. 

This skull disables the motion sensor on the HUD, preventing players from detecting nearby enemies.
 You'll get a view of ships flying in the distance through a door with a fallen cross-beam., Jump into the cracks of the beam using the exterior cliffs.,

This Skull doubles the health of all enemies, increasing their sustain.
, Enter a Banshee and fly into a high alcove above the green light.,

The Catch Skull increases the amount of grenades that enemies carry and throw.
 This is where a Warden fight ensues, but if you're quick you can grab the skull before he spawns., At the edge of the cliff over-looking the Guardian, there's a metal beam jutting out and pointing down. Drop onto this beam to discover a hidden alcove with your next skull.

The Cowbell Skull triples the explosive power of all explosive weapons.
 There's a rock formation between the bridge you just crossing and that ring.,

The Tilt Skull generally reduces the effectiveness of weapons depending on the favorability of the target certain weapons are used on.
, There's hallway entrances to the left and right. In the center you'll find a skull.

The Famine Skull causes weapons that are dropped by enemies and fallen allies to have less ammo.
, In the rocks next to the Pelican you'll find the final skull.

The Tough Luck Skull causes enemies to be more alert and agile.

