 A traditional fade is when the hair is tapered on your neck and sides of your head. A high fade is when the hair disappears anywhere within a two-inch (5.08 cm) area below the top of your hair. A low fade is when your hair is cut lower than a high fade haircut but higher than a traditional fade. Decide how short you want the sides and back to be, and choose the one you like the best., In addition to the traditional fades, there are other specialty fades that exist. A high top fade is when the hair on the top of your head sticks up but doesn't have any sharp edges. This style was popular in the 1980's. A temple fade is much like a low fade, except the hair disappears in a much more abrupt manner.Finally, a scissor fade is created only using a scissor and leaves the person with longer hair than the traditional fade., If you're unsure how the fade will look on you, you should start off with a traditional fade. This haircut will leave enough hair so that if you need to alter your look later, you'll be able to. If you don't like the look of the traditional fade, move to a lower fade, then a higher fade, until you figure out what you like the best., You can get the haircut that you like by explaining the sort of look you are going for. Describe whether you are going for a clean-cut look, or whether you want a fade that is edgier. Explain your personality and what aesthetic you want to achieve to give the barber a better idea on what kind of fade you want.You can say something like "I work as a lawyer, so I'm looking for a fade that looks professional. Think you can help me out?"
You could say something such as, "I'm in a rock band, and I want something that will stand out and set me apart from the rest. Do you have any ideas?"

, Take a look at people in the media to determine what kind of fade you want the most. Search online for different celebrities that have fade haircuts. Bring in a photo so that the barber can use it as a reference when cutting your hair. When selecting a photo, make sure that you choose someone with a similar hair texture so that the stylist can cut your hair the way you want.If you're not sure about your hair's texture, bring in multiple photos of different people with the same haircut.
You can say something like, "I want my fade to look like T.I.'s fade."

, If you've gotten a fade before, it's likely that you know the number for the buzzer or clippers that they typically use. If you have this information, let them know. Otherwise, just explain how short you want your hair to be on the sides, back, and top.For a very short fade, ask them for a 1 or 2 sized clippers.
If you want to keep your hair a bit longer, ask for a number 4-5., Before the barber starts cutting your hair go into detail about the specific type of fade that you want. Tell them if you want a low, high, or specialty fade and get their opinion about how they think it will look on you. If you brought a picture, tell them about any deviations from the style that you're showing them so that they know exactly how you want your hair cut.You can say something like "I want a temple fade with a line in the back, but I want to keep it longer on the top. Can you do a 2 on the sides and back and a 5 on the top?"
Or you can say something like, "I want my fade to look like Lupe Fiasco's old fade, but I want the fade to start higher on the sides"

, If the color of your scalp contrasts a lot with the color of your neck and face, some fades may not look good on you. High and low fades look best on people with a consistent skin tone. If your scalp color is different than your face color, consider a traditional fade or a scissor fade., Thick, dense hair is the best hair to have for a fade. If you have straight or thin hair, achieving a good looking fade may be harder, and you may be limited on styles.If you don't have the optimal hair for a fade, consider getting a scissor or temple fade, as they work with various kinds of hair.

Low and high fades look good on people who have thick, dense hair.
 The higher your fade is, the more your head will be exposed. Determine if you like the shape of your head, and choose a fade that compliments you. If you don't like the shape of your head, then go for a traditional fade, or a fade that leaves your hair longer. If you like the shape of your head, go for a fade that shows off more of your head.