 Before deciding whether you are going to beat the defender, you should look up and make yourself aware of your teammates positions on the field. Listen for any calls from them – check whether it makes more sense to pass the ball off to someone. If possible, try to play the ball to a teammate who has more space to run.


If one of your teammates is making a clever run, you could use their run as a decoy. If a defender is marking you, he may try to get back and cover the runner. This would give you more space and time to run at the defense, leaving them on the back foot and giving you time to think about what to do next.
Alternately, a different defender may pull across to cover the run. This would create space in behind the defense, unless the fullback comes across as well. In this case, a long pass across the field would be appropriate. If neither defender tracks the run, try to play the killer ball behind the back line.
 If no teammate is in a better position than you and no teammate is trying to run in behind, this is usually the green light for you to beat the defender. Be confident, quick, and decisive. Go and beat him!

, Most of the time, you don't need to do anything complicated to beat some defenders. With a quick turn of pace and good balance, all you have to do is knock the ball inside or outside of the player and sprint after it. Using feints (pretending to go one way and then going the other way) can help a lot with this.
 Make the defender think that you're going one way with the ball, then move off in a different direction. Run towards the defender, dribbling the ball. When you are again 2-3 feet away from the defender's leg-reach, shift your body language to the right or the left of the opposing player. Look in that direction, and give the opposing player every indication that you plan to charge in that direction.


Drop your shoulder toward the side you want the defender to think you are charging, and keep your upper torso facing the same direction – around 25 degrees off-kilter from facing straight at the defender.
Quickly tap the ball with the outside of your foot. if you want to fake going to the left of the defender, use your right foot; if faking right, use your left foot. Roll the ball very slightly toward the side you don't plan to take – then immediately tap the ball back on course.
Charge past the defender and toward the goal.

