 Wait until you’ve got a full load of clothes before running the washing machine. Don’t turn on the dishwasher until it’s full, and allow your dishes to air dry rather than automatically drying.By minimizing the amount of drinkable water you use for other purposes, you’re helping to protect your local water resources which are jeopardized in many areas.


Taking shorter showers, or turning off the water while you lather up, will save water. Set a timer if you need to.
Use water-conserving faucets, shower heads and toilets. Turn the faucet off while you brush your teeth or shave.
 When you leave a room, make sure the lights are off. Having lights set on a timer may help you reduce the time they’re left on. If you use lights outdoors, make sure they’re motion sensitive so that they don’t get left on.Use natural lighting whenever possible, and consider installing skylights or light tunnels to light darker areas of the house.
Switch to energy efficient lightbulbs. Using less electricity translates to fewer greenhouse gases being discharged into the environment from your energy company.
Unplug chargers when they’re not in use. Chargers for your electronic devices are constant energy users, even when your device is unplugged.
 Remember that whatever goes down your drains will eventually end up in your local streams and creeks. Using biodegradable, or biocompatible, products will have less impact on the local wildlife.Usually biodegradable products will list this information on their labels. Look for this designation.
Avoid ingredients that are “antibacterial” or “antibiotic” as these will negatively impact the ecosystem.
Also avoid scented products, bleach, boron/borax, chlorine bleach, or ingredients with the word sodium in them, such as sodium hypochlorite.
 Before you fly, consider the option of driving. If you can drive, consider carpooling, or taking a train or public transportation. If you’re in the habit of driving or flying, you may be using unnecessary fossil fuels and negatively impacting the environment.If you’re going to fly, try to fly non-stop, as this will use less fuel.
Consider walking anyplace less than a mile away. Try biking to nearby destinations. Look into telecommuting into work occasionally to conserve energy.
 Conserve energy in your home by providing weatherstripping and caulking all windows, insulating your ceilings and floors. Purchase appliances that are energy-efficient; look for the “energy-star” designation.Use a programmable thermostat to conserve energy when you’re less active.
Make sure your heating and cooling systems are well-maintained and operated efficiently.

