 Slice the gel wax into smaller chunks first. This will help the wax melt faster. Next, place the wax into a stainless steel pot. If you can find one with a pouring spout, that would be even better.

Use an old pot or one dedicated to crafting. Don't use the same one that you cook in.;
, Allow the wax to reach 200°F (94°C); use a thermometer to keep track of the temperature. Once melted, the wax will be smooth and have a syrup-like consistency. Don't let the wax get too hot, otherwise it will turn opaque and ruin the clear effect.Do not leave the melting candle wax unsupervised.
 Set the pot down on a heat-safe surface. If your dyes and fragrance oils require a specific temperature, allow the wax to cool down to that temperature first. Every brand may be a little different, so check the label first., How much you add of each depends on what color you want the beer to be. Some types of beer are brownish while others are more of an amber color. Plan on using a drop of yellow dye and a toothpick amount of brown dye.Some types of candle dyes are opaque. Make sure that you use the translucent type.
 Be careful not to over-stir, or you might end up with too many bubbles.Also, make sure that the fragrance you are using is safe to use in gel wax. It would be even better if you use fragrance oil specifically made for use in gel wax; this way, you can be certain that it will work. If you use the wrong type of oil, the gel wax could ignite or explode.If you don't care about the smell, you can skip this step

, Avoid glasses with thin walls. The melted wax will be very hot, and it could cause the glass to shatter.A sturdy beer mug, tankard, or tumbler with thick, sturdy walls would be ideal. Make sure that it is clean., Place a drop of hot glue on the bottom of the tabbed candle wick. Press the wick, glue-side-down, into the glass, then let the glue set. This should only take a few seconds.If you don't have any hot glue on hand, you can also use a piece of double-sided tape.


Make sure that you use a zinc wick. A cotton wick will soak up too much gel.A tabbed candle wick is a long strand of waxed string with a metal disk attached to one end.
 Again, take your time with this so that you don't get too many bubbles. It's okay if you get some tiny ones, however, since beer is a carbonated beverage.Don't fill the mug up all the way. You want to leave 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of space for the foam. If you have any extra wax, discard it or make another candle.
 You can do this by laying two pencils across the top of the glass and balancing the wick between them. You can also roll the wick up on a pencil, then set the pencil on the rim of the glass., Gel wax never hardens like regular candle wax. Instead, it remains jiggly, sort of like Jello. How long this takes depends on the size of the mug/glass and the temperature in the room. The colder it is, the faster the wax will set., Set the melting pot into a larger pot filled with a few inches/centimeters of water. You can also use a slow cooker instead.Cut the soy wax into smaller pieces first to help it melt faster.
Try to use a soy wax that has a 140 or 142 melting point. The melting point is usually included in the product description or on the label itself.
 Clip a thermometer to the side of the pot, and watch the wax closely as it melts. Allow the wax to reach 160°F (72°C).Do not leave the wax unsupervised as it melts.
 Take the melting pot out of the water (or switch off the crock pot). Let the wax start to turn cloudy. How long this takes depends on how cold it is in the room; the colder it is, the sooner the wax will turn cloudy. As soon as it happens, you are ready for the next step., You can do this with a whisk, a fork, or an electric beater. If you are using an electric beater, make sure that you are using a slow speed setting. Don't get too carried away during this step, however, or the wax will dry and turn crumbly.Be very careful during this step. Wearing protective goggles and gloves is highly recommended.
 Remove the pencils supporting the wick first. Scoop the foam into the mug until it reaches the rim.At this point, you can leave the foam level with the rim, or add a final dollop of foam. You can also let some foam dribble down the sides of the glass.
 This should not take more than an hour, but it really depends on the temperature in the room. Once the wax has set, trim the wick down to about ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) before you light it.