 Things you or your kids no longer need seem to stick around longer than they should. Look at the individual items in a room and ask yourself what you don't really need anymore. These are some things you should consider getting rid of:


Items that are broken
Clothes that no longer fit you or your kids
Things you don't have space for
Toys your kids no longer play with
Things you have extras of
Items that are dangerous to have around your kids

, Get out three boxes or bins. Label one bin "Trash," one bin "Store," and one bin "Recycle/Donate." As you sort through toys and items, place them in one of the boxes. Once a box fills, take it to the thrift store, organize it and find a place for it in your home, or take it to the dumpster.Keep the boxes somewhere handy so you can declutter whenever you need to.
You could also have bins for selling items or giving away to friends.
 You may find it easy to sort through the broken or unwanted items that are cluttering up your house, but have a harder time knowing what you should keep. Ask yourself if an item has sentimental value or if it's something you'd like to pass on to your children. You should also keep items that you use frequently.


Once you've decided to keep something, you need to organize and store it wisely. You should know where it is and be able to get to it easily.
 While it may be tempting to just throw your kids' toys into a large toy box, it may be hard to find specific toys since they're all mixed together. Teach your children to store their toys by sorting them into buckets, containers, or small bins.


For example, you could have several bins on a shelving unit. Put blocks in one bin, crayons in another, and musical toys in a different bin.
 It's probably not realistic to expect that your kids' belongings and toys are always in their rooms. Instead of finding their things strewn about, create a system for organizing the things that you don't mind leaving out and for things that you want to hide.For example, if you want to leave their books out, install shelving units or bookshelves so they can be stored in plain sight.
To hide toys, try storing them inside decorative boxes, furniture benches, or cabinet drawers.

