 You can help yourself move through self-defeating suicidal thoughts by first bringing awareness to them. Some teens may unknowingly get caught up in a cycle of negative thinking. When you feel particularly low, try to pay attention to what you’re telling yourself. Try writing these thoughts down so that you can look back on them to try and figure out what may have been affecting your mood.

For instance, you might be thinking, “Anything would feel better than how I’m feeling” or “Everyone would be better off without me.”Once you bring awareness to these thoughts, you can work to change them.
 There are many different types of negative thought patterns, such as catastrophizing, using all-or-nothing thinking, or self-loathing. You must remember that suicide is a permanent decision in response to a temporary problem. Sadly, you may not realize that when you’re caught up in negative thinking traps. It can help to try to see your problems and concerns in a different light. Or, try to come up with feasible, healthy solutions to solve them. If this is hard for you to do, then reach out to a friend or family member for help. Depression may be fogging up your brain and preventing you from doing this.

For instance, you might make a list of your concerns. One might be “I didn’t get into the college of my choice, so I will never become successful.” Can you think of other ways to address this problem? Another solution may be to reapply next year. Or, you might apply to a lesser college, maintain good grades, and transfer at a later date., Sometimes, it’s hard to realistically work your way through negative thought patterns. If thinking about what’s troubling you makes you feel worse, find a temporary distraction that makes you feel good.

Healthy distractions might include going for a walk with your dog, painting your nails, calling a friend or watching a funny movie.
Avoid unhealthy distractions such as using alcohol or drugs to numb your feelings. Substance abuse will only make things worse in the end.