 First, if you don't have an action replay for the Playstation 2, you want to wait until you've beaten Xigbar (dude with the eye patch) in the world that never was. Once you have, you're going to start searching for the Orichalcum+. Keep in mind, there's only seven in the whole game. Only get seven, even though it says to get 13.;
, Level up your moogle by synthesizing any and all items you can.
 Equip the abilities of Lucky Lucky to the whole party, and the Lucky Ring accessories, and Sweet Memories for even more drop rate. (if you have it.)

, Shards won't be needed. These can be commonly found by defeating a nobody. Once you've collected about a couple of each, it's time for something a bit more challenging. Serenity crystal is also a syntheses item, not just an add-on. You need about seven of these serenity crystals. Get as much luck as you can get.
 Abilities, items, equipment, weapons, four leaf clovers, horse shoes, and your lucky underwear will definitely help. You can get Serenity Crystals by defeating snipers, assassins, Berserkers, and possibly dancers. Snipers and Berserkers drop most commonly. All these enemies can be located in the world that never was. Once you have the dense, twilight, and serenity items, it's time to hunt for the Orichalcum+.
 These are scattered all over the worlds, so look hard.
 Another one can be found in the old mansion in twilight town. (Must be sora, not roxas) The next Orichalcum+ can be obtained only once when you reach roughly level 53.
 Beat very one, and after beating either Titan Cup or Goddess of Fate cup, you get another Orichalcum+. The next one can be found after getting at least one of every single synthesis material. Blazing, Frost, Lightning, Dense, Twilight, Serenity, Energy, you need every one. You can know where to get these in other walkthroughs and websites by searching Google. The rest of Orichalcum can be obtained by beating worlds and finding rare chests all around the Worlds Dude. You'll also need a few regular Orichalcum, which can be found by defeating any powerful enemies and in chests and after beating certain events.

