 Once you've put your obituary together, you should read it over to make sure that it suits your needs. Through revision, you'll be able to trim down any wordy phrases, note places where you could add information, and see if a sentence or two could be eliminated altogether.


When you revise your work, ask yourself what your loved one would think of the obituary. Would he feel that you captured who he was and what his passions were?
Make sure that you were honoring the person's life instead of focusing on his death. The obituary should read like a quiet celebration of all the things the person has done and all of the lives that he touched.
Remember those three words you thought would best describe the person. Do those words shine through in what you've written?
Make sure that your thoughts are clearly communicated. Are all of the sentences clear and unambiguous?
Avoid any fancy words that may muddle your meaning. Your obituary should be respectful and simple.
 Once you've revised your work, you should ask for the feedback of another person who knew the loved one well, because this can give you a better sense of what you've accomplished in the obituary. If you're really feeling uncertain about your work, then you can ask for feedback before the revision stage. Here's why getting some feedback can be helpful:


Having another person close to the loved one look at your work can give you a better sense of whether you've truly captured the essence of that person.
Another pair of eyes can also be helpful because another person can help you see if you've forgotten something important, like one of the person's favorite hobbies, or the names of one of his children.
 Once you've revised your work and received some feedback, you should look over your work one more time before you send your obituary to the funeral home. This will help you get rid of any grammatical or punctuation mistakes.


Try reading your work aloud to make sure that the sentences flow smoothly and that there aren't any words that are out of place.
 After you've finished writing the obituary, all you have to do is send it to either the funeral home or directly to the newspaper. You should have the obituary typed, and you should send it in electronic form if this is acceptable. This is a great way to minimize errors and to make sure that your obituary gets to the right place quickly.


However you choose to submit your obituary, you should make sure that it was received promptly.

