 If you're on time, it shows that you are reliable and that you care. Giving yourself extra time to get ready will have helped. If you show up more than 5 minutes early, try driving around the block or hanging out at a nearby park until it's time.


Don't wait in their driveway; it will confuse them.
 It's a good idea to not walk through the grass. Ring the doorbell once and wait quietly.
 Smile sweetly and follow the parents' lead regarding whether they want to shake hands or hug. Make eye contact if you're comfortable with it, and fake it (by looking at their nose, eyebrows, or chin) if you aren't. Say "It's great to finally meet you!"

, Ask whether you should take off your shoes, and if so, where to put them. If you're wearing a jacket, take it off and ask where you can hang up your jacket. Someone may take it for you, or you may hang it yourself.


This is a good time to give them a gift if you brought one.
 Maybe they have a beautiful staircase, the dad is an excellent cook, or the mother is wearing elegant shoes. One or two compliments will show that you appreciate them, but won't make you come off as fawning or insincere.
 It's important to be yourself, and it's also important to be on your best behavior. Say "please" and "thank you," use good language, and put effort into being respectful and kind. Work on being authentically good.
 Offer to pour them drinks or get them things, and consider holding the door for them or pulling their chair back for them. The parents want to know that you treat their child well, and this will help them see that you respect your date.


Placing your an arm around your partner or a hand on their shoulder is generally accepted. Avoid kissing beyond a quick peck, touching in intimate places (butt, breasts, crotch), and other public displays of affection in front of the parents.
 If they mention liking something that you like, talk to them about it. This will help you connect over a shared interest. Here are some things you may have in common...


Sports
Geographic locations
Hobbies
Favorite hangouts
Music
Favorite books

, Work on listening well and asking questions that get people to keep talking. Many people enjoy feeling interesting and important, and listening is easier than talking.
 This is another little way to show how helpful and thoughtful you are. Maybe you can carry plates to the dishwasher, dry the dishes, or put things away.
 Follow the parents' lead whether they want to shake hands or hug. If you are leaving with your date, the parents may tell you when to have them back. Smile, bid your goodbyes, and let yourself relax now that it's over.


The parents will probably watch you leave, so open the car door for your partner, wait until you both have your seat belts on, and then drive away safely.

