 Panic attacks are not something you should simply try to treat on your own. It is very important to make sure the panic attack is not a medical issue before attempting to treat it.If you do in fact experience panic attacks and not a medical condition, you can begin treatment with a general practitioner or psychiatrist (recommended) who can prescribe medication or suggest natural remedies and nutritional supplements. Early treatment is key to preventing panic attacks.
Contact a general practitioner (medical doctor) or psychiatrist to discuss possible medications. Sertraline (a Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor-SSRI, brand name: Zoloft), Escitalopram (also an SSRI, brand name: Lexapro),and other medications have been indicated in reducing panic attacks. ;
, If your anxiety disrupts your daily life in that you have trouble completing your obligations or interacting socially, it may benefit you to seek professional help. A therapist or psychologist can outline a treatment plan specific to your needs that can include coping methods and techniques.


Contact a therapist, social worker, or psychologist for therapy in order to help you learn new techniques to treat your panic attacks. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) has been indicated as a useful modality for treating panic attacks.CBT is associated with changing your thoughts in order to change your feelings and behaviors.
 Talking with others who have attacks may help you to feel in control of your condition and lead to helpful panic attack management resources. Group members can share strategies for facing and managing fear and their successes. Professionals with expertise in panic attacks may also be available to speak with you at meetings.


Request a list of local support groups from your doctor. Or, locate panic attack support groups in your area by contacting the Anxiety and Depression Association of America via their website or by phone at 1-240-485-1001.There are even internet based treatments for panic attacks that have been shown to be effective., Ask your family to help you face your fears instead of avoiding them, stay positive with you as you work through your anxiety, and be patient while you confront your disorder.


Start by letting your family members know that you suffer from panic attacks and that you would appreciate their support in your recovery.
Try being assertive and straight-forward about your panic attacks. You could say something like, "I want to talk to you about a problem I've been having. I have been experiencing panic attacks that are very scary for me. I would appreciate any help you can offer me. I need your support in my treatment of this problem."

