 If you know that you are engaging in risky behavior due to your ADHD, you should go see your doctor. Your current treatment may need adjusting. Be honest with your doctor and tell them what risky behavior you have been participating in.If you don’t know you have adult ADHD, you and your doctor may need to discuss the possibility of the condition.
Try keeping a journal of your symptoms for a few weeks before you go to see a doctor about them. This will help you to explain the symptoms you are having and give your doctor an idea of the frequency of your symptoms.
 Medication is a common treatment for ADHD. It generally works best with other treatments, such as psychotherapy, exercise, and stress relief. Sometimes, it takes a few tries to get the right medication to treat your specific condition.Stimulants are commonly used to treat ADHD. Other medications can be used if stimulants aren’t right for you.
 Risky behavior from adult ADHD can be improved through counseling. During session, you can learn skills needed to change the risky behavior. These skills may include time management, organizational skills, and problem solving skills. Therapy sessions may also focus on your impulsiveness, poor social skills, or low self-esteem.Cognitive behavioral therapy is the common psychotherapy treatment for adult ADHD. In CBT, you will learn methods to help you control impulses and redirect negative behavior.
 An ADHD support group may help you deal with your risky behavior. Support groups will put you into contact with others who have ADHD. You can share past experiences with risky behavior and learn from others who have experienced the same thing.Ask your doctor or therapist for a support group in your area. You may also contact the local hospital or look online for a support group in your area.
 Adult ADHD often occurs with other conditions, such as depression and anxiety. If you haven’t been diagnosed with another condition, talk to your doctor about the possibility. Treating any other conditions may limit risky behavior.Treatment for ADHD and other conditions may include a combination of medications for the two disorders, or medication and therapy.

