 Budgeting your expenses is one of the most important components of personal finance. However, if you’re not in the habit of keeping a budget, suddenly recording all of your expenses is an unlikely change in behavior. Instead, start tracking all of your spending on one type of good, such as food.Focusing on one spending category will make you more aware of the types of purchases you’re making in that category that are unnecessary.
Simply record every grocery, meal, and snack purchase and total daily or weekly expenditures. Look out for red flags, such as spending more money on delivery than you do on groceries.
There are many personal finance apps for your phone, such as Mint and Level Money, that can help you budget and identify spending habits you might want to change.;
, One way to establish good financial habits is by starting with something simple and easy. An ideal example is reviewing your checking account everyday. Not only will this help you be more aware of unnecessary spending, it will get you in the habit of being more financially aware in general.Consider checking in the evening, and reviewing each transaction in your account from that day.
 If unnecessary spending is an issue for you, address it by establishing explicit rules instead of making to goal to “spend less.” For instance, decide that you are not going to spend more than $100 on anything unnecessary for the next six months. While you may still need to address other spending habits, you'll find it easier to keep from treating yourself to those $240 heels.Making rules like these may even become a habit in and of itself. For instance, you may find yourself thinking things like, “From now on, I'm not going to spend more than $10 per day on lunch.”
Another good example: Disallow yourself from getting a cart at the grocery store. Instead, use one of the baskets you need to carry. Not only will you likely buy less, you’ll pay more to attention to the specific items you’re purchasing.
 Similar to checking your bank account, make a point of actually going over your regular bills. The classic example is the bill from your television provider. If you take the time to look at the expense every month, you may find yourself motivated to find a more economical option.Furthermore, you will be able to catch unexpected costs or changes that you might otherwise miss.
Keep most of your bills automated - in part to ensure you don’t get in trouble by forgetting to pay them. That said, don’t simply allow money to be withdrawn from your account once a month without keeping track.

