 One of the keys to victim blaming is the fact that you think it is your fault. This may come from yourself, family or friends, or even society. There are many reasons you may blame yourself, but remind your multiple times each day that it was not your fault.People who victimize others are always doing it to deal with their own issues.


You may think it was your fault you were abused, raped, attacked, or the victim of a crime. You may dissect everything you’ve done and find ways you messed up. Stop doing this. If you were abused, raped, attacked, or the victim of a crime, that was not your fault.;
, Part of recovering from victim blaming is letting go of negative and false emotions. This could be guilt, anger, fear, sadness, or anything else. Once you work through the emotions and let them go, you can move forward.First, you should acknowledge the emotions. Close your eyes and imagine all the emotions you feel, even if they are uncomfortable or hurt you. Give them names, like guilt, fear, or anger.
After you’ve acknowledged them, tell yourself that they are only emotions and hold no power over you. Then, imagine that you are letting them go one by one. You may imagine they are balloons that you release and watch go away or wisps of smoke that you watch disappear.
Be aware that negative emotions are often stored in the body, so it is important to use relaxation techniques to relieve yourself.For example, you can try using progressive muscle relaxation, deep breathing, or meditation for 15 minutes or more daily.
 When you have been the victim, you may feel many different things. You may feel that you are wrong for feeling these things and not being able to get over them. However, this is not true. Experiencing negative reactions and emotions are a normal symptom that follows a traumatic event.For example, feelings of helplessness, shame, or guilt are normal responses.
Avoid suppressing or ignoring negative emotions because this can lead to unhealthy coping mechanisms and health problems. That is why it is important to accept your emotions and deal with them., As you work through your feelings, it may help to confront your guilty feelings. Victim blaming leads to feeling like what happened to you was your fault, so confronting those feelings can help you take control of them and get rid of them.When you have a thought blaming yourself, like “I deserved it,” “I should have paid more attention,” or “Maybe it was what I was wearing,” you should figure out why you think that. Did it just come to you randomly, or did someone or something you read make you think it?
Tell yourself, “This thought is wrong. The abuse/rape/crime was the choice of the attacker. They made the choice to hurt me. I am not at fault.”

