 Instead of keeping cat food in the bag, move the food from the bag to the plastic container after opening the bag. There are many of these available that are designed for pet food., Ants are attracted to crumbs and any food left behind. Wash the bowls at least once every two days, or more if possible. This is extremely important if you have an ant problem.Use a cat safe detergent and rinse thoroughly with fresh, clean water.
 Deter ants from getting interested in the food area in the first place by keeping it clean. Sweep up any crumbs or leftover food after your cat has finished eating. Mop the floor with vinegar or lemon mixtures to help dissuade ants from approaching.You may consider moving the bowl off the floor when your cat is not eating, or leaving it out during certain hours, but picking it up at night.
 You can also try to move the bowl to another place. This way the ants may not be able to find it. If you have ants coming into the room, move the bowl away from the ant colony.
 Try making a boundary around your cat's food bowl that ants can't cross. There are certain substances that will help repel ants.


Draw a line around the bowl with chalk.
Place a newspaper under the bowl and surround the bowl with a line of ground cinnamon, coffee grounds, chili powder, or ash.Surround the edge of the food container with petroleum jelly.
Spray vinegar or lemon on the floor around your pet's bowl. Mix 1 part vinegar or lemon juice to 1 part water. Place in a spray bottle and spray around the bowl, creating a boundary., A messy method to prevent ants from reaching the food is to smear the outside of the food bowl with petroleum jelly. The ants have trouble walking up the slippery surface.You can also place this on the outside of the moat container as an extra line of defense.
 Many essential oils can help repel ants. Try wiping down the floor around your cat's bowl with a damp cloth that contains a few drops of peppermint oil. Ants are repelled by the strong smell.You can also use lemon, orange, or grapefruit oil to repel ants. Try wiping the floor around the bowl with a cotton ball covered in the oil.Essential oils are natural products and do not contain chemicals; however, make sure your cat never ingests undiluted essential oils as these can be toxic. Any essential oil that is applied where a cat might accidentally lick should be well-diluted.
 A good way to keep the ants far from the bowl is to place commercial ant bait (under a cat-safe box) in the general area. Make sure that there is just a small hole for the ants to get in and eat the poison. At the same time, make sure your pet cannot access the bait.


One way might be to screw a box directly into the floor or deck. It might be possible to jamb the cover box behind a stove or refrigerator, but only if the space is excessively narrow for your cat to access it. Just remember that cats are curious and can get into unimaginable places.

