 In most cases, moisture will help you retain your sunless color. However, baby oil has the opposite effect and will loosen the skin cells pigmented with sunless tanner. Using a baby oil treatment can tone down or completely remove self-tanner without harming your skin.


Soak your skin in baby oil and leave it on for ten minutes. Then hop in the shower and gently scrub your skin with a loofah to remove the color. Repeat the process if necessary.;
, Exfoliation is one of the most effective ways to remove and smooth sunless tanner. By pairing exfoliation mitts with the acidity of lemon juice, you can break up and lift off the color from your skin.


Spread lemon juice on the part(s) of your body where you want to remove sunless tanner with a cotton pad or ball. After you’ve finished this, put on your exfoliator mitts and hop in the shower. Rub the lemon juice into your skin with the mitts and then rinse it off with warm water. Repeat the process if necessary to remove any remaining color., You can also lighten sunless tanner on your skin without using harsh bleaching agents. A paste of lemon juice and baking soda can lighten up and exfoliate sunless tanner from your skin.


Mix lemon juice and baking soda in a bowl until they form a paste. If you’re using this mixture to remove sunless tanner from your entire body, make sure you mix a larger amount. Lightly rub the paste over the spots from which you want to remove the sunless tanner. Rinse off with warm water and repeat if necessary.Make a paste of baking soda and water if lemon juice is too harsh for your skin.
 Vinegar is a multipurpose product that can exfoliate and lift sunless tanner from skin. Apply it for ten minutes to areas of your skin on which you want to remove color. When the ten minutes are over, rinse the area with warm water and check that you’ve removed the amount of color you want.Be aware that your skin may smell like vinegar after using this treatment. Making sure to rinse thoroughly can minimize this odor.
 Many companies that make self-tanners also produce removal products. If your tan hasn’t fully developed, try one of these products to stop the development and remove the self-tanner.Get a removal product at pharmacies, large retailers and specialty cosmetics stores. Read the packaging to ensure that the product will work on the type of self-tanner you used. You can get products to remove the sunless tanner within four hours of application or after it has fully developed.
Apply the remover with a loofah, washcloth, or exfoliating wipe to your entire body or specific areas. After this take a shower and rinse with warm water. Check your skin to see if you’ve removed the sunless tanner. If not, consider repeating the process.

