 Each vehicle has specific points on the frame that are designed to withstand the weight of jacking up the vehicle. These jack points are not always easily identified, so refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual to help you find them if you are having difficulty.There are usually jack points on the frame of your car to the inside of each wheel, and at a center point on the front and back of the car.
Jacking the car up at a point that is not designed for it can cause damage to the frame of the vehicle.
 Trolley jacks utilize hydraulics to lift your vehicle off of the ground. When the hydraulic valve is open, the jack can’t create pressure on the piston to lift the car. Use the handle of the jack to turn the valve clockwise until it is completely closed. Re-insert the handle into the jack once done if you used the handle to close the valve. Different jacks may place the valve in different places, but it is often a different color than the rest of the jack or is left unpainted completely.
If you are using a scissor jack, there is no valve you need to close.
 Slide your jack beneath the jack point closest to the wheel you intend to remove so the cup of the jack is sitting just beneath the frame. You may need to raise the cup of the jack slightly by lifting the jack handle and pressing it back down or spinning it once to make sure the jack is positioned properly.The cup on the jack should be centered on the designated jack point for the vehicle.
There are teeth or ridges on the cup of the jack to help prevent the car’s frame from sliding as it’s jacked up.
 Depending on the type of jack you are using, you will need to either raise and lower the handle (on a trolley jack) or turn it (on a scissor jack) to raise the vehicle. Start slow, paying close attention to the frame around the jack point to look for signs of bending or crimping of the metal.If you see signs that the metal is bending, lower the car and reposition the jack unto the jack point properly.
 Raising a vehicle up too high can increase the danger of it falling off of the jack or jack stands. Once it is high enough to change the tire, place jack stands beneath it for safety.Do not place any part of your body under the vehicle unless you have jack stands in place to support it.
You only need to lift the vehicle up until the tire is no longer touching the ground to remove it.

