 Most bookmobiles are part of a larger library district. As such, many bookmobiles only require patrons to have a library card to their parent district. Other bookmobiles may require patrons to have a special card before being permitted to use the bookmobile library, even if they are attached to larger districts. Find out if you have a working library card or if you need to apply for a new one before you do anything else.;
, For most bookmobiles, the service is free to residents who live within the area of the bookmobile’s parent library district. Some bookmobile libraries are closed to people living outside of this region, but others will allow citizens from neighboring cities or counties to take advantage of the bookmobile service for a small fee. If your library district does not have its own bookmobile, find out if a neighboring one does and if you can obtain access.
 The typical bookmobile library makes a range of stops. These stops often include neighborhood stops, nursing homes, and daycare centers. Some bookmobiles accept suggestions for new stops, while others determine their stops without community input.
 Before you can use the bookmobile, you need to know where to find it and when. Most bookmobile libraries will put out a yearly, bi-yearly, or quarterly schedule of bookmobile stops. You can usually obtain a copy of the bookmobile's schedule by asking the bookmobile workers, library workers from a branch in the district, or by accessing it online.
 Many bookmobile libraries are willing to take requests, but you may need to wait until the next schedule is drafted before it will be put into effect. Moreover, even bookmobiles that are willing to add a new stop or neighborhood to their route may have specific requirements. For instance, you may need to guarantee that a minimum number of books will be checked out each month or that road and traffic conditions can accommodate a bookmobile stop.
 Many bookmobile libraries are willing to provide a special service to individual patrons who are physically unable to visit one of the district's branches due to disabilities, age, illness, or loss of mobility. Depending on the circumstances and the bookmobile library's policies, these home-bound individuals might be able to arrange a brief visit from the bookmobile once or twice a month.
 Bookmobile libraries can carry thousands of titles that may include not only print books, but audio books, DVDs, videos, and compact discs, as well. Additionally, your library on wheels may have a selection of materials from many genres. The selection may be heavy in one area depending on whom the bookmobile caters to, though. For instance, bookmobiles primarily aimed at serving a day care may have a large selection of children's books, while bookmobiles mainly aimed at senior citizens may have a larger selection of large print books.
 Many libraries allow you to reserve books online or in person and are willing to send the reserved materials to your branch of choice. For library systems that have a bookmobile, the bookmobile may serve as one such choice.



Obey the check-out period. Oftentimes, the check-out period for bookmobile materials depends on how often the bookmobile comes around. If the bookmobile comes around once a month, for instance, then you may be allowed to keep the materials that long. In other cases, especially for bookmobiles that come around on a more frequent basis, the check-out periods may only be as long as they are for books and materials checked out from the library district as a whole.
Know the check-out limits. Since a bookmobile library has a limited supply of materials as compared to a standard library branch, the check-out limits may be a little more rigid. You will probably only be allowed to check out so many books, DVDs, compact discs, or other materials at once.
Learn about the renewal policy. Bookmobiles associated with parent library branches may allow you to renew bookmobile materials as long as the renewal happens before the check-out period expires. Not all bookmobile libraries will allow this, however, due to the limited supply of materials they carry.
 As with any library, keeping library materials past their due date will result in a fine. Pay fines as you get them. Strict bookmobiles may restrict you from borrowing further materials until your current fines are paid. Others may not restrict you immediately but will do so if too much time passes with unpaid fines.

