 Many resorts and vacation destinations will offer reduced prices on hotel rooms in exchange for you sitting through a timeshare presentation. These vacation packages are to top destinations, such as Orlando, Cancun, Las Vegas, Anaheim, Hawaii, Miami, Hilton Head Island, Branson, and Colorado.


Timeshare vacation deals can be found online through timeshare vacation package websites and resort websites. They may also be available as exclusive deals when you book travel arrangements to other hotels.Examples of timeshare vacation package deals are: 3 nights in a one bedroom condo and 2 attraction tickets in Orlando for under $400; 4 nights for 2 adults and 2 children under 12 years of age in Cancun for under $500.
Many vacation packages choose a hotel for you based on availability. This means you might end up in a hotel without convenient transportation, which could provide added expenses to your trip.;
, Many different timeshare websites provide offers on vacation packages and special deals through newsletters or by phone. When you sign up for these websites, you provide them your e-mail address and telephone number so they can contact you with information and deals.


These websites will send you offers from many different destinations, such as Orlando, Hawaii, and even Cancun.
Other websites let you choose the cities in which you would be interested in attending a presentation, and then they gather packages from different resorts and developers and provide you with packages., Before you book your timeshare tour and accept the vacation package, contact the company. When you contact them, let them know that you are interested in the property and tell them the dates you are available to travel and attend the presentation. This ensures that there will be a presentation during the days of your visit.


By contacting the company, you also can find out what is included in the presentation, such as the incentives and the length of the presentation. This way you know what you are getting into beforehand and avoid any surprises that may end up with you paying more than you expected., Most timeshare vacation package deals have certain eligibility requirements you must meet to receive the vacation deals. Each package differs, so make sure you read all the qualifications and fine print before booking so you don't have to pay full price.


Most packages require you to be between 25-75 years of age. For some, you will have to be 30.
Some vacation packages require a minimum household yearly income, such as $40,000-$50,000. One member of the family must have a minimum credit score set by the company.Certain vacation packages require you to be married.
 If you find a vacation package and timeshare tour that interests you, research the company to make sure it is legitimate. If the company is legitimate and you have called to discuss the package, you then can book the vacation package and tour. Before giving anyone your information over the internet or phone, make sure to research the company.


Sign up over the internet through the vacation or resort website. To sign up for the deal, you will have to provide your full name, your home address, your telephone, and your credit card information.
Book the vacation over the phone. If giving your information to a company over the internet bothers you, contact the company or resort directly. Many of these timeshare presentation websites have an option for you to fill out a form or send an e-mail to let an agent know that you are interested. The agent will then contact you, and you can sign up for the deal over the phone.
 While the vacation packages are provided at a significantly cheaper rate, you can also expect to have added charges added to your bill. Sometimes, the bill can be as much as 25% more than you expected.


These fees include taxes, daily resort fees, service charges, among other vacation-specific charges.There might be additional fees added to holidays, peak-season dates, and weekend days.
 Typically, timeshare presentations are scheduled to last for 90-120 minutes on the last day of your vacation. If you are staying at the resort where the timeshare is, you will be required to go on a tour. To receive your discounted vacation package, you must sit through the presentation. Otherwise, they can make you pay for your vacation deals.


If they have your credit card on file, the resort can charge you the difference between the regular price and the discounted rate for your stay.Other timeshare promotions will hold the voucher for your last night's stay until after you sit through the presentation.
Some timeshare presentations can end up lasting all day, despite claiming to be only 90 minutes.
 Many websites have timers ticking down to make you think that you need to act or lose out on the special. In reality, these offers are usually available year round by resorts as a way to get you to learn about the services. These offers were created as a sales tool to get qualified couples and families to visit a resort and learn about the resorts services.


Don't fall for sales pitches that pressure you into committing right away. Many times, the salesperson will use a tactic claiming that the offer will expire or that it is a one time offer.If you are seriously interested in a timeshare, make an informed decision instead of buying because you are afraid a deal will get away. No deal is so good that you won't be able to find a comparable one somewhere else.
 Before you give anyone your money, research the company. Most states have strict guidelines by which companies who offer travel packages must abide. Find out if the company is a legitimate company before giving them any money or credit card information. Contact them, talk to any of their agents, and ask for a price comparison.


Look beyond the internet. Try to find out if the company is registered through local, state, or government departments.Try looking at the Better Business Bureau or through the American Society of Travel Agents., Purchasing vacation certificates for a future vacation, or being told that you don't need to know your dates of travel today, may be a scam. Also be wary of anyone pressuring you to make up your mind on the phone. Buying a vacation voucher or travel certificate does not mean that you have a guaranteed vacation through the resort of your choice. If the marketing or call center company goes out of business, you lose your vacation package.


Don't trust anything you get in the mail, via e-mail, or through fax.
Never give your credit card information to anyone who called you first. This could be a scam. Instead, investigate and return the call if you discover the business is legitimate.
 Don't believe any offers that claim you have won a free vacation. These are often scams aimed at obtaining your credit card information. Watch out for any unsolicited advertisements for low-priced vacation packages. These free vacations oftentimes require you to provide your credit card for a small processing fee. If you do end up with a vacation package, you may already have paid several hundred dollars in fees. If you think the vacation package seems too good to be true, you're probably right.There are no buy one, get one free offers. These promotions are offered by resorts with the intention that the marketing company sell them for a set price. These resorts do not want you coming to their resort with a free vacation package for next year’s travel. They are trying to sell you a vacation service. This is completely against all the terms and conditions that the resort has set and should be reported to them directly.
 There are many companies that claim they are US-based and really working out of other countries. Don't correspond with people only through e-mail. Instead, talk to them on the phone, or to a landlord, travel coordinator, or booking agent.Many foreign scammers get US phone numbers to make consumers think they are local. You need to investigate the company you are going to buy your timeshare vacation package through before giving them any money.
 The ultimate goal of a timeshare presentation or tour is to get you to buy a timeshare. The salespeople will use many sales tactics, including making you speak with 3-4 sales representatives who each lower the price even further.They also might make you feel guilty for taking the discount package, for wasting their time, or for not buying because they won't get paid if you don't buy from them. Don't fall for this.


Make sure to ask for cancellation periods. Most salespeople won't tell you about your right to cancel if you sign up for a timeshare.Don't lead a salesperson on. If you have no intention of buying, don't pretend you are more interested than you are.