 There are a number of different possibilities, such as being naturally shy or feeling uncomfortable around certain people or situations. Discovering the cause of your quietness can help you find the right ways to work around that. Although you may want to become louder, understand that it's important to accept yourself as you are rather than attempting to completely change yourself. There is nothing wrong with being quiet, unless if you feel that it's hindering you from making relationships or discovering new experiences.;
, If you're naturally quiet, speaking up may appear frightening or unusual. You may be used to remaining silent and listening to others. However, tell yourself that if you talk to others, you'll be opening yourself to different opportunities. By stepping out and contributing with your ideas and topics, you can enjoy new experiences and improve your confidence in speaking. Focus on the positives rather than blowing the situation out of proportion and fretting over the bad things that might happen if you talk.
 Practicing with your voice can boost your confidence in speaking, and it teaches you to enunciate your words correctly. It can also help you learn to speak louder and bolder. If you feel strange about reading out loud to yourself, you can take the time to read a story to your siblings or pets. Otherwise, find a private area where you can speak without others hearing you.
 If they rarely come to your house, change that and allow them to visit you. If you're comfortable around your friends, you'll be more likely to feel better about talking to them, especially since you're in the comforts of your home. Practice talking with them and think about how confident or free you feel when you speak. The next time you talk to someone outside of your home, try to remember that confidence and hold onto the feeling.
 Presenting in groups can help you feel more comfortable speaking authoritatively on a topic for a long period of time, even if you feel completely out of your depth. You will also develop the ability to respond to another person's opinion and disagree in a persuasive way. Because you're in a group, you won't have to be afraid of talking alone, as you'll have others to support your words and guide you. You will also be able to meet more people, develop your confidence, and improve your English vocabulary and style, as well as your grades if you attend school.
 Scan the headlines of a national newspaper every morning and evening, or listen to the radio on your way to work or school. Quiet people often find it hard to come up with an icebreaker or feel out of depth in a conversation. Being knowledgeable about the world around you can help boost your confidence, as well as give you the ability to cover a variety of different subjects in a conversation. You'll also feel more bold and motivated when it comes to prompting a new topic. Don't be afraid to give your opinion, as it matters just as much as everyone else's. Quiet people often are very wise, valuing quality over quantity.
 Although spending time with a group can be fun, it can also feel overwhelming, especially if there are many people chatting at the same time. If you find yourself being rendered mute, start small. As the chatty, self-assured folks vie for attention, talk to someone one-on-one rather than sitting off to the side. You will not only become more confident in approaching others but also learn to initiate interaction and include yourself. After a while, you can gradually branch out to other members of your group.
 This will give you the motivation and boldness to start a conversation. Understand that quiet people are too often perceived as being snobbish or boring, which means people feel that they cannot reach out through their bubble. However, turning that bubble into an air of confidence can encourage others to initiate contact. Give people a friendly smile and a quick "hello" to make you appear more approachable.
 When speaking to someone, it's best to adapt a confident posture and appear engaged in the conversation. This will encourage them to continue speaking to you and can help you feel bolder. It will also make you approachable, command respect from those that speak to you, and make others interested in talking to you. If you slouch and often look away from people, this makes you appear uninterested in the conversation or unconfident, which can chase people away from you.
 A balanced conversation between two people is a positive way to attract more people to you. Even if you're not the best talker, at least be a good listener and show the other person that you're interested in what they're saying. Learn good listening skills and show your compassionate side by being willing to listen to problems and offer solutions. However, you shouldn't be afraid to occasionally turn the focus on you or interject your opinion. If you feel that the other person is dominating the conversation, don't hesitate to speak up and politely tell them that you have something to say as well.
 Despite the belief that having loud friends can help draw quiet people out of their shells, the truth is that they only give you the excuse to become mute. If they're too loud and rarely prompt you to speak, they'll only overshadow you and perhaps even push you back into the corner of the group. It's recommended that you befriend a healthy mixture of loud and quiet people so that you have a good balance. Someone who is quieter than you will force you to compensate for their silence and develop your ability to maintain a conversation. While opposites may attract, practice moderation.
 Because you're surrounded by many people in your life, there are many different opportunities for a conversation with someone. Although you don't have to carry out a long talk, at least attempt to chat with someone for a short while, whether it's a stranger in a coffee shop or someone waiting in line with you. This will hone your conversation skills while decreasing the risk of embarrassment, as you'll never see the person again if you feel that you messed up the conversation. As you do this, understand that you'll be meeting a variety of different people. Some may be friendly and interested in talking with you while others may not be in the mood. Remember not to take their reactions personally, and realize that it's a learning experience for you.
 Being naturally quiet often means that many people perceive it as being snobbish or elitist, which can be very hard to take. Swallow your pride and take a hard look at yourself in a social situation. Do your best to modify your appearance so that you appear friendly and approachable to other people. Stand up straight, smile, and make eye contact. Acknowledge people, even if you don't know them well. By making yourself approachable, you will make people like you and pique their interest in talking to you.
 Understand that some conversations will be fantastic while others may fail. Remember that you're talking to different people with unique personalities. Some may be great conversationalists and perhaps cause you to feel inadequate and tongue tied. Others might refuse to hold their end of a conversation you're battling to get off the ground. No matter what the situation is, don't be afraid to take a step back. Avoid blaming yourself, as it's not always you that is the cause of the problem. You might not always get along well with some people, whether they're good or bad at talking. However, understand that you cannot use this as an excuse to be lazy. Work at initiating and carrying conversations, but if it turns out to be messy, accept your role as only part of it and move onto another. Take it as a learning experience rather than allowing it to discourage you.
 As long as you view it in a good light, it will be a good personality trait. A quiet person is often respected and admired by chatty peers, and many people think of it as a sign of intelligence and wisdom. Work on being approachable, confident, and able to hold a conversation when the need arises, honing what you might now think is a hindrance into an attribute.

