 These are the kinds of people that won't try to make you be different. try to hang out with these people as much as possible to develop a good relationship with them. These will most likely be your lifelong friends, so be good to them!;
, Don't listen to what people say.
 If your school has a uniform/tight dress code, still obey these rules, but remain true to yourself. A few weeks before you start school, go to the mall and browse stores and find the clothes you like. It doesn't matter if it isn't "in fashion" if you like it, wear it, it's important to feel comfortable and not like you're wearing a costume. If you have a uniform/dress code, look at the rules. In the first weeks, make sure you're definitely in uniform, and just watch and see what everyone else is wearing, then become a little more bold in what you wear.
 It doesn't matter if it's meant for 3rd graders, if you like it, go for it! With backpacks, buy something functional. A lot of girls at my school are carrying around Juicy purses. I don't know why, if everyone else is, it doesn't mean you have to. Whatever you want. I have a giant purple backpack. Go with what you want. Heck, even carry your books around in your hands. (not recommended though, you may have to carry a lot of stuff)

, So don't risk it, be yourself, if people don't like you for who you are, too bad for them. Don't talk trash about people because others are, that's just uncool, and may come back to haunt you. Just don't do it.
 It doesn't matter if it's "uncool" it's a great way to make new friends with similar interests as you. And, does it really matter if you were cool in high school? How many really successful people were one of the more popular people in high school. (Bill Gates? Steve Jobs?)

, How are you going to find yourself in a career if you flunk out?! And if you are rich and your parents will pay then you better take that free ride. If you don't, you will live in your hometown your whole life and always talk about highschool with the other losers who never found out who they were, or who they wanted to be.
 When you feel unworthy, make yourself seem confident. When people talk behind your back, laugh at it and make up jokes about what they said.If you are in a trend that people make fun of, then make fun at your trend in front of them. Play cocky-confident guy. After a while, you will feel better. Just don't be mean to others! You are no better than anyone.
 Be who you are or think you are. Who cares what they think. Teenagers need to feel a part of a group because they are vulnerable and don't feel they know themselves. Plus, high school is not like real life. You won't see a huge selection of groupings of people all at once. And adults can relate more to people after growing up and soul searching.

