 Think about what it is that you want. What do you value? What are the ways that you want to improve to have a better life? Maybe you want to make more money or you want to be a better parent or extract more meaning from your job; whatever the case, think about it deeply and listen to your gut feelings.Try describing your ideal self and life on a piece of paper. You can make different columns, such as one for relationships, one for finances, one for your ideal mindset (i.e., the way you want think or what you want your general attitude to be).;
, Sometimes no matter how much you may want something, it is unobtainable. If you define your values in such a way that you are willing to adapt or make compromises, you will probably be happier and ultimately have a better life in the long run, since you won't often feel so let down.That said, don't give into life's circumstances too easily. Improving your life for the better will likely not be an easy task.
 After you have made your list of values, look for patterns that might give you hints about areas you should focus on improving.For example, perhaps you mentioned that you wanted both more meaning and money from your work, and you didn't have much on your list about relationship improvement.
 If you found that, for example, improving your work life is important to you, you could then take steps to improve that aspect of your life.


For example, you might decide to start taking night classes to become a lawyer or a physiotherapist.
 An unrealistic goal would be something like you becoming the best lawyer in the world and making five million dollars a year your first year out of law school. Avoid doing that, and instead, set goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound (SMART).Specific goals are concrete. Rather than saying, "I'll become a lawyer one day," which is not specific, you might say "I'll become a lawyer in 4 years," which is specific.
A measurable goal is a goal where you can track your progress over time. You might measure your progress in law school by counting the number of classes you need to take to graduate, and check off each class that you complete.
An attainable goal is a realistic goal. It isn't about being the best lawyer in the world. Something more attainable would be: finish law school and get a job that pays the average salary for a lawyer or slightly higher.
A relevant goal is something that is consistent with the values you have determined will lead to a better life. If you placed a high value on finding meaning (e.g., via helping people with the law) and increasing your income, then becoming a lawyer is a relevant goal.
A time-bound goal is a goal with a deadline. It can also include deadlines for sub goals, such as a specific date to take the LSAT (a test required to get into law school).
 Be sure to ask yourself from time to time about the value you place on each aspect of your life. You may find that your values change over time as you have additional life experiences.


Keep in mind that it is OK to change directions. It doesn't mean that you are a failure to divert your energy to other aspects of your life, it just means that you have changed your priorities and values.

