 If you are trying to remove one from your pool or pond, then you obviously know where the turtle is already. If you are just looking to catch a turtle in the wild, you can normally find one around smaller ponds that are damp with plenty of hiding spots and rocks. If the water is down slightly, you will probably find the most success on the very edge of the water, if possible.


It's best to leave a turtle in its natural habitat instead of taking it home to be your pet. If it seems happy where it lives, just leave it there. If you are concerned about its well being, you may want to consider contacting your local fish and wildlife department about what to do.;
, The hole should be about ten inches deep, and ten inches across, with very steep sides. The shape of the hole does not matter, as long as it's plenty deep and accessible to the turtle.


Do not dig the hole more than 11 inches deep. The fall into a hole that deep could severely hurt the turtle.
You can also purchase a pre-made trap. There are a wide variety of manufacturers, many of whom are just private citizens who have devised their own unique trap designs.
 Most turtles enjoy leafy green vegetables and small insects, but you can experiment with a variety of different foods. Place a good amount of bait in the trap, especially if you plan on leaving the trap for a day and coming back later.


Different types of turtles eat different things.Turtles are even known to be scavengers, eating the remains of other dead animals, so you can use small pieces of raw meat to catch certain types of turtles.Don't forget to set up bait around the trap as well. Place enough around the trap that the turtle will notice it, but it won't fill it up before it gets to the bait in the trap. A shredded lettuce leaf with the bits scattered all around the trap works well.
 Let it eat the bait leading up to the trap, allowing it to continue until it falls in the hole or enters the trap.


If the turtle ignores or doesn't notice the food, approach quietly behind it, and give it a quick tap on the tail with a small stick. This will, more than likely, startle the turtle, causing it to run forward, right into the hole.
If you have other things to do and are tired of waiting for the turtle to enter the trap, consider just leaving the trap for a while. It may take more than one attempt, as other things may eat the bait, but you will eventually catch the turtle.
 Grip it lightly around the middle, making sure to keep your fingers away from the turtle's limbs.


Turtles have large claws that can scratch surprisingly hard and many are powerful biters, so be careful.
If you don't want to touch the turtle you can scoop it out of the hole in the ground with a bucket or shovel. If you are using a pre-made trap, you will simply need to pick up the trap to relocate the turtle.
 Before you catch a turtle research what kind of turtles are native to your area. Some turtles are harmless and should simply be relocated nearby. Other turtles are considered invasive species and should be dealt with by your local fish and wildlife department. Identify which type of turtle you have trapped and act accordingly.

