 Like tagging on Facebook, you can target a face and then type in the name.
Places. Type in the location for where the picture was taken.;
, If you click on the + sign on the bottom of the iPhoto window many selections will come up. These include the following features.
 When using this selection, you can create a new album, title it, and choose if you want the selected photo in the album. Then, as you upload more photos you can add to this album.
 Albums in iPhoto make it easy to organize your photos, but Smart Albums make it even easier. With Smart Albums you don’t even have to add photos to your album, iPhoto does it for you once you’ve set up some criteria. For example, you can create an album that contains only your highest-rated soccer photos from this season.
 Publish your photos to MobileMe.
 On slideshow you can choose pictures to use and make a slideshow. There are many cool effects on this. It starts off with the first picture selected as your first slide, and the title on it, but you can rearrange the slide order. If you press themes you see a selection of formats for your slideshow and you can pick one and then preview it until you find one you want. On music you can select music from your iTunes to play during the slideshow. On settings you can choose settings for all slides or just the selected slide. These settings include:


Transition: The way one photo changes into another.
Color Settings: If your photo is in Black and White, Sepia, or Antique
Speed: How long the slide lasts.
Preview: View your slide with the effects you've chosen for it. After creating your slideshow you can upload it to iDVD and burn it onto a disk as a gift for someone. See the article Create Customized Slides for an iPhoto Slideshow for more slide ideas.
 Make a book of your photos. You can choose the book size, type, and view the "Options and Prices."

, Make cards for many occasions. When choosing this option you will view a selection of card types to make. Once you choose one you can edit and buy it.
 Pick a calendar type, select your country to view holidays, select when to start calendar, and create!

