 When you signal to the dog that you are not a threat to their safety, they are more likely to stay calm and peaceful. Some calming signals that you can use are:Avoiding eye contact
Standing sideways to the dog
Letting them approach and sniff you (do not raise your hand in a sudden movement — this may frighten the dog and they may bite)
Yawning
Licking your lips

, Aggressive behaviors may signal a threat to the dog, making them feel hostile or agitated. Aggressive behaviors to avoid include:Staring at the dog
Making sudden movements
Walking or running towards them
Yelling or making loud noises.
 A dog’s confidence is found in numbers. When a dog is in a pack, their confidence increases and they can pose a greater safety risk.


You should not attempt to interact with a pack of dogs that you think are stray. It is best to call animal control and let them take care of the situation.
 Dogs use body language to communicate that they are agitated, afraid, angry, or intimidated.


Dogs that freeze when you approach them, curl their lips to show their teeth, or stand with their head low looking at you are agitated and can be aggressive. Do not approach a dog that is caring for puppies. Their maternal instinct to protect the puppies may make them less willing to interact with you.
Dogs can show their aggression by snapping, growling, barking, lunging, and snarling. Avoid dogs that display these behaviors.
If a dog displays aggressive behaviors, try to stay motionless and avoid direct eye contact with the dog. Stay quiet and resist the urge to run and yell.
 If you have done everything that you can to avoid an attack, but the attack seems imminent, your focus should shift to protecting yourself.


Use an object like your bag, a stick, or a shirt wrapped around your arm to fend off the attack. Do not try to hit the dog. The dog will probably dodge the attack and be able to move closer in range to you.
Use your forearm to shield your face, head, and neck at all costs.
If you are knocked to the ground, curl up and use your hands to protect your neck with your face towards the ground.
You can purchase pepper spray that is specifically designed to deter dogs, though unless you walk through the area with the pepper spray out, you will be unlikely to use it during a sudden attack.
Do not run away, as the dog will most likely attempt to chase you.
 If you are able to avoid an attack and back away from the situation, you should leave the area immediately.


If you have been attacked, you need to go to the hospital immediately. Let the emergency room know that you have been bitten by a dog and they will administer a rabies vaccine and treat your wound.
Even if your injuries are minor and easily treated, you still see your doctor so they can determine if you need a rabies shot.
Call animal control and let them known that you encountered a potentially dangerous stray dog. Be sure to tell them the location you found the dog, what the dog looked like, and how the dog was acting. They will determine the best course of action to get the dog out of the area and into a safe environment.In rural areas that do not have a local animal control, you can call the non-emergency telephone number for the police.

