 When your opponent gives you the first chain, take every box except the last two. Sacrifice these two by placing your line at the end of the two boxes, leaving space for a line in between one box and the other. This is known as the Double Cross.
 By sacrificing the last 2 boxes of a chain or the last 4 boxes of a loop, you are guaranteed to obtain every single chain in the game.
,,, Since you are sacrificing all except the last chain you know that you will be giving your opponent 2 boxes for every "1" in the chain count (except for the last chain)


So mathematically: 2 * (chain count - 1) = number of boxes sacrificed

, Since the leader is going to get the chains, the follower will get the last non-chain. In some cases, the follower also gets the first non-chain.


When you are the leader, you wish to avoid having non-chains as this may contribute to your opponent's score and allow them to win. When you are the follower, create as many as these as possible to allow for a closer game.
 Since loops are "2" and chains are "1", turning a chain into a loop or a loop into a chain causes the count to change by "1".


This makes an even number odd, or an odd number even. If you are the follower, try to alter the count by converting a loop into a chain or a chain into a loop. If you are the leader, try to prevent the follower from doing this to you.
 If you are the follower, you can sometimes take the opportunity to give a chain away early.


If your opponent forgets to sacrifice the two boxes at the end, the count will drop by 1 which can sometimes result in victory if your sacrifice did not give away too many boxes. To avoid excessive sacrifices, pick the smallest chains to sacrifice.
 When you get a chain that branches off in multiple directions first look at the splitting point. Count "1" for the base and one of the branches, count another "1" for each additional branch.


Most Y-Chain will count as "2" since there will be one base and branch with one additional branch. It is very important you only consider chains within a Y-Chain. non-Chains can sometimes branch off of a chain but this is not a Y-Chain.
Y-Chains are when a long chain has a small chain branching off of it. Sometimes more than one. Sometimes if there is more than one branch, consider the possibility that the Y-Chain can be broken in the middle making only 2 regular chains. Without considering this possibility you might think the Y-Chain is worth "3" since it has 2 branches. But if it is broken in the middle, leaving only 2 chains, then it is worth "2".
 This makes counting the final score early troublesome. A loop and a chain suggest a count of "3" but depending on where the follower places the line, you might need to sacrifice or you might be able to take it all.


When you encounter a Y-Loop, the loop is always the base and branch which counts as "2" followed by the count of the chains that branch off of it.
Similar to the Y-Chain, if there are 2 or more chains branching off of it, there is a possibility of cutting the Y-Loop by sacrificing 1 or 2 boxes within the loop and creating one large chain. This would reduce a Y-Loop with a value of "4" to a chain with a value of "1" which can drastically change the final score.
 In the even that you are facing a Y-Loop, always sacrifice the branch chain first, then the loop. This way, you get 2 boxes for the chain, and if there are other chains on the board, you might get 4 boxes for the loop if your opponent sacrifices them.

