 Advise people with whom you are staying that you are going on a walk and let them know where you are planning to walk.
 Sandy areas too may prove treacherous so walk carefully and at a steady pace. The fragile sands found in coastal and sand plain districts are similar to those of a beach so hikers will tire quickly if they strive to "conquer" the landscape. Pre-planning is a useful tool if you intend to stop at a scenic point for lunch or spend time painting, photographing or simply admiring the landscape, so you should gauge how long it should take you to get there at a slow and steady pace before you leave.
 Not all Australian animals are deadly, but even the ones that aren't can ruin your day if you get bitten. If you wish to observe them, approach quietly and give them space. In well walked areas, or districts that are close to towns, larger reptiles and animals are rare. You are more likely to see reptiles in the summer when they are active, but you may occasionally see one in winter sunning itself on a rock.
 Ideally do not touch them if you don't know what they are, for they may have small thorns or spines and / or have pollen or sap that can be irritating to the skin. Not all Australian flowers have perfume, but many do, including aromatic oils, so if you intend to smell them, do so carefully if you suffer from allergies. Be mindful that it is illegal to remove plants from a National Park.
 Be it waterfalls, striking rock monoliths or the peace and quiet. If you intend to sketch, paint, meditate or do some other activity such as bird watching, it is recommended that you visit on a quiet day (such as a weekday) when you are less likely to be disturbed.
 Generally, tracks are not always visible and Australia does not have many large predators such as wolves, bears, lions and tigers. But snake tracks can advise you to be alert. Most snakes and reptiles will move away from you if you make heavy stamping noises, but some snakes and lizards (called Goannas) can be aggressive and have been known to chase people.


Most wild animals will avoid humans but you may see them on your walk, particularly if you are walking deep into the outback areas. If you particularly wish to see larger animals such as Kangaroos, larger marsupials or reptiles it is highly recommended and much safer to visit a zoo or native animal sanctuary.
 Many bush fires have also been caused by stray cigarettes and cooking fires that have cost lives.

