 Look at the aggressor. Are there multiple aggressors? Observe your surroundings. Are there people watching? Are there others who could intervene? Chances are, there might be a cop who just happens to be watching. The cop will most likely intervene in this case. If so, he/she is most likely better trained than you, let him/her take it from there.;
, Think up of whatever you can to get them out of there ASAP. Tell them you need to talk to them in private. Or just flat out tell them to walk away. Trust your instinct on this one.


If your friend attacks. Most people looking to pick a fight will attempt to coerce the victim into throwing the first punch. If your friend moves towards the aggressor with a raised fist, firmly grab his/her wrist. If this isn't enough, restrain your friend in whatever way you can (if there's more than two of you, this will be easier). If they have something in their hand (i.e. knife, broken glass, etc.), take it off them. At this point, your friend will probably realize the impulsiveness of his/her actions.






If a fight occurs. All else has failed, and now your friend and the aggressor commence a full out brawl. Now its necessary to intervene. Your only concern now is to break up the fight.

Scenario A: Your friend is winning. If your friend is clearly winning the fight, pull him/her off the opponent. If the opponent is smart, they will most likely walk away at this point.






Scenario B: Your friend is losing. The opponent has your friend pinned to the ground, and you have to get your friend out of there! Your only option here is to attack the aggressor yourself. The attacker is distracted, leaving you with a free shot. The attacker might be stronger, but there are two of you, and only one of him. See more on how to fight









, However you resolve this situation, there's no reason to stick around, you're better off leaving. If the attacker leaves, chances are they might bring back a few friends of their own, and the last thing you need is multiple attackers.

