 A Nintendo DS Lite can also play a GBA game, so you can use that if you wish. If the red light is flashing, always charge it, no matter what. You don't want it blacking out while you begin the game. Make sure you also know where your Dogz game is.
 If your game is new, there probably won't be any saved data. Be careful if you have already played before a little, because you may delete that data. If you are starting over, make sure that you won't regret it. Only start a new game if you have decided that you want to start fresh or its the first time you're playing.
 A small quiz is taken before you adopt your dog to see which breeds you will be able to select. You will have to say if you would prefer an energetic dog or a relaxed dog, male or female, and so on. Choose wisely, because you can't change your dog once you have chosen it!

, You have to choose a name, a gender, and what color clothes you will wear. Also choose wisely, because the only way you can change is to start a new game! It's also best to make the character like you. If you like green, make the characters clothes green. If you are a boy, make the character a boy. Also try to make the name like yours, if you want.
 There will be some talking, but after that, you can look at different dogs. There are a few pet stores you can go to. Look at every dog to make sure that you want it. Look closer and see the gender and breed by pressing the A button when you are near a dog you enjoy. Meet a dog if you like it. Then, choose your dog.
 Try to name it something unique instead of something like "Fido" or "Rover."


Some ideas could be: King, Hope, Zoe/Zoey, Kiss, Rex, Max, Buddy, and so on. Ask family members for ideas, too.
 First, make sure it knows its name. Then try sit, stay and lie down. The menu for tricks ic the B button when you are near your dog. Soon enough your dog will be able to go for walks. You can buy things, but only one thing a day. Sometimes, your puppy will pull on the leash. You will have to scold it. Sometimes your puppy will go to the bathroom where its not supposed to. Scold it, and clean it up by walking over to it and pressing the A button.
 You can buy fancy and cute beds and potties, and leashes too for your dog. Select a leash by walking to a table near the front door and pressing A. The starter leash is brown. You can buy another leash and other accessories at the pet store.
 After you eat in the game, you should give your dog food and water. You can also do this before you eat (in the game). Make sure you feed your puppy or else it will get sick and have to go to the vet.

