 Getting your hair wet is the first step to straightening it, so start by washing and conditioning your hair. To improve hair moisture and prevent frizzing, use a deep conditioner, or leave your regular conditioner in your hair for an extra two or three minutes.


Optionally, use a shampoo formulated to straighten hair.
If you've already washed your hair recently, just dampen it with water. Too much washing can strip away protective oils and can lead to frizzy hair.;
, Gently pat your hair dry until it is no longer dripping, but still damp. This will speed up the blow-drying process, thus reducing damage to your hair.
 This will help your hair stay straight while it dries, especially if it's naturally prone to curling up under cool air. Apply a dime-sized amount from the roots to the ends. Use more if you have thick, long hair. You can choose from any of the following treatments:


Anti-fizz serum
Leave-in conditioner or leave-in hair balm
Moroccan oil
A mix of 4 oz (120 mL) camellia oil and 1 oz (30 mL) avocado oil

, Part your hair into 3–6 sections, depending on how thick your hair is. Keep all but one section out of your way using crocodile clips.
 Blow dry with cool air if you want to protect your hair, but be prepared to dry for up to an hour. For faster drying and a longer-lasting effect, use hot air. Hot air can damage your hair over time, especially if used frequently.


If using hot air, apply heat protectant to your hair first. If possible, choose one based on natural oils, not silicone.
 Find a flat paddle brush or a round brush. Avoid wide brushes, as these are difficult to handle.
 Take one thin lock of hair, slightly narrower than your brush. Blow dry this with the nozzle pointed downward. Brush slowly in long, straight strokes as you dry that section. Keep the brush under the hair and the dryer nozzle hovering over the hair. Move the brush and dryer at almost the same speed, with the dryer trailing behind just a short distance. Repeat if necessary until the hair is completely dry and straight, then move on to the next lock of hair.


Start with the lower layers of hair, around the nape of your neck and your ears.
You can also blow-dry your hair in front of a fan, rather than tiring out your arm with a blow-dryer. Keep in mind that it may be more difficult to control a fan than a blow-dryer.
 Smooth more anti-frizz product into your dry hair to keep it smooth, straight and glossy.


Keep your hair in a low, loose ponytail if you want to put it up. Putting it in a bun or braid will leave creases in your hair, making it appear wavy.

