 Many of the fears of wearing contact lenses have to do with hygiene; therefore, it is important to carefully follow directions for keeping your lenses, and anything that comes into contact with them, clean. Use mild non-cosmetic soap. Perfumed, oiled, and lotion soaps often cause irritation or even blurred vision because of the residue they leave behind on your hands.
Make sure your hands are dried with a lint-free towel before handling lenses.
Keep fingernails short and smooth to avoid scratching or damaging your eyes and/or the lens. If you do have long fingernails, be sure to use the pads of your fingers and not the nails., There is a correct order for putting on contacts, makeup, and hairspray. Avoid getting these products on your lenses by putting your contacts on first, then makeup and hairspray.Same order goes for removal: contacts first, all other beauty products second.
Avoid creams, lotions, and moisturizers before putting on contact lenses.
Be careful with waterproof makeup because a lens will bind to the makeup, forcing you to use an oil-based remover and basically destroying the lens.
 Depending on which contact lens you wear, they all require different solutions, drops, and cleaners. Otherwise, you risk damage to both lens and eye. Do not reuse solution because bacteria and debris remain in it after the first cleaning. Reusing solution has the potential to cause an eye infection.
Never use any kind of water to clean your contacts, always use solution.
Ask your optometrist for a recommended name brand and stay loyal to it. Although generic products are often cheaper, they may not be compatible with your contacts. Generic products are often old recipes sold by contact companies; if you are wearing the latest type of contacts from the company and wearing the previous generation's cleaning solution, you may run into issues.Stick to products made specifically for your contacts.
 This applies to using saliva as well. The reason is that lenses will absorb the water and swell, retaining the water with all of its nasty possibilities. This will also distort the lens for fitting and, in turn, scratch your eye making an entry way in for microorganisms. For the same reasons as above, do not wear your contacts while swimming. Swimming with contacts in puts you at risk for infection, in particular Acanthamoeba.Water is not solution and should never be used as a substitute.
If no solution is available and your contacts are irritating you, throw them away.
 It is important to routinely clean, dispose of, and replace your contact lenses. Even if you bought “no rub” solution it is always a good idea to gently rub your lenses between your fingers and then rinse them with solution to remove any unwanted debris from them.
Cleaning your case nightly. Again, use solution and not water letting the case air dry when you are finished.
Replace your case within every three months.

