 If you have cirrhosis of the liver, your immune system is compromised. Thus, you are more open to bacterial and viral germs, and the infections caused by this vulnerability can be more harmful to you than to others. Chronic inflammation of the bile ducts throughout your liver can lead to tissue scarring (cirrhosis), liver cell death and, eventually, loss of liver function. If scarring of the bile ducts slows or stops the flow of bile out of the liver, you may experience frequent infections in the bile ducts. Then infection risk is high after you've had a surgical procedure to expand a badly scarred bile duct or remove a gallstone blocking a bile duct., With a suppressed immune system, you should take steps to protect yourself from infections.



Wash your hands regularly. Washing your hands is one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread of germs (virus or bacteria).You can do this effectively by using clean, running water and soap, lathering for at least 20 seconds, and rinsing well., Your doctor may recommend added supplements of vitamins A, D, E and K to counter suspected vitamin deficiencies. Talk to your doctor before taking herbs or nutritional supplements., If you are in an area that is very crowded, you are more likely to come into close contact (hands, sudden hugs, doorknobs/handles, sneezes, cough) with someone who is ill or carrying germs/virus or bacteria. If you must be in a crowded area, avoid physical contact, and do not touch your face, eyes, or mouth until you wash your hands. Wash them frequently.

Stay away from people who are sick. If you have a colleague, friend, or family member who is sick, avoid them so you are not exposed to viruses or bacteria from coughs or sneezes. If you can't avoid them, then stay back and wear a medical mask if possible.
 Patients who are suffering from cirrhosis should be immunized against hepatitis A and B. The vaccine is made of deactivated hepatitis A and B viruses, which cause the immune system to manufacture antibodies against the hepatitis A and B virus.


There is a combination of a vaccine for both hepatitis A and B called Twinrix.Currently, no vaccines against Hepatitis C exist.