 It can be anything from a backpack to a laundry bag, as long as is easy to carry and comfortable, though a large backpack with several pockets is ideal. Also, make sure it is made of a more lightweight material so that it reduces the weight you will be carrying around with you.;
, However, do not carry too much because it will increase the weight you will be carrying.
 If you are left with extra space, add a bunch of small items on top of it as well.
 This will help protect the items inside. Also, it will prevent ruining your bag in case you are carrying any liquids and they happen to leak.
 A burn proof, melt proof, waterproof, airtight tub is ideal, but another container can be used (like a pencil case) to store smaller items. Include:


At least 25 plasters/band-aids, of different sizes, shapes and qualities.
At least 25 bandages, of different sizes and shapes.
4-5 inhalers if anyone is asthmatic, or 1 inhaler if no one is.
3 clean, sterilized needles and a few rolls of clean black thread. If someone needs stitches, these will be useful.
Several boxes of painkillers, such as paracetamol, and several boxes of pain killing anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen.
A tub of lip balm. If someone has chapped lips, or even needs the outside of a wound numbing, this is useful.
Several travel sized hand sanitizes
Q-tips, cotton balls, tissues, fishing kits, fire kits, candles, a pack of tissues, a fishing kit, fire kit, candles, LED flashlights or headlamps can also fit there.
 You can get MRE (meals ready to eat) from the military, as well as nonperishable food right out of your pantry (granola bars, canned goods, etc.) Make sure you go to the store see what you can find to maintain a nutritious diet.
 The ideal emergency stove requires no liquid, priming, wicks, or pressure.
 Water helps you cook some foods, keeps you alive, and cleans cuts and wounds. Clean water is a major must have!


You're unlikely to be able to carry enough water with you for a real, ongoing emergency situation, but some water purification tablets or a water filter can be a good longer-term solution.
 You may need something to keep you warm or to build a shelter.
, Consider hiking boots, sunglasses, a hammock, a tent, clothes, personal belongings, utensils, cups, first aid, light sources, etc.
 They are so helpful in a situation with making a shelter.
 At the time of emergency, you will not have much time to spare to search for the bag., Make sure you are not missing any items and have packed everything you need. Also check if everything you are carrying is of use to you and you are not unnecessarily wasting space in your bag. Try to make your bag as light as possible and cut down as much as you can. Nobody wants to be carrying a heavy bag around.