 A girl who chooses a conservative lifestyle is reserved, prudent, careful and polite. She might seem a bit old-fashioned, but above all, she respects herself and others.
 Conservative girls respect themselves, their bodies and their health. They take good care of themselves.


Make sure you get enough sleep, eat healthy foods and get some regular exercise.
Visit your doctor and dentist regularly for checkups.
Don't use alcohol or other substances to excess; better yet, don't use them at all.
 Conservative girls use good manners, practice good etiquette, and are always very polite.


Don't interrupt when others are speaking. Wait your turn to talk.
Say "please," "thank you," and "excuse me."
Refer to people as "Mr." or "Ms." unless they tell you to use their first name.
Be helpful whenever you can. Hold doors open for others (yes, females can do this just as well as males), or give your seat on the bus to an older person who is standing.
 Conservative girls can have a great dating and love life, while still maintaining some reserve.


Let guys approach you. Avoid being overly flirtatious or throwing yourself at a potential date.
You don't necessarily have to wait until marriage to have sex, but try to wait as long as possible to have sex with someone you're dating. (This is another way to respect yourself!)
Don't brag about your conquests. A conservative girl doesn't kiss and tell.
Focus more on the personality, interests, and values when looking for a date; not just on physical or sexual attraction.
 Although you can enjoy any type of music, conservative tends to stick to country music, Christian and Gospel music, adult contemporary (think like Mariah Carey and Michael Buble), oldies/classic rock, and the current Top 40 hits. Rap, alternative, and some forms of rock music (unless it is Kid Rock or something similar) is out of the picture. Classical and jazz music could be enjoyed by conservative girls, especially if it is worship/religious music., A girl who is conservative will generally be very careful with her money. She recognizes that it's important to be financially prepared for the future.


Make a budget and stick to it. Always include some money for savings in your budget.
Avoid getting into debt. If you are in debt, make a plan for paying it off.
Make prudent investments. You don't want to lose the money you've saved up. Thoroughly investigate any investment opportunity before signing on.

