;
,


Hold the guitar like a real guitar. Put your thumb on the strum-bar, and learn how to hold the fret buttons.
Check out the tutorial menu, after reading this article.
 Pick one that suits you best. When beginning, you will notice a bar coming down, with five colored targets at the bottom. You will then see colored circles moving down the screen. Match up the colors with the targets, and hold that fret button. When the color passes over the target, strum! Voila'! You've hit a note! Sometimes, notes will be repeated. Instead of releasing the fret button each time, simply hold it down and strum. Guitar Hero controllers are just like real guitars, especially in the way they are played.
 This is a long note. You hit this the same as a regular note, but you hold the fret button for the entire note. You do not need to hold the strum bar down. Once again, just like a real guitar! Hooray for similarity!

, By playing all these notes without missing any, you will gain Star Power, a power-up that boosts your rock meter (see next section) and your points! You can engage star power by tipping your guitar up, Slash style, or quickly pressing -.
 The one of the left is your score multiplier, which shows your points, note streaks, and multiplier. On the right sits your rock meter. This meter shows what the crowd thinks of you (RED = Poor, YELLOW = Average, GREEN = Good/Great). If your rock meter declines too much, you will fail the song. On top of the rock meter is a number of lightbulbs. These measure your star power. When they are yellow, your star power cannot be engaged, but when its blue, it can be engaged.
 This will cause the note to alter, and you can add your own originality to the song with it. You can also extract Star Power from long notes in the star sequence.
 Sometime, notes will be too fast for you to strum and hit at the same time, so you can hammer on and pull off the notes. You can do this when notes have a light coming from their center. To hammer on and pull off, just hit the notes, but don't strum.
 For instance, the hardest song on Guitar Hero 3: Legends of Rock is Through The Fire and Flames. That's just some knowledge that can come in handy.

