 The container you use to make sun tea should be clear, to allow the sun's rays to penetrate to the tea bags and water. Choose a container that has a lid so you can prevent bugs and other outside particles from getting into your tea as it steeps.









Make sure to use a container that is easy to clean. Don't use one that could easily harbor bacteria, like a container with a spigot that's difficult to wash.
Avoid using plastic containers to make sun tea. Chemicals in the plastic can leach into the water, affecting the tea's taste and posing a health risk as well.;
, Water heated by the sun reaches a maximum temperature of 130 degrees - the perfect temperature for bacteria to breed.To reduce the chance that your tea gets contaminated with bacteria, it's important to sanitize the container you're using.









Bring a large pot of water to a boil on the stove. Place the container in the water and let it boil for a few minutes, then remove it with tongs and allow it to drain dry.
If you'd prefer not to using the boiling method (after all, it's summer!) use soap and hot water to thoroughly cleanse the container and lid.
 As an additional precaution against bacterial growth, choose distilled water, which you can buy by the gallon at the grocery store. You could also use bottled spring water for the cleanest flavor.
 Any kind of teabags make great sun tea. Choose black tea, green tea, or any variety of herbal tea. If you want the tea to be extra strong, add more than 5 teabags. You can always dilute it with more water to reduce its strength if necessary.
 You can put it in the windowsill or place it outside on a table. Just make sure it's in a place where the sun hits it directly and it's not obscured by shadows.









Do not let the tea sit in the sun for over 4 hours. Leaving it out for a longer period of time encourages bacteria to grow.
Avoid placing the container directly on the ground. Put it on a tray or another clean surface.
 After a few hours in the sun, your tea should look colorful and strong. Remove the tea bags and discard them. You can keep the tea in the same container if you wish to refrigerate it.









Examine the surface of the tea for bacterial growth. If you see ropey strands or white spots, discard the tea.
The tea shouldn't have a thick or syrupy consistency; if it does, discard it.
 You can mix some sugar into the tea if you'd like. Fill some glasses with ice and pour the tea into the glasses.








