 PowerSellers always have the customer at the forefront of their operation. Understand that your seller reputation on eBay's is primarily determined by your feedback score, therefore treating your customers right is not only common sense but good business too.


In a conflict with a customer always use the eBay email system to communicate with them in order to establish a written record.
Always keep your cool and be professional.
If the customer is wrong consider the money involved in keeping a customer against the money involved in proving you are right. Consider offers for dissatisfied customers, even if they are wrong:

Give them free shipping, or refund their shipping.
Include a free gift in the package.


Develop a listing that answers all questions about your sale, including your return, shipping and other customer service policies. Stick with it!
Be consistent with all customers when it comes to your own policies.
 Customers are less likely to be unhappy, file complaints or make your life miserable if you communicate with them.


Always send the customer a tracking number for their package.
Always include a packing slip with the auction number in the package.
Respond to any questions promptly.
 A PowerSeller is usually focused on a single article or type of product. Doing so makes all other aspects of running the business easier, including listing, packing and shipping.
 PowerSellers deal with such a large volume of business they need to develop a "back-end" organization (also known as a workflow) that minimizes the time they spend keeping up with their own policies regarding on-time shipping, packing, returns and similar activities. You may think of this preparation as creating an "assembly line". For example, you may set up a large 4' by 8' table with bubble wrap and packing materials at one end, products in the middle, and boxes, labels and packing tape at the far end.


Buy and keep a selection of shipping boxes and shipping materials in your home.
Consider setting aside an area of your home just to run your business.
Create online shipping accounts with USPS, UPS or your favorite shipper so you can print shipping labels at home.
If you do a lot of shipping consider signing up for a pickup service, rather than lugging it all to the mailer yourself.



Keep a paper copy of every auction, the winner, and the shipping receipts.
Keep a record of all your customers, their names and addresses.
Establish a regular schedule for balancing your books, perhaps monthly.



Buy good, recent books on online auctions and e-commerce in general.
Participate or read the eBay Message Boards and Forums.
Stay tuned to the eBay Announcements Board.
Subscribe to newsletters and groups concerning PowerSellers.
Scan the news for PowerSeller and eBay announcements and changes.

