 Dogs love to chew on stuff. While puppies can be destructive, their destructive play is more about exploring and testing their boundaries than about intentionally destroying things. On the other hand, a destructive adult dog displaying negative behavior such as chewing, digging holes in the backyard, or chewing up the shrubbery needs attending to., Does your dog bark constantly, chew on furniture, or urinate on the ground to get attention? We often reward this behavior by simply directing our attention towards the negative behavior, thereby reinforcing the dog's attention-seeking behavior. If this is the case, you’ll need to reprogram your dog’s expectations. You’ll need to give them more attention in general. Only give your dog attention when they are behaving positively., One of the best things about having a dog is the bond your create. Sometimes, this bond is so strong that your little furry friend might not know how to be independent. About 10% of all puppies and older dogs experience some level of separation anxiety. In the more extreme cases, a dog will throw a tantrum and start barking, pacing, defecating in inappropriate places, and destroying walls or doors in an attempt to get back to an owner., Your dog might respond with fear to such loud noises as thunder or fireworks by destroying doors, walls, or objects, in order to try to hide. Figure out your dog’s logic. It is trying to seem threatening to the unknown element that is making so much noise., Do you keep your dog locked in a white-washed, empty room all day? Are they forced to just sit in their cell without any form of exercise or stimulation? If so, your dog might resort to destructive behavior simply to entertain themselves. Give them toys to play with while you are gone. Give them a blanket to lay on. Relocate them to different areas to let them explore. In short, give them things to do in order to stop their boredom. You’d hate being in their place otherwise., Is your dog always full of energy and always active? Does your dog constantly chew on things, run in circles, bark, and wreak havoc? Hyperactivity is simply a matter of perception. Most experts insist that hyperactivity is rare in dogs. Most likely, your dog just needs more attention and exercise. Vets only diagnose a dog with hyperactivity if they have eliminated all other possibilities.