 Look for something without a lot of detail, but enough to create the major brain areas. Start out with a search engine to browse around for potential images. You can also scan pictures from books or magazines for ideas. Print and cut out a pattern that is the correct size for your cake.;
, Be aware when you're planning to present your cake, the final cake will be 1.5-2" (4-5cm) wider than your template. Two 9" (23cm) rounds were sufficient for the cake in these pictures. Bake the cake according to the directions on the box. Let it cool completely. Meanwhile.
 4 drops of red, 4 drops of yellow, and 2 drops of green makes a good grey matter color. The marshmallow fondant article does not recommend using any butter or shortening for greasing hands and work spaces, but a slightly shiny texture is not undesirable here, so use as much as you want because it gets very sticky.
 Stack each layer with a small amount of filling. Don't overdo it with the filling or they may slide around. Do not frost the outside of your cake.
, You can cut each piece off in sections to make it easier. Don't worry if it's not perfect, since everything will eventually be covered with frosting and fondant. Slightly round the sharp edges.
, Pinch off a lemon-sized ball of marshmallow fondant and roll it out to about 1/4-1/8" (3-6mm) thick.



Wrinkle, mold, stretch, and otherwise manhandle the rolled fondant into grey matter, and then use your rounded form to do the final shaping of the gyrus. Use your cut-out pattern as a guide and take your time. You can always mash it back into a ball, add some water and start over.
Carefully place the finished piece onto the frosted cake. Trim any excess with a pizza cutter.
Repeat for each gyrus.
When you come to the cerebellum (the walnut-shaped structure near the back of the brain), roll a lime-size ball of fondant very thin, 1/8" (3mm) thick. Fold back and forth like a fan and then flatten slightly for the desired effect.
 Roll out your fondant and lay it on flat. Trim excess with a pizza cutter. Once you've covered the entire cake you're done!

