 Higher education has never been more accessible; students can travel away to attend four-year universities or enroll in online classes without even leaving home. Colleges, universities and vocational schools are amazing places where students hone their skills, meet new people and explore career opportunities.;
, Choosing a school and education program is easier for people who have specific career goals. Some professions require degrees from four-year universities, while other lines of work require two-year degrees or vocational certificates. Also, many colleges and universities are stronger in some educational departments and weaker in others. It’s easier to match a school or educational program to your professional goals if you know what you want to do for a living.
 Do everything you can to narrow your professional goals to a specific line of work. However, don’t panic if you’re still undecided. Students can begin vocational school and certification courses at any time, and the first couple of years at colleges and universities offer plenty of chances for students to shape their long-term goals. Many college students don’t choose their majors until their sophomore years.
 These types enjoy working with their hands or being creative. Fields in this career path includes subjects like technology, engineering, beauty therapy, massage therapy, physiotherapy etc. There is a broad range of careers to choose from in all the Medical, Engineering, Faculty of Arts, School of science etc.
 You may perhaps be happy in choosing a career field involving Economics, finance, Auditing, Computer Technology etc.
 Academic types like working in jobs that are intellectually stimulating as it involves many thought processes and common sense. These include becoming a Scientist, Actuarial Science, Medical Science, Biochemistry,Microbiology etc.
 Sometimes it may not be possible to work entirely on your own. Consider this important factor when choosing a career. Individuals who prefer autonomy and those who dislike having a boss or anyone to account to, should consider job opportunities that makes an allowance for self employment. This simply means you work for yourself.
 If it is money and success you want then consider career choices that pay well, has opportunities for growth as well as giving you personal fulfillment.
 Finding joy and contentment with work is something you will have to choose for yourself. The idea is not to cherish and fulfill someone else's dream or mission. This happens often when parents lacked the opportunity to become something and continue this trend by forcing their children to complete their own unfinished dreams. Example " I could not afford fees to become a doctor, so my son, you will become one".
 Many jobs are fast becoming redundant so one has to consider more than one career choice in order to meet the ever changing world of work. Safe jobs are becoming rare, so a second career option would be a good idea. One that pays the bills, and a second backup career, just in case the first does not meet your requirements.

