 Go to the Apple menu (the Apple icon in the upper left corner of your screen), then click About This Mac, More Info, then Storage. This will show you how much free space you have on your hard disk and will also break down your current usage, showing you how much space is used by your movie, music, photo, and app files.Learning what type of files are taking up the most space will give you a starting point for what you should remove (either by deleting or moving to external storage). If you find that your massive music collection is taking up almost all of your space, you can solve your problem quickly by transferring your iTunes library onto an external drive.
Try to keep at least 15% of your drive free so that your computer can run general maintenance.If you never seem to have enough space on your hard disk, consider buying and installing a Solid-State Drive (SSD). They are generally sturdier and run much faster than hard drives, so your computer will zip along like new., Go to Library, Applications, then click Utilities. Launch the Activity Monitor by clicking it from the list. Select the % CPU column and see which programs are at the top. If it is using anything over 50%, running that program may be slowing everything down.If you discover that one particular application is slowing down your Central Processing Unit (CPU), you can speed things up by deleting that application and using a faster alternative, or closing all other programs every time you use that application.
Safari is often at the top of the list for CPU. Consider switching to a different browser, like Firefox or Chrome., You can either uninstall them manually by dragging apps into the trash or by downloading a program to help you sort and delete them.

iMovie, Garage Band and iPhoto are large programs that many people don't use, and are a good place to start.

When in doubt, don't remove anything you don’t recognize: it may be critical to the function of your computer or another application.
 You can search for large files by opening Finder and pressing ⌘ Command+F to search. Click on the Kind button and select Other. Scroll down to where it says Size and check the box to include it "In Menu" and click OK. Once that is done, you can search for large files--try "files greater than 200 MB to begin with". Delete, compress, or move any files you want to save to your back up drive.


To compress something, click the item while holding down the Ctrl button and choose Compress. Double-clicking the zip file will decompress the item.
Open the Downloads folder. Make sure you are viewing files as a list and then click on the Size header so that your largest files are on top. Get rid of anything you don't need.Movies are generally the largest files--they can be between 1-2GB. Consider removing anything you are not watching or plan to watch soon.Remember to empty your trash bin. If you delete photos in iPhoto or Aperture, you must empty the trash bin that exists in that program, or else the files will not be deleted., The more programs trying to start up while your computer initializes, the slower everything will be. From the Apple Menu, go to System Preferences, Accounts, then click Login Items. Select any items you don’t need and click the minus (-) sign to remove them.


Clearing your desktop of icons will also speed up the process, as the computer must load these items when starting up. Move the files on your desktop into folders or delete icons, and try not to download things directly to your desktop. , Go to Applications, Utilities, then click Run Disk Utility and select your startup disk. Then select First Aid and click Repair Disk Permissions. In running this procedure, your computer will search the permission settings on your hard drive to make sure files are accessible only to the users and applications that have permission to do so.Always restart your computer after running disk repair.


If your disk permissions are not properly set, you may have trouble with some of the basic operations on your computer, such as printing, logging in, or opening programs.It is suggested you run this procedure every few months to catch any potential issues before they interfere with your computer usage., Even if you don’t have the dashboard activated, these widgets can eat up RAM by running background updates while you try to do other things.


If you have OS X 10.4.2 or later, use the Widget Manager: go to the Dashboard and open the Widget Bar by clicking the plus (+) sign in the corner. Click Manage Widgets and then either deselect widgets to disable them or, if they’re third-party widgets, remove them completely by pressing the red delete button, which is a circle with a line through it. Click OK to confirm.
 If you use Mac OS X, download a free program called Monolingual. With OS X, much of your computer’s hard disk is devoted to virtual memory and gets eaten up by language-availability software. Monolingual will allow you to remove languages you don’t use in order to free up space.


No matter which language you use, never delete the English language files. Doing so may cause OS X to malfunction., This may be especially helpful if your computer is slow when opening applications or switching between running programs.To see if you need more RAM, open the Activity Monitor (Library → Applications → Utilities) and click System Memory. Look at the colors of the pie chart: if it's mostly green and blue, your RAM is fine. If the pie chart is mostly red and yellow, you should consider installing more RAM.To see what kind of RAM your Mac uses, go to the Apple menu, then click About This Mac, then More Info. Under Memory in the Hardware tab, you can find the memory, size and type of RAM your computer uses.If you choose to install the RAM yourself, search for "RAM" and your computer type on the Apple support page. Apple provides instructions for installing RAM on many of its computers. 