 Simply put, the brain needs sugar and your body needs water. To prevent your body and brain from shutting down, your salt and sugar levels need to be stable.A quick way to do this is to drink some juice and eat a small bag of pretzels. You should feel better almost immediately.


It seems a little counter-intuitive that your body needs salt to stay hydrated, but it’s true. Water goes where the salt is; if you don’t have any salt in your system, the fluid doesn’t stay in your blood vessels.;
, Another common reason for fainting is that the body is overheated. If you’re in a hot, stuffy environment and start to feel dizzy, it’s your body telling you to get out. Consider these ideas to get cooler:


Shed some layers, if at all possible
Get into a less-crowded area (this way you also don’t collapse onto others)
Get near a window or door for airflow
Splash cool water on your face and drink a cold drink

, Though sugary drinks are great for turning your brain back on when it's running on empty, your entire body needs straight up healthy, pure hydration too, in the form of plain, unflavored water. You probably know if you’re getting enough or not. If you faint regularly, it could be because you just don’t drink enough.


Urine, ideally, should be clear or nearly clear. If your urine is very yellow, drink more water. If that’s too boring for your tastebuds, teas and unsweetened fruit juices are good, too.
 If you're feeling the slightest bit faint, lie down. Stay down for at least 15 minutes. Once you feel better, get up slowly. Putting your body into a vertical position means that in order for blood to get to your brain, it has to fight gravity. When you get up too quickly, that blood immediately drops down and leaves your brain wondering what happened. This can bring on the sense of fainting. If this is the culprit, move slowly, especially while getting out of bed.


This goes double if you've just fainted. Whenever you're feeling weak or dizzy, always move slowly and with caution. This is your body telling you it can't keep up with your pace. Give it a break and lie down.
 When we’re anxious, it’s natural to start breathing quickly and even hyperventilate. If this gets out of control, you brain will stop receiving oxygen; you’re not breathing deeply enough for it to process what it needs. If you think your fainting may be due to nervousness, concentrating on your breathing and slowing it down may make the urge disappear.


Count as you breathe: 6 seconds inhaling and 8 seconds exhaling. After a few rounds, you may find that your anxiety is dissipating.
Focusing on your breathing also distracts you from whatever it is that's making you nervous. This is another reason it may be easier to calm down.
 Blood sugar and salt levels, heat, and hydration are very common reasons for fainting and, in most cases, aren’t cause for alarm. However, there are a few other things that cause certain individuals to faint. If you know what triggers the urge for you, avoid it. It could be due to a few things, but here are the most common:



Alcohol. In a few unfortunate souls, alcohol leads to fainting.It’s because alcohol expands the blood vessels, leading to a drop in blood pressure.

Needles, blood, injuries or related phobias. In some individuals, certain phobias can trigger the vagus nerve which widens blood vessels, slows the heart rate, and drops blood pressure, resulting in fainting.Emotions. Severe emotions, like fear and anxiety, can change breathing and cause a drop in blood pressure, amongst other negative effects that can lead to fainting.
 The side effects of certain medications include fainting and dizziness. If you’ve just started a new medication and have just started experiencing the urge to faint, talk to your doctor to switch. It's like that your medication is the culprit.


Fainting is, in general, not serious. However, if you do faint, you may hurt yourself during your fall. This is the main reason it’s important to switch medications if at all possible.
 What it all boils down to is that the brain needs blood and oxygen to properly function. If you see someone who’s pale and complains of dizziness and fatigue, get them to lie down in an open area - they're probably going to faint.


If there's no place for them to lie down, have them sit with their head between their knees. This isn't as good as fully lying down, but it should stave off the urge to faint, at least for the time being.
 Someone fainting in a crowd of people is not uncommon, largely because it's so hot and there's no airflow between bodies. If you're with someone who's about to faint, get them in an open area where air can flow and the temperature isn't too hot and stuffy.


If you're stuck in a room and there aren't a lot of options, get them near an open door or window. Just a bit more airflow can make all the difference, even if the room is still too hot for comfort.
 The brain perks up with salt and sugar. It's highly likely they need hydration and energy, so a slightly sugary drink and a small amount of salt is best to get their brain back in the game. Help them drink and eat if need be; they may not have the energy.


The salt is actually for hydration. When there's salt in the body, the body then sends water to it. With no salt, water doesn't get processed into the cells it needs to be a part of.
 A first-time fainter will likely be scared by what they're feeling. They may have blurry vision, be unable to hear properly, and may have a very difficult time standing up. This stage can last minutes before the faint eventually happens or the urge goes away. Let them know that they're likely going to faint, but all will be fine once it's finally over.


Assure them that most fainting isn't dangerous. As long as they don't hit their head (which you will make sure doesn't happen), in a few minutes they'll be fine again.
 If this person is about to faint, be sure to stay by their side to quite literally catch them if they fall. Do not leave them for help unless you absolutely positively have to. They need you for moral support, too.


Instead, flag down someone, even if it's a stranger 50 feet (15.2 m) away. Tell them that the person you're with has fainted. They can find someone associated with the building you're next to, and they can hopefully bring some water and a snack, in addition to calling whoever needs called (parents, doctor, etc.).
 Fainting is generally caused by a lack of blood flow to the brain. Tensing your muscles in your limbs increases your blood pressure, which can stave off a fainting spell.This can be done before a fainting spell and in general, just to make sure your blood pressure is up.


Get into a squatting position (holding your balance against a wall, just in case) and tense your leg muscles repeatedly
Clasp your hands together in front of you and tense your arm muscles repeatedly.
If you're sitting, consider crossing your legs. This is commonly recommended to people who often faint when having blood drawn, for example.
Try these a few times - if it doesn’t seem to be working, move to a laying down position instead.
 People who faint regularly due to medication sometimes find that they can train their bodies to fight it. One common method is “tilt training,” where you stand up against a wall with your heels about six inches (15 cm) away from it. You keep this position for about 5 minutes without moving. For some reason, it “uncrosses the wires” in your brain, staving off a spell.Try to practice this in larger and larger increments, until you can do it for about 20 minutes at a time without feeling faint. This is a practice you do over time, preventing fainting from coming on - it's not to be used in the heat of the moment.
 If you have the energy, grab a salty snack to munch on. Alternatively, ask someone near you to find you a snack (let them know you're feeling faint). And if fainting is common for you, carry around a snack with you for a situation such as this.


A bit of juice or water won't hurt, either. Your body needs hydration, and salty snacks and juice or water is the best thing for it.
 You'll likely have about a minute or so (more or less, depending on the spell) of warning that you're going to faint. In this time, try to think about getting into an open area where you can lie down. The lying down is for you - the open area is so you don't hurt yourself.


Whatever you do, get away from stairs. If you faint, you could fall down them, gravely injuring yourself. The same goes for pointy edges of tables and desks.
 If you're in a school or a public area, tell the person nearest you that you're going to faint and to get help. After this, lie down. Ideally, someone will come to you with a snack and some water and help you handle the situation when you come to.


This can be a serious event in some locations as a paying customer who faints may mean the establishment is doing something wrong (they need more ventilation, fewer people allowed in at once, etc.). Rest assured that if you're in public, someone will come to help you.
 Even if you skip all the above steps, if you get yourself down to the ground, you'll likely be fine. If you do this consciously, you will not hurt yourself. If you do it unconsciously, you could seriously hurt yourself, and possibly others around you. Lying down is your number one rule.


What was the number one rule? That's right: lie down. It will save you possible injury and your behavior will likely alert those around you that something is wrong. What's more, once you get down, you'll be a lot more comfortable.

