 Decide if you will offer one type of tea or a variety of teas. For example, you may serve your guests loose leaf red tea (also called black tea), green tea, white tea, Oolong tea, and Pu-erh tea. Pu-erh and red tea are the strongest teas (both fermented), while green tea is the least processed. White tea (which is only mildly fermented) and Oolong have mild, light flavors.Popular types of Chinese tea include Lapsang Souchong which has a smokey flavor and Dragon Pearl Jasmine, a light green tea.
 Once you've chosen your tea, show the leaves to your guests. Give each guest a chance to smell the tea leaves. The focus on serving the tea should be on the tea itself, rather than the process of serving it., Place the teapot and teacups on a slatted bamboo box. Bring water to boil and carefully pour it into your Chinese teapot and small teacups. Let them sit while you prepare the tea so the teapot is sterilized and stays warm. Pour out the water just before you're ready to fill the pot with tea. It's important to use a different pot for each type of tea, since the clay of the teapot absorbs some of the tea's essence.Chinese teapots (called Yixing teapots) are smaller than Western teapots and made of unglazed clay. While most of these only hold around 1 cup (240 ml) of tea, you can use a larger pot if you're serving several people.
 Fill a kettle with fresh water and put it on the stove. Heat the water for your specific type of tea. For example, only heat water for green or jasmine tea to 185 degrees (85 degrees C) which is not quite to boiling. Heat the water for Pu-erh and black teas to a rolling boil (212 degrees F or 100 degrees C). Carefully pour a little of the water over the tea strainer to sterilize it., Use a bamboo or wood scoop to fill the empty teapot with 1/4 to 1/3 cup (16 to 22 g) of your loose leaf tea and fill the pot with hot water. Let the water overflow the brim of the teapot. Carefully tilt the teapot to an angle so the heat can get out of the teapot and keep the leaves from overcooking. Pour all of the water out of the teapot.You can pour the water over the teacups to keep them warm. Keep in mind that you won't be drinking this since you're just rinsing the leaves and getting them to open up.
 Fill the teapot with hot water and put the lid on the pot. Continue to pour hot water over the teapot for several seconds so the tea brews evenly inside the pot. Remember your teapot should be on the slatted bamboo box. Steep the tea for 4 to 7 seconds. Dump the hot water out of the teacups.The short brew time is possible because the tea leaves have been rinsed and opened.
 Set the strainer over a teacup and pour the steeped tea into the teacup. Fill each cup about three-quarters of the way full. Invite your guests to drink the tea by holding the teacup with both hands and placing it to the right of your guest.Chinese tea should be served plain, without milk, sugar or lemon.
 You can use the same tea leaves to brew another 3 or 4 batches of tea, depending on the quality of the tea leaves you're using. Keep in mind that you'll need a little more steeping time with each subsequent brew.For example, for the second brew, you'll need 6 to 8 seconds seconds. For the third brew, you'll need 8 to 10 seconds and for the fourth brew, you'll need 10 to 12 seconds.

