 Turmeric, an ingredient used on a day-to-day basis in a lot of households, is very effective for treating colds.. Being anti-inflammatory, turmeric soothes your throat and helps to relieve congestion.


Curcumin, an active compound found in turmeric clears your air passages as it heals the sinus cavities. Add a pinch of turmeric to a cup of hot milk and sip it before going to bed in night.
 Saponins in fenugreek cleanse your bronchial passages and speed up the recovery process. Being antispasmodic, fenugreek aids in loosening phlegm and reducing the coughing sensation.


Add a teaspoon of powdered fenugreek to a cup of water and bring to the boil. Allow it to simmer for around 2-3 minutes. Filter it and add a teaspoon of honey before drinking.
 Your nasal passages filter the air you breathe and trap bacteria, preventing it from entering your body. The capsaicin content in cayenne pepper stimulates the nasal passages to perform at their best by flushing the excess mucus out.


Buy some powdered cayenne pepper and dab a little of the powder on your nostrils and you will soon find the mucus coming out.
 Sulfur and quercetin in onions help to break down mucus in your chest and relieve your cold symptoms. Shallots work best for this, so take two shallots and grind them along with a teaspoon of cumin.


Add this to a cup of water and bring to the boil. Let the quantity reduce to half its original size. Drink this tea once a day until the cold symptoms are gone., Basil has antiviral properties, which aid in treating the virus that causes a cold. Basil is also an expectorant which helps to clear the bronchial tubes off phlegm.


Take about ½ a cup of basil leaves and grind them to obtain about a teaspoon of juice. Add honey to this and consume it once a day in the morning.
You may also add 8-10 basil leaves to a cup of water and boil it for 5 to 10 minutes. Add a pinch of salt and drink it twice a day for relief from a cold.
 Phenol in betel leaves is antiseptic and hence reduces the severity of a cold by fighting the virus that causes it.


Add a fistful of betel leaves to a mug of water and boil it. Remove it from the flame and inhale the steam for instant relief.
You can also use betel leaves for external application. Crush 3-4 betel leaves and add a few drops of mustard oil. Mix well and apply it directly onto the chest for easier breathing.
 Menthol in peppermint acts as a decongestant and hence it helps to thin the mucus and relieve colds. It also helps to reduce a cough by soothing your throat.


Add 10-12 peppermint leaves to a cup of boiling water. Steep for a few minutes and filter it. Add a teaspoon of honey and drink it warm once a day.
 Plantain is an effective expectorant thanks to the aucubin content in it. Expectorant helps to loosen and clear phlegm and mucus from your respiratory tract.


Take a handful of plantain leaves and rinse them well in running water. Add them to a cup of water and bring to the boil. Allow it to steep for about 5 minutes. Filter it and drink once a day.

