 Designate a certain part of your yard for it. This area should be large enough so that the fish can roam, but small enough so that it stays on your land (unless the neighbors are okay with it).
 The longer it takes for the water to be sucked up, the better. If the ground is not suitable, don't worry, check out step 4. If the ground is good, continue to step 3.
 This hole will soon be your pond. The hole should take up all or most of your designated available area.
 over the dirt after you dig the hole. Make sure it looks nice and natural. If it looks sloppy or crappy, either do it over or make sure you can hide the faults with old tires, plants and rocks.
 Many fish eat wet land plants in their natural habitat. To anchor them without damaging their roots, take the roots in your hand and make a 'beak' with your fingers around them. Sink your hand into the bed and then open your fingers. This will make the roots spread out before the cover settles over them. (This is the same technique for planting in a tank, by the way.) Arrange them strategically so that they have good hiding places. You want your babies to be able to hide from larger predators that can and will eat them.
 There are 2 things that you can do for this, the first is wait for rain to come and fill up your hole. Your second option is to use your hose or a bucket to fill up the hole with water. Before using your hose, make sure the water's pH and all is balanced. Most tap water has chlorine in it to kill germs, but it also kills the good bacteria needed. To keep the bottom cover (sand, gravel, etc) from being mussed, aim your hose into a bucket. Don't forget to tie a long rope to that bucket, you probably won't want to dive into muddy water for it when the pond is full.
 Make sure you have species that won't kill each other right off, and that are all edible. Include cleaners such as crawdads (crayfish) to keep the bottom clean; make sure they have plenty of rocks to hide under. Before you put any fish into your pond, acclimatize them to the new water. Do this by putting them into a tub or bucket with their original water, then gradually adding your pond water until they are breathing almost pure pond water. Then net them and gently dump them into your pond.
 Congratulations, you are finished, now you can go right in your yard. In addition, if you live in a area where it gets under 55 degrees you should get a bubbler.
