 If you are in public, and you catch someone staring at your breasts, or if someone is making inappropriate comments about your breasts, it is probably best just to ignore it. More than likely, they are trying to see if they can get a reaction out of you, and the best way to get them to leave you alone is to show that you won’t react to it.This is especially true if you feel that the person may physically assault you. In this case, the goal should be to get out of the situation as quickly as possible. Make your way to a very public space where there are lots of people around. If the person is threatening you, call the authorities immediately to tell them what is going on.
 If someone is making comments to you, and won’t let off even though you’ve ignored them, politely (but firmly) ask them to please leave you alone. It may be tempting to use strong language, but try to remain polite. If it is a stranger, it will be difficult to predict how they might react to provocation, particularly if they are the kind of person who thinks it’s ok to make inappropriate comments to women in the first place.For example, you can simply say, “Don’t talk about my body that way. That’s harassment.” If they persist, take your phone out of your bag or pocket, and tell them that you will call the police if they continue. Don’t be meek, be firm and confident.
 If someone is threatening, for most of us, the natural reaction will be to shy away from them. Face the person directly, stand up straight, maintain eye contact, and tell them to leave you alone., If someone is harassing you, make sure that you quickly pick out something unique about them that will help friends or strangers around you to quickly pick him out of the crowd. You will want to use this identifier in your sentence when you tell him to leave you alone.For example, if a boy wearing a bright green shirt says, “Hey! You have a nice rack!” Look him in the eye, and loudly say, “You in the green shirt! Stop talking about my body! That’s harassment!” If you say it loudly enough, it will draw the attention of others around you, and he will almost definitely leave you alone.
If you are alone, and no one is around, pointing something out about that person that is unique may still help you to identify him later, if necessary, and it will show him that you’ve had a good look at him, so he isn’t completely anonymous.

