 Keep in mind that if you can prove that you are not guilty of something, it is likely worth showing your teacher the proof.A teacher or administrator cannot force you to consent to a search. You can always say no or ask to call your parents. However, if you have nothing to hide, consider allowing a teacher access to your possessions briefly.


School officials can only search you or your possessions if they have reasonable, individualized suspicion of your involvement in breaking a rule. They may also conduct a search if you voluntarily consent to their doing so.
Reasons for reasonable suspicion include a school employee overhearing something, or seeing or smelling something directly.
Suspicion that warrants a search must also be specific to you. For instance, if your friend has gotten into trouble and they want to search your possessions as well, they cannot search your belongings unless there is specific evidence that incriminates you.
 Know that lockers are usually considered school property. Accordingly, schools can search your locker at any time with or without any sort of suspicion.If your cell phone or computer are in your locker, they cannot be searched without reasonable, individualized suspicion, your consent, or a warrant.
 Having large amounts of cash with you may make teachers or other school employees curious or concerned about why you have it. Try to plan purchases that may require a large amount of cash outside of school so as not to put you or your teachers in an uncomfortable situation.


Plan large purchases for the weekend, and have a parent accompany you when handling large amounts of cash.
If you do need to bring a large amount of cash to school for an after-school purchase, keep it somewhere locked up and don’t tell anyone about it. Be ready to tell a teacher or administrator why you have a large amount of cash at school.
For instance, if you intend to buy a bike from a friend after school, be honest and tell your teacher the specifics of the arrangement.

