;
, Remove any dust or grime from the shelves before decorating.
, This will help to create a smooth surface for painting. Sanding can also remove unsightly stains that might seep through paintwork.
 Repaint the bookshelf a new color. Or, paint it various colors. Do this over a covered area, to prevent anything being stained as you prepare the bookshelf.


If the vertical garden is to be placed outdoors, be sure to use weather-resistant outdoor paints.
 Then consider decorating the bookcase with small drawings, such as of flowers, plant tendrils, vegetables and fruits, and so forth.


The bookshelf will be right in keeping with the garden theme if you paint vines and other flora on the sides and back of the shelves.
 It can be indoors, outdoors, or halfway between each. This will depend on how much space you have available and the types of plants you'll be growing in your vertical garden.
 Place it on a level surface so that it is absolutely sturdy and ready for adding plants to.


It is a really good idea to affix it to a wall or other back surface with chain or hooks, to prevent it from toppling over once the heavier plants are placed on it, or should there be an earthquake.
 It could be all ornamentals, all flowers, all food, etc. Or, it's more fun and useful to have a mixture of plants, with some edible, some medicinal, some ornamental and some experimental. Mixing it up will make it more visually interesting too.


The plants should not grow taller than the shelf space to which they will be allocated. Read the plant's tag or read in a gardening book to find out the standard expected height for the plants you're choosing.
 Either purchase, plant or propagate the plants to be used in the bookshelf vertical garden. You'll also need containers, soil and a watering can or similar device.


If buying plants, keep them affordable by buying small versions and looking for plants when on sale.
If sowing from seed, purchase or harvest seeds and plant them in the containers. Fill with soil, then push the seeds in according to the depth needed for the seed in question. Keep watered and wait for the sprouts to push through.
If propagating the plants, get some cuttings from favorite plants and dip them in hormone powder to help them get a head start when planted.
 Place them on the shelves, with the heaviest containers on the base shelf through to the lightest on the top shelves.


To stop containers from toppling over on the upper shelves, stick them down with poster tack in large blobs.
Don't shove too many plants onto the shelf; leave some space between them.
