

Insert your USB in the USB port.
Open Disk Utility (Launchpad > Other > Disk Utility).
Click on your USB on the left list.
Select "Erase" at the top of the page and in the window it will open, select "MS-DOS FAT" then "Ok".;
,

Open Boot Camp Assistant (Launchpad > Other > Boot Camp Assistant).
Click continue on the introduction page.
Check the 3 boxes and hit continue like you would if Bootcamp actually worked.
Select the .iso Windows file on your computer. If it doesn't work or says "Windows 7 or later" drag it in your application folder and do it again.
Click continue.
 It should take from a few minutes to an hour. Once it stops and springs the "network error" on you, you are done with Boot Camp. It's apparently a problem with Apple servers, so Boot Camp can't download the drivers it needs but it has normally succeeded the "copying windows files". Basically it just creates a bootable Windows key.,

Double tap and click "Get info".
It should be around 4 GB (Windows 8.1) and thus complete.


Google "Boot Camp Windows support" for the version of your Mac. For example, for the late 2013 Retina Macbook Pro, the driver is "BootCamp 5.1.5640".
Google that name (here "BootCamp 5.1.5640")
First link should be support.apple.com; go there.
Check if your Mac is in the list and download it.


Unzip your Boot Camp file.
Open Finder and drag your Boot Camp file into your USB key where your Windows files also are.


Go to Disk Utility ( Launchpad > Other > Disk Utility ).
Select your base hard drive, the one completely on top named something like "Apple SSD."
Click on "Partition" at the top.
Drag the partition to the desired capacity (or write it) (at least 20 Gb for Windows; more is recommended) and click on it.
Rename it the way you want.
Select MS-DOS (FAT).
Apply and wait until it's done.
Close Disk Utility.


Restart your computer and when you hear the mac opening song. Press "alt" until you reach a window with your Mac hard drive and now Windows partition (if you named it Windows).
Select the Windows one and press Enter.
Windows should automatically boot from your key.
Follow the instructions.
When the Mac restarts during the process, keep pressing "alt" and selecting the Windows partition so you don't accidentally go back on OS X.
You should be left on a functional Windows.
 If your Windows randomly restarts at this point, it's ok. Just remember to press "alt" to go back to Windows.

Look for your USB key file and open it.
Click on the Boot Camp file (e.g. "BootCamp 5.1.5640").
You should be left with two folders and one .xml file; enter the Boot Camp file.
You should find a "setup.exe." Double click on it and let Boot Camp take over.
Boot Camp should install every driver you need; let it be, click "Ok" everywhere and once it's done, you're done. Enjoy your Windows partition!

