 Offering praise is a great way to make a child feel accomplished and rewarded for good behavior. Children are always seeking feedback regarding their actions and giving them that feedback can be a meaningful way of interacting with them. Always let children know that you are aware of the positive things they've done.For example, if a child drew an interesting picture, you could offer praise and let them know how much you enjoy the artwork.
If a child shares an interesting story with you, thank them and let them know how fascinating the story was.
 Children learn well and feel comfortable in orderly and stable environments. These structured environments will help children focus, relax, behave and learn. Try to create an organized environment and clear rules whenever you are caring for a child.If you regularly care for a child, building a schedule and sticking to it can help them feel comfortable.
Try to involve children in the creation of schedules. Ask them what activity they would like to do and when they would like to do it.
Make sure you provide any items or materials for activities you might do together.
Work with the children to create rules. This can help them feel involved and will make the rules clear.
 Not all toys will be appropriate for playtime, depending on the age of the child. For many small or young children, most toys could present a choking hazard. Always make sure that whatever toys you are playing with are age appropriate. Take a look at some of these guidelines to help you safely play with the child you're caring for:Children up to 1 year old can play with rattles, teething toys, stacking toys or picture books.
Children between 1 and 3 years old can play with simple puzzles, crayons, picture books or small wagons.
Children 3 to 5 years old might enjoy playing with puppets, storybooks or simple board games.
Children who are between 6 and 9 years old can play with bikes, sports equipment, books, crafts and more complex board games.
 Children learn by watching what others do and emulating that behavior. To help a child learn good behaviors, you'll want to model the actions you want them to copy. Whenever you are with a child, always embody the behaviors, attitudes and manners that you want the child to adopt.Modeling can show children how to do things. For example, if a child sees you stacking a pile of blocks, they may begin learning how to stack blocks on their own.
Be careful with your language. Children will often emulate the speech of the adults around them.
Modeling is the best way to teach by example.

