 Ask, “Do you have some time to talk? Can we go somewhere private?” This may be a scary step that many people don’t want to take, but the best way to know how someone else feels is to get a straight answer from their mouth. You can find them and talk to them in-person, then and there, but it is probably best to negotiate a future time and place to meet. If you are nervous, use a non-invasive form of communication like a phone call, chat, or text to communicate your feelings.
 Choose to talk in an easy going public place, like a cafe or a park. Your ex may be nervous about sharing their feelings with you and worried that they are unrequited. Make them as comfortable as possible by talking in a quiet and neutral location.


Give yourself and your ex plenty of time to have a long talk. Avoid having the talk when you have a major assignment due or if you have a meeting soon.
 If you want to get your ex back, look your best during this talk. Wear your favorite outfit and style your hair nicely. You can use this time to both attract your ex and make yourself feel good, confident, and worthwhile.
 The more honest you are about your feelings, the more inclined they are to be honest about theirs. Tell them your feelings. Be calm and clear. Maybe say “I still have romantic feelings for you,” or “I still care about you, as more than a friend.”


Tell them if you're regretting the breakup and want to get back together again. Provide specific reasons like “I miss you because we had so much fun together” or “I really enjoyed being together. You made me feel such peace.”

, You may have a lot of pent up emotions that you want to let out, but remember that they might, too. Allow them to tell you how they feel. This will allow you to know definitively whether or not they still care or want to get back together.If they expressly say they want to leave the situation, let them go. Don’t try to control them or force them to talk about things they don’t want to discuss.
 If your ex still cares for you and you both decide to get back together, then move forward and create a stronger, more resilient relationship. Work out your previous issues to prevent them from cropping up again. However, if you determine that they no longer have feelings for you, this is okay, too. Move forward without them by learning to be alone, spending time with friends, and committing yourself to school or work. You can date again when you feel ready.

