 If your fear of stairs is debilitating and likely classified as a phobia it is best to consult a therapist or mental health professional. Most specific phobias, such as a fear of stairs, are treated through therapy:


Cognitive behavioural therapy: is a process of replacing your fears and anxieties with more rational thoughts. This therapy often involves learning relaxation techniques combined with a process known as systematic desensitization.Exposure therapy: is a form of psychological treatment that acknowledges that exposure to feared objects, activities, and situations will help reduce fear and avoidance. There are two methods commonly used in exposure therapy:flooding and desensitization. Flooding is when an individual confronts their fear or trauma all at once whereas desensitization takes a systematic approach and introduces an individual to their fear slowly one piece at a time. , Some fears and anxieties need to be treated through medications. Your doctor can help assess your specific phobia and prescribe the appropriate medication. There are three general categories of medication that can be useful when treating fears and phobias:


Beta blockers: work by blocking the effects of adrenaline on your body. For example, they decrease elevated heart rate and blood pressure, as well as shaking limbs. Antidepressants: or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) influence your mood by acting on serotonin chemical neurotransmitters in your brain and are often used to treat anxiety. Sedatives: help you to relax by reducing anxiety levels. These medications should be used with caution because they can be highly addictive. It is recommended that if you have a history of substance abuse you should avoid sedatives as a form of anxiety treatment. , Sometimes a fear of stairs is not directly linked to a phobia, but instead stems from another physical or medical issue that makes climbing or descending stairs physically strenuous.


A physical injury, such as a torn ligament or muscle may influence your ability to navigate stairs. Speak with a doctor or physiotherapist in order to learn appropriate exercises and stretches catered to your injury.

