 You will generally want to include an introduction paragraph with a thesis, sections about specific artworks in the exhibition, (including description(s), analysis, and then interpretation(s)), consideration of the space it is displayed in, and your own evaluations based on your analyses and interpretations. You will also want to include a concluding paragraph that wraps up major points and summarizes the review. If your teacher or professor gave a grading rubric for the assignment, make sure your work adheres to these standards including citation style, length, and subject requirements.
 Include meaningful adjectives and descriptions of the work. General adjectives like "beautiful" or vernacular expressions that relate to your personal reaction do not help the reader understand what is significant to your thesis. For example, unless you can properly and clearly explicate why it is beautiful, and what is significance about its beauty, the information is no useful to your reader (who may not agree, anyway!). Show that you took the time to understand and analyze the exhibition by choosing your words carefully. If this is a school assignment, most likely your teacher wants to learn more than whether it looked good to you or not.Understand the connotations of your words. Remember that you are writing about art and terms like "classic" can have time-period connotations and should be used carefully and appropriately.
 This is also important in the language that you use. If you are writing for an art history professor, chances are that they will not be impressed by jargon-laden, convoluted sentences. Rather, clear and precise language using appropriate terminology is generally what an art historian would want to read. However, if it is for a mainstream publication read by people without an extensive art history background, you will want to avoid jargon, and explain any discipline-specific terminology(that the public might not understand) within the text.
 Although reviews are not usually the same as academic essays, you will not want to steal the words of another reviewer or background information without proper credit. Your publication may have certain requirements, but generally footnotes are avoided and you should simply find an in-text way to make reference to where you are getting your information. , This can be hard if you are on a strict deadline, but planning accordingly can help your writing immensely. Generally it is a good idea to write your review and then set it aside for at least 24 hours before re-visting it.


This will help your writing and editorial process but can also help your evaluations. Perhaps you re-read a work after 24 hours and have come to a different analysis and conclusion about the exhibition. By making your writing a process, rather than a one-time sit down affair, you can get the best out of your work.

