 Losing your head with a narcissist won’t be good for your health or your job. Don’t enter into a conflict situation when you are upset. Give yourself a moment to cool off before talking with the narcissist. Then, lead with your feelings.


Narcissists have trouble deciphering others’ emotions, so by starting with how you feel, you will put them off their game in order to get your point across.
For example, say, “I’m very disappointed that you went behind my back and met with our client. I thought we were going at this as a team. Can you explain yourself?”, Narcissists have a pesky habit of talking about a problem like a broken record, and generally focusing on how they have been wronged. They tend to dwell on the issue without ever moving into the problem-solving phase. If you have to problem-solve with this person, know that you will be responsible for shifting the focus to solutions.


Avoid accusing the narcissist or dwelling on the problem. Just present some viable answers.Once you start working on a solution, ignore any attempts they make to bring up the conflict again. Silence is the best option to get them to stop obsessing and move on.
If you have to redirect them to the solution, say, "I know that we disagree, and that's okay. Right now our time is best spent planning for the future."

, A narcissist is deeply affected by any sort of criticism. If you must offer constructive criticism on their performance, do so with care. They may respond with anger or excuses. Alternatively, they may respond with subtle, passive-aggressive behavior after the fact.Try to ignore this as best as you can.One method is delivering criticism in the sandwich method—that is, between two positive statements. For instance, you might say, “Joel, I noticed you have been working really hard this week. I realized that you submitted several reports in late. I need you to do better with sticking to the deadlines. Other than that, you performance has been terrific. Thanks.”
There’s still a chance that their ears will skip over the bad part and only hear the highlights, but at least you will have gotten through it without an explosive reaction.
 Even perceived slights can warrant total obliteration in a narcissist’s eyes. They will pull out all the stops to sabotage your work reputation and leave your career in shambles. The sad thing is, with their superficial charm and ability to win over others, no one may believe you if you try to expose their dirty deeds. Just try to stay on their good side or off their radar completely.While you should present yourself as assertive and confident, the point is to not preempt conflict with the narcissist. Be professional in your interactions and engage with them on a need-to basis.
For example, the narcissist might take it personally if they are overlooked for a promotion that you get. Knowing how envious and manipulative they can be, you might pull them aside and try to relieve any building tension, "Hey, Jamie, I know you wanted the promotion. Honestly, I'm surprised you didn't get it. But I do hope this doesn't affect our work relationship moving forward."

