 This means, "I do not speak French."It is pronounced: "Juh nay pahrl pah frahn-say" (French speakers often leave out the "ne" in a negative sentence. However, in writing always include the "ne").


If you speak a little French and want to tell the person that, you can say: "Je parle juste un peu français." This is pronounced: "Juh pahrle joost un puh frahn-say." It translates to, "I speak just a little bit of French."
Say: "Je suis désolé." This means simply, "I'm sorry," and can be combined with non-verbal gestures to communicate a lack of understanding. This is pronounced: "juh swee day-zo-lay."
If you're feeling ambitious (and polite), you can combine this with the previous step, saying "Je suis désolé, je ne parle pas francais." This is pronounced: "juh swee day-zo-lay, juh nay pahrl pah frahn-say." This means, "I'm sorry, I don't speak French.";
, This means, "I do not understand." It is pronounced "Juh nay comprahnd pah." This is less preferable to saying "Je ne parle pas français," because the French person might misunderstand what you mean and try to explain what they said by speaking more French! However, if you can't remember "Je ne parle pas français," "Je ne comprend pas" is better than nothing.
 If you let the person know what language you do speak, they will know you don't speak French, and you may be able to communicate if the other person in another language. Say "Parlez-vous..." (pronounced "parlay-voo" This means, "Do you speak...."Here are the French words for some other languages:


Anglais (pronounced "ahng-glay"): English
Espagnol (pronounced "esspanyoll"): SpanishJaponais (pronounced "japonay"): JapaneseAllemand (pronounced "allaymon"): GermanArabe (pronounced "ahrahbuh"): Arabic, If you are in a French speaking country and are lost or otherwise need help, you may need to ask for assistance while communicating that you don't speak French. You can say a couple of things in this situation:


"Pouvez-vous m'aider? Je ne parle pas français." means, "Can you help me? I don't speak French." It is pronounced, "Poo-vay voo meh-day? Juh nay pahrl pah frahn-say.""Je suis perdu. Je ne parle pas français" means "I'm lost. I don't speak French." It is pronounced, "Ju swee pair-doo. Juh nay pahrl pah frahn-say."