


You can lightly coat the baking dish with cooking spray, if desired, but doing so should be necessary if you use a glass or nonstick baking dish. Do not layer the dish with aluminum foil or parchment paper.
 Place the ground beef or turkey in a large skillet and top it with the chopped onion. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until the meat is evenly browned and the onion is soft.


Use a flat spatula or wooden spoon to break apart the meat as it cooks.
Once fat starts pooling in the bottom of the skillet, stir the chopped onion into the liquid fat and continue cooking it until the onion turns slightly translucent.
 Sprinkle the taco seasoning over the contents of the skillet, mixing well to combine. Add the black beans, as well, and continue cooking.


When using canned black beans, drain and rinse the can of beans prior to adding them to the skillet.
After combining these ingredients, reduce the heat to medium-low and allow the mixture to warm through for 5 to 10 minutes.
 While the meat mixture simmers, combine the cream cheese and salsa in a medium to large mixing bowl. Beat the two together with an electric mixer.


Note that the cream cheese must be softened to room temperature before you begin; otherwise, it might be difficult to beat smoothly. Use reduced-fat cream cheese for a slightly lower calorie version of this dip, if desired.
You'll need to beat the two ingredients together for 1 or 2 minutes at medium-high speed. Ideally, the resulting mixture should be consistent in color and free of lumps.
 Spoon the cream cheese mixture into the baking dish previously set out, smoothing it out into an even layer.
 Spoon the warmed meat mixture directly over the cream cheese layer, spreading it out as evenly as possible.


Use a light touch when spreading the meat mixture. The idea is to leave the cream cheese and meat layers separate, rather than mixing them together.
 Evenly garnish the top of the taco dip with shredded cheddar cheese.
 Place the dish of dip into the preheated oven and cook it until the shredded cheese completely melts.


You should also notice some slight bubbling around the edges of the dish. This indicates that the contents of the dish have heated through.
 Remove the hot dip from the oven and sprinkle it with the diced tomato. Add a generous dollop of guacamole or sour cream to the center of the dish, as desired.


You can add other vegetable garnishes to the top of the dish, as well. Consider options like shredded lettuce, chopped green onions, chopped chile peppers, and sliced black olives.
 Serve the taco dip while it's still hot, enjoying it alongside prepared tortilla chips or corn chips.


If you have leftovers, let them cool to room temperature before covering the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerating it. Leftovers can stay good for up to 3 or 4 days.
You can enjoy the leftovers chilled, at room temperature, or reheated. Remove any excess sour cream or guacamole before microwaving the leftovers, however, and add fresh garnishes to the top of the dip before serving it again.

