 Accepting the suicide of your own child and beginning to heal from it will not happen overnight. It will take time and you will have times when it seems you can’t get through it. Allow yourself time to grieve and take your time to work through the healing process.Take some time off from your day-to-day responsibilities and use the time to focus on healing yourself.
Understand that there will be some days that you seem to be accepting the suicide, and other days that you can’t cope at all.
Take the healing process one minute and one day at a time.
 There will be certain days that will trigger your emotions about your child’s suicide more than others. Emotions and feelings that you may have thought you had accepted may come back. For example, the anniversary of the suicide, birthdays, holidays, and other special occasions can all be triggers.You will heal better if you prepare for these times.


If possible, let the people close to you know that this may be a hard time for you and that you may need extra support.
You might say, “The anniversary of my son’s death is Friday. Would you mind coming to be with me then? It’s hard for me to cope on that day.”
You may want to do something special on this day to remember your child.
 While you are grieving you will likely experience changes in your appetite and sleeping habits. In addition, the emotional stress of accepting your child’s suicide can put physical stress on your body.Avoid drugs and alcohol as a way of coping. Using substances will only make it harder for you to accept the suicide and may create problems for you.
Make an effort to eat healthy meals and snacks. Make sure you are drinking plenty of water, eating fresh fruits and vegetables, and getting other recommended nutrients.
Make sure you get enough sleep. If you don’t have one, then establish a regular bedtime routine.
Get some physical activity. Doing things like swimming, walking, and working out can help you cope with the emotional and physical stress

, You will be able to accept the suicide of your own child if you learn more about suicide in general. Educating yourself can help answer some of the questions that you have and help you heal.You can find information about suicide from The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the Centers for Disease Control, and similar agencies and organizations.