 Adding items, such as tulle, organza, cellophane, stuffing, or even moss can help diffuse the light and make the jar look more magical. When choosing tulle or organza, go for a very soft, pale color, or white. When choosing cellophane, go for something iridescent, as it will reflect the light better. You can also use teddy bear stuffing and pieces of moss instead.
 Purchase a small fairy figurine, and glue her to the inside of the jar lid using hot glue or super glue. Screw the lid back onto the jar, and turn the jar upside down. The lid will now be the bottom of the jar, making it a sort of snow globe.


Consider gluing gown bits of moss, stones, and tiny flowers to the lid around the fairy. This will hide the bottom of the lid, and give the fairy a pretty home to live in.
If you cannot find a fairy figurine, you can make your own by purchasing a person-shaped figurine, and gluing craft butterfly wings to the back.
 You can make your fairy jar more colorful by painting the lid. Lightly buff the lid with fine-grit sandpaper, and wipe it clean with a damp cloth to get rid of any dust. Paint the lid with some acrylic paint using a paintbrush or a foam brush. You can also use spray paint instead.


If you are using spray paint, shake the can for a few moments until you can hear it rattle. Hold the can 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the surface and apply the paint in a light, even layer. Wait until the paint dries before applying a second layer. Make sure to spray paint in a well-ventilated area to avoid any light-headedness.
 For a more sparkly lid, brush on a layer of glue onto the top of the lid. Don't paint the sides with glue just yet. Pour some glitter onto the lid. Gently lift the lid off your work surface and tap the glitter off. Wait for the glue and glitter to dry before applying glue and glitter to the sides.


Consider working over a sheet of paper. When you are done, fold the paper in half, and use it to funnel the excess glitter back into its container.
Consider sealing the glitter so that it doesn't shed. Wait for the glue and glitter to dry, then apply a thin, even coat of clear, glossy spray paint. Wait for the coat to dry completely before applying a second one.
 Place the lid on top of some pretty fabric. Trace a circle around the lid—make the circle about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) larger than the lid. Cut the circle out of the fabric and screw the lid onto the jar. Place the fabric circle on top of the lid and push the edges down around the sides of the lid. Wrap a piece of ribbon or twine around the neck of the jar, holding the fabric in place. Tie the ribbon or twine into a pretty bow.
 Take a few colorful gemstones or rhinestones, and glue them onto the lid using hot glue or tacky glue. You can also glue beads, buttons, pretty rocks, or even a figurine to the top of the jar.
 You can also decorate the ribbon by gluing a flower or rhinestone in the middle of the bow.
 Tinted mason jars come in different colors, including blue, green, and purple. They can help lend a more unique look to your fairy jar. If you cannot find a tinted mason jar, you can make your own by mixing a few drops of food coloring with a glossy decoupage glue. Paint the outside of the jar with the mixture using a paintbrush or a foam brush.


You can also paint the jar with a matte decoupage glue or matte spray-on sealer. This will give the glass a frosted look, and will work best with the battery-operated string lights.
 You can print out silhouettes of fairies and cut them out using a craft knife. Tape or glue the fairies to the outside of the jar.

