 You can relieve the pressure on your bunions by wearing shoes that have a wide, flexible sole that supports your feet. There should also be enough room in the toe box, or the part surrounding the front of your foot, to fit the bunion without it rubbing against the shoe. Shoes like sandals, athletic shoes, and soft leather shoes are all ideal as they will provide support and space for your bunions.If you wear heels, you should try to keep your heels low, no higher than an inch off the ground. Your shoes should also have a sturdy heel counter so the heel of your shoes are snug and stay in place when you walk.
Avoid narrow shoes or slip on shoes as they will not provide the support and space your need to walk comfortably with your bunions.
If you have shoes that you find comfortable but cannot wear due to your bunions, you may be able to reshape them to make them less narrow using stretchers in the shoes. However, you should only do this if the shoes support your feet well.;
, Do not believe the myth that your feet do not grow once you reach adulthood. In fact, your feet can get bigger and wider as the ligaments loosen and your arches flatten over time. When you are buying new shoes, you should ask a sales associate to make sure the shoes are not too narrow for your feet. They can measure your feet and help you find the right size so your new shoes do not agitate your bunion further.You can also make sure the shoes fit properly by walking around in them in the store to ensure they do not pinch or squeeze your toes. There should be ample room in the toe box or front area of the shoe for your bunions.
 Orthotics can be placed inside your shoes to help realign the bones in your feet. They can also reduce the amount of pressure on your bunions, which can make your bunions less painful. You can buy orthotics over-the-counter at your local drugstore or pharmacy.You can also get prescription orthotics from your primary care doctor or from a podiatrist. Prescription orthotics are custom made for your feet so they will be fit your feet properly and provide the type of support you need.
Keep in mind orthotics are usually a short term solution to bunions and feet pain. You may need to have your bunions surgically removed if they continue to be painful and make it difficult for you to walk.

