 Tap the App Store on both of your iOS devices to launch it.;
, Type in AirDisk Pro on the search field and tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 Select the correct app and tap the “Free” button beside the app. Enter your Apple ID if requested then tap the “Install” button to download the app onto your device.


Do this on both iOS devices.
 If they are not, they won’t be able to see each other.
 Locate the app on the iOS devices, and tap on it to launch it.
 Tap the gear icon on the bottom toolbar to go to Settings. Make sure that the File Sharing option is turned On. If it is not, tap on the File Sharing option and tap the toggle button to On.


File Sharing needs to be enabled so that the device can share files with other devices.
Tap the “Done” button to exit the Settings menu.
 You can find the refresh icon on the bottom toolbar. Tapping it will direct you to the sharing options: transfer, sharing, or syncing.
 This is the option for sharing files between two iOS devices.


A list of iOS devices nearby connected under the same Wi-Fi network and running AirDisk Pro will be listed.
 The primary iOS device will try to connect to the secondary iOS device. A message will appear on your screen while it’s waiting for the secondary device to accept.
 Go to your secondary iOS device and tap the “Yes” button on the confirmation message to accept the connection. Once this is done, the two devices are now connected., On your source iOS device, navigate through the folders in AirDisk Pro and select the files you want to transfer to the secondary iOS device. Tap on the files to select them. A red checkmark will appear beside the selected files.


The secondary or destination iOS device will display an orange status box while it’s waiting for the or source iOS device to send the files. Let it be.
 A “Success” confirmation message will appear when the transfer is complete.


Since you’re doing a transfer over a local network, it will just be really quick.
 The connection between the two devices will be disabled., This is because you may not see the received files right away on your secondary iOS device. Once you swipe down, you should see a Sharing folder appear.
 All the received files done over iOS to iOS File Sharing will be stored under this Sharing folder.
 You should be able to see the files sent from your primary device. Tap on one to open it.