 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out a 10-inch (25-cm) round cake pan and spray it with cooking spray. Or you could grease the pan and coat it with a little unsweetened cocoa powder. Cut a circle of parchment paper to fit the pan and place it in the bottom. Spray this with cooking spray too., Spread 1 cup (140 g) of almonds with the skins on across a baking sheet. Use a sheet with a rim, so the almonds don't slide off the pan. Put the pan in the oven and toast the nuts for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and let the almonds cool. Turn the oven temperature down to 325 degrees F (160 C).You should be able to smell the almonds and they should be dark brown once they've finished toasting.
 Place 8 ounces (226 g) of chopped semisweet or bittersweet chocolate into a medium bowl. Stir in 1 cup (240 ml) of melted coconut oil and set the bowl over a saucepan with simmering water in it. Stir the mixture until the chocolate melts. Turn off the heat.Don't let the bowl actually touch the simmering water.
 Put the cooled, toasted almonds into a blender or food processor. Add ¼ cup (25 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder and 1 teaspoon of kosher salt. Blitz the mixture until the nuts are finely ground. Add ½ cup (40 g) of unsweetened shredded coconut and pulse the mixture two or three times, so it's mixed into the almonds. Set the mixture aside., Crack 6 large eggs into a large mixing bowl. Use a stand mixer with a whisk attachment to beat the eggs on medium speed. Beat them for 20 seconds, so the eggs are beaten and you can't see streaks of egg yolk.You'll get more volume from whisking the eggs, if they're at room temperature.
 Turn off the mixer and add ½ cup (100 g) of granulated sugar, ½ cup (100 g) of packed, light brown sugar, and 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract. Turn the mixer on to high speed and whisk the wet mixture for about 2 minutes.The mixture should look thick and pale once it's whisked long enough.
 Take the whisk attachment off of the mixer and put on the beater (paddle) attachment. Turn the mixer on low speed and add the melted chocolate mixture. Keep mixing until the chocolate is incorporated., Stir in the ground almond mixture with the mixer on low speed. Turn off the mixer and scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl. Spread the cake batter into the prepared cake pan., Put the cake in the preheated oven and bake it for 35 to 45 minutes. Poke a tester into the center of the cake. If it's finished baking, it will come out clean (but it may look oily). Remove the cake and let it cool in the pan for 15 to 20 minutes.Don't worry if the cake falls a little in the center as it initially cools.
 Take a butter knife and run it around the sides of the cake. Flip the cake out of the pan and onto a wire rack. Slowly peel the parchment paper off of the cake and let the cake finish cooling completely.You can make the cake up to one day before assembling it. Put it in an airtight container at room temperature.
 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and mix together 2 tablespoons of unsweetened coconut flakes, 1 tablespoon of sliced almonds, 1 teaspoon of granulated sugar, and 1 teaspoon of agave nectar on the sheet. Put the baking sheet in the oven for 4 minutes. Take the sheet out of the oven and let the mixture cool completely.You can break or chop the almond-coconut mixture into smaller pieces or clusters.
 Place 4 ounces (113 g) of chopped semisweet chocolate, 1 tablespoon light agave nectar or pure maple syrup, and a pinch of kosher salt into a medium bowl. Heat ½ cup (120 ml) of unsweetened coconut milk in a small saucepan until it bubbles gently. Turn off the heat and pour the coconut milk over the chocolate mixture in the bowl. Let it sit for 5 minutes.If you don't want to make your own ganache, you could purchase chocolate frosting.
 Use an electric mixer with beater attachments to beat the chocolate ganache on medium speed for about 6 to 8 minutes. The ganache will become thick enough to spread over the cake. Scoop the ganache onto the cake and use an offset spatula to spread it evenly over the cake. Sprinkle the top with the almond-coconut clusters.Refrigerate any leftover chocolate macaroon cake in an airtight container.

