 Worsted weight yarn, the most common type, makes a good hacky sack. The exact size of the yarn doesn't matter much, as long as you use a matching crochet hook.
 Create a chain of six stitches, not counting the initial slipknot or the loop of yarn still on the hook.


If you don't know how to crochet, review the information here.
 You only need to know this most basic crochet stitch to make a hacky sack. Read the full details here.


In the UK, this is called the double stitch.
 Insert the hook back in the first stitch. Complete a single crochet twice in this stitch. Repeat for each stitch in the row, for 12 total stitches.


If you're having trouble fitting two single crochets in one stitch, loosen your stitches a little.
Don't reverse direction – you want a circle, not a square.
 Start the next row Perform two single crochets inside the next stitch. Perform one single crochet in the next stitch. Alternate this 2sc, sc pattern down the row, for 18 stitches.
 As you do this, you'll see the ball taking shape, becoming wider. Follow these patterns for each row, using two single crochets per stitch where it says "2c" and one single crochet where it says "sc:"


Row 4: 2sc, sc, sc, repeat to make 24 stitches
Row 5: 2sc, sc, sc, sc, repeat to make 30 stitches
Row 6: 2sc, sc, sc, sc, sc, repeat to make 36 stitches

, Just repeat one single crochet per stitch to create the middle of the ball. Do this for seven rows (Rows 7–13). There should be 36 stitches per row.
 You'll need to decrease the number of stitches to close the ball again. To do this, simply grab the next stitch and pulling a single crochet through both stitches at once. In other words:Grab the next stitch and pull a loop through as usual (two loops on the hook).
Grab the next stitch and pull another loop through all of them (three loops on the hook).
Complete the single crochet by grabbing another loop of yarn, and pulling it through all three loops.
 Start narrowing the ball size by decreasing each row. Follow these instructions, decreasing each time it says "dec:"


Row 14: dec, sc, sc, sc, sc, repeat to make 30 stitches
Row 15: dec, sc, sc, sc, repeat to make 24 stitches

, Pour in plastic pellets, uncooked rice, or dried lentils. If you want to use sand or birdseed, you'll need to sew it into a sock, then drop it into the crocheted hacky sack.


You may need to finish filling the sack as you go. Do this between rows, to avoid losing your place.
 Continue shortening each row until the hacky sack is closed enough to keep the material inside. This should do it:


Row 16: dec, sc, sc, repeat to make 18 stitches
Row 17: dec, sc, repeat to make 12 stitches
Row 18: dec until hole is small enough to close off. (If stitching loosely, you may need to repeat this for another row.)

, Weave the yarn through one of the stitches, pulling it with the hook or a yarn needle. Repeat to weave it through several stitches, then lock it in place by reversing direction and weaving through several more.Snip off the rest of the yarn.

