 If you’re running a side business while also working at a fulltime or part-time job, you will quickly develop robust multitasking skills. Employers place a premium on the ability to juggle more than one project (or career) at a time, and you can use your side business to develop these all-important time-management skills.When applying for your next job or seeking a raise at your current job, you can refer to the multitasking skills you acquired in your side business to bolster your value to the company.
Use your experience running a side business to prove your proficiency with scheduling and knowing how much work you can handle without getting burned out.
 While running a side business alongside working a main career obligates you to develop multitasking skills, it could also equip you with a new set of skills that proves useful to your main career.The skill set you choose to develop depends on the nature of your career as well as the nature of your side business. For instance, if your main career is a web programmer and you begin taking on private clients, you might be able to broaden your skillset through your side business. Perhaps in your main career you code in HTML, but in your side business you code in Java. Or perhaps you pick up more general skills like negotiation with clients.
No matter the nature of your side business, evaluate your experience for skills that you could transfer to your other job. Reference these skills and experiences during your attempts to advance your main career.
Don’t be afraid to reinvest the money you earn from your side business into classes or materials that could help you develop your skills in your main career.
 A personal brand is the way you execute your work or perform your job. If you’ve got a side business, you can use it to experiment with personal flourishes that only you are capable of. For instance, if you’re a graphic designer, you can use a side business in graphic design to work up a specialization in designs that incorporate space iconography like rockets, planets, and so on.Personal brands might also revolve around creative use of a particular technology or medium. For instance, your personal brand might be turning out smart, witty posts on social media.
With a personal brand under your belt, people will turn to you when it comes time to work on whatever your area of interest or specialty is.
Look for an opportunity at your side business to develop a personal brand that you can transfer in whole or in part to your main career.
 If you’re running a side business, you’ll probably be negotiating a lot, from the cost of rent to the wages of your employees. Use the negotiation skills you obtained in your side business to advance your main career.These skills are sure to come in handy down the line, especially if you have a main career as a salesperson in retail, real estate, or auto sales.
Even if you don’t have a career that frequently requires negotiation, you’ll be negotiating something in your main career at some point, whether it’s who gets what assignment or what sort of raise you deserve.

