 Combine the oats, quinoa, and millet in a large mixing bowl. Cover the grains with water and let them soak for one to two minutes. Transfer the grains to a fine-mesh strainer to drain the water.

Steel-cut oats are less processed than rolled or instant oats, and maintain a firmer and chewier texture when cooked, making them ideal for grain and fruit breakfast salads., Pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of the oil into a large saucepan. Heat the oil over medium-high heat. When the oil is shimmering, add the grains and toast them for two to three minutes.The grains are ready when they start to smell toasted.
 Add the water, a pinch of salt, the ginger slices, and the zest from one lemon to the pot with the grains. Bring the mixture to a boil. Once boiling, put a lid on the pot, turn the heat to medium-low, and simmer the grains for 20 minutes.Once the grains are cooked, turn off the heat and let the grains rest for five minutes.
 Remove the lid from the grains and stir them with a fork to fluff them. Transfer the grains to a baking sheet and spread them out evenly. Set the grains aside to cool for at least 30 minutes., Combine the remaining 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of oil and the juice from the two lemons in a medium bowl. Whisk the two liquids together until thick. Add the maple syrup, yogurt, and nutmeg, and whisk to combine.

You can use any yogurt you like for this recipe, including regular, Greek, soy, or coconut yogurt.
 Transfer the cooled grains to a large bowl. Add the zest from the second lemon and stir to combine. Drizzle the dressing over the grains and stir to coat the grains. Add the toasted nuts and berries and stir until all the ingredients are incorporated.

Good berries to use in this salad include strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, and blackberries., Cover the bowl with a lid or plastic wrap and transfer it to the refrigerator. Let the salad chill for a couple of hours, or overnight if possible. This will give the flavors time to marry. In the morning, portion out the salad and garnish each dish with chopped fresh mint if you like.