 If you feel like you've gotten ripped off or treated poorly, it's worth speaking up to get the situation resolved. Get ready to be a little pushy and stand your ground. If you don't make yourself heard, chances are the company to which you're complaining will simply ignore you., Do it while the incident is still clear in your mind, and the people responsible are still on shift. If you wait and do it later, it will be harder to make your case. Try to complain the same day the incident occurred. If that's not possible, do it the same week or month - the sooner, the better., Don't be that person screaming at a fight attendant about how angry you are that you're going to miss your connecting flight - she can't do anything about it, and all you're doing is making the situation worse. Instead of flying off the handle at the first person who crosses your path, take the time you need to think the situation through and figure out who will actually be able to do something about your issue, or at least connect you with the person who can.


Many stores have an information or help desk staffed with people who can assist you with problems. Before you turn to a store clerk, find out if there's a more appropriate person to talk to.
You can start with the person who is manning the register or waiting your table, but such people will generally only be able to help you with minor issues. If your problem with the place goes beyond finding a fly in your soup or wanting to return a defective kitchen appliance, you'll likely need to ask for the manager.
If you're calling a customer service line, make it clear that you have a complaint to issue, and ask to speak to the appropriate person.
 When you find the right person to talk to, be clear about what happened and how you want the situation to be resolved. If you need your money back, be specific about the amount. If it's a service issue and you want some kind of explanation, state that. It will be easier for the person to correct the situation if you're up front about what you want.Address the employee by name. Introduce yourself. A formal introduction is a great way to make them stop and take notice. "Hello Jane, I'm Mrs. Smith. How are you? Listen, Jane, I realize this isn't your fault, but...."
Speak to them as if they were a confidant and you are revealing a secret. Start off by pointing out you are not blaming him or her, personally, for the problem or error, but you'd greatly appreciate their help in resolving it.
 This cannot be overstated; you can NEVER smile too much. People will respond more favorably to someone who is smiling. You are guaranteed to get a kinder, gentler response when you use this strategy.
 Don't go on and on about how angry this incident has made you. Don't raise your voice or make angry gestures. The key to actually getting what you want out of the situation is to get the person who can help you on your side. If you're acting threatening, the person will be far less likely to want to give you what you want.Control your body language and facial expression so that you appear calm and alert. Don't resort to eye rolling, crossed arms, and other gestures that imply you might lose your temper at any moment.
Wait patiently. In order to get your refund, apology, and so on, you might have to wait until the customer service rep gets approval from someone higher up. Creating extra tension by acting impatient is a hostile way to behave. Wait calmly and patiently while the situation is resolved.
 If you got what you want, a genuine thanks is in order. If you didn't receive your desired outcome, you'll have to decide whether it's worth it to you to take it to the next level.


Make sure to take down the names of company representatives you've already complained to, if for no other reason than it makes them realize you mean business and they might be held accountable.

