 Add ½ cup (100 g) of sugar, 2 cups (473 ml) of water, 1 1-inch (2.5-cm) piece of ginger that’s been peeled and thinly sliced, and 1 vanilla bean that’s been split lengthwise into a medium saucepan. Be sure to scrape the beans from the vanilla pod into the pan as well.Ginger adds a spicy flavor that is perfect for a winter salad, but you can omit it if you aren’t a fan.
 Use a vegetable peeler to cut wide pieces of zest from a lemon and 1 of the navel or blood oranges that you’ll use in the salad. Mix the zest into the sugar and water mixture, and place the pan on the stove.You can substitute lime zest for the lemon if you prefer.
 Turn the pan’s heat to medium high. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take approximately 5 minutes. After it comes to a boil, lower the heat to medium or medium low and let it simmer for 5 more minutes.Be sure to keep an eye on the pan as it’s heating so it doesn’t boil over.
 After the syrup has simmered for several minutes, pour it into a bowl. Cover it with plastic wrap, and allow it to chill in the refrigerator until it is cold, which should take approximately 30 minutes.It’s best not to chill the syrup for more than 1 hour because it can thicken up too much.
 While the syrup is chilling, peel the remaining 4 large navel or blood oranges with a paring knife. Next, hold each of the 5 oranges over a large bowl and use a knife to cut the membrane to separate them into segments. Squeeze each of the empty membranes over the bowl to remove the juice before discarding., Add 2 peeled and diced mangoes, 2 peeled and diced bananas, 5 peeled and diced kiwis, 12 kumquats that have been sliced very thinly crosswise and had the seeds removed, and 1 cup (174 g) of pomegranate seeds to the bowl with the oranges. Use a wooden spoon or salad tongs to mix all of the fruit together.You can remove the seeds from a pomegranate yourself, or purchase seeds that have already been removed from the fruit.
 After the fruit is mixed, add the chilled syrup to the bowl so it’s well coated. Cover the bowl with a piece of plastic wrap, and allow it to chill in the refrigerator overnight., Once the fruit salad has been properly chilled, remove the pieces of citrus zest, ginger, and the vanilla bean. Use a spoon to divide the salad into bowls, and serve.Make sure to transfer some of the syrup along with the fruit into the bowls.

