


Go to Honolulu Zoo. One of the most exciting attractions for children is the "Keiki Zoo". The Keiki Zoo allows toddlers and children to interact with animals & discover their habitats. Take your child & pet goats, have them crawl through a hamster or koi fish tunnel, or get close to a llama or cow. There's also a medium sized playground outside the Keiki Zoo & Kapahulu Market (snack bar).


 


Explore the Children's Discovery Center. Located between Kakaako Waterfront Park and Ala Moana Boulevard, the Children's Discovery Center is probably the best baby to child interaction & hands-on experience. There's different exhibits for preschoolers and early elementary children, in addition to one dedicated for babies and toddlers to enrich their motor and sensory skills.

Visit the Dole Pineapple Plantation. The "Pineapple Express" is a 20 minute train ride around the plantation that teaches you about the plantation and pineapple history in Hawaii. The Plantation Garden Tour gives a person experience on what a pineapple is, in addition to learning about other plants, such as the cacao pods, that are used to make chocolate. The Dole Plantation also includes the World's Largest Maze, just a little over 3 miles (4.8 km) of plants to walk through.






Drive to Hawaiian Waters Adventure Park in Kapolei. "Keiki Kove" is a small section for toddlers and children to enjoy water slides and cannons.






Spend the day at Sea Life Park. There are "touch & feel" marine invertebrate exhibits, dolphin shows, and a sea lion area. With additional fees, you can get up close & personal with dolphins.




;
, Along with tropical fish and amazing scenic views, Hawaii is also known for native plants and history. Taking a trip around a garden is great way to enrich their knowledge about colors and nature. Most to all botanical gardens have picnic places and an open space to run around.

Foster Botanical Garden: 50 North Vineyard Boulevard in Honolulu
Ho'omaluhia Botanical Garden: 45-680 Luluku Road in Kaneohe
Koko Crater Botanical Garden: Inside Koko Crater outside of Hawaii Kai
Lili'uokalani Botanical Garden: North Kuakini Street in Honolulu
Wahiawa Botanical Garden: 1396 California Avenue in Wahiawa

, While some local foods can be "fattening" or unhealthy for kids, such as loco mocos, there are others that a toddler can enjoy. Get some shave ice or have them try poi. Poi is essentially a paste created from the taro plant and water. Because of its high nutritional value, poi is given as an alternative of milk to babies with dairy allergies., Small and enclosed tide pools allow them to wade in the water without wave disruption. You can find tide pools in various spots around the island, such as the North Shore, the Windward side, and the south side.
 Across the street from Ala Moana Shopping Center, this place is notorious for weekend get-togethers, parties, and social events. The pathways goes from Fisherman's Wharf to the bridge on Atkinson Drive leading to Waikiki. There's lots of restroom facilities, parking, and grassy areas to run around.
