 A large part of the headache of fast-paced travel comes from the plethora of details that can consume your time and generate stress. Rather than micro-managing each detail yourself, seek assistance from the front-desk staff or hotel concierge. For example, ask the front desk of your hotel to make you a dinner reservation, call you a cab, or put together an outline of a travel plan for a day.Especially if you’re traveling with children, you’ll need to rely on others around you to make your trip less stressful and busy. Ask the front desk staff for restaurant recommendations, and recommendations of local activities that are fun for children.
 As a busy traveler, you’ll often have a tight schedule to keep: flight times, bus schedules, and train timetables may be your first priority. However, delays are an unfortunate but inevitable part of travel. Slow down your travel schedule by allowing extra time around all plane, bus, and train travel, and you’ll find yourself feeling less busy and enjoying your travel time more.By accepting that delays are a part of travel, you can save yourself stress and worry. You can also pan to be productive during your delays—call ahead to alert the hotel that you’ll be arriving late, or if you have a longer delay, walk around a local neighborhood to absorb the culture.
 This may seem like an intuitive step, but it’s one that many busy travelers forget. Rather than filling your time when you’re traveling with a dozen plans, which will leave you feeling rushed and drained, simplify your trip and only do the three or four activities that you’re most excited about. For example, if a city is known for its world-class art museum but you’d rather spend the day exploring a local forest, don’t feel obliged to do both. Stick with the forest.
Filling your time with fewer activities—but ones that are more interesting, pleasurable, and meaningful to you as an individual—will help you slow down your travel pace. This will allow you to savor and enjoy each activity more.

