 Reading truly is the gateway to knowledge, and there is a vast array of reading materials to choose from. Whether you choose to read classic literature, the newspaper, online articles, medical journals, or magazines, you will be learning new knowledge. Reading not only helps you learn about the world, but it will also strengthen your vocabulary. While there are endless places to browse, here are several places to start:The BBC website or app and The Guardian are large-scale news sources.The Wall Street Journal and New York Times are reliable newspapers.
Time, The Atlantic, and The Economist are informational magazines.
The Bloggies is an award winning site where you can find blogs in a variety of categories., Reading is a great way to introduce yourself to new words. Once you come across a word you are unfamiliar with, use a dictionary to look it up its meaning. After you learn what the new word means, try to use it in conversations you have with people, or in things you write, such as a journal.If you hear a word throughout the day that you don't know, write it down so you can look it up later.
 When reading about a specific subject, be sure to refer to many different sources so that you can learn multiple perspectives. Often times, literature or news sources can be biased, or only present one side of an issue. In order to stay logical, and learn the full story or idea, it is important to research an issue from several different sources.
 This can be an easy way to come across some unknown thing that captures your interest and leads to further exploration, discovery, and knowledge. An on-line encyclopedia is direct and fast, but it virtually eliminates the possibility of discovering those interesting unknowns that you would stumble upon in a hard copy encyclopedia., The internet is full of quizzes, articles, and endless information sources that you can search for in seconds. If you have a computer with internet capability at home, then you have a wealth of knowledge at your fingertips.Beware of online sources that contain false information. Always check the sources online sites use to gather their information to make sure it is a reputable source.

