 It's going to be a stressful time for you both. You can help your sailor through it by listening to him and encouraging him.Without your encouragement and support, your sailor may get overwhelmed by the obstacles you are facing together. With your support, he may be able to refocus, continue on, and hopefully return the encouragement along the way when you are struggling.


Talk to him about how proud you are of him and what he is doing.
Mention how you are proud to say you are a “sailor's girlfriend.”
Remind him of everything he has accomplished so far (boot camp, training, other hurdles).
If he is worried about the relationship, talk about how it is tough but that you will be so much stronger as a couple for going through it.
Help him come up with a detailed plan of action for whatever problem or goal he is having.
 There may be days where your sailor loves what he is doing, but there also may be some days where he is unhappy.During the days where things are a little harder, remind him what he is doing for both of your futures. If you are facing a deployment or trying to make it through boot camp, make plans for what you want to do when he gets home. If you are waiting until his next leave, have a creative countdown until the next time you can see each other.
 Depending on his assignments, commands, or duties, your sailor's ability to communicate with you or take leave may change with short notice.The ability of any service member to take a vacation or a trip is wildly different than that of civilians. They are also limited to where they can go, where they will be stationed, or how much free time they have on any certain duty. Try and remain flexible to help with stress levels and expectations in your relationship. Some examples include:


If he is deployed, know that his deployment length will depend on where is he deployed, what type of vessel he is deployed on, and his assignment or command.His command may have a radius of several miles which he won't be allowed to go outside of.
He may have to stand duty for a certain amount of days at a time, meaning he may not to have a Monday through Friday work week.
Your ability to see them, how long you can see them, or where you two can connect may be different depending on the status of your relationship (married, engaged, or dating).
His command may be on land or on a ship.
 As you are both working through this difficult time, practice shifting your perspective and imagining what he might be going through.It is hard for you to be without your sailor, but remind yourself that he is without you as well as everyone else he is close to. He likely has to be away from and have limited communication with his family and friends who are not enlisted as well. Getting practice in doing this will help you: Develop empathy.
Reduce petty arguments.
Help you both communicate better.

