 Usually, you put a great deal of thought in the design and text of your wedding invitation. Therefore, it would be a shame not to include it in the album. Furthermore, it contains other memorable information, i.e. the wedding date, the location, which makes it a great item for the first page.;
, This section can be subdivided, if necessary into subsections such as “The Dress”, “The Garter”, “The Reveal”, etc.
 This can include the happy couple with their parents, the bride with her maids, the groom with his men, all family members together and so on.
 Photos could feature: the venue as a whole, the chairs for the guests, the spot where the priest will marry the couple and various bits of beautiful decoration.
 The ceremony is for most couples the most emotional and memorable part of their wedding. Therefore, one should put as many pages as necessary to do the moment justice. One should not miss: the entrance of bride and groom, the priest’s speech, the first kiss, the ring, the readers.
 The moment directly after the ceremony produces a lot of nice pictures, because everybody is still very emotional and a lot less nervous.
 The next part of the album will focus on the celebration. This, like the ceremony, usually starts with at least one page dedicated to the venue. One can show the place from the outside, the entrance, the table decoration, the buffet and always very decorative: filled glasses of Champagne. This page can be combined with pictures of the happy couple (and the guests) entering the hall.
 Be sure to include pictures of both the bride and groom giving their speeches. One can complement the page with additional photos from the various groups on their tables.
 You may want to follow it with pictures of father and daughter, mother and son, father and daughter-in-law, mother and son-in-law, etc dancing.
 This works the best if the cake is first shown intact, followed by a shot of bride and groom doing the first cut, followed by a funny sequence of photos showing bride and groom eating the first piece.
 It looks always great if there are some nice photos with the bouquet and garter in midair and the overjoyed people who caught them.
 Random photos from various stages of the wedding can be put here.
 If the groom carried his bride off in a fancy car, then that should to be shown now. Several romantic shots of the happy couple hand-in-hand (maybe with a nice sunset in the background) are also effective.

