 Cut them each into one inch cubes; this will make it easier to blend them into the mixture.
 Now, add the butter cubes and mix ingredients until pie mixture is grainy with butter chunks still visible., If the mixture still looks too dry to mold without crumbing, add a few splashes of water. Be careful not to add too much water. The finished mixture will still look chunky.
 Depending on if you are creating one large pie or smaller, individual pies, separate the dough into disc shapes respective to the size of your pie tray(s). Dough should be about two inches tall. Be sure to save a good portion for the top covering of the pie.,, Add in vegetables. You may add any desired vegetables, or omit any unwanted ones listed above; just be mindful that some vegetables may cook much fast than others. Cook for five minutes, stirring frequently., Turn the heat down a few notches. Cover and let simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently., Then add your vegetable broth and sage (optional). Stir to thicken., Feel free to add more broth if it gets too thick for your liking. Then set aside to cool., Remove dough from refrigerator and let it sit out for about fifteen minutes until it's almost room temperature and easier to roll out., Dough may be sticky and difficult to use a rolling pin on. In this case, you may try adding my flour to the surfaces or place the dough disc between two pieces of parchment paper. Roll the dough out so it is slightly bigger than your pie tray(s) around. Make sure width of dough is as even as possible so it cooks evenly., Be careful not to tear it. After the bottom layer is smoothly in the pan, pour your pie filling in. You can be generous with the filling because it will bake down a bit. After, place the top layer of your dough on top of the filling like a blanket., To do this, press or crimp (to get the classic pie look) the edges together by gently pressing with your fingers; dipping your fingers in flour before doing so may make it more manageable. This step is more for looks and is therefore optional., Then place in the oven for fifteen minutes at 425 degrees. After about fifteen minutes, turn the oven temperature down to 375 degrees and bake until crust is a golden brown color and the filling is bubbling (about 45-55 minutes depending on your oven).,