 Before you can make the headband you will need to know the appropriate size. This can be done by measuring the individual or by using generalized measurements based on age or weight. If measuring in person, you will want to measure the circumference of the head, in roughly the same place that you intend the headband to go. This will usually be just above the ears.


Methods. Babies are fragile and do not like to hold still, so taking their measurements can be challenging. If you have a cloth measuring tape, use this. Avoid metal measuring tapes as they are inaccurate and may scratch the baby. If a cloth measuring tape is unavailable, measure the head using a length of soft string and then comparing the string to another measurement tool.
If the baby is not located nearby or if the baby has not yet been born, you may have to rely on generalized measurements. These can be found readily on the internet. Try searching for standard sizes on sewing and craft websites and message boards. It may also be possible to find another child of a similar size or age and measure their head.;
, You will want to decide the appropriate width of the band. This will largely depend on the size of the baby who will wear the headband, as a too-wide band will not conform to the head and simply slip off. A newborn will likely not be able to wear a band much wider than half an inch. A six-month to one-year-old baby will probably be able to wear a one inch band. A toddler will probably be able to wear a two inch band.


You may wish to test first before deciding. This can be done by cutting scrap fabric to try to visually guess the correct width or by having your baby try store-bought bands first to find the proper size.
 The materials for the band will largely depend on the type of band you wish to make. Since babies have soft, fragile skin, stretchy and soft materials are best. Stretch jersey, velvet, or lace are best suited to infant headbands. This material should form the band itself. More options are available for embellishments, as these will not be as close-fitting to the child’s head.
 Once you have chosen your material, it will be necessary to cut it. Materials like jersey will need to be doubled over in order to form a tube. If you choose to use a fabric like stretch lace, however, doubling will be unnecessary.









For jersey, velvet and other full fabrics, you will want to cut the material in a long rectangular shape, in order to be able to eventually form a tube. First, cut the length (using the head measurement taken earlier) so that there is a quarter to half-inch seam allowance on either end. Cut the width so that it is twice the size you decided on, as well as another quarter to half-inch extra seam allowance. These seam allowances should be on all sides.
Use appropriate tools. Using sewing shears is very important when you cut the fabric, as dull blades can lead to an uneven, unattractive edge.
 Using the baby’s head measurement, cut a piece of elastic to that length. Do not shorten it to provide tension once placed on the head, as some of the length will be lost in the seam and you want to preserve as much stretch as possible. Preserving some of the stretch and tension will allow the baby to wear the band for longer, as well as helping to ensure that the band is not too tight.








