 Scarves can help to protect your lips from both bright sunshine and intense cold. If you are heading out in either one of these conditions and you have very cracked lips, you should wear a scarf that comes up over your mouth. While it may not be the most flattering look, you will be happy when your cracked lips heal.
 Making sure that you get enough water and other liquids each day will help to heal your cracked lips. One of the reasons that your lips are cracking is because you are dehydrated. Try to drink 8 to 10 glasses of water each day--at least two glasses in the morning and one before bed. Hydrating will keep your lips moist and crack free.


If you get bored with water, don’t worry--you can drink liquids aside from water and get hydrated that way. Try fruit juices and sports drink if you want some variety but keep drinking water as well.
 Before you apply lip balms or oils, you should remove dead cells and flaky skin from your lips. While this may sound gross, starting with a fresh layer of skin helps to speed up the healing process. There are two main ways to remove dead cells:


Using a sugar mix: Mix two teaspoons of sugar with a teaspoon of honey. Once mixed, apply the sugar-honey combination to you lips and gently rub it in so that the sugar granules loosen the dead skin cells. Wash the sugar mix and dead cells away with warm water.
Using a toothbrush: Wet a new, clean toothbrush and rub it on your lips. Use small, circular motions and do not press too hard--you don’t want to make your lips bleed. After doing this for several minutes, wash your lips and the toothbrush with warm water.
 Dip a clean washcloth into a bowl of warm water. Squeeze out any excess water and then hold the cloth to your lips until the washcloth gets cold. Repeat this warm water process three or four times. After four applications, dip your washcloth into cold water and hold it to your lips. The warm to cold water will help increase blood flow to your lips and make them soft and smooth.


You can also use the washcloth to exfoliate any dead skin cells on your lips. Gently rub the cloth across your lips and then rinse your lips with warm water.
 Petroleum jelly helps soothe cracks that already exist, and fight any cracks that are thinking about rearing their dry heads. You can get petroleum jelly tubes that are specifically meant to be applied to your lips, or you can use a finger to apply the jelly. Keep the petroleum jelly on your lips for at least 20 minutes before washing it off.Petroleum jelly can look greasy so if you don’t want to be seen with super shiny lips, apply the jelly at night before you go to bed.
 If you’ve tried all of the above methods and nothing seems to be working, it might be because you have a nutritional deficiency. Not getting enough iron or vitamin B can both lead to cracked lips.


To boost your iron intake, take iron supplements or eat iron-rich foods like dried fruits, broccoli, whole grains, and red meat. Treat yourself to a steak in the name of lip health.
To boost your vitamin B levels, take vitamin B supplements and eat foods that have a lot of vitamin B like chicken, salmon, bell peppers, spinach, sunflower seeds, and whole-grain bread., Try taking vitamin E supplements each day and see if that improves your cracked lips.


Look for lip balms that contain vitamin E. You can also get vitamin E oil to apply directly to your lips but it is very greasy so you will only want to apply it before bed.
 Your cracked lips might have nothing to do with your health and everything to do with your environment. Try turning on a humidifier when you are home. Humidifiers help to keep the air moist, which helps to keep your skin moisturized. Its best to turn your humidifier on at night to add moisture to the air you are breathing in during your sleep.
 If you’ve tried everything listed above and nothing seems to be working, give your doctor a call. You may have cheilitis, a common condition that causes cracks to form on the corners of your lips. Cheilitis is generally brought on by constantly licking, biting, or rubbing your lips. Your doctor will be able to tell you whether or not you have cheilitis.


If you do have cheilitis, don’t worry--your doctor will prescribe Mycolog-II or Hydrocortisone Valerate to get rid of your cheilitis symptoms.

