 You may think that eating snails is strange, you may think of eating snails as highbrow, whichever case, people have been eating snails since the prehistoric era.Over the years and cultures, methods besides the traditional drawn butter, indented plate preparation have come into existence.


The people of Ghana frequently use young snails in sauces. Larger, fully matured snails are used in soups and for kebabs.
Nigerian escargot is oftentimes made into a kind of pepper soup., If you're ready to move onto a new and possibly more delicious method of snail preparation, you may have to do some research. While snail eating globally is fairly common, you may have to visit a fancy restaurant in your hometown to find the new preparation of escargot that you seek.
 Not all species of snail are edible, though this isn't something you should have to worry about if dining at an upscale restaurant. Some species of snail, however, are more suitable for certain dishes or have an uncommon flavor profile. You might ask your server about:


Why the escargot dish is seasoned the way it is.
What the natural flavor profile of the escargot snail is.
Where the snail originates and how it is eaten in its home country.
If there are suitable wine pairings that would go well with the dish.
 Some differences will seem slight or may even be unnoticeable to a novice escargot eater. You might have different species of snail to choose from, each of which may have unique flavors, like spicy escargot, or special features, such as above average size. You might also try:


Escargot prepared on kebab
Escargot sauces
Escargot soups
Grilled escargot
Fried escargot, The subtle flavors in wine often compliment some kinds of food, and escargot is no different.Keep in mind that the wine most suitable for your particular escargot dish will not only depend on how it is prepared but also your personal palette. Some wines recommended by experts include:


Pinot noir
Sauvignon Blanc
Riesling
Chardonnay (unoaked recommended), The chef who created your escargot dish probably did so while paying careful attention to texture and flavor. The sauces provided with your dish are likely intended to bring out these various aspects, creating a more nuanced culinary experience.

