 Dermabrasion is a method of exfoliating the skin, using a rotating wire brush or diamond wheel, which removes the top layers of skin over and around the scar. In the weeks following the procedure, new skin will grow back, and the appearance of the scar will be greatly reduced. Dermabrasion is usually used for acne and other facial scars, though it can be performed on the legs by a qualified surgeon. Dermabrasion on the legs is a delicate procedure as the skin on the legs is very thin and runs the risk of doing more harm than good if done incorrectly.Dermabrasion on the legs is usually only recommend for dark spots or indented scars caused by mosquito bites, etc. Keloid or hypertrophic scars (raised scars) should not be treated with dermabrasion.
Make an appointment with a board-certified plastic surgeon who can analyse your scarring and decide whether you are a good candidate for dermabrasion. Be aware that these kinds of aesthetic procedures are not usually covered by insurance.
 Chemical peels can be used to treat superficially scarring on the legs, and works particularly well for scars caused by hyperpigmentation. During a chemical peel, a dermatologist will apply a layer of acidic solution to the scarred skin and leave it on for approximately two minutes. You will experience a burning sensation, which should cease once the acid has been neutralized and the solution washed off. In the two weeks following the procedure, the top layers of skin will begin to peel away, leaving smooth, new skin behind.Depending on the scarring, you may need to go through several chemical peel procedures before you see a noticeable difference in the appearance of your skin.
Be aware the new skin that is exposed after a chemical peel will be particularly sensitive and you will need to protect it by avoiding sun exposure and using a sunscreen with a high SPF for several weeks.
 Laser treatment is a great option for improving the appearance of deeper scars than those targeted by dermabrasion and chemical peels. Laser treatment works by burning away the scar tissue, allowing fresh, new skin to grow and replace the scarred surface. The area is numbed with a special cream before the procedure, so the treatment is not particularly painful. Another advantage is that the laser can pinpoint the scar precisely, so the surrounding skin remains unaffected.Laser treatment should only be received at a reputable clinic with a well-trained staff, as lasers can be dangerous if used incorrectly.
You may need to return to the clinic for a series of treatments to fully remove the scar. The downside of this option is that laser treatment can be expensive, ranging from $1000 to $5000, depending on the size and depth of the scar.
 Steroid injections have been successfully used to treat keloid scars, which are notoriously difficult to get rid of. For small keloids the steroid injections, which contain substances such as hydrocortisone, are injected directly into the skin around the scar. Larger keloids are sometimes sliced or frozen off before the steroids are used.Steroid treatment is a process rather than a once-off procedure, and you will need to return to the clinic every two to three weeks to receive another injection.
This treatment has a high rate of success, but is relatively costly and may cause skin discoloration in darker skinned patients. Consult with a cosmetic surgeon to decide if this treatment is best for you., Injections of collagen or other fats can be very helpful in improving the appearance of indented scars, such as the pockmarks caused by chicken pox. Collagen is a natural animal protein, which is injected into the skin with a fine needle, thus filling in the indented scars. Though very effective, the results of collagen treatments are not permanent, as the body absorbs the natural collagen. You will need to get the scar refilled after about four months.Each collagen injection costs approximately $250, so this going down this route for scar treatment can be costly.
You will need to have a skin test done before you receive any collagen injections, to ensure that you will not have an allergic reaction to the treatment.

