 Some behaviors are not just poor boundaries. They are abusive and manipulative. The following are some warning signs of behaviors that may be abusive or manipulative:Physical abuse: This can include hitting, slapping, punching or other forms of physical harm.
Threats of violence: According to the Northwestern University Women’s Center, “healthy relationships do not involve threats.”Breaking objects: This is used to intimidate the other person and it can be a precursor to physical violence.
Using force during an argument: Someone may try to physically restrain you or block the way so that you cannot retreat to a safe place.
Jealousy: A jealous person may question or monitor their partner about their activities.
Controlling behavior: Someone might be overly involved with your movements to the point that they begin to control appearance and activities. Controlling is evident in interrogating a person on where she has been, what she was doing, who she was with, or why she was late getting home.
Quick involvement: The abuser may pressure you into a relationship before a sufficient amount of time has passed to develop feelings and desires for commitment.
Isolation: This can include attempts to eliminate your contact with friends and family.
Cruelty to animals or children: The abuser will use this as a way to coerce you into doing what he wants without regard for the pain or feelings of the animal or child.
 If you recognize abusive or manipulative behaviors in your relationship, it may be past the time to talk it out. Even with setting good boundaries, your abuser’s behaviors may not end with a conversation. If you can end the relationship safely, then leave the situation as soon as possible. , If your relationship is not safe to get out, establish a support system of people who will take your safety seriously. These might be friends or family that you can trust.Come up with a code word or phrase that will signal to your support people that you need immediate help. This may be difficult to do if your abuser is tightly controlling your activities and never allows you to be alone.
Use your phone or the internet to connect with outside contacts. Have secure passwords so that your communications are private.
Have a list or memorize phone numbers of places and people you can go to for help.
Know where the emergency room is for physical injuries and help with local resources.
 Plan out a route that you can take to get to a safe location. Be prepared to leave most things behind, like clothing and possessions. Take only what you need., Be sure to keep your cell phone and computer secure so that your abuser cannot track you or discover your location.
 Most cities have shelters for domestic violence victims. These are locations where you can seek shelter and safety from your abuser, with your identity being kept confidential.Most are set up for temporary shelter and may be able to assist you with transitional housing.


Visit the Domestic Shelters website to locate your nearest shelter.
 If your relationship is dangerous, you can also use the legal system to help you establish a restraining order or a no contact order if necessary.

