 Take your shoes outside and firmly hit their soles together to remove clumped and loose dirt, grass, and so on. After that, remove the laces of your shoe. Laces can be reused later or thrown away and replaced with new ones.


Dirt and grime have a tendency to build up around laces, particularly at the metal grommets. Removing the laces will allow you to clean these areas more easily.
Use a stick or screwdriver to push out dirt that is stuck in the treads of your shoes. Dirt remaining on any part of your shoe could spread to other areas while cleaning, adding to your cleaning duties.;
, Avoid spot cleaning your shoe, as this will often result in the cleaned part looking noticeably different from the rest of it. Fill a bucket with cool water. Apply water to all hemp surfaces of the shoe directly or with a clean, water saturated cloth until the hemp is completely wet.


To prevent color from transferring from your cleaning cloth to your shoes, only use undyed, white cloths., Administer a small amount of mild soap, like dish soap, to a section of the shoe directly or with a clean, damp cloth. Remove dirtiness by lightly brushing the soapy areas of the shoe with a soft bristle brush, like a shoe brush or toothbrush.Do this for the entire shoe.


Clean the shoe from front to back or back to front so you’re less likely to miss a spot. Missed spots may be obvious when your shoes dry. Remove missed spots with a second round of cleaning., Lightly rinse each shoe with water directly or by wiping them with a clean, water saturated rag after brushing. If your shoes don’t look clean quite yet, reapply water and soap. Brush the shoes in the fashion described until all dirtiness is removed.


After each application of soap, rinse the shoe thoroughly with clean water. Be sure you remove all soap. Leftover soap may cause brown spots on hemp., Avoid using high heat to speed up the drying process. Air dry your shoes for best results, but avoid doing so in direct sunlight, as this may cause the shoes to shrink. Insert balled up newspaper into the shoe. Replace the paper with dry paper every hour or so until the shoes are dry.If you need your shoes dried in a hurry, place them near a moderately warm air vent or use a hair dryer on a “Cool” or very low heat setting.Over drying hemp can cause its fibers to weaken, resulting in tears. When drying hemp is still damp to the touch, remove it from vents or stop blow drying, if applicable.