 Before you make any decisions about divorce, sit down with your spouse and talk about your concerns. While not every marriage can be fixed, you should certainly due your best to mend your relationship without filing for divorce. Working through your marital problems will save you money, time, and will help keep your family intact.


However, if after talking with your spouse you both decide that divorce is the best option, you should both try to agree on the terms of your upcoming divorce. If you can do so, the divorce will go much smoother than if the divorce is being contested.
When you are discussing the specifics with your spouse, be sure you talk about the division of property, spousal support, and child custody.;
, If the divorce is likely to be contested, or if you simply feel like you need help, you should seriously consider hiring an attorney. Start by asking friends and family for recommendations. Ask if they know any good divorce lawyers in your area. If you are having trouble getting recommendations, call the Kansas State Bar at 1 (800) 928-3111 and ask for a referral. Someone will ask you questions about your issue and they will refer you to qualified divorce lawyers in your area.Before you hire an attorney, make sure you sit down for an initial consultation. Ask the lawyer about their success in divorce cases, how many cases they have tried, and how friendly they are with the court staff. In addition, always be sure you ask about a lawyer's fee arrangement.
In divorce, cases, it is important to know that one lawyer cannot represent both you and your spouse. This is considered a conflict of interest for the attorney. You and your spouse will have to hire separate attorneys for the divorce, even if you agree about everything.
 In order to file for divorce in Kansas, you or your spouse must have lived in the state for 60 days before filing your petition.If you do not meet this requirement and try to file for divorce in Kansas, your case will be dismissed due to the court's lack of jurisdiction.
 In Kansas there are three grounds for divorce. The first is incompatibility; the second is failure to perform an essential marital duty; and the third is incompatibility due to mental illness or incapacity. Incompatibility is usually defined as a deep and irreconcilable conflict of personalities as to make it impossible to continue with a normal marriage.


You will usually claim incompatibility unless you need to protect yourself or your children from embarrassment or publicity., Kansas is considered an equitable division state, which means all property will be distributed in a manner the judge considers fair. While a judge will take into consideration whose name is attached to what property, that is not a determinative factor. The division may not always be exactly equal.


Each spouse's income will usually be considered their own. Any real property you or your spouse own in your own names will usually be given to that person as well., Not all marriages need to end in divorce. While a divorce will cancel your marriage contract, your may also be able to get the marriage annulled or you may be able to legally separate.


An annulment erases your marriage as if it never happened. It is usually a quicker and easier process than a divorce, although you can only annul a marriage in certain situations. In Kansas, there must have been a material mistake of fact or one of the parties must not have had the capacity to marry (e.g., they were under the legal age or already married to someone else).
If you go through a legal separation, your property will be divided and child and spousal support will be ordered, but you will still be married. You can then try to work through the issues with your spouse or you can file for a divorce at a later date., When you start the official legal process for a divorce, you will need to fill out a number of court forms. Forms are different depending on whether or not you have children. If you have children, you will need to fill out the Civil Cover Sheet, Domestic Relations Affidavit, Parenting Plan, and Petition for Divorce.If you do not have children, you will need to fill out the Civil Cover Sheet, Domestic Relations Affidavit, and Petition for Divorce.The Civil Cover Sheet can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Civil%20Cover%20Sheet.pdf. This Cover Sheet needs to include a check-mark next to the box for a "Marriage Dissolution or Divorce." In addition, you will need to provide your personal information as well as your spouse's. Finally, you will have to provide your dependent children's names, dates of birth, and social security numbers.
The Domestic Relations Affidavit can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20without%20children/7%20Domestic%20Relations%20Affidavit.pdf. This form is incredibly important and will include all of your information regarding your assets. You will need to disclose your income, your liquid assets, your expenses, your personal property you own, the real property you own, and any debts you have.
The Petition for Divorce can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20without%20children/3%20Petition%20for%20Divorce%20%28no%20children%29.pdf. This form tells the court who the parties are and what the dispute is. You will also indicate if you have agreed with your spouse about the distribution of property or whether the court will have to step in.
If you have children, the Parenting Plan can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20with%20children/9%20Parenting%20Plan.pdf. This form spells out how you and your spouse will care for your children after divorce. It can be filled out by you so long as it is agreed to by your spouse. If you fill it out and it is not agreed to by your spouse, a judge may require different duties. The plan will include who has legal custody, parenting time schedules, and any other issues you may think of.
 The Petition for Divorce and Domestic Relations Affidavit must be signed in front of a notary. You can usually find one at law offices or at financial institutions., Whether you have children or not, you will file your original Petition for Divorce, Domestic Relations Affidavit, and Civil Cover Sheet. You do not need to file the Parenting Plan at this time.


There are filing fees for bringing an action to divorce someone. The fees will vary depending on the court you are in. Call the clerk of courts or the district court where you are filing and ask about the fees.
 In addition to everything else, you must either file a Voluntary Entry of Appearance or a Request for Service Form. They can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20with%20children/4%20Vol%20Entry%20of%20Appearance.pdf and http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20with%20children/PDF%202010%20Revisions/5%20Request%20and%20Service%2812-10%29.pdf. The Voluntary Entry Form will be used if your spouse has signed it saying they have received a copy of the Petition. If this is not the case, you will need the Request for Service Form, which will request that someone serve your spouse with the Petition.


If neither one of the other methods work, you can mail a copy of the Petition to your spouse or you can publish a notice in a local newspaper., If your spouse is the one who filed divorced papers, you will receive notice of the lawsuit and you will have an opportunity to respond. You will have 21 days from the date you receive notice to formulate and file your Answer. If you fail to answer, a court may automatically rule in the other party's favor (i.e., a default judgment).Your Answer needs to include your case number, which you will receive when you are served with the divorce petition. In addition, you will include your personal information as well as your spouse's; general information about child support, spousal support, and property division; and you will deny any conflicting statements in your spouse's petition.Your Answer must be signed and notarized before the court will accept it., Your Domestic Relations Affidavit will lay out general information about your marriage, including when you got married and the number of children you have. You will also have to list your assets as well as any income or money you make. In addition, you will discuss the expenses you incur and the debts you have.Once you complete the Affidavit, it must be signed by you and notarized., Once you have filled out your Answer and Affidavit, you will file them with the same court that your spouse filed their petition with. You will have to file your original and you will be required to bring a number of copies., Before you go to court hearings, try to work out your issues with your spouse outside of court. This will make a judge's life a lot easier and it will allow you to better control the outcome of your case. In some instances, a judge may even recommend that you take part in mediation or limited case management.


In mediation, you and your spouse will sit down with a neutral third party and discuss the issues surrounding your divorce (e.g., property division, spousal support, or child support). The neutral third party will help both of you discuss these things openly and honestly. The third party will then try to get both of you to compromise and come to an agreement. However, the mediation is non-binding and anything you say is confidential.
You might take part in limited case management. Here, you will meet with a trained third party who will interview you and your spouse, look at evidence, and interview witnesses. At the end of their investigation, they will make a recommendation to the court. The court will then make a decision., Each court in Kansas will have different procedures for requesting and setting a final hearing date. You should contact the clerk of courts with the district court here you filed to find out more. Kansas law does require a 60-day wait period between your petition filing date and the date a divorce decree can be issued.Once you receive your hearing date, you will have to send a copy of the Notice of Final Hearing to your spouse. The Notice can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20with%20children/12%20Notice%20of%20Hearing.pdf. The notice tells your spouse when and where the hearing will be held. You should send this Notice by certified mail.
 If you do not have any children, you will need to complete paragraphs 9, 12-15, and 17 of the Decree of Divorce. The Decree of Divorce can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20without%20children/Decree%20of%20Divorce%20-%20no%20kids%20clean.pdf. If you have children, you will need to complete paragraphs 8, 12-13, 20-23, and 25 of the Decree of Divorce. The Decree of Divorce can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Divorce%20with%20children/Decree%20of%20Divorce%20%28with%20kids%29%20clean.pdf.


In addition, if you have children, you will need to complete the Child Support Worksheet prior to your hearing. The Worksheet can be found at http://www.kansasjudicialcouncil.org/Documents/Post_Judgment%20Child%20Support/PDF/Child%20Support%20Worksheet%20%287-2012%29.pdf. By filling out the worksheet, you will determine any child support obligation either spouse will have. If you need help with the worksheet, the Kansas Judicial Branch website has information to help you., If you have children, you may be required to take parenting, co-parenting, divorce, or other required classes. The rules will vary depending on what court you are in., When you attend the hearing you should make sure to dress appropriately and arrive early. In addition, depending on whether you have children, you need to bring the following with you to the hearing:


If you do not have children, you will need to bring the Decree of Divorce and at least three copies; any written property division agreement; proof that you gave your spouse notice of the hearing date and time; and copies of the completed Domestic Relations Affidavit and Vital Statistics Worksheet.If you have children, you need the Decree of Divorce and at least three copies; any written property division agreement; proof that you gave your spouse notice of the hearing date and time; and copies of the completed Domestic Relations Affidavit, Parenting Plan, Child Support Worksheet, Vital Statistics Worksheet, and the Kansas Payment Center Information Sheet., When you present the Decree to the judge, you should be ready to answer questions about the decisions you or your spouse made regarding any issue. You need to be familiar with the facts of your case and you need to be able to convince the judge you and your spouse are truly incompatible., After your hearing the judge will sign the official divorce decree. Once this has happened, you need to take the original and all copies to the clerk of courts to have them stamped. The original will be filed and you will need to give one of the copies to your spouse. You should keep the remaining copies for yourself.