 If you go this route, you will need to choose a friend or family member that you trust completely. This person will have access to your money as well as a lot of your personal information, so choose wisely.Think about how responsible the person is as well. You may have a friend that you trust with your life, but who tends to be very forgetful. This isn’t the kind of person you want keeping up with your bills. If you have a close relationship with a parent this can often be a good choice as they are likely to be more concerned with your financial health than a friend.
 Write down each bill, when the due date for the bill is, how much the bill is (or how to find out how much the bill will be), how it should be payed (e.g. online, using a check, in person, etc.), and the contact information of the company.


In this case, it is better to provide too much information than not enough. They may not ever need the contact information of the company the bill belongs to, but it is better to have it.
 On your list, make it very clear when the bill is due. You could even consider providing them with a calendar that marks the due date of each bill. The most important part of paying bills is paying them on time, so make sure it is very clear.If your friend/family member doesn’t get the bill paid on time it won’t hurt them, but it could harm your credit score. You may also then have to sort out a way to get any late fees taken care of.
 In some cases, you may receive your bill each month via the mail. If so, your friend/family member will need to check the mail to retrieve the bill.Even if you don’t have any bills that you receive via mail it is still a good idea to have your mail checked while you are away. This way, your mailbox won’t get over-full, and the person checking the mail can alert you if you receive any important letters or unexpected bills.
Alternatively, you can also sign up for a mail forwarding service through the post office. This will make it easy for your friend to keep an eye on the mail because it can be forwarded directly to them.
 Use caution when sharing your online account information with anyone. There are other options available, so this is usually not even necessary. However, if you think sharing your online account information is the best option for your situation, then make sure that you choose someone who is trustworthy. If you have accounts (e.g. credit cards or student loans) that you pay online, provide your friend with a list of each website, when the bill is due and how much it will be (if you know), along with the user name and password for the site.


If you really trust your friend/family member, you could provide them with access to your email in case they manage to lock themselves out of the account. For many online accounts, it will be possible to reset the password if they have access to your email account.
 If any of your bills must be paid by check, you can give them one check for each bill that will need to be paid. It may be a good idea to provide your friend with one or two extra checks in case they make a mistake, or something happens to the first check.


At a minimum, be sure to sign the check. To make it easier for your friend/family member, you could also write out the name of the company/person receiving the money, as well as a memo for what bill the check is related to.
 In some cases, your friend may need to mail a check along with a payment voucher. Don’t expect your friend to foot the bill for postage. In addition to the stamp, you can also write the name and address of the recipient on the envelope so they don’t have to worry about it.You can even take this a step further by providing everything your friend/family will need to mail inside the envelope. For example, if you have a payment slip that has to be included, fill it out with as much information as you can and insert it in the envelope along with a signed check.
If you will be away for many months you can even write the month that the envelope is for somewhere inconspicuous on the envelope. For example, if your friend will need to send off a check each month from January to July then provide them with 7 stamped and addressed envelopes. On each envelope, write the month that it is for.

