 Begin with a section a few feet away from the wall. Make a slit approximately 4-5 inches long—it should be big enough to easily slip your hand into. Cutting the carpet every few feet will be useful for large or oddly-shaped rooms where you’re unable to remove it in one piece.
 Reach into the slit you just cut and lift the carpet away from the floor. You can now finish cutting without your knife ever coming into contact with the flooring.If your carpet is tacked down with staples or adhesive, it may take a little effort to get it started by hand. Use a putty knife to chip away at one edge until there’s enough to grab hold of.
 The combined action of lifting and slashing should allow you to cut away large strips in very little time. After every few feet, move back and take a new grip on the loose edge. When you’ve cut all the way across a given section, peel it back, roll it up and set it aside somewhere out of the way.Since you’ll be throwing the old carpet out, there’s no need for precision or delicacy here.
Don’t get into too big of a hurry—that’s how accidents happen.
 Pull the carpet free from walls and corners later using a claw hammer, pry bar or pair of pliers. That way, it won't snag on anything or provide resistance when it comes time to carry it away. Once you've gotten the edges started, go around the perimeter of the room and loosen the rest of the carpet by hand.If you're having trouble, use your utility knife to separate the carpet where it connects to the baseboards.
Once the carpet has been cut and unfastened, you can simply roll it up, carry it out and dispose of it.
 Before you call it a day, inspect the flooring beneath the carpet closely. Dig out any staples or dried clumps of adhesive you see with a floor scraper, then vacuum to clear the area of debris. After you’ve cleaned up, you can go on to install new carpet, hardwood, tile or laminate.Unless you’re planning on repurposing your old carpet, it can simply be thrown away once the project is complete. Dig out any remaining staples or dried clumps of adhesive with a floor scraper.
A shop vac is the best way to collect dust, stray threads and other materials that are left lying around after removal.

