 On your computer browser, head to this link:



http://www.utorrent.com/downloads/win.
In the downloads page, click the “Download Now” button under the uTorrent Stable header to get the latest stable version of the torrent software.;
, Below your browser window, you should see the EXE file. Click it when it finishes downloading to launch the installer.
 Proceed with the installation wizard by clicking “Next” twice.
 Read the License agreement, and click “Agree.”

, Click “Next” twice again, and uncheck the box if you want to download the bundled software uTorrent sometimes promotes. If you want it, then leave the box checked.


In the next screen, decide whether or not to install another software they suggest by clicking the circle that says accept or do not accept.
 Click on “Upgrade” or “Install,” depending on your choice, and uTorrent should begin installing and place an icon in your desktop that is a Greek letter “mu” within a green circle.
 Head to this link on a new browser tab:


Click “GET THIS TORRENT;” it has a magnet icon to the left of it.
 The torrent file should download. This is the file you will use to launch uTorrent and begin the download. Click on the torrent file, and uTorrent should launch.


Click on “OK” when uTorrent asks you to add the torrent file in the queue, and it should begin to download.
 While waiting for the game to finish downloading through uTorrent, download Daemon Tools Lite through this site:


http://www.daemon-tools.cc/downloads

, Once the installer finishes downloading, click on “Next” until the software installs, then click on Finish.
 Do this by clicking on the icon in your desktop, which should look like a blue lightning bolt on a silver circle.


The software should run minimized in your task bar, so right-click the icon in the rightmost side of your task bar, next to the system clock.
 In the expanded options menu, choose “Virtual Devices” and click “Add SCSI Virtual Drive.” It should tell you that the software is adding a virtual drive to your computer.


This is where we will mount the virtual copies of the installation discs.
 Once the torrent finishes, open Daemon Tools by left-clicking on the icon in the system tray, in the rightmost side of the task bar.
 Click on the disc with a green + sign in front of it. This will let you choose the disc image you want to mount. Navigate to the download location of the torrent file, and choose “AOE III Disc 1.”

, Head to My Computer, and under Devices with Removable Storage, you should see the game installer mounted in the virtual drive you made.



In the installation process, you will be asked for a serial key, which you can find in the folder in the torrent within a text file. Simply select a serial key from the text file by highlighting it, and then pressing CTRL+C.
In the installation window, paste the key by pressing CTRL+V. If the window does not allow for pasting, simply copy over the serial text manually by punching them in.
 Once Disc 1 finishes installing, you can then put the rest of the disks you already have into the disk drive to complete the installation of the game.

