 Nervous or insecure people often walk around with their chins pointed down and their eyes trained on the floor. Show confidence by lifting your chin as if there was an invisible thread pulling your head up.

Keeping your chin level helps with posture as a whole. Sometimes, when you are uncertain you might slouch or cower. Thinking about an invisible thread going from the crown of your head down through your spine can help you pull your shoulders back, too.;
, If you’re standing, balance your weight evenly between your legs. Stand up straight with your feet hip-width apart. Avoid tapping your feet or turning your body away from those you are speaking to. You can relax your arms at your sides, or do a “power pose” by placing them on your hips., If you’re seated, show confidence sitting with a relaxed posture. Lean back slightly in your chair while still turning towards the other person(s). You might even “power pose” by clasping your hands behind your head in a “V” shape. Another option is to simply place your hands in your lap if you’re not seated behind a table. If you are, place them lightly on the table in front of you. Don’t cross your arms.
 When you greet others or are making conversation, don’t avoid their eyes. Anxious or unsure people may feel intimidated by eye contact, but a quietly confident person knows that strong eye contact helps you come off as secure and in control.

This doesn’t mean staring someone down. You can casually look off at times. But, try to maintain eye contact, particularly during one-on-one conversations.
If making direct eye contact feels weird for you, try glancing at the person’s nose for a few seconds, then their mouth, then their entire face. They won’t be able to tell that you’re not looking at their eyes., When you are feeling short on confidence, it's easy to get all wound up. If this starts to happen, just take a brief moment to breathe deeply and collect yourself.

Inhale deeply from your nose for a count of four. Then, hold the breath for a few counts. Exhale from your mouth for a count of eight. Repeat the cycle until you start to feel calm again.

