 This will help tie the mantle into your room, and make it look as though it is part of the overall decor. If you use too much contrast, the mantle will stand out too much. Take note of the materials the things in your room are made out of, as well as their shapes and designs.


If your room has a lot of antique items in it, you may want to place some antique items on your mantle as well.
If your room has a specific theme to it, such as nautical, consider adding some items that match — such as a piece of rope tied into a sailor's knot, a model of a boat, and a life saver.;
, Is it very ornate or is it simple? Does it look rustic? This can help you figure out what sorts of items you should put on your mantle. If you are going to put up pictures or mirrors, it can even help you figure out what sort of frame to pick.


If your mantle looks very modern, go with a minimalist theme. Use plain picture frames, or organic decorations, such as driftwood branches.
If your mantle is very ornate, try adding some ornate picture frames or an antique vase.
 Match the decor of your mantel to the rest of your room, or create a contrast. For example, if the mantle and the wall behind it are both white, decorate it with something colorful. Try to match the colors to the furniture or curtains in the room. If the mantle is very dark, then use light-colored objects when decorating it.
 They can be photographs or paintings. They can be family-related, or something you created yourself. Pictures of animals and landscapes also work. Just make sure that you choose a frame with a style that fits the mantle. For example, if your mantle is ornate and covered with gold leaf, you wouldn't want to use a rustic, wooden frame.
 Again, choose a frame that compliments the mantle. You will also want to use a larger, thicker frame for larger mirrors.
 It can be as simple as a pretty rock or shell you found at the beach, or as complex as an antique doll. These personal items can also be spiritual, such as a statue of an angel, the Virgin Mary, or Buddha. They can also be related to your interests. For example, if you like sailing, consider putting up a model of a sailboat.
 If possible, try to use real plants, as fake ones (unless they're very high-quality) will make your mantle look cheap. The flowers can be potted, or in vases. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Match flowers to the season. For example, you can use poinsettias in the winter and tulips in the spring.
Hang garlands from the mantle using hooks. These can be made from fake plants. Ivy works great year-round, while evergreen works for winter.
Use pieces of driftwood or pinecones if you don't like (or can't have) flowers. They will work great with a natural, rustic theme.
 Use both tall and short pillar candles to add some variety, but try to keep them the same color or shade. For example, you can use all ivory candles, or a mixture of pink and red candles.


Consider setting the candles in glass "hurricane" vases, or on pretty chargers to keep your mantle clean.
 They can be cards that you received for special occasions, such as birthdays, weddings, and baby showers. They can also be related to the current holiday, such as Christmas or Easter. Change the cards out every month or so. This will keep your mantle looking interesting throughout the year.


For a twist: pin a piece of string across the mantle, then hang the cards from the string.
 They offer a great excuse to change your mantel. Here are some ideas to get you started:


For Valentines day, place a glass vase filled with red roses in the middle of your mantle. Arrange white or ivory candles to either side of the vase.
For Halloween, decorate the mantle with pumpkins and fall leaves.
For Christmas, drape an evergreen garland across your mantle. Decorate it with red berries, holly leaves, and a few white or ivory pillar candles.

