 Install the tap on the keg and open the spigot until all liquid and/or gas stops coming out. If a tap is unavailable, a screwdriver can be used to depress the ball valve to release any pressure build up. If this method is employed, exercise caution and direct the keg away from you to avoid being sprayed with any leftover contents.;
, There is a retaining clip (see Figure 1) that secures the spear (dip tube) inside the collar of the keg. This must be removed first by inserting a thin flat head screwdriver into the inside groove of the collar and gently prying it out. Pliers may be utilized to remove the clip once one end is pried out.
 It will only turn an 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) or so. Once it is turned, the spear can be lifted straight out of the keg.
 The size of the hole you cut may depend on many factors; available lid size, personal preference, and limits of cutting tools. Generally, the larger the hole, the easier the keg will be to clean but may make fitting a lid more difficult. Size of the angle grinder disc may also dictate how large of a diameter hole can be cut.
 A simple compass can be made by loosely tying one end of a string around the collar of the keg and the other around a marker such that when stretched, the string comes to a length equal to the radius of the desired hole (Figure 3). Then keeping the string taught, go around and mark out a circle on the top of the keg to guide the cut.
 Using adequate personal protection (safety glasses, hearing protection, and gloves) is necessary for safety during this step. Use an angle grinder to cut along the guide line. Make several light passes around the entire circumference until the cut goes through all the way around. If you cut all the way through in individual sections, a smooth cut is much harder to achieve.
 Using a file, first de burr any pieces of metal left jagged. Then sand the edge until it is smooth and so will be less likely to cause cuts.
 Choose a spot just above the seam where the bottom skirt of the keg is welded to the shell (the washer from the weldless kit should be used to appropriately determine the center of the hole so that the bottom of the washer is just above the seam). The hole should also be placed midway between two of the holes in the skirt.
 Using a 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) bit drill a pilot hole at the selected location. Switch to a step bit and begin drilling the hole to a larger diameter. As you drill, use cutting oil to help prevent work-hardening the keg and damaging the drill bit. Drill slowly and frequently check the hole with the threaded nipple from the weldless assembly to determine how large the hole needs to be. Once the nipple will just go through the hole, stop drilling. (Safety equipment should also be worn at this time.)

, De burr and sand the inside of the hole as done in step 7

, After the cut and the hole are made, the inside of the keg will have metal shavings and oil inside it. This debris will need to be cleaned out. The shavings can be dumped out or removed with a brush. Detergent and water will be needed to clean out the oil. Be sure to clean the kettle thoroughly.
 Screw the threaded nipple into the valve and then place the washer on the nipple. Insert the other end of the nipple through the drilled hole. Place one o-ring on the nipple and push it so it is against the inside of the keg wall. Thread the nut on the nipple inside the keg and use a wrench to snug the bolt. Don't over-tighten the nut as this will damage the o-ring. Figure 5 shows a cross section of correct assembly.

