 It is important to start with clean and unpainted nails. If you have any nail polish on already, remove it with a cotton pad and nail polish remover. Then, trim your nails if they are broken or uneven. Once you have done this, wash your hands and prepare to paint.

You may want to set out a few paper towels, Q-tips, and nail polish remover for mistakes.;
, The first color will be your base color. The second color will be for your tips. Think of colors that complement each other. Different shades of one color look nice together. Black and pink, white and gold, and blue and and silver are some other options for colors.

If you’re painting your nails for an event, think of the outfit you will be wearing when choosing colors.
 Begin painting the first layer of nail polish. Take the nail polish brush and carefully go over each nail. The nail polish should appear smooth and even. You should paint your entire nail. The first layer shouldn’t show up when you begin painting your tips. If the first layer is thin, wait a few minutes and paint a second layer.Take any excess polish off of your skin with a Q-tip and nail polish remover.
 Next, use the second color to begin painting the tips of your nails. If you have a steady hand, you can glide the polish over the tips of your fingernails. If you need a little more help, cut a thin piece of paper to help you. The top of the paper should have a curved shape to follow the shape of the tip. Hold it up to your nails while painting them to help with the shape of the tip.You can purchase nail strips to help with the painting of the tips. To use, you simply remove them from the packaging and apply them to section off the area where you want to paint the tips of the nails. Nail strips can be purchased anywhere where nail polish is sold.
You can leave some nails without tips to add a little extra flare to your design.
 For extra shine and protection, paint on a clear coat. You should wait until your nails have dried before painting on the clear nail polish. Wait at least fifteen minutes, depending on the type of polish you’re using. Then, go over each nail with a layer of the clear nail polish. If you’re pressed for time, purchase a quick-drying clear top coat to speed up the drying process and get a glossy finish., Once every layer has been painted on, wait until your nails have dried before using your hands. You should have chosen a time of day where you won’t have to move around a lot for the next hour or so. If possible, don’t cook or wear gloves for a few hours after painting your nails.