;
, Find out what his favorite type of food is, what kinds of movies he likes, what does he like to do for fun? What outfit does he like seeing you in, does he prefer your hair up or down, where are his favorite restaurants/bars? If possible, ask his friends, family, co-workers, or even him!

, You'll need to decide what activities you'll do for entertainment, what place you'll make the reservations to eat dinner, and if you'll be doing anything else publicly after dinner. Some examples might be: Going to a comedy club while enjoying dinner along with the show, following it up by heading to the park and enjoying the stars on a blanket. Or, heading to the local cinema to catch a movie that you both have been wanting to see, then going to his favorite restaurant where you take turns feeding each other your entrée, followed up with a night booked at a hotel with a jacuzzi suite. At this point, you'll also want to think about whether or not you'll be giving him a gift aside from the night out.
 This will have a more personal effect and show him that you really pay attention to his desires and his interests. If there's a new book he mentioned wanting to read, that might be a good choice. If you want it to be a more thoughtful, or romantic gift, you could also choose jewelry.. a new watch, a tie pin/clip, bracelet, or even a necklace. Remember, it's all in what his interests and likes are! Try to think of something that he would buy for himself. If jewelry is not in the budget, you could always go the route of a new cologne, those new motorcycle boots he's been eyeing up, or a new cowboy hat! Depending on his taste and what you think will brighten his eyes, and his day! You'll probably also want to choose a birthday card for him, or make your own. When picking out a card, spend some time looking at what each one says, and means. Don't just pick up the first one you see, unless of course, it conveys the feelings, emotions, and says exactly what you want it to say! Cards are a wonderful way of saying things that sometimes we can't find the words for ourselves. Simple, yet they can have a big impact!

, Give him little hints about what's going to happen, without telling him all the details. For example, 'Oh honey, I'm glad we're going out for your birthday on Saturday night, because you'll need all day Sunday to rest!' Or you could say something like, 'Baby, I can't wait for you to see what all I have planned for you!' Things like that will spark his curiosity and have him asking more questions trying to figure it all out, but don't give in and tell him! The less he knows, the better, use the element of surprise to your advantage, he'll thank you for it later.
 This step is also very important, because you'll want to look good for your man, but you'll also want to dress appropriately for the evening. You'll not want to be wearing high heels while playing miniature golf, just as you'd not want wear jeans and a t-shirt while going to the opera or seeing a play! Also, choose something that gets his attention, or something that he's commented on before and said looks good on you. This is HIS night, so all this preparation is for his enjoyment and pleasure! Once you've decided on what you'll wear, then you'll decide how to style your hair, and what accessories to compliment it with. If he likes seeing your neck exposed, then wear something with a plunging neckline, and add a nice necklace to draw more attention to that area... And if he loves it when your hair is down, then let it down to heighten his senses.. See what I mean? I would also suggest, only if you feel comfortable doing so, to wear some sexy lingerie underneath. When he gets to his 'dessert' and sees that you've been hiding that temptress underneath the whole time, it'll really make his mind reel! This also gives you the advantage of not having to change into it later on, and lets you be able to go with your passions without being interrupted. Another thing to think of when dressing for the occasion, is what scents he likes on you. It could be a perfume he really likes, one that he bought for you, or a new one altogether just for this evening. I would be careful doing a new scent though, because he may not like it, you wouldn't want anything out of place in all your planning. A few scents to try that are appealing to men are lavender/lilac, vanilla, and jasmine. These will have an arousal effect on him without him even realizing it! The trick is to be subtle, and to make it seem like you're not trying too hard to look sexy for him, but to look innocently ravishing!

, You've made all the arrangements, have your agenda all planned out, dressed for him, and you're ready to give him a night out he'll never forget. Here are some things you can do to make the night extra special.. Make sure you tell him how good he looks, too, and how you can't wait to get your hands on him later on. On this note, flirting, light touches, and gestures all add excitement for what's to come later on in the evening, and will remind him that he's still very desirable, attractive, wanted, and sexy to you. You can even send him some dirty texts during dinner! Remind him of why you fell in love with him, the things he does that you appreciate, and that you wanted this night out to be a very intimate and sensual evening for his birthday because he's worth it and you wanted to show him how much you love and care for him. Throughout the evening, hold his hand, touch his arm, make lots of eye contact especially when he's talking directly to you. Laugh and smile at him. Make him feel like he's the only person in the room. Turn off your cell phone, other than texting him.
 Take your time giving him pleasure. Do his favorite things, ask him if there's anything special that he wants. Let him know that you want to give him pleasure like it's the first time.. Listen to his cues, let him guide you. Try talking dirty to him, if you feel comfortable with that. Use your hands to explore his body and appreciate every part of him. Make him feel like he's the hottest, most attractive man you've ever seen and don't hold back! Take control if that's what he likes, dominate him for a little while. If you're both at ease with it, use a scarf to tie his hands.. Use your imagination! Give him your full, undivided attention and make this birthday one that he'll never forget!

