 An administrator account is required to install iTunes. If you only have one account on your computer, it will be an administrator account.;
, Vista is not supported by iTunes anymore, so you'll be downloading a special version. In order to get the correct one, you'll need to know whether your copy of Vista is 32-bit or 64-bit.


Open the Start menu, right-click on "Computer," and select "Properties." You can also press ⊞ Win+Pause. Look at the "System type" entry.
 Once you know if you're using 32-bit or 64-bit, download the correct installer from Apple:


32-bit: support.apple.com/kb/DL1614

64-bit: support.apple.com/kb/DL1784


, Run the installer that you just downloaded. You can usually find it in your Downloads folder. Confirm that you want to run a downloaded program.
 You may be prompted by User Account Control several times during installation to allow it to proceed.
 If the installation failed, there may still be several components that were installed. You'll want to remove all of these before you try installing again. This won't delete your music or purchases. Open the Control Panel and select "Uninstall a program" or "Programs and Features." Remove each of the following programs if they are installed:iTunes
Apple Software Update
Apple Mobile Device Support
Bonjour
Apple Application Support

, If Windows is not up to date, you may not be able to install iTunes properly. Use Windows Update to check for and install any available updates:


Click the Start menu and type "windows update." Select Windows Update from the list of search results.
Click the "Check for updates" button to look for any updates. You'll need to be connected to the internet.
Click "Install updates" to install any available updates. This may take a while if Windows hasn't been updated recently.
 Your antivirus software may be reporting the iTunes files as malicious. This can cause problems with the installation. Disable your antivirus while installing. You can usually do this by right-clicking on the antivirus icon in your System Tray and selecting "Disable."

, You must use one of the installers listed in the first section. The latest installer from iTunes.com will not work with Vista.
 This will ensure that you run the installer as an admin. Do this even if you know that you are logged in as an administrator.