 Pick a unique username, password, and enter your email address. You will also want to pick a default colour for your avatar! (This really doesn't matter unless you skip the bodyshop option).


Don't forget your age. Also, make sure you agree to the rules and terms (most people just click the button and go on without reading them. However, it is strongly suggested that you do read them so you do not make mistakes in the future).;
, Most people pick the most popular chat, such as Wolfhome or CatsPawIsland.


You will be prompted with the body shop. The shop contains custom colours that you can have for your avatar. If you do not want to change your colour or avatar, just hit "save". If not, mess around with the colours by clicking that nifty little colour box off to the right. Does your avatar look good?
Try not to make your avatar very bright (neon colours such as bright pink, bright yellow, bright orange, or mixing neon colours).
 The map will show you where chat rooms are in before you enter them by showing little squares. When the squares are green, that means people are in there. When they are red, that means the room is full and you cannot enter.


When they are grey, that means they are empty and no one is in there. You can either click a square and go in the room, or go to the side and hover your mouse under Map Links. After that, find something that has the words "Who's Online" beside it. Some chat owners like to customise their names for that option, so it might say "Lookout Point: Who's Online" or it might say "The Circuit Board: Who's Online".
There are many different things it could say, but it will always have ": Who's Online" after it.
If you chose to go to the "Who's Online" area, please continue reading. If not, skip to Step 5. Once you click the "Who's Online" button, you will be presented with a page that is referred to as "The Mysts". This is just something that will tell you who is online and what room they are in. This will also be your guide to entering rooms. When you see a room you want to go in, click the room name to the left side.
 You can type a chatting message down where your avatar is. Try putting "Hi!" in the box and hitting enter. Now it should come up as a bubble with your text. The other place your text will appear, is in the "logs" section. That is the big black box that says this: "Chatwitch Chat Engine © wunderwood, LLC All Rights Reserved. Welcome to Cat's Paw Island! You have entered: Crystal Cavern. You are user 1 of 15 in the room".
 Move by clicking somewhere in the room and than clicking your avatar. Once you click it, you will get a box that gives you pose options. Some will say "Lay", "LayDown", "Sit", "Stretch", "AFK", etc. When you decide what you want to be doing, you can click the option and you will move into that position.
 You always want to be nice to your fellow members and always treat them with kindness. We're all human here, except for the ones who aren't identified as human. Follow the rules and make sure to have fun! Now, you can enjoy Chatlands and be an official member of the chats.

