 Remove the thick outer leaves of the cabbage and then wash the head of cabbage under running water. If you notice any insects or bugs within the cabbage, soak it in salt water or vinegar for 15 to 20 minutes.In order to rinse inside the cabbage, you can core the cabbage and cut it into wedges before washing with water.;
, Cut the cabbage in half, right through the stem. Then cut each half in half, so that you have four wedges of cabbage. You will need to remove the core or stem of the cabbage. Place the flat side of the cabbage down on the cutting board and cut out the core on an angle.The core is the solid piece at the bottom of the cabbage. It is too hard to eat.
 If your recipe calls for shredded cabbage, then you will need to place one of the four wedges on the cutting board with the flat side down. Begin to cut the cabbage into long, thin slices. Do this with all four wedges.You can also use a mandoline or food processor to shred cabbage.
 Once you have cut or shredded the cabbage, place it in the slow cooker. Pour water into the slow cooker until the cabbage is covered. For additional flavouring, you can add a ham hock to the slow cooker and season with salt and pepper, Turn the slow cooker on to a low heat and cook for 10-12 hours. This will steam the cabbage until it is tender and ready to serve. A low and slow steaming method is perfect if you want to cook cabbage in the slow cooker while you are at work or overnight.


When you get home your house will smell amazing and dinner will be ready to serve!

, If you are pressed for time, you can also steam cabbage on high heat in a slow cooker for two and a half hours. Cut the cabbage and then fill the slow cooker with two cups of water. This method will give you slightly firmer cabbage.If you want the cabbage to be tender add 30 minutes of time and then check the firmness with a fork or knife.
 Using your slow cooker, create a delicious steamed cabbage soup. Cut up 1 cabbage, 1 cup (236 milliliters) of carrots, 1 onion, and 1 cup (236 milliliters) of celery and place them in the bottom of the slow cooker. Add two cans of diced tomatoes and 1 cup of vegetable or beef stalk. Then cook on low for 10-12 hours or on high for 2 and a half hours.


You can also add sausage to the soup. Cut and grill three sausages in a frying pan. Once cooked through add them to the soup.
Add the sausages when there is only 30-40 minutes left of cooking time. Once the sausage has been added turn the slow cooker to high heat.
 A great way to add steamed cabbage to your diet, is by making cabbage wraps. You can easily swap bread or flour tortillas for cabbage leaves. Simply steam cabbage in your slow cooker. Then remove the leaves of the cabbage and wrap them around your favourite sandwich ingredients.


In order to ensure the leaves are large enough for wraps, you should cut the cabbage in half rather than in quarters before cooking.
Try rolling grilled chicken, tomato, onion, and rice in a cabbage leaf for a tasty and healthy lunch.
 You can also eat steamed cabbage as a side dish. Once you have finished cooking the cabbage in the slower cooker simply butter the cabbage lightly and add salt and pepper for flavour. You can actually serve the cabbage wedges straight out of the slow cooker.You can also sprinkle the steamed cabbage wedges with bacon for additional flavour.

