 Images of people in magazines, advertisements, and on social media are often cited as being unrealistic for anyone, as they are generally manipulated. This holds even more true for those with chronic pain, as these images are generally not meant to depict individuals coping with chronic conditions.Unfollow or unsubscribe to social media accounts and publications whose primary goal is to depict idealized physical forms of beauty.
Use social media as an outlet to stay in contact with friends and family, and select only publications with content that you find informative and mentally enriching.
 CBT is best undertaken with the assistance of a therapist, but there are a number of techniques you can use on your own if a therapist is not within your means. Focus on using positive statements and behaviors to directly oppose negative thoughts about your body.If, for example, you often find yourself thinking, “I must look unattractive when I am in pain,” respond to yourself by saying, “My pain does not define me. I may not be perfect, but I can be an intelligent, attractive, capable person while dealing with chronic pain.”
It is normal for positive thoughts to feel fake or unrealistic at first. CBT works slowly through repetition to retrain the brain so that negative thoughts are not your first instinct. Stick with it an over the course of months or even years and you will likely notice benefits.
If you have the means, work with a therapist that specializes in CBT. You can check online, with your insurance, or by directly calling clinics to see if CBT is offered in your area., Laughter, much like exercise, releases endorphins, which help with both pain management and improved self-perception. Try watching a TV show or movie that makes you laugh, or spend time with friends or family members whom you find positive and entertaining.Do not expect forced laughter to work. Endorphins are not triggered by noise of laughter, but instead are part of the chemical process that causes sincere laughter.

