 If your landlord allows you to terminate your lease early, the terms and conditions under which early termination are allowed typically will be included as a clause in the original lease agreement you signed.The early-termination clause will specify what you must do if you want to get out of your lease. Read these terms carefully and calculate the amount you will owe your landlord if you terminate your lease early under the clause.
Commercial leases may include a provision that allows for early termination only under certain conditions, such as a failure to meet income projections. If the clause in your lease includes conditions, you'll have to evaluate your situation to see if you meet them.
 Early termination clauses in leases typically require you to provide notification at least 30 days in advance of the date you want to terminate your lease.The amount of notice required by an early-notification clause typically depends on the length of the lease as a whole. While you may only have to give 30 days' notice to terminate a year-long lease, the notice period may be as long as six months if you have a five-year lease.
Reference the clause in the lease that you're using, and restate that clause's requirements.
For example, you might write: "I want to terminate my lease early, in accordance with Paragraph 7.4 of the lease agreement. This letter constitutes the 30 days' notice of that intention as required by that clause. I understand I also must pay you two months' rent on or before the day I vacate the premises."
Attach a copy of your lease to your letter, or at least the page with the early termination clause, as reference.
 Most early-termination clauses require you to pay a couple months' rent, or buy out a percentage of the remaining lease, often depending on how much time you have left.Early-termination clauses often require you to reimburse your landlord for any costs he or she incurs to turnaround the property so it is suitable to lease to a new tenant, and may require you to relinquish any claim to your security deposit.
Typically the clause will include a method of calculating the total amount of money you owe your landlord, but you may want to request a written accounting and statement for your records rather than just sending your landlord a check.
 Once you've set the clause in motion, you must leave the leased property by the agreed date or you may have to pay additional charges.Generally, you want to aim to leave the property in the same condition it was in when you took it over.
Your landlord can't charge you for normal wear and tear, which may be significant if you've operated in that location for several years.
However, you want to arrange to make repairs to anything such as a hole in the wall or marks left by fixtures you installed that wouldn't constitute normal wear and tear.
 Within a specified period of time, typically 30 days, your landlord must assess damages on the property and provide you with an itemized list of deductions to your deposit.Your landlord may charge you a fee to terminate your lease early. However, by law this fee can't exceed the costs the landlord actually incurs as a result of your lease termination.
You may be entitled to a refund if, for example, your landlord is able to re-rent the space you leased within a short period of time after you leave.
However, keep in mind that your landlord is unlikely to voluntarily issue you a check without prompting. If you see new tenants moving into the space within a few weeks after you left, send your former landlord a letter and ask for an accounting of costs.

