 Once you have a clear picture of all your debts, the next step is to work out how much you can afford to pay each month. Draw up a detailed budget that covers all of your income and expenses and determine what money you have available for your debts. Think about how you can reduce your expenses by making savings and cutting back on non-essentials. If possible, consider how you might also raise your income.


Once you have your budget, you should be able to come up with a realistic and attainable figure that you can set aside each month just for paying off your debts.
Join this up to your list of prioritized debts and see how much you can afford to pay., Now you need to contact your creditors to talk about possible ways to restructure and reorganize your debts. If you are able to give them detailed information about how much you are able to pay each month, it may be possible to renegotiate the terms of your loans. For example, you may be able to agree a new repayment plan that reduces the monthly amount you pay, but spreads the payments out over an extended period.


It’s important that you are able to reach an agreement with your most troublesome creditors. The others should be easier to pay off once you take care of these creditors and reduce your payments to them.
 If you have been unable to negotiate new repayment plans, or all of the information is overwhelming you, be sure to make an appointment with a non-profit credit counseling or debt advice organization. There are number of charities and other non-profits that specialize in giving free and impartial advice to people who find themselves in financial difficulty. Here you will receive advice on what steps to take, and how to deal with creditors.


There is lots of useful information online, but always try to get a face-to-face meeting.
Lots of universities, military bases, and branches of the U.S. Cooperative Extensive service have non-profit credit counseling schemes.
Local credit unions, Citizen’s Advice Bureaux, and housing authorities may be able to help.
Make sure you are visiting a reputable organization with a strong track record. Non-profit doesn’t always mean free., In some cases, a credit counsellor may suggest you enroll in a debt management plan. The counsellor is most likely to suggest this if you are unable to repay your debts. The plans typically involve you paying money to the counseling organization, who then pay it to your various unsecured debts.


Think carefully about this and be sure you have talked it through with your creditors.
Only do this if an advisor has looked through your finances thoroughly.
In most instances, a counsellor should be able to give you advice on budgeting and managing your debts without resorting to one of these plans., Debt settlement programs involve working with a company (normally a for-profit company) to pay off principal balances to your creditors, with lump sums that are less than what is owed. Creditors will only do this if they believe it's a better outcome than trying to chase you for payments in the future. The company will make the payment, but you will be required to pay a specific amount of money into a savings account for a long time. This can help pay off your debts, but it can be a risky approach.


If you consider this, be sure you that can make the monthly payments indefinitely.
Bear in mind your creditors are under no obligation to come to terms with the debt settlement company.
Debt settlement companies generally encourage you to pay them rather than your creditors. As a result, your credit score will suffer and there can be other consequences.
If your debts are not being paid you may be incurring extra fees and charges that you wouldn’t if you were paying the creditor directly.
There are numerous scams related to debt settlement, and not all companies will live up to their promises.
Before you sign-up, do plenty of research on the company and always get free impartial advice for a non-profit credit counseling organization., You may be able to lower the cost of your debt by consolidating it against a new line of credit, such as by re-mortgaging your home. These plans will generally use your home as collateral, so if your home is not at risk from your debts, think carefully about whether you want to put it on the line. Be wary of consolidation schemes with variable rates. What might be cheaper to start with can become more expensive if the rate is pushed up., If your debts are completely unworkable and you cannot find a way forward, it might be time to consider filing for bankruptcy. This is a major decision with long-lasting consequences that should not be taken lightly. Bankruptcy can make it very difficult to access credit or buy a home in the future.


Those filing for bankruptcy can file for either Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy. Chapter 7 is simpler and faster to file and results in the elimination of most debts, but some filers may not qualify for this type of bankruptcy.Bankruptcy should be considered as a last resort in most cases.
In some circumstances, bankruptcy can give a person a fresh start.
Talk through your options in detail with a credit counsellor and an attorney specializing in bankruptcy and credit problems before taking any decisions.