 To do this, click on the Apple logo in the upper-left hand corner and click on “App Store…” from the menu that appears, or open the App Store from your Applications folder.;
,, Underneath the app name, it will say “Free”. Click on this once and it will say “Download”.Click this to download the app. You will see a progress bar appear where you clicked and it will say “Installed” when the app is finished downloading.
,, In the Windows Phone app, click Music on the left-hand sidebar. Select the box that says "Sync music from iTunes library." Select artists, playlists, and/or genres that you'd like to add to your phone, and click sync to perform the sync.
 On the left-hand sidebar of the Windows Phone app, click on Photos & Videos. Select the box to sync photos and videos from your iPhoto library, and select all photos or choose only the photos and videos you want on your phone. Finally, click Sync to perform the sync.
 On the left-hand sidebar, click on Movies & TV Shows. Select the box to sync movies and TV shows from your iTunes library. Select all movies and TV shows, or pick only the ones you want. Then click Sync.
 On the left-hand sidebar, click Podcasts. Select the box to sync podcasts from your iTunes library. Choose to sync all podcasts or only specific ones you choose. Then click Sync.
 If you have ringtones created in iTunes, you can send them to your phone through the app. On the left-hand sidebar, click on Ringtones. Select your chosen ringtones from the list, and click Send to Phone to add the ringtone to your phone.
 On the left-hand sidebar, click on Browse Device. A list of items on your device will appear. It will be sorted by item type, from music to pictures, videos, podcasts, etc. To delete an item from your phone, select the item and then click “Delete Selected Items” on the bottom of the list. To import an item, select it and click “Import Selected Items” on the bottom of the list. If you are unsure what an item is, select the item and click the “Preview” button at the bottom of the list.

