 It will often state the dress code, making choosing an outfit easier for you. Also, knowing the type of dancing will help to determine the style of dress and footwear that is appropriate for you. Consider the following:


Consider a ball gown or cocktail dress - but don't feel limited to those choices. Generally, ball gowns are long and reach the floor. On the other hand, cocktail dresses are shorter, typically just above the knee. Both would be appropriate for a ball for tweens and teens.
A good quality shirt and skirt would be acceptable in place of a dress.
Slow dances, including waltz styles, would allow you to wear full ball gowns and high heels. However, nice dress shoes are also fine, as you don't need to look taller or fall over.
Disco style dancing would be best with shorter dresses and lower heels or flats, for ease of movement.
Always put practicality at the forefront––ask yourself such things as whether you can you move with ease, will your hair stay in place, is the dress going to be flexible enough, and so on.;
, This is especially important if the ball is being held at school, a church, or run by a parent's committee. Avoid trying to dress as if you're an adult; enjoy the freedom that comes with looking young and not having to try too hard., Who are you trying to impress? Your friends, your boyfriend/girlfriend, the whole school? This can have an impact on the style of dress and how glamorous you make it.


Check out what your friends will be wearing. This might help you to decide on clothes that are similar to theirs––or perhaps you'll get something completely different! It just may be helpful to know what their outfits are going to be.
Consider the venue. If there are cobble stones high heels would be risky. For a church hall, mini anything would be considered inappropriate.
 Ensure that the dress suits your figure. See How to dress for your body type for more details.



Buns look ladylike if neat, youthful if messy.
Loose hair is sweet and princess like.
Wavy: Girly and glam.
Ponytail: Quick, simple and pleasing.
Braid: Very pretty, especially on the side.


Make sure your hair is smooth, and accessorize. It may sound odd, but tiaras may suit the occasion, especially with a slow dance or waltz event.
 Earrings, necklace, bracelets, anklets, etc. However, beware of going overboard with them. One or two pieces should be fine.
 A handbag or purse might look nice.


Fill your purse with essential items only, such as feminine items if needed, a little touch-up make-up, your cellphone, mints/gum, and some extra lip gloss.
 What about gloves? How about tights?,