 With this type of service, matchmakers meet with their clients face-to-face. Face-to-face meetings help matchmakers get a sense of their clients’ personalities. Full-service, in-person matchmaking companies are more expensive than customer-driven or algorithmic services.The price for this type of service can range from $5000 to $50,000 and up.
These services typically include pre-date guidance and post-date feedback.
Pick a niche service if you have specific religious, cultural or sexual preferences.;
, Ask how the company started and how long they have been in the business. Also enquire about the company’s Better Business Bureau rating.Additionally, see how the company defines success—is it marriage or relationships that last for a year?

, While matchmakers are not required to have certification, some of them do. Ask the company if their matchmakers are certified or trained. If they are trained, ask about the training process.For example, “What does the training process entail and how long is it?” and “Is there a formal process for clients to submit complaints about matchmakers?”

, If a company will not provide references, then view this as a red flag. High-quality services should be willing to provide you with references from former clients. Contact clients and ask them about their previous experiences with the company.Additionally, see if you can get a reference from a client that is currently using the company’s services.
 This is the first step of the screening process. It is generally a lengthy application that asks detailed questions about your demographics, background, and relationship status. You will also need to provide a photograph.Many high-quality services have a screening process that consists of an online application, a background check, and an in-person interview.
 If your online application is accepted, then the company will schedule an in-person interview with you. The interviewer will ask more in-depth questions about your background, personality, and what you are looking for in a potential mate.The agency may ask you, "What is your ideal vacation?" "How do you typically spend your Saturday morning?" "What is your ideal date?" and "What qualities do you value most in a person?"
Make sure to answer the interviewer’s questions truthfully so the service can find matches that meet your needs and expectations.
 Matchmaking services typically have a variety of membership packages that you can choose from. Generally, the difference between the packages are the amount of dates offered or the number months the service agrees to work with you, as well as the type of services offered with the package. Once you decide on a package, you will pay a flat fee upfront.For example, you may pay $1,000 for four pre-arranged dates, which may include counseling or guidance services.
If you decide to cancel your membership, you may be able to get a full or partial refund, however, it depends on the service's terms and conditions.
 A good matchmaker will make you feel comfortable and hopeful. They should have a sincere desire to understand your preferences and find the best possible match for you. They should also be forthcoming about the number of potential candidates they currently have. Use the interview to ask the matchmaker questions about their services and personal success, such as:“How long have you been working with the company?”
“What qualities do you bring to matchmaking that help aid in your success?”
“Will you meet potential matches for me on my behalf?”
“How big is your pool of potential candidates?”

, You may be contacted within a week, or it may take longer for the service to find a potential match for you. Once a match is found, you will be notified. Then review the match’s information and agree (or not) to set up a date.Depending on the service, men may be required to contact the woman to set up a date.
 For the first date, choose a meeting place that is casual and comfortable. This will help reduce any anxieties you have about the first date. Make sure to come to agreement about the place and time for the date.Your service may act as the primary liaison and set up the first date for you, i.e., location and meeting time.
 After your first date, contact the agency and provide them with some feedback. Let them know how well the match fit your expectations. Also let them know what you liked or disliked about the process and service.Always alert your service if something has changed in your application so they can adjust accordingly.
 If you are interested in seeing a person for a second time, let your agency know. They will contact the person for you to see if they would like to go on a second date as well. If the person agrees to a second date, the agency may pre-arrange the date for you, or you may be able to contact the person yourself to set the date up.If the date did not go well, let the agency know and they will set up another date with a different person.

