 If you live alone, then your carbon footprint will likely be higher than someone who lives in a house or apartment with other people.This is because you would be sharing the electricity, water, and fuel costs to keep your dwelling up and running.


If you live alone, then add 14 points to your carbon footprint.
If you share a house or apartment with one other person, then add 12 points.
If you share a house or apartment with two people, then add 10 points.
If you share a house or apartment with three people, then add 8 points.
If you share a house or apartment with four people, then add 6 points.
If you share a house or apartment with five people, then add 4 points.
If you share a house or apartment with more than five people, then add 2 points.;
, A smaller home makes a smaller impact on the environment. Take the size of your home into account as you calculate your impact.If you have a large house, then add 10 points to your score.
If you have a medium sized house, then add 7 points.
If you have a small house, then add 4 points.
If you live in an apartment, then add 2 points.
 The types of food that you eat can also have an effect on your carbon footprint. You will have a higher carbon footprint if you eat meat regularly, and you will have a lower carbon footprint if you eat no meat or animal products at all.If you eat meat on a daily basis, then add 10 points.
If you eat meat a few times per week, then add 8 points.
If you are a vegetarian, then add 4 points.
If you are a vegan, then add 2 points.
You would also add 12 points if most of the food you eat is prepackaged convenience food, such as frozen pizza, cereal, and potato chips. If you have a good balance of fresh and convenience food, then just add 6 points. If you only eat fresh, locally grown food, then add 2 points.
 Your water consumption from appliances is also important to consider as you calculate your carbon footprint. Consider how many times per week you run your dishwasher and/or washing machine.If you run your dishwasher or washing machine more than 9 times per week, then add 3 points. If you run it 4 to 9 times, ten add 2 points. If you run it 1 to 3 times, then add 1 point. If you don’t have a dishwasher, then add nothing.
If you have a dishwasher and a washing machine, then perform the calculation twice.
 The amount of new items that you buy for your household can also affect your carbon footprint. If you buy lots of new things, then your score will be higher than someone who does not buy anything or who only buys secondhand items.If you buy more than 7 new pieces of furniture, electronics, or other household gadgets per year, then add 10 points.
If you purchase between 5 and 7 items, then give yourself 8 points.
If you purchase between 3 and 5 items, then give yourself 6 points.
If you purchase less than 3 items, then give yourself 4 points.
If you purchase almost nothing or only secondhand items, then give yourself 2 points.
 The more trash cans you fill each week, the larger your carbon foot print will be. Count up how many times you fill your garbage cans each week and then assign points based on these numbers.If you fill four garbage cans each week, then add 50 points.
If you fill three garbage cans each week, then add 40 points.
If you fill two garbage cans per week, then add 30 points.
If you fill one garbage can per week, then add 20 points.
If you fill half of a garbage can or less per week, then add 5 points.
 If you do not recycle, then add 24 points to your score. However, if you do recycle, then start with 24 points and subtract 4 points for each type of item that you recycle. You can subtract four points for each of the following recycling categories:Glass
Plastic
Paper
Aluminum
Steel
Food waste (composting)

, You will also need to consider your travel, including how far you travel in a personal vehicle, how far you travel with public transportation, and how far you travel by plane for vacations.For your personal vehicle usage, add 12 points if you travel more than 15,000 miles. Add 10 points if you travel 10,000 to 15,000 miles. Add 6 points if you travel 1,000 to 10,000 miles. Add 4 points if you travel less than 1,000 miles. Add nothing if you don’t have a car.
For public transportation, add 12 points if you travel more than 20,000 miles. Add 10 points if you travel 15,000 to 20,000 miles. Add 6 points if you travel 10,000 to 15,000 miles. Add 4 points if you travel 1,000 to 10,000 miles. Add 2 points for less than 1,000 miles. Add nothing if you do not use public transportation.
For flights, add 2 points if you only travel short distances, such as within your state. Add 6 points if you travel further distances, such as to a nearby state or country. Add 20 points if you travel far, such as to another continent.
 After you have calculated your points for each category, add them up to get your carbon footprint score. The lower the score the better. If your score is less than 60 points, then you are making a small impact on your planet. If it is higher than 60, then you might want to look for some ways that you can reduce your impact.

