;
, The link to add a new business can be found at the very bottom of the page of search results under the title "Add a new place to Foursquare".


From any Foursquare page (or even from the Foursquare splash page) search for the business. Click and type your item into the "I'm looking for" box and type the city name and state abbreviation (city, two-lettered state abbreviation) into these boxes and click the "Search" button to submit the search.

As you are typing the city and state, you can click the entry in the real-time populated search drop-down box or you can finish typing this listing and click the "Search" button. This is your choice! They will both provide you with the same information.
 These fields include the business' name, business' address(including clicking the location-placemark on the map), City and state/province. There will be other boxes on this page; they can be filled out if you have access to this information, but they aren't volatile to the process (these will be mentioned in an upcoming step.


The business' name should be a correctly formatted name, as you would have seen it on it's name on the business' sign.
If the company doesn't have an exact numbered address (or is at an intersection of two criss-crossing streets), you may type in the closest street name to the business. The first street must go into the Address field and the cross street into the Cross Street field.
Be careful of addressing the business if the business has it's location in one area (such as a corporate location of a smaller company) while it's real location is someplace else. List the corporate address in the address fields while placing the map pin in the location of the business.
Watch out for bigger named-national/international-known businesses (McDonalds, Walmart and similar). Take the address of that particular store and never the corporate address of the store unless the item you'd like to add is the corporate headquarters.
If the place is inside of another place, you can add the location. Some examples could include a separate Emergency room entrance to a hospital or a store inside of a mall or outlet mall. These can be entered singly and don't violate the duplicate rule of adding new businesses.
 Find and click the Category field from this page. Tab down to set the category from the "Category" drop-down box from below. Type into the box what you think might be the best category that describes the business and click the category as it appears. If you don't know the correct category, peruse their category and subcategory list until you find the listing you'd like and click each category and subcategory from the tree that you search through to find your category until no other lower box displays. For Foursquare, you only need one category to fill each business. This field is mandatory as well.
 Click and type the zipcode (Foursquare calls this the "Postal code") and Country (if not in the United States), Twitter handle (@username), and phone number of the business into the "Phone" box (if in the United States).


The phone number you give, must be the phone number of the main business' switchboard operator or the main business number (if business own an automated telephone system).
If you can't populate a field in it's entirety, rather leave that field blank for these optional fields. There are many ways Foursquare Elite members and others looking to edit the database can help you edit the listing, but if it's not well explained or you can't figure it out what's best, you'll need to leave it entirely blank.
