 Right next to your driver seat, you should have a notepad and a pencil or pen so you can communicate efficiently to an officer that cannot speak sign language. You may also want to consider purchasing or creating a visor card that can be placed on your driver's side visor. Visor cards are a simple but efficient way to tell a police officer that you are deaf or hard of hearing. Right when an officer pulls you over, all you have to do is pull over your driver's side visor, point to your ear, and the officer will know about your hearing disability. On your Visor card, be sure to state what type of hearing impairment you have and ways an officer can communicate with you properly. If you don't have a Visor card, you can write a note on the notepad that you're deaf and that you need to communicate by writing on paper. Place the notepad in an easy place the officer can identify.;
, As a deaf driver, your eyes make up the most of your driving because you depend on them at all times. While you drive, always look at your rear-view mirror and your side mirror to see who's behind you. This is important so you can ensure when the police are trying to stop you so you do not end up into a chase. When you see flashing lights and the police following you, this is a clear indication you need to pull over and stop driving. Turn on your turn signal or four-way flashers immediately upon seeing the emergency lights of the police vehicle. This will tell the police officer that you acknowledge them and are looking for a safe place to stop.
 Slow down your vehicle, put your turn signal on, and pull over to the right. This will let the officer know that you intend to pull over. You should also take the keys out of the ignition and place them on the dash. Try to find a close parking lot or wide shoulder of the road. Many officers will appreciate the consideration. Pull off to the side of the road when it is safe to do so. If you are on a bridge or a roadway with very little space, continue on until there is a place that is safe for you and the officer to stop at.
 Turn your dome light on inside your vehicle and open your car windows. This will allow the officer to see inside your vehicle and ensure that there is nothing in your vehicle that will compromise his safety. Immediately reach up and pull your sun visor down, unhook the end and swing it to face your side window. Lay your hands on the steering wheel and wait. , Show the notepad to the officer upon his approach. Keep your hands on the steering wheel and place the notepad in a visible spot. Do not make any sudden movements as he is approaching your vehicle or once he is next to your car door. If you have a Visor card, open your driver's side visor and point to your ear. It's important to tell the officer you're deaf or else they'll think you're ignoring them. If the officer happens to speak to you clearly state, "I'm deaf and I didn't hear what you just said right now. Please can we communicate on a piece of paper and pen?" Keep repeating yourself if needed until the officer communicates to you via the notepad.
 Wait for the officer to respond to you via the notepad. Continue your conversation by writing notes to each other on the notepad. If the officer tells you to do something, follow their commands and obey their instructions. Not listening to an officer's commands can be charged against, which you won't want, so listen and be respectful to the best of your abilities.


When communicating to the officer, be honest and avoid lies and dishonesty. The officer will most likely find out, maybe not now, but later in the future, and that can lead to serious trouble. Be honest about any questions that are asked towards you.
 The police officer will usually state if you're free to go after talking with you and searching up more information about you. Usually in most cases, being pulled over should last only about five minutes if there are no issues. If you're unsure if you're free to leave, ask the officer.


In some cases you may be arrested. Avoid resisting and arguing if that does happen. Follow the officer's commands and listen to their directions. In serious cases like these, you may want to request the officer for a fluent person who speaks sign language. 