 To do this you need to memorize basic strategy, learn to count cards, and to know specific rules such as surrender.;
, You don't want to waste money, so it's recommended to start out with a $100 budget. Then $500, $1000.
 They have to be able to count cards under pressure, make good decisions and so forth.
 There are 3 levels of card counters in team play:


Spotter: All they have to do is wait until a shoe starts over, get to that table, count until the table's hot and signal a gorilla or big player. If you're a spotter, you should look like a tourist.
Gorilla: A gorilla's job is to wait until the spotter signals them and bet big until the spotter signals them to leave. That's the easiest of all the jobs. A gorilla should act drunk and dress messy with stains.
Big Player: A big player. They get signaled just like a gorilla, except the spotter uses a word signal to secretly tell them what the count is, and the big player keeps counting and bets accordingly. A big player should dress cleanly in a suit and tie.
 There are hundreds of casinos just in America. You'll need a plan on what to do if you're asked to leave.
 If you get busted (get caught counting, not going over 21) you'll need to go to the meeting spot and call the other team members. The meeting spot could be a hotel lobby, or a restaurant or even another casino.
 If where you're going is far away it's recommended to use a plane.
 The biggest mistake a card counter could make is letting the airline know you're carrying thousands of dollars across a state border. They might think you're up to something. Stuff it in your underwear, tape it to your back, whatever. Just avoid putting it in your luggage, shoes, or pockets.
 The most important step. Remember to count and bet right.
 If you're worried about the casino thinking your large amount of chips is suspicious, you can divide it up, or ask random people to cash it in for you.
 If you had any investors, take their cut out, then divide equally among the team.
 Remember to hide your loot.

