 In a medium bowl, mix together the Dijon mustard, dried rosemary, garlic cloves, 1/4 cup (60 ml) olive oil, 4 tsp (20 ml) salt, and 2 tsp (10 ml) pepper until well combined.


The ingredients should form a spreadable paste.
 Use your hands to rub the seasoning paste over all sides of the lamb spare ribs, distributing it as evenly as possible over the surface of the meat.


Place the ribs on a large plate and set them aside. The ribs should marinate for 20 to 60 minutes at room temperature.
 Preheat a gas or charcoal grill to a medium-high heat setting.If you are using a gas grill, start by turning all the burners to high. After 15 minutes, turn off the center burners and reduce the remaining burners to a medium heat setting.
If you are using a charcoal grill, light roughly 50 charcoal briquettes and let them burn down until a thick coat of gray ash covers them. Rearrange them into 2 piles on either side of the grill grate, then place a drip pan between the piles. Set the grill grate over the entire structure.
 Use a dull knife or your hands to scrape any thick chunks of paste off the meat.


The meat does not need to be perfectly clean at this point, but you should remove excess paste.
Discard any of the excess paste you remove. Do not attempt to reuse it.
 Use a basting brush to brush all sides of the ribs with additional olive oil. Sprinkle all sides with additional salt and pepper, as well.


You only need enough oil to lightly coat the meat.
Similarly, you should only sprinkle a small amount of salt and pepper over the ribs. The seasonings from the paste should still give the meat plenty of flavor, even after most of the paste has been scraped off.
 Place the ribs on the grill fat-side down and grill until they reach your desired doneness.


If you want the ribs to be charred on the outside but medium-rare inside, only grill them for about 10 to 12 minutes.If you want the ribs to be thoroughly cooked so that the meat is tender and pulls away at the ends of the bones, grill them for about 15 to 20 minutes.
 Remove the ribs from the grill and let them rest for 5 minutes. Enjoy them while they are still hot.


For ease, separate the ribs into 2 to 4 rib portions before serving them.

