 Hydration is highly important for colonics and daily life. Don't just drink water to prep for the procedure. Make it part of your everyday routine., Opt for ginger, peppermint, or cardamom. These herbs promote healthy digestion and keep your system from getting to gassy. Teas containing them are also free of dehydrating caffeine. Aim for a few cups a day., Aim to make vegetables at least 50 to 70 percent of your meals. Load up on dark leafy greens, zucchini, peas, cucumbers, chard, and fennel. Eat them raw or lightly steamed., Use a juicer or order a pick-me-up at your local juice bar or coffee shop. Juice 5 or 6 stalks of kale, 1 head of romaine lettuce, 1-2 tablespoons (15-30 g) of ginger, a whole lemon, and 1-2 whole apples for sweetness. If possible, use organic ingredients., These foods can trigger constipation. If you eat meat, stick to broiled chicken or freshwater fish. Substitute animal protein with chickpeas, raw nuts, and unprocessed seeds., Steer clear of carbonated drinks, baked goods, fast food, and frozen meals. Avoid simple carbohydrates (bread, pasta, and white rice) dairy products, red meat, and shellfish. These foods tend to bind and get stuck in the bowels., Tobacco, alcohol, and caffeine dehydrate the body. Unlike alcohol and caffeine, tobacco products have no known health benefits. If you smoke, let this be a trial run or preparation for quitting for good!, Try to chew each mouthful 20 to 30 times before swallowing. Take small bites and chew slowly. Thorough chewing will reduce the buildup of undigested food and pockets of gas in your colon., This should be part of your regular routine, about 3 to 5 days a week. A good workout the day before your colonic will help to stimulate the bowels. Stick to your usual routine. If you don't normally exercise, go for a walk or do some yoga., Stick to fruits, raw vegetable salads, and steamed greens.Skip gassy foods like legumes, broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, and leeks. This will make the procedure go more smoothly and save you some embarrassment., If you have an overactive bladder, consider cutting off liquids earlier. Your abdominal area will be massaged during the procedure. An empty bladder and stomach will make you feel more comfortable., This will allow your entire body, including your intestines, to relax. Rushing only stresses you out. If you feel stressed before your colonic, try laughing, breathing deeply, and/or listening to calming music., Discuss your lifestyle and medical history. For example, mention how often you exercise, what you typically eat, medications and nutritional supplements you take, or digestive problems you might be experiencing. Have questions about the procedure and follow-up measures ready to ask. Feel free to voice any concerns.
 Stick to soup and salads. Avoid spicy ingredients like pepper or curry powder. After a colonic, your bowel muscles become stimulated. A light diet will allow your muscles to readjust to their usual state., Keep drinking 64 fluid ounces (1.9 L) every day. Hydrating will help your body to readjust. It will also give you a full feeling that will prevent you from reaching for heavy foods., If you were sedentary before the colonic, talk to your doctor about starting an exercise regimen. Invest in a juicer to enjoy fresh vegetable juice everyday. Eliminate dairy, which is a common cause of constipation. Finally, if you think you might have gluten sensitivities, talk to a dietician about going gluten-free.