 Foster parents work with child placing agencies to meet the emotional and material needs of foster children. They love and nurture children without attempting to replace their natural parents. Foster parents also:


Meet the child’s health needs, by taking the child to appointments, obtaining emergency medical care, and notifying the agency of treatment.Give foster children training and guidance to assist them in becoming good citizens.Does not use corporal punishment and keeps the agency updated on discipline problems.Cooperate and work with the school system by enrolling the child in school, guaranteeing attendance, and attending conferences.Welcomes a caseworker into the home at least once a monthFacilitates the child’s visits with birth parents and relatives and does not make critical comments of birth parents.;
, Michigan sets out the following requirements in order to be licensed as a foster parent:Be 18 or older.
Be of good moral character.
Express willingness to provide care to foster children.
Have a defined source of legal income and be able to manage that income to provide for the family.
Demonstrate an understanding of the required care and a willingness to learn how to provide it.
Be of sufficient physical, emotional, and mental health to provide appropriate care.
Be willing to work with a child’s family or future family.
Demonstrate suitable habits, reputation, and temperament to ensure proper care and safety.
Comply with licensing rules.
Have sufficient time to provide care and supervision.
Be residing in the United States legally.
 In addition to the satisfaction of knowing that you are helping your community and the child, you will also receive a payment twice a month. The amount will depend on the age and the needs of the child.

For children without special needs, the current daily rate is $17.24 a day for children up to age 12, and $20.59 for children aged 13-18.Other financial assistance is provided for clothing (semi-annual allowance) and reimbursement for the cost of day care.Foster children are also eligible for Medicaid, which provides for medical, dental, and mental health care., To apply to become a foster parent, you should contact a Foster Care Navigator at 855-MICHKIDS. An experienced foster parent will answer your questions and provide guidance throughout the process. In Michigan, you must use an agency to obtain your foster care license.


Locate an agency in your area by visiting this webpage.
A representative will talk to you about fostering and potentially make arrangements for you to complete an application.
 After contacting the Department, the next step is to participate in an orientation. The purpose of the orientation is to familiarize you with what being a foster parent entails, in particular:

the purposes of foster care
the licensing requirements
attachment and other emotional issues foster children face
the agency’s requirements

, If, after the orientation, you are still interested in becoming a foster parent, then complete and sign a foster home license application. There is no application fee.The application should be completed within 30 days of receipt. If there are two caregivers in the house, then both must sign., All adults in the household will need a criminal background check. You will need to fill out a “Licensing Record Clearance Request” which can be found here. Fill out one form for each person undergoing a check.


Take the completed form with you to have your fingerprints taken. You will schedule the fingerprinting by contacting the agency you are working with.For questions regarding fingerprinting, you may call (517) 284-9745., Each member of the household will need to complete one of these forms. Depending on your answers, you may be required to take a physical exam.The form asks for:


name, date of birth, and address
a list of any medications taken
whether you have suffered from various diseases, such as heart disease, alcohol abuse, diabetes, etc.
questions to be answered by your physician

, Each applicant will need to provide three letters of reference from non-relatives. You will need to provide your references with a form, supplied by your licensing agency. Make sure that your references think positively of your ability to handle conflict, raise children, and follow through on commitments.A sample form may be found here. You should review it to see what kinds of questions the agency will ask.
 The agency will work with you to draft a foster parent training plan. The plan shall provide for individualized training needs and shall consist of no less than 12 hours of training. The training must be completed no later than the end of the original six-month licensing period and before a child is placed with the family.During the next two years, foster parents will need to take additional training—no less than 12 hours. After the first two years, foster parents will need to take no less than six hours of training in subsequent years.Some of the hours spent in orientation can count toward training, but no more than six hours maximum., Michigan has strict rules regarding bedrooms, which must provide adequate space for rest and for privacy. There must be at least 40 square feet of floor space per person, and the bedroom cannot double as another room (such as a dining room or den).The door should be “latchable,” and not lockable. Also, the room must have one window of sufficient size for the child and caregivers to evacuate out of.The bedroom should be free of household heating equipment and clothes washers or dryers. It shall have a finished ceiling and floor-to-ceiling walls.All bedding should be in good repair and washed at least once a week or when soiled., You must ensure that the foster home is maintained in a clean and safe state. You can begin by hauling out any accumulated trash or stacks of magazines, newspapers, old clothes, or old toys. Vacuum carpets and sweep and mop floors.
 The home was be in a safe condition and in good repair. Go throughout the house and check for any hazards, such as:



Exposed wires. If you find them, then make sure that they are safely covered.

Chipped paint. Chipped paint can be eaten. Scrape off loose paint and then repaint or wallpaper.

Broken windows. Replace broken windows. Also make sure that windows have screens.Cracked stairs, banisters , and railings. Replace or mend, and make sure that they are sturdy.

Pools or spas. If you have pools, spas, or hot tubs, then rescue equipment should be available at all times. You will also need an alarm on any door that leads directly to them.Medication and chemicals. These should be securely stored out of the reach of children.Firearms. Make sure that your firearms are stored in a locked metal or solid wood gun safe, or trigger-locked and stored without ammunition. Ammunition must be stored in a separate place., There must be at least one smoke detector on each floor of the home, including the basement. Also, you must have a smoke detector between every sleeping area and the rest of the home.You should also install a smoke detector in any area where heat-producing equipment is located, such as stoves or clothes dryers.Also install a carbon monoxide detector. Follow the manufacturer’s recommendations as to where to install it., Each foster home must have at least one flush toilet, one basin with warm and cold water, and one bathtub or shower with warm and cold water. Make sure that all are working.


Check that hot water does not exceed 120 degrees Fahrenheit., The home must have at least one working phone inside the house. Also make sure that emergency telephone numbers are stored within sight of the phone., You must ensure that any pets get their necessary vaccinations and are licensed according to municipal laws.If you get a new pet while you are fostering a child, then you will need to notify the agency within three business days., The licensing agent will visit your home several times to inspect it and conduct family interviews. You should be prepared to talk about your family, your approach to parenting and discipline, as well your willingness to work with the agency and the child’s natural parents.The licensing agent will be interested in assessing your family’s strengths and weaknesses, as well as each member’s willingness to accept foster children., Being licensed does not guarantee the placement of a child. Instead, a license makes a placement possible.However, the demand for foster parents in Michigan is great.
 Effective foster parenting requires open communication between foster parents and caseworkers. When you get your first placement, ask the caseworker any questions that help you understand the child’s background. You might want to know:Why the child is in foster care.
Whether the child has been in foster care before.
If the child has any allergies or other medical concerns.
How long the child is expected to be in foster care.
 The first moments when you meet the foster child can be nerve-wracking. It is best to go outside and greet the caseworker and child together. Speak softly and smile.Do not insist that the foster child call you “Mom” or “Dad.” Let the child use whatever name is comfortable.
 To help the child adjust, you should show him or her your home. Start by showing where the child will sleep. Then show where his or her clothes will be stored.Finally, you should sit the child down and discuss the rules of the house, including your expectations. Encourage the child to ask questions and answer honestly. Be open to his talking about his natural family, and let him know that you are aware of how important his family is to him.