 A majority of kids need braces. In fact, about 70% of kids get braces at some point, so you're actually in the in-crowd if you have to get them, too. If you're embarrassed, look around your school. You're sure to find other kids who are wearing braces just like you. Just knowing other people are out there can help you feel less embarrassed.One way to deal with the embarrassment of braces is to just go with it. With traditional metal braces, you can get your rubber bands in all sorts of colors, so go wild. Pick your favorite colors or show your loyalty to your school by picking your school colors. Show off your style a bit with the colors you choose.In fact, many teens wear their braces as a symbol of pride, even models and actors. You're going to have a great smile one day from your braces, so rock them!;
, If you're embarrassed by your braces, you can use makeup to pull attention away from that area. For instance, create awesome-looking eyes with a bit of eye shadow and mascara to help pull people's eyes up.Also, skip anything that's too sparkly on your lips because that will draw attention there.
You can use other things to draw attention away from your mouth. For instance, you could get a really cool, flashy haircut. You could also wear sparkly earrings, a cool headband, or interesting glasses. Anything on your head that draws attention away from your mouth will help downplay your braces.
 When you're a teen, you may be easily embarrassed. You may think everyone is looking at you and laughing behind your back. While other teens can be mean and you have a right to feel upset when they are, it's likely no one is even paying that much attention to your braces.When you get your braces on, don't be afraid to smile. Take a minute to look around. Is anyone really paying that much attention?
It's likely no one will make a big deal out of it. Most people are too wrapped up in their own issues to make a big deal about your braces.
 If you notice people really are staring at you, try cracking a joke to diffuse the situation. You call them out on their behavior without actually being mean about it, and you all can move on with your lives. Plus, you all have a good laugh, which puts everyone in a good mood.For example, you could say, "Yeah, I got new braces. It kind of looks like a car crashed in my mouth, doesn't it? But at least I finally found a way to show my school spirit!"

, You have every right to dislike braces. They're uncomfortable and inconvenient, and you may not like the way you look. However, it's important to focus on what you can get from them, especially when you're feeling down about them. Just remember, for the temporary pain you have now, you'll have a great smile later.Every time you start getting annoyed, remind yourself of what you'll have. For instance, if you're thinking, "It hurts so bad," change it to "It hurts bad now, but for this temporary pain, I'll have a great smile forever."
Also, consider printing out pictures of people with pretty teeth. When you're feeling bad, just look at those pictures to remind you of what you'll have.
 Ask your parents to schedule your orthodontist appointments near the end of the school day or even after. You usually have the most pain right after you have an appointment for adjustments, so it's best to be done with school. You don't want to be in pain while you're trying to pay attention.If you can't schedule near the end of the day, try to take a pain killer before going back to school, so at least you won't be in so much pain.
 One simple way to help deal with the pain is to take a painkiller. You can take the over-the-counter pain medicine of your choice, with your parent's permission, as long as it helps with the pain. Try taking one before your orthodontist appointment so it kicks in by the time you are done. Just let your dentist know that you've taken one.Some dentists say that acetaminophen is the best choice because there is some evidence that ibuprofen and naproxen sodium can make teeth move slower.
Follow the directions for the painkiller you are taking. Overdosing or taking the medications too often can have bad side effects. For example, make sure you are taking the appropriate amount of acetaminophen for your weight. As long as you are over 96 pounds, you can usually take an adult dose, such as two 325-milligram tablets., If you have canker sores, they can get worse when you have braces. Because they can be so painful, it can help to get an oral anesthetic. Dab a bit on the places that hurt to help you deal with the pain. Some products even create a light seal over the sore to make it go away faster.Oral rinses can help cut down on infection and therefore, pain. Most ADA-approved (just look for "ADA" on the bottle) mouthwashes work well for this, and you can use them after you brush.
 Eating ice cream or other cold foods, like sorbet, frozen yogurt, and popsicles, can all help ease the pain of eating. Try eating something cold if your braces are really bothering you. Just be sure not to chomp down on something frozen, as that could harm your braces., If your braces are rubbing in a particular area, you can use dental wax to create a barrier. It should help stop some of the pain because you place it over the metal that is hurting your mouth. If it comes loose and goes down your throat, don't worry. It's non-toxic.You take a small piece of wax and make a small ball. Use it to cover the area that's causing a problem, flattening it over the metal.
 Because the pain mostly comes after you get adjustments, talk to your orthodontist if you're in a lot of pain. Sometimes, the orthodontist can change up how he or she makes your adjustments, which may lessen your pain.If you're not sure what to say, you could try, "I've been in a lot of pain lately with my braces. I know pain is common, but I've heard that sometimes you can change how you make adjustments to lessen pain. Is that possible with me?"

, If it's possible and your family can afford it, ask for the clear braces. They are much less noticeable than the traditional metal kind, so you won't stick out as much. Talk to your orthodontist and your family about whether this type of braces is right for you.Many people need too much adjustment for the clear braces to work. Nonetheless, if you don't need major adjustments, they may work for you.
 Sticky foods can get gummed up in your braces, causing problems. It's best to avoid these foods if possible while you have braces. Sticky foods include things like gum and caramels and basically anything that tends to stick to the roof of your mouth. Chewy foods, like bagels and licorice, can cause similar problems.You also want to avoid crunchy foods, like chips, and hard foods, like hard candy, as they can break your braces.
You also want to avoid anything you need to bite into, like apples or corn on the cob.
 Stick to softer foods, like soft dairy, grains, pasta, and meat. You can eat vegetables and fruits, but choose softer ones like well-cooked vegetables or mashed ones. Applesauce and bananas are also a good choice.Consider carrying snacks you with you so you're not caught somewhere where you can't eat anything.
Other soft foods you might try are oatmeal, ice cream, pudding, macaroni and cheese, yogurt, avocados, and ripe peaches.
 When you have braces, your mouth is going to need extra care. You may get food stuck in your teeth more often, for example, and then you'll need to rinse or brush your teeth to get rid of the food. You'll want to carry a small kit at school for that purpose.In your kit, you'll want a small travel toothbrush, travel toothpaste, dental floss, and a small cup. You may also want a small mirror to check your teeth without venturing to the bathroom.
You can also add dental wax and dental picks. Picks can help you remove the food from your teeth, and the wax can help you smooth down rough edges that are causing you pain., For instance, if you play a musical instrument, it may take you some time to adjust to playing with braces. You're going to need to find new ways to hold your mouth, though in some instances, it can even make you a better player. Ask your band director for suggestions, as he or she has probably had students with that issue before.You may also need to learn some new tricks for eating. You'll need to chew carefully, making sure to take small bites. Try biting with the side of your mouth instead of the front, as that will make it easier. Also, make sure you're cutting up anything too big, like pieces of sushi rolls.

