 Typical features of this cat include short noses, small ears and a lot of fur. If assessed from a show point of view, this cat must conform to the same standard for type, shape, size and length of fur. Patterns and colors include tabbies (possibly the brown tabby is the oldest type of Persian), smoke, lilac, white, black, etc. They tend to be quiet, undemanding cats and they're usually very gentle in nature. Common longhair Persian types include:Chinchillas
Color point (also known as Himalayan)
Shaded silvers
Exotic Longhair

, These cats tend to look nearly the same to the untrained eye, although there are different expectations between the American and British standards. While these cats have short coats, they have very thick undercoats that can easily become matted. Coat colors include white, black, blue, cream, chocolate and lilac. The patterns can be tabby, calico (tortoiseshell), calico and white, colourpoint, tipped, smoke, bi-color, etc. These cats are usually heavy, large cats when fully grown but they are quiet, gentle, affectionate, and placid by temperament. They're great with children. Some of the more common breeds include:Manx
American Shorthair
British Shorthair
Exotic Shorthair

, The Burmese cat is an attention-seeker who is usually always on-the-go. This cat needs a lot of care because they hate being left on their own. They are known for their temperament, which is both loving and vocal. They are also known for their "dog-cat" tendencies of retrieving and loyalty. This cat’s coat comes in many colors including brown (sable), blue, chocolate (champagne), lilac (platinum), red, cream, brown tortoiseshell (calico), blue tortoiseshell (calico), chocolate tortoiseshell, lilac tortoiseshell., This cat is one of the most easily recognized cats because of its unique color pointed pattern. It is highly vocal and it cannot stand to be left alone but must have companionship and be involved. Siamese cats are intelligent and very sociable but they do have a tendency to be one-person cats. They come in a number of patterns and colors. Coat colors include seal-point, blue-point, chocolate-point, lilac-point (frost-point), cream-point (cream color point shorthair), tabby-point (lynx-point), and many others, depending upon the association., These cats are like Siamese in size and shape but they have a wide variety of coat colors that don't conform to the Siamese type. Their temperament is nearly the same as Siamese and they are elegant, affectionate, playful and intelligent. They also can be loud, non-stop chatterers and can have destructive tendencies if left alone too long. This includes:Cornish Rex
Devon Rex
Abyssinian
American Wirehair
American Curl
Bengal
Ocicat
Burmilla
Russian Blue
Egyptian Mau
Korat
Japanese Bobtail
Tonkinese
Traditional Siamese
Scottish Fold
Sphynx

, Non-pedigreed cats don't conform to any of the types or standards of pedigreed cats and they come in a variety of colors and sizes. Large and small, black or white, tabby or bi-color, these cats make up most of the domestic cats in the world.


If you're trying to decide on a cat for a pet, consider a non-pedigreed. There are always plenty of them needing homes and unless you're dead set on a particular pedigree for a very good reason, give a home to an intelligent, often healthier, random bred. In general, random bred cats tend to have fewer genetic health problems.