 If someone has trouble recalling where they parked the car or what they went to get in the pantry, that is not unusual and may be a normal part of aging. The loss associated with early Alzheimer's affects short term memory, things that recently happened, such as not remembering that they ate lunch an hour ago. Another indicator may be that they are increasingly and persistently misplacing everyday objects like glasses or keys. Or putting the items in unusual places, like the refrigerator.;
, The inability to think of the word for common items like a spoon or hairbrush may also occur. This is not the same as being at a momentary loss of a descriptive word for something. The individual no longer knows what the object is called and may make-up or use a word that sounds like or has a similar meaning for the object. Speech and understanding become slower and they may lose their train of thought in mid sentence.
 Difficulty learning new things and making new memories is another indicator. The individual has a shorter attention span, may ask repetitive questions, and resists change. They also have trouble organizing their thoughts and thinking logically. This loss of processing skills might be evident in the inability to do things such as balance a checkbook or forgetting to pay for an item.
 Being unable to perform simple everyday tasks as effortlessly as they once did is another symptom of mild Alzheimer's. The individual may take longer doing routine things and become agitated if rushed. They may also get lost easily, even going to familiar places, and sleep patterns can become disturbed.
 One of the earliest changes might be a loss of interest in life or things once enjoyed. Less energy, a lack of spontaneity, emotional outbursts, and unprovoked hostility are other symptoms. The individual may also experience a loss of inhibition causing behavior such as undressing in public or making inappropriate remarks. The loss of the ability to judge time and space and what's going on around them can contribute to paranoid behavior.
