 Public records are created and maintained by government agencies. While the definition of public records varies by state to state, they are directed by law to be made available to the public, often upon formal request. See if your state or county has a searchable online public records database. In Google or Bing, type the state or county plus “public records”. Next, search for specific public records (birth, death, marriage, divorce, etc.) within state or county webpages.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides links to state and county agencies that maintain vital records (births, deaths, divorces, marriages).Go to the CDC.gov website and search for "where to write for vital records".
 The National Archives provide resources for obtaining military personnel or medical records.They provide a searchable database for records and documents in their collection from before World War I.


Military service records can only be requested by a veteran or their next-of-kin.
Casualty lists and records of medals, awards, and decorations up to the Vietnam War are also available on the webpage for the National Archives., Civil and criminal cases are handled at the county, state, and federal levels, so you will need to determine the relevant jurisdiction(s) when searching for case data. Civil cases refer to acts of negligence or disputes between organizations or individuals, while criminal cases are those that cause harm or violate privacy and safety. Search the county clerk’s office for criminal or civil court records. The county clerk maintains records for civil, small claims, and even criminal cases decided at the district or county level. In a search engine, type the county’s name and “criminal records” or “civil court records”. If known, you can also enter the appellate’s or defendant’s name or the case number.
Track down inmate records through the state Department of Corrections (DOC). In a search engine, type the name of the state and “department of corrections”. In general, you should be able to find information such as an inmate’s DOC number, location of incarceration, and dates of incarceration.

