 Most people have a dominant leg, and it typically gets more work than your non-dominant leg. Doing single-leg squats starting with your non-dominant leg can help even your legs out.Muscle imbalances can lead to injury over time if not corrected. When doing single-leg squats, you can lean against a wall if you have difficulty balancing.
 Squat box jumps can be dangerous if not done with proper form. Make sure you use a relatively low box, and practice to get your form down correctly before you add this exercise to your regular routine.To do squat box jumps, lower into a regular squat. Instead of standing, jump onto the box from the squat position. Focus on maintaining your squat position throughout the jump. Step back to start and repeat.
Make sure both feet are landing squarely on the box, otherwise you might end up banging your shins on the edge.
 If you have a step or a stool, Bulgarian split squats provide a good lower body exercise that also engages your core to stabilize your body.Set the stool behind you so that you can rest the toes of one foot on it from a standing position with your knees slightly bent.
Place your hands behind your head, elbows extended out to the sides. Lower yourself into a squat, allowing your back leg to bend. Make sure the knee of your front leg stays over your ankle and your shin is perpendicular to the floor. Raise back up. Do 10 to 15 repetitions, then switch sides.
 If you've ever admired the lean legs of a ballet dancer, you might enjoy the plié squat, which borrows a position from ballet to help tone your hips and thighs.Stand in a wide stance with your toes turned out, and place your hands on your hips. Bend your knees out over your toes, lowering your body into a squat. When your thighs are parallel to the floor, raise your heels so that you're standing on your toes. Raise and lower your heels 10 times.
Return to a standing position to complete one repetition. Do five repetitions of this exercise.
 The pistol squat is an extremely difficult squat variation, but if you're relatively fit and looking for a challenge, the pistol squat could be an effective full-body exercise for you.From standing, extend your left leg out in front of you with your knee straight. Reach your arms out straight over your left leg to help you balance.
Lower into a deep squat with your right leg, going as low as you can without your left leg touching the floor. Press back up to stand to complete one repetition.
Try to work up to 10 repetitions on each leg. Make sure you do the same number of repetitions on each leg to prevent muscle imbalances.
 The figure-four squat gives your hips a good stretch as well as helping you improve your balance when standing on one leg. If the balance is too difficult, you can lean against a wall.Squat down slightly and lift your right leg, bending your knee. Cross your right leg over your left so that your ankle is resting just above your knee.
Lower down into a full squat so that your left thigh is parallel with the ground. Hold the squat for a few seconds, then release and do the other side.

