 The FCRA provides for certain situations in which consumers are entitled to another free credit report, even if they have already obtained one from that reporting agency in the last 12 months. Some situations that may entitle you to a free report include:You had an "adverse report" - i.e. a credit, insurance, or employment application denied because of information on your credit report. The employer, insurer, or bank will send you a notice that includes the contact information for the reporting agency that provided the report used. You have 60 days from the date you learn of the denial to contact the agency and ask for a copy of your credit report.
You are unemployed and plan to begin looking for a job within the next 60 days.
You receive government welfare assistance.
You are a victim of fraud of identity theft and believe is has resulted in inaccurate information being placed on your credit report.
 If you are a resident of Colorado, Georgia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, or Vermont, you are entitled to one additional free report per year from each reporting agency. See here to learn how to get your additional free report.
 Each agency has a different procedure for requesting and obtaining your report.


Equifax: Request your report online, by calling: 800-685-1111 or by writing to Equifax Disclosure Department, P.O. Box 740241, Atlanta, GA 30374. When writing, be sure to include your name, social security number, current and previous addresses, date of birth, and telephone number. For your protection, you will also need to verify your identity by providing copies of certain documents. For a list of acceptable documents, see Equifax’s Acceptable Forms of Identification page.
Experian: If you have had an adverse report, you can get an extra free report online here. If you are getting a report in response to fraud, go here. Otherwise, call 888-200-6020.TransUnion: Request your report online, by calling 800-888-4213, or by writing to TransUnion LLC, 2 Baldwin Place, P.O. Box 1000, Chester, PA 19022. When writing, be sure to include your name, social security number, current and previous addresses, date of birth, and telephone number.