 If your skin is quite dry, washing your face more than once a day will just dry it out even more. It’s important to wash your skin at night to remove makeup, dirt, and sweat from your skin before you go to bed. In the morning, just refresh your face with a splash of lukewarm water or a damp washcloth instead of going through your full cleansing routine. Always finish with moisturizer to keep your skin from flaking.
 Dry skin just gets drier when you wash it, so it’s important to choose your cleanser carefully. Look for a very light cleanser formulated for dry skin, or try using oil as your cleanser.









To use oil, simply wet your face and apply your oil of choice (almond, olive, jojoba, coconut, etc.). Use a washcloth to rub your face in a circular motion, then rinse away the oil with warm water.
If you want to use a store-bought cleanser, look for one that does not contain sodium laurel or laureth sulfate. Sulfates are harsh cleaning agents that will dry out your skin even more.
 If your skin is dry to the point of flaking, you might need to exfoliate more than once or twice a week. Try exfoliating every other day by rubbing a soft washcloth over the dry spots using a circular motion. The key is to exfoliate without drying out your skin further or causing it to get irritated.









If your skin is extremely dry, you can exfoliate using oil. Dip a corner of a soft towel or cotton pad into coconut oil (or another rich oil of your choice). Rub the oil into your face using a circular motion. This will exfoliate your skin while nourishing it at the same time.
Don’t use a loofah, a scrub brush or any other abrasive material on your skin. Dry skin is more prone to tearing and wrinkling than normal or oily skin, so it’s important to handle it gently.
 Hot water will cause dry skin to get even drier, so use cool or lukewarm water for rinsing. Using too much water is another way to dry out your skin, so just use a splash or two. You can also control the amount of water you use by wiping your face with a moist towel instead of splashing it with water.
 Use a soft, fluffy towel to wick the moisture from your skin without pulling it back and forth. Patting it dry will keep your skin from getting inflamed or flaking.
 Choose a moisturizer intended for dry facial skin to keep your skin looking fresh and hydrated. Natural or handmade moisturizers are often best for dry skin, since they don’t contain chemicals that can cause irritation and dryness.








Look for a moisturizer that contains shea butter, coco butter, or another rich, emollient ingredient that will protect your skin from drying out.
If your skin tends to flake a few hours after washing it, try applying a dab of coconut oil or aloe to refresh your skin.

