 The teapot needs to be large enough to hold all your quotes. Depending on how large you write and the number of quotes you’ve gathered, base the teapot's size on the amount of writing that will be transferred to the teapot.


The quotes will be written using a permanent marker, so check that the teapot material will hold the ink and allow for quick drying.
For a standout look, go for white. Otherwise, if you find a dark colored teapot, use reverse (white, metallic or light colored) markers.;
, Remove any dust or debris before writing on the teapot. Simply wipe clean with warm, soapy water, rinse with clean water and then dry with a soft cloth.
 If you're creating this for another person, find a book penned by his or her favorite author and dig up as many quotes as possible. Or, use online quote websites for fasting sorting.


You might even like to ask directly for quotes that your recipient holds dear, in order to make the teapot extra special.
It's a good idea to write out or type up the quotes to keep on hand as you create the teapot. You can reference your sheet as you write, making it easier.
 It's up to you whether you want a single color or a variety of colors. Just be aware that while using more than one color can produce a “designed” effect, too many colors may disrupt the flow of the quotes.


Choose markers that have a strong pointed felt tip. If you can’t find a Sharpie pen, look for a permanent paint pen that gives you the same command as a ballpoint pen.
 You don’t want the first mark to be on the teapot, as your pen may not be fully inked. Write a few words on a separate sheet of paper first and get a feel for how the pen writes first. Once you're happy that it's flowing properly and that you can write with it comfortably, then apply it to the teapot.


Try an inconspicuous part of the teapot first, to see how it looks and to test how it sets.
 Begin with the lid and work your way down and around the teapot in a swirling, descending motion.


Add a symbol or mark to denote a break in between quotes. A simple dot (.), asterisk (*), tilde or hyphen (~ or -) in between the quotes will suffice.






Change pen colors in between quotes (if using different colors). For example, write one quote in blue and the next quote in black.
 You may want to write the first word in a different script so it stands out.
 Make sure the entire quote fits on the lid.,

Take breaks in between quotes so your hand does not get tired––you risk leaning into the ink and smudging it.






Aim to maintain a consistent word shape and design. Write words close together in order to fit all your quotes on the teapot.
 Heat the teapot in the oven at 150 °F (66 °C) for 30 minutes to make it permanent. Ensure that the quote teapot has cooled properly before packaging as a gift or using.


If giving as a gift, consider accompanying it with a book of the author whose quotes you've used and a package of fresh tea.

