 To ready the oven for baking the fries, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of canola oil to a large sheet pan or baking dish and spread it around to grease it.You can substitute olive or vegetable oil for the canola if you prefer.
 The fries require 2 large avocados that have been pitted, peeled, and cut into ½-inch (13-mm) slices. Sprinkle the juice from half of a lime over the avocados, and add some salt and pepper to taste.Adding the lime juice is an optional step, but it will help keep the avocado fries from becoming discolored as you work.
 Add ¼ cup (31 g) flour of flour to a shallow dish. Next, whisk in ½ tsp (1 ½ g) of garlic powder, ½ tsp (1 ½ g) of onion powder, and ½ tsp (1 g) of paprika into the flour until the ingredients are well-blended.You can adjust the amount of the seasonings or add in some of your own. For example, cayenne pepper can add a spicy kick, while cumin can add some smoky flavor.
 Set two more shallow dishes beside the flour mixture. Add a lightly beaten egg to one of the dishes and 1 cup (50 g) of panko breadcrumbs to the other.You can substitute regular bread crumbs for the panko if you prefer.
 To ready the fries for baking, dredge the avocado wedges in the seasoned flour. Next, dip them in the egg and press into the panko to coat them well.Make sure that all sides of the avocado fries are coated with the panko.
 After the fries are coated, set them down on a single layer on the oiled pan or baking dish. Drizzle the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of canola oil over the fries to help them become crispy during baking.You can spray the fries with an oil cooking spray instead of drizzling the oil over them if you prefer.
 Place the avocado fries in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for approximately 15 minutes or until they become golden brown.Halfway through the cooking time, flip the fries over to ensure that they cook evenly.
You can add more oil or oil cooking spray to the fries as they’re baking to help them become even crispier.
 When the avocado fries are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Transfer them to a platter, and serve with ketchup or your favorite dipping sauce.Ranch dressing and chipotle dipping sauce are tasty with the avocado fries.

