 If you want to enjoy doing your homework, the time of day you start can make a big difference. Everyone has certain times during the day where they feel more energetic or more tired. You're unlikely to enjoy homework if you feel exhausted while studying. Pick a time of day to work during which you have a natural energy boost.It may help to take a few days to measure your natural ebb and flow of energy. You may find that, during late afternoon, you feel a sudden slump in energy. However, as it gets closer to the evening hours, you may suddenly have a boost in energy. Therefore, instead of doing homework after school, try to do your homework after dinner each night.
You'll feel happier and more productive if you're studying during a time when you're experiencing a peak in energy. Homework will seem to go by faster, and you will not struggle as much to concentrate.;
, You can get into the homework mode if you start with something you enjoy. If you loathe your weekly algebra assignments, don't start there. You'll start off doing your homework in a bad mood, which is likely to get worse as you move through a subject you hate. Instead, start with an assignment you genuinely enjoy. For example, if you love writing in your English journal, begin there.You can alternate between subjects you like and dislike. This can help give you motivation while moving through subjects that bore you. For example, if you love science but hate history, do half of your science assignment, then half of your history one, and then return to science.
 The atmosphere where you work can affect how much you enjoy doing your homework. If you're working in an area full of distractions, you'll have a harder time completing assignments. This can lead to feelings of frustration and stress. Instead, opt for a fun and relaxing environment.Even small changes can make homework time more enjoyable. You could, for example, move your desk near the window. Natural light may lead to a more calming environment, and you can occasionally look up and enjoy the view.
You can also think about studying outside the house. If you love hanging out at a local coffee shop, try doing your homework there. You can get a latte or a coffee as a treat as you move through your homework.
 Having music on in the background can make studying more fun and enjoyable. Try making yourself a homework playlist, including songs that pump you up and keep you going. A small bit of background music can make homework a more pleasant experience.You may have to experiment with different songs. Some songs may be distracting. If a song makes you want to get up and dance, for example, it may not the best to include on a homework playlist, as you will lose focus in your homework. Some people find classical music is very helpful when studying.
Not everyone can concentrate with music in the background. If you find music is making it harder for you to study, you may want to nix the playlists and focus on other means to enjoy your homework.
 It can be hard to stay motivated during homework, especially if you have a lot of work to do. Therefore, it's a good idea to motivate yourself with short breaks. Create a time table for yourself in which you reward yourself with brief breaks.Many people find it's most effective to work in short spurts. You may want to plan to work in half hour to 45-minute intervals, for example, and then take a 5 to 10 minute break.
Be careful with breaks, however. Make sure you time your breaks wisely so they don't end up running over. If you allow yourself a 10 minute Facebook break every 40 minutes, set a timer on your phone to make sure you do not end up procrastinating on social media for hours.
 Homework may feel more enjoyable if you know you're working towards a goal. Obviously, there are many abstract and long term rewards that come with homework, such as good grades and learning new things. However, concrete and short term rewards may be helpful in the moment. Pick a small indulgence for yourself, like a piece of candy, that you work towards when studying. For example, you could allow yourself to have a snack after you finish your math assignment., Studying and homework can be more fun if you do so in a group. You can keep each other motivated and provide one another with company and brief distractions. A study group can also help if you struggle with a particular subject, as a knowledgeable friend may be able to help you work through a challenging assignment.Be careful who you include in a study group. While you want to be able to enjoy yourself, you also want to get work done. Choose people who are serious enough students that you won't end up distracted all night.
Together as a group, you can brainstorm ways to have fun. For example, you can agree you'll do homework in silence for 40 minutes and then take a 15 minute break to chat.
 A game of "Beat the Clock" can help make homework more fun, and make it go faster. See how many math problems you can get done in 15 minutes. Then, try to break that record. Challenging yourself a little can make homework seem like a game. If you're working in a study group, you can have a small competition between you and your friends. You can even consider a reward as motivation. For example, the loser has to buy the winner a cup of coffee.


Be careful, however, not to do sloppy work. If you're trying to break a record, you may speed through your homework. Strive to work efficiently rather than quickly.
 You should not think of homework as a boring task you have to do. Instead, think of it as part of the process of learning, finishing school, and a normal part of your daily routine. Allow yourself to feel like you've achieved something when you finish your homework. This will provide you with a sense of motivation, meaning you'll be more likely to enjoy your assignments.It can help to make a to-do list. Your studies are items you can check off the list, allowing you to relax and unwind. You'll also feel a sense of achievement with each item you check off your list.
Stop and think about what you've accomplished when you finish your homework. Try to feel proud of yourself for getting your work done. You'll learn to work towards this sense of accomplishment in the future.
 Procrastination is a major temptation, especially if you're not a fan of homework. However, procrastinating greatly reduces your ability to enjoy your homework. You'll end up frustrated with yourself later on, regretting the time you spent procrastinating when you should have been working. Eliminate distractions going into your homework time, buckle down, and get things done., A good way to keep up motivation is to chart your progress. If you're working towards the end of the school year, count down the days. Only allow yourself to check off a day on the calendar after you've finished that day's work. You can also make a list of your assignments, and cross them off one by one as you go. This can contribute to a feeling of achievement. You may enjoy doing your homework more if you can physically the progress you're making., It can also help to work with a bigger picture in mind. You may enjoy yourself more if you know you're developing an impressive skill set. If you find yourself feeling bored or frustrated by an assignment, pause and consider how this will benefit you down the road. This may help you gleam a newfound appreciation for a subject, allowing you to enjoy it more.

If you dislike your writing assignments, pause and consider how good writing skills can help you get a job. If you dislike your computer class, try to keep in mind that basic computer skills will be important in college and the working world.

