 This exercise is great for activating your abdominal muscles and your hip flexors in a safe and supported position. Use a sturdy chair that has a wide edge.


Sit close to the edge of the chair with your feet flat on the floor. Your feet should be directly under your knees. Slide your hands palm down so they are under your butt.
Squeeze your abdominal muscles by tucking your chin and tilting your pelvis so it scoops down and under you. Hold this position as you raise your bent left knee so it moves towards your chest. Inhale as you raise your knee.
Exhale as your lower your foot to the floor. Try to use your abs to maintain control over your body as you raise and lower your foot.
Repeat these movements with your right leg, raising your knee to your chest, holding it, and then lowering it back to the ground.
Do this exercise twice, 8-12 times on each leg during your first trimester, and do one to two sets of 8-12 reps in your second and third trimester.
 Leg lifts are great for strengthening your back and abdominal muscles, without putting too much stress on your muscles. Lay out an exercise mat in an open area.Begin on your hands and knees. Make sure your arms are straight and your hands are in line with your shoulders. Lengthen your neck and look down at the mat.
Breathing in, lift your right knee and then straighten your leg behind you. Your leg should be parallel to the floor. Breathe out as you slowly bend your leg and lower it back to the mat.
Repeat this movement with your left leg, breathing in as you lift and straighten your leg and breathing out as you slowly bend your leg back down.
Do 10 reps on each leg, making sure to keep your arms and legs straight so your body is well supported.
 Add a more challenging ab exercise to your routine with side lifts, or supported side planks. The side plank will building your stability and strengthen the muscles on the side of your body, including your abdominal muscles.Start by lying on your left side and keeping your left hand and elbow flat on the mat. Raise yourself so you are supported by your left forearm and your knees and legs are still on the mat. You can squeeze your hand into a fist if you want to avoid falling into your shoulder joint.
Your left shoulder should be directly above your left elbow and your hips should be raised, with your knees and feet still on the mat. You can keep your right arm along your body.
Squeeze your abdominal muscles as you hold the side plank for five to eight breaths. Then, slowly lower down to the mat.
Repeat these movements on your right side, supporting your upper body with your right forearm. Hold the side plank on the right side for five to eight breaths.
Do 10 reps on each side.

