 This work can be done in a workshop, garage or outside if weather and conditions permit. If the table is too big to move, open all the windows around the table and make the area as ventilated as possible.









Protect the area. Lay plastic sheeting and newspapers on the floor around your work area to protect it from any stains or damage.












;
, Apply a coat as evenly as possible to the surface with a paint brush. Give it 15 to 20 minutes to do its job -- loosening the finish, that is. Don't set it and forget it, though; if it gets too dry, it will be difficult to remove.Strippers come as liquids, or in thicker formulations referred to as gels, semi-pastes or pastes. Liquid strippers are only good for horizontal surfaces. For vertical surfaces, the thicker strippers are able to hang on better.









As useful as they are, chemical strippers can be bad news if used improperly. Treat them with care -- use adequate ventilation, rubber gloves and eye protection when using these substances. After all, they are designed to soften, peel and blister paint and varnish -- you do not want them to do the same to your skin, lungs or eyes. Always follow the safety recommendations on the container.












If your interest is in restoring antique or valuable old furniture, look first at products designed to clean and restore antique furniture without refinishing, and always test such products in an inconspicuous area before use. It may be that the old finish itself contributes to the value of the furniture., With a plastic scraper, start removing the finish (when it's ready, obviously). "Plastic" here is key -- a metal scraper could scratch your table. Do as much as you can, but if not all of it will come off, use a bit more of the stripper instead of breaking a sweat and breaking the table in frustration. Repeat the process multiple times if need be.








Remove as much paint or varnish as you can with a scraper or putty knife. Round the edges of your scraping tool to prevent it from gouging the wood. Follow-up with medium grade steel wool. Soaking the steel wool in the stripper may help remove stubborn spots. Some finishes, particularly enamels, will require multiple applications of stripper to get the job done.












Despite what you may read on the back of a can, if you want to do a really good job, some sanding will still be required after the old finish is removed by the stripper.
 With a fine-grade sandpaper (#000 is good), sand the surface lightly in the direction of the grain. If there were any discolorations or irregularities, they'll be gone in no time.








If you did a great job with the stripper, your sanding woes may be lessened. Use your 120 grit sandpaper to clean off any remaining finish and smooth out any not so pretty places. Then, with 220 paper, go over the whole piece. And as always, make sure you go with the grain. The better job you do now, the happier you'll be in the end.Clean the surface. Wipe the entire table with a cloth to remove any remaining dust and residue.














