 Do this simple calming exercise before attempting to mount a hot horse. With your horse on a longe line in a quiet paddock, position yourself about 6 feet from your horse's head. Standing calmly, keep your feet still, and ask your horse to back up. Use only your rope and body position. Angle your body and head toward your horse, and gently twirl your longe line in the air with your free hand. Your horse should respond by walking backwards. After a few steps, stop, and request your horse to walk forwards. Let the spinning rope go limp, and lean back with your body. You may gently rock back on one leg.This exercise serves to keep your horse engaged with you, confident of your directive, and rids him of excess energy.
Repeat this exercise multiple times, for perhaps 10 minutes total.
Return to this exercise any time during your riding session when you feel your horse becoming hot and anxious.
 Standing in one position, direct your horse to walk around you slowly, while holding his longe line. His eye gaze should be on you at all times, his ears directed towards you, and his nose angled slightly in your direction. Any work you do on the longe line will reinforce the horse's attention on you, without the excitement of having a rider.When your feet stop moving, the horse should too. Let him stand still for a second, relaxed. He should continue to be attentive to you - including eye gaze and ears held in your direction. If he attempts to look away, click your tongue to draw his attention. Then instruct him to walk in the opposite direction. This teaches him that he can stop, take a little break.
Repeat this exercise multiple times, for perhaps 10 minutes total. You may want to occasionally intersperse this exercise with the walking back and forth exercise shown above.
You can ask her to speed up to a trot, then slow down again to a walk. This teaches her to speed up her body's movements without adding excitement, and consequent anxiety.
The purpose of these exercises is not to tire your horse out, but to engage them with your direction.
 Start by positioning your horse beside a mounting block. Stand on the block. If your horse isn't completely calm, simply stand beside him until he relaxes. When your horse is completely calm and relaxed, mount your horse. The first exercise is simply to remain standing, with you mounted. Simply sitting on your horse is an exercise teaching him to remain calm. Do not allow your horse to move unless he's completely calm.Once your horse is completely calm, direct him to walk a few steps, then stop, stand and relax again. Give your horse praise for remaining calm.
Repeat this exercise multiple times, until your horse is completely relaxed while moving as you ride.

