 Determining what is just or unjust is often a complicated matter. Regardless of the issue, understanding it thoroughly will make your voice more effective in standing up to injustice. Spend some time researching things you think are unjust on the internet or at your local library.


Being informed will make you a more eloquent speaker on the subject. People will be more likely to listen to you when you speak out.Doing research on any issue, whether it's bullying, unfair labor practices, political corruption, or international relations will also help you develop an understanding of who or what is responsible for the injustice, and who has the power to do something about it. This can help you more effectively take a stand by directing your efforts at the appropriate parties.
 Take some time to understand both (or all) sides of the issue. Understanding the opposing view will also make you more effective and help you understand the issue better.Try to keep an open mind when doing your research. You may find injustices where you didn't realize there were any. Or, you might find that something you thought was an injustice may not be one after all.
Be fair to all sides, and let them speak for themselves. Try to find material online that presents both sides in an even-handed way, or pieces written by people who hold opposing views. You will understand the issue better if you read information from multiple, diverse sources.For example, if you think abortion is unjust, don't just get your information from conservative sources that oppose abortion. If you are concerned about gun violence, don't just get your information from liberal sources that support gun control. Otherwise, you may end up with a distorted view of the issue, or miss key information.
 When someone stands up to injustice, people often ask: "what's the alternative?" Spend some time looking into alternatives to the way things are that other people have suggested or are trying to put in place.


For example, if you think the existing tax structure is unfair, look into other ways taxes could be collected and organized. If you think the way your government treats other countries is unjust, find out what alternative courses of action have been suggested by foreign policy experts.
Saying "no" to injustice is an important first step, but being able to offer an alternative, positive vision can make your message more powerful.This can also help you find ways to make a difference in your own life.

