;
, Pareve foods are neutral foods such as bread, fruits and vegetables that have not had contact with dairy or meat, and are not prepared with dairy or meat. Pareve foods are kosher unless they are combined with dairy or meat foods.
 Look online for a list of hechsher symbols printed on kosher food packages in various nations. A simple capital "K" does not necessarily mean food preparation was supervised by a rabbi, but some reliable Hechsher symbols incorporate a K.


Talk to your Orthodox rabbi about reliable Hechshers.
Note that an "R" in a circle does not indicate kosher foods. It indicates a registered trademark.
 Be sure all prepared foods such as soups and French fries, were prepared with rabbinic supervision and have a kosher mark.
 A rabbi will make certain the proper ingredients are used and that kosher goods won't be prepared on equipment used to prepare non-kosher foods. A rabbi will also make certain the meat is drained of blood and salted, per kosher laws.


If you shop for meats and poultry in a supermarket, buy whole kosher chickens with a plumba attached, which is a small metal tag with a hechsher. If a kosher chicken is cut up, the plumba will be attached to the bag. Buy kosher meats only from the front quarters of the animal. Be sure the meat is prepared under rabbinic supervision by a butcher deemed reliable in kosher practice.
 Fish must have scales that can be removed with a knife or by hand without ripping the underlying skin.
 If the product grew from the earth and is not mixed with any oils or other products, it is automatically kosher. This includes nuts (which may be salted), flour, wheat, oats, vegetables, fruits, popcorn, coffee, raisins, soybeans, rice, spices, sugar, tea, coffee and some liquors.
 Some rabbis say rennet, used to make certain cheeses, is made from calves' stomachs, and therefore can't be mixed with dairy under kosher laws. Other rabbis says rennet is processed in a way that it is acceptable to eat hard cheese prepared with rennet. Milk, butter and cream are deemed kosher.

