, Add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of water to the flour mixture and stir to moisten. Then, add another 1/2 cup (125 ml) of water and blend it in until a soft dough forms.


Note that you may have difficulty mixing the dough with a spoon after you add the 1/2 cup (125 ml) of water. If this is the case, put the spoon down and begin mixing the dough with your hands.
 Lightly flour a clean kitchen counter. Turn the dough out onto the counter and knead it for 2 or 3 minutes, just long enough for the dough to become smooth.


If your hands stick to the dough while you knead it, sprinkle a little flour onto the surface of the dough or dust your hands with flour. Do not add too much, though, since too much flour can cause the dough to crumble.
 Cover the dough with a clean, damp dish towel and allow it to rest at room temperature.


This dough will not rise as much as a dough with yeast in it would rise, but the resting period does still allow the dough to settle and form air pockets.
 Break off 2 to 3 inch (5 to 7.6 cm) portions of dough and roll them into balls. Arrange the dough on a parchment lined baking sheet, then cover them with a moist dish towel for a few minutes.


A large plate would work just as well as a baking sheet here. You will not need the baking sheet to cook the bread. Instead, you only need something to place the uncooked dough on as it waits to be fried.
 Apply a light coating of olive oil to the balls of dough. Use your hands or a lightly oiled rolling pin to roll them out to circles with a diameter 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) long.


Place the dough back on your baking sheet or plate when done rolling it out.
 Pour 1 inch (2.5 cm) of oil into a deep, heavy skillet. Warm it on the stove using high heat.


The oil should reach a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) before you move on to the next step. If you do not have a food-safe thermometer to use for checking oil temperatures, test the oil by dropping a small piece of dough in it. If the dough steadily rises to the surface of the oil, the oil is hot enough.
 Gently place one circle of dough into the hot oil. After 1 to 2 minutes, or once the oil stops sizzling and the bottom side turns a deep cream color, gently turn the dough over and fry the other side for another minute or so. Each piece is done once both sides take on a golden-cream color.


Remove the bread immediately after it finishes cooking.
Repeat until all the circles of dough have been cooked.
The bread should become puffy as it fries. You can enhance this effect by gently nudging the bread with a slotted spoon as it cooks in the oil.
 Remove each finished luchi from the oil using a slotted spoon and place them on a plate lined with clean paper towels. Let the excess oil drain off for a few minutes before eating and enjoying the luchi.

