 The time and energy you used to dedicate towards your ex and your relationship can now be transferred and directed towards priority number one: you! Relationships, even good ones, often end up "merging" people a bit -- you pick up the same hobbies, patterns, and friends. But being single again is a chance to think once more about you, who you want to be, and what you want to do.


Ask yourself -- "what do I want?" Are there things you wanted to do with your ex, but couldn't? Hobbies you put on the shelf when the relationship kicked off? New things you've never had time to try? Now is the time to ask the question, because your answers no longer have to take the other person into consideration.
 Your energy, money, and time are now all yours -- so put them to good use. A great way to get out of the rut is to plan your life outside of your romantic encounters. Focus on things that have nothing to do with dating or sex, and commit to making yourself a better person. You'll be more confident, happier, and better suited for the single lifestyle.
 The best part about being single is waking up every morning not knowing exactly where the day will take you. Being in a relationship can be so predictable and has a tendency to feel like a love song on repeat. It gives you those butterflies in your stomach and all those other cheese ball effects, but after a while, it can start to feel dull or routine. But now is the chance to say "yes" to any odd opportunity you feel like. If you have a friend who plays in a band, tag along to one of their shows or plan a weekend getaway for just you and your girls. Do anything! Try everything! But most importantly, say yes to opportunities that present themselves to you. This is the best time to explore and be adventurous. It is valuable to discover new things about yourself and even learn about things you may be afraid of or unfamiliar with., A big rut in most relationships is the "sweatpants phase," where neither of you really need to tend to impress the other with looks. It can be easy to carry this trend into single life, but the boost happiness and self-confidence that comes from your own sex appeal can't be ignored. Start dressing like you're single again and you'll feel single again in no time.Work out -- not just for the looks, but for the proven emotional and health benefits.Try to keep a smile on your face, even with strangers.
 Just because you're avoiding relationships does not mean flirting and dating are off the table. If you play your cards right, a good flirtatious interaction can boost your self-confidence and effortlessly remind you that being single is fun. It's too soon to get back on the serious-relationship horse, but it's perfectly fine to take a casual ride here and there. Dating different types of people helps to refine your overall likes and dislikes, and this could be key in determining what you are looking for in the next relationship when you are finally ready again.


Again, there is no perfect amount of time to wait until if you want to start dating. And there is no line you can or can't cross. If all you want to do is flirt and chat -- go for it. If you want to go out to dinner with a Tinder flame or online match, you should do that too.
The important thing is to keep your mind open. One date does not mean you're in another long-term relationship if you don't want it.