 You will likely want your garden party to be outside. This can be in your backyard, a park, or a garden. Consider the view and the scenery when choosing a space. Make sure to pick a location where the ground is level enough for comfortable seating.;
, If your garden party is going to go past sunset, create soft and romantic lighting. You can use battery powered lanterns or outdoor string lights. You can decorate your string lights with flowers and other embellishments.You can set up candles around your party to create soft lighting.You can even set up torches around the space.
Consider lighting a path to and from the party.
 Choose around 3-4 colors to use for your party color scheme. You can use bright, festive colors like pink and orange or darker colors like blue and green. You will want your decorations, tableware, lights, and any other accessories at your party to coordinate with the color scheme., Have tables and chairs set up in your space before the party. You can bring out any tables and chairs you have inside or use outdoor patio furniture. If you don’t have enough tables and chairs, you can rent them from party or event stores. Set up enough chairs for all of your guests.


Alternatively you can lay out blankets and pillows and make your garden party picnic style., Choose table cloths and place settings that match your color scheme. You can use any fabric for a tablecloth by cutting it and hemming it. Coordinate your placemats and table cloth by pulling together one central color in the designs.


You will also want centerpieces for your garden party. You can make elaborate centerpieces or you can do something simple like vases of flowers or flowers in distilled water., No matter how much delicious food, good music, and fun games you have planned, it won’t stop bugs from annoying your guests. You can take measures to help prevent bugs from inviting themselves to your party. Keep any food outside covered with lids or keep the food inside. Set up bug zappers and citronella candles to help prevent mosquitoes.