 You may need simple storage for basic craft supplies or individual storage boxes for different crafts. Separate your supplies into piles according to craft so you can establish what size and how many containers would be best. Within a craft you may want to separate small and large items.Determine if you will need compartments within your storage box. This would be handy for beads, buttons and small craft eyes to name a few.;
, Once you have decided how many craft boxes you will need, look around and decide where you will store your crafts. You will need to store your craft box(s) in a convenient location. You can put your box(s) in a closet as long as it is easy to reach or on an open shelf near the desk or table where you work.


Numerous boxes will probably have to be stacked so make sure you have a good and easily accessible place in mind.
 If you are actively pursuing new crafts, you may want to plan your coordinated storage now. Make one or 2 extra boxes so as your interest and supplies increase, you need only to label the existing containers. You will be glad to have them handy while you’re working on new projects.
 Even if you have a very small budget, you can still have stylish, organized crafts. You can use things you already have around the house like shoe boxes or popcorn/cookie tins. A shoebox with a detached lid works great for easy access. You probably have different sizes and most are pretty durable. If you have a boot box it makes a great option to store more items or larger items.Cookie tins are great for smaller craft supplies like ribbons and embellishments.
A large popcorn tin can hold a lot of yarn or bulky items.
Don’t forget to look around for old cigar boxes or lunch boxes. They are a great size for smaller basic storage.
 You will need some Kraft paper or the unprinted side of a brown paper grocery bag, pencil, scissors, glue and markers or a label maker for a basic craft box.


If you are starting with a shoebox, wrap your shoebox with the paper to hide the branding on the box. You can wrap like a gift with the lid wrapped separately. Use a paintbrush to apply a thin layer of glue to the box so the paper will stick. The glue applied with a paintbrush will help your paper be smooth. You can wrap the box or trace the sides of the box, cut out the paper and glue it to your box. There are excellent videos online to guide you in wrapping your box.Covering your tin can be done by cutting a circle of your paper and gluing it to the flat part of the lid. Measure the side height of your tin and the circumference with a flexible tape measure. Cut a strip of paper to glue around the side of the tin. If your tin is already attractive you may decide to just add nice labels to the existing decor of the tin., You may choose the simple look of brown Kraft paper or you may want to go all out with style and include paint or other decorations.


For a simple natural look, wrap the outside of your box with a natural raffia bow. The natural fibers of raffia will compliment the simple craft paper and you will love the added touch.You can add felt cutouts and pompoms to be whimsical. Glue things, from glitter to seashells, to your box in a pattern or in a more creative way. You will love adding a personal touch to your box.
Painting is another way to personalize your box. You can use any craft paint and you don’t have to be an artist to add a great personal touch. The possibilities are endless.Use pictures or favorite postcards on your box. You will love the trip down memory lane as you choose photos and and glue them to your box. This way, your craft box will double as a memory box.
 If you have different items you'd like to put in your crafts box, you may want to separate them so they don't get jumbled up. An easy way to do this is to include a jewelry tray insert in your box. This will probably work best in a square box, like a shoebox.


You could also take pieces of cardboard and glue them perpendicular to the bottom of your box. On one side you could place one type of craft supplies, and on the other you can include other items.
 Now that you have taken time to get your crafts in order, you will want to label what is in your box or boxes. Some people like broad labels like “sewing supplies” while others want to spell out exactly what supplies are in the box or tin. You can use a handy label maker like a P-Touch if you have one for clearly printed labels to stick on. Many crafty people like to use a marker and label the box with artistic flair.
 If your craft objects are not too small, you may not need any dividers. You will have everything in one place. Put larger things at the bottom of your container. You will be able to easily see what you have if smaller things are on top.
 Separate your pieces to determine how many smaller containers you will need.


You can go to a dollar store and purchase 2” x 2” (5cm x 5 cm) see through food storage containers with lids. They often have a multi pack for $1. These are great for small pieces and you can see what is in the container.
Purchase inexpensive small trays, also available at dollar stores, to put in the bottom of your box to separate different items like scissors, glue and markers.
Peel labels off soup cans and line your box with open cans for such things as paint brushes, markers, scissors and rulers. This works well if you can store your craft box on an open shelf without a lid.
 If your boxes and tins are very colorful, you may want them out on an open shelf as they can double as decor. You may want to put your boxes in a kitchen cupboard if you often craft at the kitchen table. You can store your crafts on a closet shelf but be sure the boxes are easily accessible.

