 Typically you will have to contact state or county offices directly to get an individual's criminal record. You may have to pay a search fee for this service.Peoplesmart.com has a list of how to contact each state and county criminal justice agency, as well as the fees and other requirements to search records.You also can find information about FBI investigations and historical documents from the bureau's case files and personnel files at the FBI's Vault website. Documents scanned into the vault are searchable by key word, or you can browse the database by topic., People convicted of certain sex crimes are required to register as sex offenders in a public registry. The FBI coordinates the National Sex Offender website with the Department of Justice and provides links to the registry websites maintained by every U.S. jurisdiction, including states, territories, and Native American tribes., You can use the Federal Bureau of Prisons website to find any inmate incarcerated in a federal prison from 1982 to the present.If you're looking for an inmate in a state or county prison, find the website for your state department of corrections. You can find information on how to do inmate checks in each state using the PeopleSmart website., Archived military records are available to the public for service personnel discharged before 1953. Newer records are only accessible by service members and next of kin.Many of the archived military personnel files have not yet been digitized and are not available online, but you can search the National Archives to locate the file and make a request for it.Your request must include basic information such as the full name the veteran used while in service, his Social Security number, and dates of service.You can also use the "Buddy Finder" on Military.com to find a service member if you have a last name or an email address. Although it's intended for military personnel, you don't actually have to be a member of the armed forces to use this service.You can join the site for free to access its search functions., Enter a street address into a website such as Propertyshark.com to find public records associated with that property, including ownership information, tax liens, and zoning data.You typically have to sign up for a free account to use these services, and won't have full access to property information without upgrading to a paid subscription in some places.
You also can search property deeds and tax information in person at the county registrar's office and the county tax assessor's office where the property is located.
 Copyrights, patents, and federal trademarks are all public records that can be searched online.


On Copyright.gov you can find registration documents for all copyrights registered from January 1, 1978 to the present, including all renewals and other recorded documents such as licenses or copyright transfers. Records from before 1978 are available in the physical card catalog in the Copyright Office.You can use the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's full-text database to search for patents recorded from 1976 to the present. Patents recorded prior to 1976 are available in PDF form only, but you can search them online as well if you have a specific patent number or a classification code.You can search the federal trademarks in the USPTO database using the Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS). The database includes text and images of registered and pending marks as well as abandoned applications.