 This method is for those stubborn clogs and therefore requires more materials, including a bucket, screwdriver or wrench, and plumber’s snake (also called a drain snake).


If you do not have a plumber’s snake, you can improvise using a straightened wire hanger. Simply take a regular wire coat hanger and straighten it as much as possible, then bend one end over to create a hook., You want to position the bucket underneath the P-trap, that is, the curved part of pipe that leads directly from the drain.
 Some are held together with screws, in which case you need a screwdriver, while others have slip nuts on both ends of the pipe, in which case you will need a wrench.
 Do this step slowly and make sure the bucket is still positioned directly beneath you. Standing water as well as the small pipes inside of the P-trap may spill out and you want the bucket to catch them.


Whether the P-trap is made with screws or slip nuts, in both cases you will turn in a counterclockwise fashion to loosen the parts. When they are well loosened, you can use your fingers to pull them off completely. Be sure to keep the screws or nuts close by as you’ll need them when putting the P-trap back in place!

, First check the P-trap. If you can see the blockage, use your fingers, coat hanger, or the plumber’s snake to force it out.


Build up typically occurs in the P-trap since the curve of the pipe is designed to stop fluids from coming back up into the sink.If there is no visible clog, it is possible that the clog is in the pipe that goes into your wall. In this case, you need a plumber’s snake and it is not recommended that you substitute the wire hanger. Insert the plumber’s snake into the opening of the pipe that leads into the wall until it meets resistance (which is likely the blockage). Then tighten the nut at the base of the snake and begin twisting the snake. You can also use an in and out motion, similar to plunging, with the snake in order to dislodge the clog. Once you no longer feel any resistance at the other end, pull out the snake.
 Use either the screwdriver or wrench and turn the screws or nuts clockwise to tighten them.


Make sure you have replaced the screws or bolts tightly so that water doesn’t leak.
 The water should drain at its normal speed if the clog has been effectively removed.

