 Tell your doctor about any symptoms you may be experiencing.


Symptoms may include puffiness of the eyes, hands a feet; passage of bloody, cloudy or tea-colored urine; excessive foaming of the urine; passing less urine or difficulty passing urine; fatigue and loss of appetite; persistent generalized itching.Your doctor will then order you to undergo a series of standard tests. The National Kidney Foundation recommends two simple tests to check for kidney disease, one assessing your blood and one that assessing your urine.;
, It's important to keep yourself informed about what these tests measure and what information they provide about your kidney function. Staying informed can also help keep anxiety at bay.


The blood test is called the Glomerular Filtration Rate. It measures how much blood your kidneys filter each minute. This is known as your GFR (glomerular filtration rate). This test shows how well your kidneys are working.The normal value for GFR is 90 or above. A GFR below 60 is a sign that the kidneys are not working properly., The urine test checks for protein in your urine, which can be a sign of kidney disease. When the filters in the kidneys are damaged, protein leaks into the urine.


This test has several different names, including a check for "proteinuria," "albuminuria," or "microalbuminuria." It can also be called a "urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio.", You will have to visit a medical lab clinic where a technician will draw a standard blood sample from your arm.Your health care provider may ask you to temporarily stop taking any medications that could affect the results. These include antibiotic, stomach acid, and chemotherapy medicines.The risks of a blood test are minimal. In rare cases, people might experience excessive bleeding, fainting or lightheadedness, or infection.Some people feel moderate pain when the needle is inserted into the arm. Most, however, feel only a little prick. After the sample is drawn, there might be some throbbing or a slight bruise, but it should not last for long.The sample is then sent to a lab for testing.
 In most cases, you will be asked to give a small urine sample while at your doctor's office. There is no special preparation required for this test. There are also no risks associated with providing a urine sample.


In rare cases, you may have to collect all of your urine at home for 24 hours. To do this, you will need to get a special container from your doctor.The sample is sent to the lab for testing.
 Your doctor will contact you once the results are available. It's best to meet with him or her to discuss the potential diagnosis and treatment plan if the results are positive for kidney disease.

