 You should avoid putting as much personal information as you can about your baby online. To protect the baby’s identity, avoid using their name on social media. You can use a nickname or their initials instead.
 There are many apps these days designed to allow you to safely share photos of your baby with family and friends. These apps will protect your image rights while preventing strangers from accessing photos of your baby.Some notable apps include:


Tiny Beans
KidsLink
Life Cake
Moment Garden

, To prevent people from stealing the image of your child to use for other purposes—such as advertising or blog posts—you can watermark all of your baby’s photos. A watermark is a clear but distinguishable mark that establishes who owns the photograph.To add a watermark in Photoshop, use the type tool. Over the photo, type your name over the photograph in gray font. You can edit the size, transparency, and font of the text.
You can also use an app, such as A+ Signature or Marksta, to add a watermark., Before posting the picture online, try lowering the resolution so that the picture is less attractive to steal. The quality of the photograph will still be good enough for your family to enjoy, but others will not be able to print or enlarge it as easily.To do this in Photoshop, go to Image on the toolbar and select Image Size. A dialog box will pop up. Uncheck the box that says “Resample Image” and type in a new resolution. You may want to type in half of the original resolution.
Some online programs may also allow you to resize a file.
Always save the original HD copy for your own use at home.
 If someone uses the photo inappropriately, you can send them a take-down request. First, contact the user, and ask them to remove the image from their blog, profile, or website. If they do not comply, you can contact the image host and report that it is a stolen image. In most cases, the website will remove the image for you.


You can send an email that states, "I recently discovered that you have used an image of my child on your website. As this image was unlawfully taken from my social media page, I am asking you to remove it. I do not want my child's image used for this purpose. If you do not remove it, I will report you to the image host."
On Facebook, hover your mouse over the photo, and click options in the bottom right of the picture. Click “report.” Facebook may ask you why you want the image removed. You can state that it is a stolen image of your child.
On Twitter, click the “more” button (this appears as a series of three dots). Next hit “Report,” and report the image.
On Instagram, tap the three dots, and hit “Report.”
For Snapchat, you can email them at safety@snapchat.com.

