 Your passwords and PINs shouldn't be something anyone could guess, even if they had access to some of your personal information. Avoid names, addresses, and birth dates.If you use words or numbers that are familiar to you, disguise them with hard-to-guess code, like the Vigènere Cipher.
You also might try online programs, available for free, that provide virtually unbreakable randomly generated passwords.
Make sure all passwords you use include both lower-case and capital letters, numbers, and other characters such as hyphens or asterisks.
Avoid using the same password for multiple accounts. Each of your passwords should be unique so that if one of them is compromised, the thief does not have access to anything else.;
, Never store passwords or sensitive information unencrypted on your computer. If you have a physical "cheat sheet" of log-in information, keep it locked up.If you need to keep passwords in a digital format, store them in a password manager program that is encrypted. You also can store them on an external hard drive that is only attached to your computer for offline backups.
Avoid using autofill, particularly for banking or credit card websites, unless your computer is secure or never leaves your house.
 Many email services and popular social media platforms allow you to log on using two-factor authentication, or 2FA. This enhanced security protocol adds an extra step to confirm your identity even after you enter your username and password.Typically you will get a text message with a code that you have to enter. Once you enter the code, you'll be able to access your account on the site.
With 2FA, a hacker would not be able to access your account, even if they gained your username and password.
Regardless of whether you enable 2FA or not, make sure you completely log out of any service you're not using – don't just close the window or tab on your browser.
 Whether you plan to take a device outside your home, all should have log-in passwords so the information cannot be accessed in the event someone gets ahold of the device.On most computers, you also can set up security so that the computer is completely disabled or the hard drive erased after a certain number of incorrect password attempts.
Change your log-in passwords on a regular basis, and don't write them down anywhere near your computer. For example, don't write the log-in password on a sticky note affixed to your computer case.
 Identity thieves use complex software such as spyware and key loggers to obtain sensitive information. A strong and regularly updated firewall, anti-virus program and anti-spyware program will provide most of the protection you need.These programs often are provided as software-as-a-service, in which you download the application online and pay a monthly fee for updates.
If you're not sure what is best for your computer, contact your local computer retailer for advice.
 You may receive a seemingly harmless email asking you to verify certain things such as your password, account number, or personal identification information. Any email seeking this sort of information should be an immediate red flag for you. The best response is to contact the service provider directly and ask what's up.Keep in mind that most banks and credit card companies will not send unsolicited emails of this sort, or emails with internal links asking you to verify information. Save the email (the bank or credit card company may want to see it) and contact the company directly using a customer service number or by going directly to their website – do not click on any links in the email.
Other phishing scams include false lottery wins, requests for money to "help" people who have lost money/tickets/house, etc. and claims from Nigerian princes on-the-run.
Check the website of your country's government department that is responsible for updating on regular scams (consumer affairs and security agencies usually). Some non-profit consumer watchdog agencies also have similar information available online.
 Whether you're selling an old computer, recycling it, or throwing it away, make sure you get rid of it safely. Restoring it to factory settings ensures all of your information is gone. Do the same with mobile devices.Keep in mind that a tech-savvy person can even recover information that has been deleted from a hard drive. You can download free scrubbing programs online, or ask a trusted computer retailer or tech-savvy friend to help.
Information on how to restore your computer to its factory settings should be included in the manual that came with your computer, or you may be able to find a step-by-step guide online.
 Most Apple- and Windows-based computers have an option that allows you to easily encrypt the information on your hard drive. Check the security tab in your settings and follow the prompts to activate encryption.If your hard drive is encrypted, the information on it cannot be used even if it is accessed by a hacker or would-be identity thief.
Observe the same caution when transmitting information online. You should see a little lock icon if the website you're using is secure. Don't enter personal information unless you see that symbol.
 Check your security settings on your social media accounts, and avoid posting personal information publicly, or publicly "checking in" to places. Identity thieves as well as burglars can use this information to identify targets.If you're going on a vacation, wait until after you return to post any pictures or stories about your trip online.
Avoid "friending" anyone you don't know "in real life." They may not be who they claim they are, and may be using your posts to gain information about you so they can exploit you or steal your identity.
 When shopping online, verify security symbols and encryption before entering any credit or identification details. You also want to check the URL and make sure it's legit – avoid using links from an unsolicited email.Don't store information on any store's website. It may be convenient but it's also a possible loss to you if the site is hacked.
Keep a separate credit card just for online purchases. That way if your information is compromised, you can easily cancel that card and your bank account or other credit cards won't be affected. Never use a debit card linked to your bank account online.

