 Before you start looking for a sugar daddy, you should know what you're looking for. This will help you narrow down your search and to be more clear about your demands right from the beginning. You can make a list of the qualities you'd like the sugar daddy to posses and another list of all of the things you'd like him to pay for. There's no shame in that -- he is a sugar daddy, after all.


Decide what kind of sugar daddy you're looking for. Do you want someone who is under forty, or over fifty? Should he be divorced, wanting to date multiple people, or even married? Do you want someone who wants to spend a lot of time with you, or just a man to whisk you away on the weekends?
Decide what you want the sugar daddy to do for you. Some women just require a flat fee -- like $1000 or $2000 dollars a week in exchange for their companionship, some fun times, and usually some lovemaking. Or do you want to be compensated mostly through fancy dinners, exotic vacations, and by being treated to fancy and exclusive events?;
, Don't be shy -- if a sugar daddy is what you're after, then you should join a website for finding sugar daddies. These sites allow you to be clear about what you want, and to easily find men who are looking for something similar.


Be clear about what you want. Let the men know what kind of a relationship you're looking for.
Post photographs that are appealing, but not too provocative. You want the men to think you're sexy while taking you seriously.
Talk about what you have to offer. Don't just focus on what you need, but let the men know that you're fun, exciting, mysterious, or that you just love a good time.
 If you feel too shy or embarrassed to check out the traditional websites for finding sugar daddies, or you don't want to be so obvious about what you want, you can check out regular dating websites, like OkCupid.com, or eHarmony.com, and try to find a man who will give you the money and gifts you want.


You can use filters to find the right man, such as looking at his salary bracket or his occupation.
You can also browse the profile of a man to see if he fits your needs -- if he lists expensive hobbies like boating or vacationing in Europe as his interests, appears to be dressed in very expensive clothing, and clearly has expensive taste, he may be the sugar daddy for you.
You should also look into what the man is looking for -- see if he wants a woman he sees as his equal, or if he wants to treat a woman to a good time in exchange for her company.
 Don't be afraid to ask your friends if they can set you up with a sugar daddy. You can phrase this differently if you feel more comfortable about asking less directly. It's likely that at least one of your friends will know a rich man, whether it's from work or their outside interests, who is looking for someone he can take care of. If you send out a feeler, someone should definitely know of the perfect man for you.


Ask your friends to set you up on a date, and tell them to be frank about your demands. You don't want to be set up with a man who is looking for his soul mate if all you want is a sugar daddy.
 If you're too shy to check out the online dating scene or to ask your friends if they can set you up with a sugar daddy, you can go out and try to hunt for him yourself. Take your friends to a bar or restaurant in the rich neighborhoods in your town, and catch the eye of an older and obviously rich-looking man.


You can even go out of your way to go to a place where rich men are known to be. You can even take a girl trip to the Hamptons, or other places where rich men spend their vacations, and see if you find anyone who appeals to you.
When you're looking for the men, dress up nicely, but not too provocatively. You want the men to take you seriously and not think of you as a one-night stand. Your relationship with the sugar daddy should last a lot longer than that -- at least long enough for you to get what you want.
Check out cultural places that are likely to be frequented by rich men, like museums, opera houses, or art galleries. If an art gallery or museum is having a special occasion night, like a cocktail party, make sure to be there with bells on.
 Finding a sugar daddy takes time. Don't be frustrated if your search doesn't lead you to the right man right away. You can try a mixture of looking online, asking your friends, and going out into the wilderness to find the sugar daddy of your dreams for best results. If you know what you want and are confident about finding it, then the sugar daddy will eventually find his way into your life.


The beauty of looking for a sugar daddy is that you can date multiple people at once. Remember to keep your options open as you keep looking.