 Luna accepts peoples' ideas, especially her father's. Think about something someone tells you before you shoot it down. Luna takes a minute to process what someone tells her, and when she makes up her mind, she replies.;
, Luna wears quirky, unique clothes. She never gets embarrassed with what she wears. Just be creative and look like you just stepped out of a Random Clothes Box. Somehow, she always manages to pull it off. Luna puts together outfits with pieces of clothing you never would have thought of.
 Do and wear what you want to; Luna does. Luna simply doesn't care about what people think of her. She is very comfortable in her own skin. Luna never tries to change who she is, and she never changes because someone says something about her. If you don't feel comfortable wearing your own clothes then search for some things Luna wears (and rocks!) in the movies and see if you have anything like it!

, Luna is known for her trademark butterbeer cork necklace and her radish earrings and her crazy Spectrespecs glasses. She enjoys them, no matter what anyone says. You can also buy some interesting jewelry or make your own. To buy some, you could go to a store that sells girl stuff or fun stuff. Claires' has good earrings for this type of jewelry.
 She always talks in a dreamy voice and stares into space with a slight smile when she talks. It's usually calm and soft, with something positive to contribute. Speak in a quiet, sing-songy, drifty, thoughtful sort of voice, and even if she's mad, she speaks in the same voice. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2, she yells at Harry. But just remember who Luna is.
 It's okay; You're beautiful as you are no matter what they say. Just stare up and smile slightly when they say it; They're sure to realize you're not listening and then they'll stop. When they're done talking, say, "Oh well, I like your shoes " then walk away like nothing happened with your head up and your smile still on. This should leave the person bullying you stare at you and think, "what?" Who knows, this person might even grow fond of you! When Ron talks about Luna and calls her "Loony" she pays no attention.
 Always pay attention in class. Luna has good scores in tests and always get good grades, though some teachers may occasionally get upset when she insists that Wrackspurts and such exist. Luna was in Ravenclaw,and so she was smart and fun. Luna also reads. She reads her fathers magazine called "The Quibbler". Try to read a bit more if you don't already. You could subscribe to a magazine or newspaper if you wanted to read a magazine instead of a book.
 She once wore a lion hat to support the Gryffindor Quidditch team, and an eagle hat to support Ravenclaw. So don't be afraid to come up with an idea and wear it proudly. Luna also is creative with her bedroom, which had portraits she painted of her friends and stuff. You could get into the act of painting or decorating stuff, and spend some time doing some art and craft!

, Luna is Luna. Luna Lovegood might be your role model, but don't forget to be yourself too. If you don't want to follow these steps, then that's okay! Feel free to be yourself anytime, anywhere! Remember that no matter what you wear, do, or how you act, you were meant to wear it or do it. It's who you are. So don't change yourself.
 Luna is a very kind person, you never read about her mocking or being mean to another. She treats everyone as a equal (including house elves). No matter if it is a younger sibling, or if it is the person you look up to, be kind!

, Luna is a listener. She is the kind of person you could tell a secret to. You could tell her about your struggles or anything. Contribute to the conversation, but don't take it over and make it about you. That also comes from being a Ravenclaw; Ravenclaws listen so they can learn more.
 Luna was never one to brag about herself. After the 5th book where she went to the Ministry of Magic to fight Voldemort, she never really mentioned it as self praise. So if you get a 100% on a test, or help someone, don't go around telling people for self praise.

