 Summer camps are a great way of taking up weeks of your holidays. Look for posters and listen out for school to see if there are any that take your fancy. No matter what you're interested in and what level you intend to reach, there's always something out there for you whether it's dancing, music, sports, art or cooking. Be aware that summer camps are virtually non-existent outside North America so don't set your heart on coping with summer by going to camp if you live in UK or anywhere else where summer camps are rare;
, Think about something you want to do over the holidays and set yourself goals. Maybe it's re painting your room, painting something, some gardening or even something school related if you're really stuck. No matter what it is, it's worth giving it a go, it'll keep you occupied and you'll have something amazing at the end of it.
 No matter what it is, it's got to be better than sitting around the house getting cabin fever! If your parents suggest a camping trip, give it a try, it might not be as bad as you think. If you're a part of any clubs, see if they are going on a trip anywhere even if it's just for a day out.
 A job is the perfect way to earn some extra cash and keep yourself amused even if it's just babysitting for you neighbour it's worth it. You could also try volunteer work, unpaid work gives you a really good feeling and it can count as a recommendation when you want to get a real job.
 Teach yourself how to play an instrument, learn a new language or even try out some new recipes. Try to find something you're really passionate about and then work really hard at getting really good.
 If you struggle to cope with missing your friends, missing the routine of school, having nothing to focus on or other issues, know that you will be going back to school. Try focusing on the number of days decreasing until you get to go back. Enjoy spending lazy, indulgent time in bed if you like. Read in bed in the mornings when on a school day you'd have to rush about getting ready to leave the house to be on time. Take a nice cup of tea or other drink up to your room and snuggle up with a book, your laptop or some favourite tunes.