 If you're under 18 and you feel you're living in a dangerous situation, contact your state's Child Protective Services for help. The most important first step is to get to a place of safety. Once you're removed from your family's household, CPS will help you determine how to proceed in order to make sure your family won't be able to harm you.


If you're unsure about calling CPS, talk to a trusted adult like a teacher, school counselor or your friends' parents about your options.
Understand that when you turn 18, your parents will no longer have the legal right to make decisions for you. Maybe you don't get along with your parents, but are they putting you in actual danger? If not, your best bet might be to wait it out. When you turn 18, you'll be able to live your life the way you want.;
, If you are a teenager, the legal way to disown your family is to become "emancipated" from them. This means you'll be legally treated as an adult with the right to make your own decisions, and your parents will no longer be your legal guardians. In most states you have to be over 16 to pursue emancipation. This might be the right path for you if the following is true:


Your parents are abusive.Your parents are unable to take care of you.The situation at your parents' house is morally repugnant to you.You are financially independent and want to have the rights of an adult.
 A judge won't grant emancipation unless you are able to prove that you can live independently from your parents like any adult. That means being able to make enough money to pay for a place to live, groceries, medical bills, and all other expenses. Once you're emancipated, your parents will no longer be legally responsible for providing money to cover your basic needs.


Start by finding a job as soon as possible. Save up as much money as possible; be sure not to spend it on items you don't really need.
Move out of your family's house and into your own apartment. You also have the option of staying with a friend or relative, as long as the person agrees that the arrangement is permanent.
 The emancipation process is a lot easier when your parents agree that they don't want to be legally responsible for you. If they don't agree to consent to emancipation, the burden will be on you to prove that they aren't fit parents.
 You'll need to fill out a petition for emancipation, which you can obtain by contacting the Circuit Court in your jurisdiction. You will also need to fill out paperwork regarding your financial status, your employment status, and your living situation.


If possible, consider getting legal help when you fill out the paperwork. A lawyer familiar with your state's laws will be able to guide you during the process to make sure everything is filled out correctly. Look into ways to hire a lawyer when you have low income.
 After you submit your petition and other paperwork to the Court, you'll receive a date for a preliminary meeting that both you and your parents will attend. Your situation will be assessed, and if your parents object to your emancipation, you'll need to attend a court hearing to prove that they are unfit parents.


An investigation into your home situation may be conducted after the preliminary meeting.
If you are successfully able to prove that you can and should live as an adult, you'll be free to cut off all contact with your parents and family members - effectively disowning them.

