 This means that you must make your complaint to the company that is providing the bad service.


Package holiday: make your complaint to the tour operator because your contract is made directly with the operator. The tour operator is responsible for your flights, accommodation and any other extras outlined in the agreement. If an airline goes out of business or is not up to standard, it is the tour operator who is responsible for providing you with an alternative.
Independent traveller: take your complaint to the relevant individual supplier of the service, for example, the hotel or the transport company. You won't have the same benefits or guarantee of arrangements that you would have using a tour operator, so you will need to rely on the insurance policy that covers you to work out what you are covered for when things go wrong.;
, If there is a representative of a resort or other location that is part of your package holiday, make the complaint directly to this person. This may result in the matter being resolved easily and quickly. If you are travelling independently, make the complaint directly to the hotel reception or the flight counter etc. and again, when it is fresh in everyone's mind and immediate in its consequences, you may have the matter resolved quickly.
 If the problem has not been rectified take photos and statements from other holiday makers to back up your complaint. When you return home, check the details of your holiday in the brochure and paperwork; this too can be used as evidence that may demonstrate that you have been misled.
 Address your complaint to the tour operator. Be clear about what was wrong, how you want to be compensated and set a deadline for a response. Back up your complaint in writing by enclosing copies of the evidence. Keep the originals, you may need them at a later date.
 If your complaint is being ignored, or you are being offered less than you believe you deserve, don't give up. Keep up the complaint until you are happy with the settlement. Keep copies of all correspondence in a separate file for reference.
 In many instances, paying for your holiday, or a holiday service, by credit card gives you the extra insurance of being able to claim against your card issuer as well as the service provider if things go wrong. This only applies to organisations operating within the same country as your credit card issuer. For example, if you are from the UK, and have paid your Mediterranean hotel manager directly, you would not be covered. Read the fine print!

, If your complaint has not been dealt with to your satisfaction, contact a consumer organisation for more advice. They would advise on your particular complaint and put you in contact with the relevant travel dispute associations.

