 Before changing your will or creating a trust, you should meet with a lawyer. You want to fully understand the consequences of changing your estate plan to include the SPLC. Your lawyer can also revise your will or trust to include whatever gift you make.


You can get a referral to an estate planning lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association, which you can find here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx

Also see Select an Estate Planning Attorney for more information.
 Leaving assets to SPLC in a will is the most common planned gift. You can leave many kinds of gifts to SPLC in your will, such as the following:A specific bequest. You can leave a specific dollar amount or specific asset by adding the following language: “I give to the Southern Poverty Law Center, Inc., a non-profit organization located at 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama 36104, the sum of 1,000 dollars.”

A residual bequest. Whatever assets you don’t specifically leave to beneficiaries becomes part of your residuary estate. You then name beneficiaries to this residuary. If you want to add SPLC as a beneficiary, then include this language: “I give to the Southern Poverty Law Center, Inc., a non-profit organization located at 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama, 36104, 50% of the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, both real and personal property of whatever kind and wheresoever situated.”

A contingent bequest. If one of your beneficiaries dies before you, you can name SPLC as the backup. You would include this language: “If any of the above-mentioned beneficiaries predecease me, I give his or her share of my estate to the Southern Poverty Law Center, Inc., a non-profit organization located at 400 Washington Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama 36104.”

A life income bequest. Your beneficiary can receive income from the property. Upon their death, the SPLC gets the property.
 A trust is a legal entity which you transfer assets to. A trustee then manages the assets on behalf of the beneficiaries. You can choose to name SPLC as a beneficiary in your living trust.Like wills, a revocable living trust can be changed in your lifetime.
With a trust, you can avoid probate. At your death, the trustee distributes the assets to your named beneficiaries.
For more information, contact the SPLC at 1-888-414-7752.
 This is an irrevocable trust. You transfer assets to the trust, and the trust pays regular income to you or to your beneficiaries. The trust makes payments either for the life of the beneficiary or for a period of time (not exceeding 20 years). After your death (or the completion of the time period), the assets pass to SPLC. You should contribute at least $100,000 to a charitable trust.A charitable remainder trust is a good way to provide you or another beneficiary with income while also gaining an income tax charitable deduction.
You also avoid paying capital gains taxes on the appreciated property you used to fund the trust.
 In exchange for giving cash or securities, you can sign a contract with SPLC in which they agree to provide you fixed annual payments for the rest of your life. You can claim a charitable deduction in the year you donate the assets.You need to complete an application, which is available here: https://www.splcenter.org/sites/default/files/2015_pff_gift_annuity_application_final_no_crops.pdf.


The minimum donation is $5,000. Your annual payment will be calculated based on the amount you give and your age.
You can purchase the annuity at age 55 or older, but you can’t begin to receive payments until age 60.
You may also create a joint charitable gift annuity for you and another person (such as your spouse). It pays income through the lives of both annuitants.
 You can give SPLC either a fully-paid life insurance policy or a new policy on which you will make premium payments. You can give SPLC the policy outright or name them as a beneficiary.


If you give the policy to SPLC, then you can claim a charitable deduction on your federal income taxes.You can also name SPLC as a beneficiary of your life insurance policy. This allows you to maintain ownership of the policy and to access the cash in it. However, you can’t claim a charitable deduction.
 By law, you can contribute up to $100,000 from a traditional or Roth IRA if you are at least 70 1/2 years old. You cannot claim a tax deduction because the roll-over amount is not claimed as income on your tax return.