 It really is the most important place to begin. You must figure out who you are and what you want. If you don't know then no guy on earth will know either, and his best guess might be something negative. He might be right.;
, We all have reasons for the things we do and the things we don't. If something is holding you back, get past it and get on with your life. You need to be complete before you go looking for someone to compliment you.
 Some women feel most confident in a skirt and high heels. Other women feel more confident in jeans and a t-shirt. Wear what makes you feel best because confidence always makes you sexy. Don't make the mistake of wearing designer labels and believing that guys are only interested in girls that look very "girly." Some guys even think a girl with a tomboy streak is pretty cute. Aren't you good enough that he should like you for who you are?

, When you are being and looking yourself, you are guaranteed to attract people who want what you have. The only problem is that some will want to nurture you while others will want to exploit you. Open your eyes and ears, and it's fairly easy to tell who is who. This then brings to the next step.
 Never be in a hurry. Wait until you have sufficient data by which to judge someone before you give them too much of your time and attention. This is handy for warding off both the jerks and the guys who will put you in the friend zone (even after - if - they've slept with you). A guy who needs an ego feeder is playing the modern male version of the Rapo game from the book Games People Play. They seduce you, and then all of a sudden claim that either they didn't want a relationship, or they just wanted to be friends. Whichever brand of time-wasting ego suckers you're dealing with, both are bad news. They not only take away your free time and mental space to talk to other guys, but they tend to make territorial gestures that keep other guys away.
 Make yourself physically off limits to them. If they don't get the point, then tell them flat out that public displays of affection are for boyfriends only.
 If it means he has to sit with your parents, have him do this before he can get too close to you. If it means taking you to the cafe to sit and chat with your mutual friends, then do that too. Having an accountability factor for your partner improves your reputation by showing that you do have standards and also shows people that guys are not afraid to be seen with you. Men need to compete. Let them do it. If they think you're not worth it, then you know what you're dealing with.
 Sit some time and have one of your friends videotape a night out with you. It'll be very enlightening. You might be too prissy, or you might be too frumpy. What you want to be, if you intend to be a guy magnet, is reasonably approachable... sexy and yet respectable... huggable.
 You don't have to have the "perfect" body or face. Most people have the basic natural equipment for beauty built in. Even if you have fairly serious looks problems or differences though, you can still be just as sexy and huggable as the media clone next to you if you smell good and look like you put some time and effort into your hygiene and grooming.
 Let the guy call you sometime. If he's interested or worth pursuing, he will. Even if he is submissive, he still needs a chance to be a man.
 You don't need to be a total prude, but you do need to leave the plate on the table when you eat, chew with your mouth closed, and look at people when they're talking to you.
 Look in their eyes. If they like you, they're going to be trying to catch your eye. When you catch their eye, hold the gaze a little longer than usual, and when you break the eye contact, blush. Guys think it's cute when you blush. Don't worry if you can't blush though.

