 This menu will provide fiber, antioxidants, protein, vitamins, minerals, and healthy fats with minimal calories.


Make your own oatmeal to avoid the added sugar and salt from pre-flavored packs, sweetening with honey or brown sugar and topping with fresh fruit, a tablespoon of nuts or seeds, and/or ground cinnamon or nutmeg.
Use whole grain bread and vegetables (preferably with no mayonnaise) for the sandwich and consider vegetables like celery, red peppers, carrot sticks, or cucumbers. If you prefer to have a dip for the vegetables, opt for lentil hummus or homemade white bean dip instead of salad dressing or sour cream dip.
For dinner, add as many fresh vegetable variations to the stir-fry as you like, but do not increase the recommended amount of oil. Season with spices like fresh herbs and chillies to add flavor and eliminate the salt. Substitute whole grain noodles or brown rice for traditional processed starches.
 This menu will provide plenty of protein, carbohydrates, healthy fat, fiber, and vitamins and minerals to help give you enough energy to keep performing well during your workouts. Add a glass of low-fat milk to lunch or dinner to help your muscles heal from your ab routine.

Use fresh instead of dried fruit in your muesli (they’re filled with more air and water to give you the illusion of being fuller faster), low fat milk or yogurt (healthy fats are essential – you don’t need to cut them out completely), and do not exceed a quarter cup of nuts or seeds in the recipe.
Add additional fresh vegetables to the spinach salad if desired and use a vinegar and oil or fruit juice based dressing. If you want a richer dressing, add some Dijon mustard or turmeric powder to it.
Glaze the salmon fillet with fruit juice or olive oil and sprinkle with herbs before serving with brown rice and roasted or grilled vegetables such as zucchini, tomatoes, or eggplant.
 Use no more than one tablespoon of olive oil or vegetable oil for each recipe and buy low-fat cheese to avoid unnecessary saturated fat. This combination of meals will provide tons of nutrients with very few calories, and supplies the appropriate amount of fat for the lean diet you need.


Try a variety of vegetables in the omelet such as asparagus, tomato, and mushrooms, and serve with a side of fresh berries, half a grapefruit or a quarter of a pomelo.
For the lentil soup, add extra vegetables, such as mashed carrots or tomatoes, and top with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of fat-free sour cream instead of cheese.
 This menu is packed with protein, a few carbohydrates to supply energy, a healthy amount of essential fatty acids, antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals.

If you would like to add cereal to your parfait, select a brand with no added sugar and made with whole grains. If you want to boost your protein intake, substitute plain yogurt for unsweetened, fat-free Greek yogurt.
Avoid using mayonnaise in your tuna salad by swapping in homemade vinaigrette and adding red onion, low-sodium pickle juice and a handful of fresh dill.
When making skewers, limit your meat to 3 oz. for women, and 4 oz. for men per serving. Fill up on vegetables, such as bell peppers, onions, mushrooms, tomatoes, and zucchini.
 This menu supplies carbohydrates in the morning and afternoon followed by healthy fats, protein, fiber, and a variety of antioxidants and other nutrients. Your body will need these extra carbohydrates to get you through the last day of both cardio and muscle training before you rest your abs for a day or two.


Sip on low-fat milk with lunch for extra protein, whey, and nutrients your muscles need to repair damage and build new muscle.
Top the baked potato with powdered ginger and cinnamon, low-fat sour cream and pepper, or caramelized onions and garlic in a balsamic vinegar reduction.
 After a long week of hard work, it can be tempting to binge on restaurant foods, snacks, and sweets.;
, On rest days, it’s more important than ever to load up on vegetables and lean protein.
,