 Cream together the butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract in a large bowl using an electric mixer.


The butter must be softened before you combine it with the other ingredients. For a lighter dough, beat the butter on its own until it becomes fluffy before combining it with sugars and vanilla extract.
 Add the egg to the butter mixture and beat at medium speed with an electric mixer.


Continue beating until the egg is fully incorporated.
If doubling or tripling the recipe, add any additional eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
 In a separate small bowl, mix the flour, baking soda, and salt until thoroughly combined.


Mixing the dry ingredients separately ensures that they are distributed evenly throughout the dough once added to the moist ingredients.
 Use an electric mixture to beat the flour mixture into the butter mixture until completely combined.


If the electric mixer resists toward the end of the mixing process, stir any remaining flour in by hand.
 Use a mixing spoon or spatula to stir the chocolate chips into the dough until evenly distributed.
 If you plan to save the dough for later, wrap it in wax paper or plastic wrap first. Make sure that no portion of the dough is exposed to air.


Consider double-wrapping the dough. Wrap it in wax paper first, then wrap a layer of plastic wrap around the entire thing.
To make the dough easier to manage later on, divide it in half before wrapping it.
 The dough can last in the refrigerator for 1 week. When placed in the freezer, it should last for about 8 weeks.
 The cookies should be baked at 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) for 8 to 11 minutes.


Thaw the dough to room temperature for best results.
Place the dough onto a greased cookie sheet 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time, leaving roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of space in between each cookie.
Bake in a preheated oven until golden brown.
Cool on the baking sheet for 2 minutes before removing to a wire rack to finish cooling.

