 Most programs require that you book flights at specific times so that they can pick you up. Before buying any tickets, forward your potential flight information to the program and ask if this will work for them.


Depending on your program, how rural it is, or natural disasters, you may want to seriously consider flight insurance. Pick-ups and logistics can be very fluid in 3rd world countries.
 While this will change from country to country and program to program, you need to be prepared to fund yourself while you are abroad. Talk to the program about potential costs, from food and clean water to toiletries, and make sure you have enough money to live comfortably and safely. It is usually a good idea to have two times your projected expenses ready, in the case of an emergency.Call your bank and let them know that you are leaving the country. When foreign charges show up, many banks assume it is a scam/stolen card and suspends your account, locking you out of your money.
 You want to be sure that your passport is ready to go well in advance, as you'll need it to get a visa. This also gives you time to fix any mistakes or deal with any issues long before you're ready to fly off.
 There are some countries that don't require a visa, and some that only require them for longer stays, but you need to be sure if you need one or not. Many countries require different visas depending on how long you stay and the work you're doing. Before buying a ticket, check out the US State Department's database on travel restrictions for every country and follow their procedures for getting the appropriate visa.


Visas are provided by the country you are going to visit. So, to get a visa to go to Senegal, you need to contact the Senegalese Embassy or Consulate.
You may be required to visit an embassy, get fingerprinted, and/or have proof of immunization before getting a visa., These change from country to country, and they can get expensive. They also require several weeks to set in, and some need to be re-administered before you leave, so be sure to talk to you doctor as soon as you know where you are going. This should be planned 3-6 months in advance of leaving.
 Again, this will change depending on where you are going. Most programs will provide you with a checklist, letting you know the equipment you need to have when traveling. Pack as lightly as possible for easy travel and to decrease the risk of theft, and make sure, above all else, that you have all of your documents (passports, visas, tickets) packed. Some general advice includes:


Photocopy all relevant documents so you have a copy if something is lost.
Bring extra chargers, wall adapters, and batteries for any crucial electronics.
Check the US State Department's country by country list of travel warnings before leaving., Just as important as physical preparation, mentally preparing yourself for the journey to come will make everything easier. Volunteering abroad is not easy, and you need to be able to roll with the punches as the come. Things will go wrong, you will get homesick, and you will get lost, both literally and figuratively. The best way to avoid and manage these problems is to leave your sense of expectations at home -- be ready for surprises, and be ready to learn as much about yourself as the culture you are entering.



Flexibility - can you deal with constantly changing plans/projects?

Patience - can you cope with delays and frustrating procedures?

Humility - are you able to do the things that are "beneath" your skills and training without a grumble? Can you adapt your usual standard of living to something new and different?

Openness - are you able to deal with cultural differences and are your views of the world open?

Reliability - are you someone others can depend on? Are you punctual?

Sense of humor -- things aren't always going to go well, and that's okay. Being able to laugh at the weird little pitfalls will make them easier to clear up.

