 Wear good clothes, always. Wear button-up shirts, dark pants, blue jeans, and nice shoes. Always buy good quality clothing. Have your own style. Look at magazines for ideas, or ask a sharp dressed man close to you. Also, if you're just trying to get the classy vibe, try polo shirts.;
, Wash your shirts and t-shirts regularly, Jeans can be worn over long periods but that doesn't mean you wear them for a whole month. You don't want to look dirty and smell gross. That goes for your room, too. Don't have empty pizza boxes and Coke cans all over the place. Keep your room neat and tidy.
 That means showering everyday, brushing your teeth, and brushing your hair. Make sure you wear deodorant or a good quality cologne.
 Most guys think acting like jerks to girls or talking about sexual things with them will attract them. Be a gentleman; hold the door open for her, pull out her seat, and help her if she needs it. There is not surviving code of chivalry, but here's the gist: Respect women. Defend your friends. Solve things peacefully.
 Don't slack off in school. Do your homework, pay attention, and answer questions if you know the answers. Guys usually think acting out in class is funny. It just makes them look bad. Being smart is also not doing drugs or drinking. That is definitely not classy. Stay away from all that stuff. Pick the right friends.
 Become more well-informed. A good vocabulary is crucial to sounding intelligent and being intelligent. Read from both sides of the argument.
 Don't use slang or curse. That just shows lack of intelligence.
 Bragging is not classy in any way. Girls will respect you and hold you high if you are one to listen. It gives you a bit of a mysterious side. Talk about intelligent subjects.
 Instruments, art, athletics, and theatre arts are all things that should be taken into consideration. Don't play an instrument? Pick up something like piano or guitar, or another respected instrument.
 A classy man smokes only the finest cigars. Do not abuse this privilege. Smoke only during special occasions with your close friends and never to impress a woman.
 At the very least,don't get drunk.
 No matter what, you can't please everyone. Some guys may try to pick a fight with you because you're different. Take the high road and just walk away. It's that easy. Fighting does not make you a man, it makes you a child.
 Hooking up is not classy. You should only do that kind of stuff with your girlfriend. Don't push her to do anything. Just because you are dating doesn't mean she wants to have sex with you. Also, if you and your girlfriend part ways, don't talk bad about her. Don't tell everyone she was a bad kisser, a mooch, etc. If you want to be really classy, don't do that at all, wait till marriage.
 It isn't classy in any way to pick out someone's imperfections. Some things in others' lives are influenced by their family background or heritage. No one wants to be criticized by a snob.
 Act like you are interested in what everyone has to say, and soon you will be living it out. Everyone deserves a listen some time or another.

