 An autistic child might have a different perception of the world: a light is too bright, a big party is scary and not fun, the sound of Dad unloading the dishwasher must be what hell is like. If they say that something is upsetting, believe them.If children's fears are minimized or ignored, they stop trusting their caregivers to protect them from harmful things.Don't say "it's not a big deal" or "it's easy." Instead, acknowledge that it's difficult and help the child deal with it., It's okay to ask for clarification, or admit that you don't understand. Tell them that you care about what they're saying, and are having a hard time understanding.Ask them to repeat it more slowly, write it down, use AAC, et cetera so that you can understand.


Sometimes, an autistic person will repeat a phrase because they are trying to tell you something, but don't know how to phrase it. Ask questions to help figure out what they mean.Odd phrasing often means they're struggling to find words. Ask questions to help figure out what they are really trying to say.If you smile and nod, the child can usually tell that you aren't truly listening.
 This might mean stopping Auntie when she wants to plant a wet kiss on the autistic child's cheek, or taking the child away from a noisy room.If they find something unpleasant, believe them, and show that you care by helping protect them from it.
 When interacting with each other, the two of you might experience problems like miscommunication or disagreement. If you stay friendly and caring towards the child, they'll be more likely to trust you in the difficult moments.
 If a child is having a crisis, and you aren't sure how to respond, don't try to guess what to do.


Ask someone who knows the child better if you don't know how to do something. It's okay to get help if you're uncertain.
Never forcefully grab or pin down a panicked child. It will only make them even more panicked, and they may hit or kick you in an attempt to free themselves.
 If you upset the child or mishandle a situation, say that you're sorry and you didn't mean it. This reassures the child that you still care about and respect them.

