 If you want to flat iron your hair, make sure your hair is clean and dry first. Wash your hair as you normally would and then dry it with a blow dryer or allow it to air dry. Make sure your hair is fully dry before beginning the flat ironing process. A flat iron can cause damage if your hair is wet.


As the heat from a flat iron can dry out your hair, considering using a gentler, more natural brand of shampoo.
Go for a strong moisturizing conditioner. You could also leave your regular conditioner in a few minutes longer than usual.;
, You should work through your hair one section at a time. How many sections you need depends on the length and thickness of your hair. Longer, thicker hair may need to be separated into three to four sections. Shorter hair may only need a couple of sections.


You should divide your hair with sections in the front and in the back. For example, if you have long hair have two sections on either side of your head in front. Then, have two sections on either side of your head in back.
Use a fine-toothed comb to divide your hair into sections. If you have shorter hair, you may be able to simply clip up your top layer of hair.
Use hair ties or hair clips to divide your hair into sections. To help you focus on one section at a time, leave any sections you're not currently flat ironing clipped or tied up., Once you're ready, start with the first section. Take a one-inch strand of hair from this section and use your flat iron to create a wave.


Place the flat iron near your scalp and clamp down on a lock of hair. Bend the iron away from your face. Move the iron downward.Stop when about three quarters of the way down the lock. A wavy effect is achieved by not curling all the down., Take another one inch lock of hair. Repeat the above process. However, bend your hair towards your face as you curl. Waves that alternate in direction look more natural and add volume to your hair., Move through each section of hair curling one inch locks of hair at a time. Alternate between curling away from your face and then towards your face. Repeat until all your hair is curled. You should be left with a fun, wavy look.