 If you're not prepared for class, a lot of what's discussed will be lost on you. Do all the required reading before entering your classroom. You should also complete any homework assignments that are due, or do any activities your professor requested. You're unlikely to get a lot out of a class if you can't follow lectures or participate in discussions., Do this around 10 to 15 minutes before class. A quick review will allow you to see how material in your class goes together. This will help you follow the lecture or discussion and also give you a more significant understanding of the subject material.As you review your notes, pay attention to major topics. What are the main points that were covered in the last class? How do they relate to any reading and homework that was due?
Think about any overarching themes or ideas you see emerging. Try to consider what your professor may discuss today.
 Always come to class with a notebook, pen, or pencil. Some teachers may allow you to take notes using your laptop, but be very careful to avoid getting distracted by things like the internet. Good notes are vital for studying for tests and writing papers.Make sure your notes are organized. Use headings explaining each major topic. Group related materials together and avoid writing all over the page or clogging the margins. Write neatly, so you can easily read your notes at the end of class.
It can be easy to misunderstand your own notes, especially if you were writing them fast. Your handwriting may be somewhat illegible, and you may not remember what a given note meant in a month or so when studying for exams. Therefore, try typing up your notes at the end of each class period when they're fresh in your mind. They'll be more legible and organized when you refer back to them later.
 If your class has a teaching assistant, he or she can be a valuable resource for you. This can be particularly helpful in a large lecture class where it's difficult to get your professor's attention. Work on fostering a good relationship with your TA, as this can help you better understand your course material.Your TA may have taken very similar classes to you as an undergraduate. Therefore, he or she can probably easily answer a lot of your questions. Teaching assistants are also generally younger than professors. Your TA may better remember what it's like to be a student, and be able to offer you tips on how to balance school, social life, and extracurriculars.
If you're confused about an assignment or a lecture, see if you can stop your TA after class. This may be more helpful than going to your professor in some cases.
 There is no point in attending class if you're not going to pay attention. Turn your cellphone off before entering the classroom. Pay attention through the duration of the class.As you listen, pay attention the main ideas presented in this lecture. This will give you an idea of which areas to focus in on when studying later on.
Identify supporting material. What texts, or portions of your textbook, does your teacher most often bring up in discussion?
Remember to take notes as your teacher lectures.
 Do not just review your syllabus at the beginning of the year. Keep it on hand throughout the semester for review. Your syllabus is a valuable tool that can help you figure out how to best approach the course material.Your syllabus generally gives you a breakdown of how much assignments, in-class activities, tests, papers, and so on count towards your grade. Keep this in mind as you try to best direct your energies.
The syllabus will also remind you of appropriate classroom conduct, which is important to keep in mind as you navigate your classroom.

