 Countless urban legends swirl around the pit bull, so it’s important to separate the baseless notions from the real facts. Find a reliable source like a Canine Encyclopedia or breeder’s guide in order to learn more about the dog’s demeanor and activity.


If you still have questions after your research, consult a dog breeder or shelter employee for detailed and specific answers.;
, Check city and residential policies to ensure that you won’t run into any technical snags once you adopt your pit.Even if your city and state technically permit pit bulls, be aware that many residential complexes have special guidelines prohibiting the breed in particular. Even if you find a rental complex which permits your pit bull, you should be prepared to pay more in deposits or pet fees., In fact, the pit bull is bred to be aggressive with other animals—and, in particular, other dogs—but not with humans.So, unless you’re worried about your home coming under attack from a pack of wild dogs, a pit bull probably isn’t your best option for a guard dog.


If you’re looking for a guard dog, you’ll want to pick a breed that is fiercely territorial, such as a German Shepherd or a Doberman Pinscher., Warranted or not, pit bulls are widely considered dangerous and aggressive. So, keep in mind that taking a pit into your home will mean dealing with people’s preconceptions and prejudices regarding your dog.


Be prepared to field criticism from neighbors and friends alike. Widely-publicized pit bull attacks mean that many people have only heard bad things about your precious pit.A smiling, perfectly-trained pit bull is the best way to combat their prejudice.
As a practical consideration, homeowners insurance might specifically exclude pit bulls from their coverage, so double-check any insurance policies you have before taking the pit bull plunge., Pit bulls are a highly energetic breed, thus they require lots of exercise on a daily basis.You’ll need to allot at least an hour of your day to walking, jogging or playing with your pit bull. Expect this demand on your time to continue throughout your pet’s life: unlike some other large breeds, pit bulls remain energetic long after puppyhood and require plenty of mentally- and physically-stimulating activities., You wouldn’t invite another person into your home on a permanent basis without evaluating your living conditions first, and adopting a dog—especially one so large and powerful as the pit bull—warrants just the same amount of consideration.


If you have a single-family home with a yard, that’s a bonus. Remember, though, that you’ll need to install a large, sturdy fence to keep this athletic and intelligent creature in bounds.
Even large dogs like pit bulls can be good city- and apartment-dwellers.In the event that you live in an apartment, though, you’ll need to factor in more exercise and outdoor time. You should expect to take at least four long walks a day, in addition to playing indoors with games like tug-of-war., Pit bulls are highly social animals, so you’ll need to think about your own habits and consider whether or not they’re compatible with a pit bull.


Exercise isn’t the only time consideration you’ll need to make. Pit bulls do not like being left alone for long periods of time, so, in order to be a good pit bull owner, you should guarantee that your work day is consistent and not overly long or demanding of travel.Don’t count on a dog day care to compensate for your absence. Since pit bulls are often aggressive with other dogs, they don’t mesh well with highly social environments like boarding facilities., Since pit bulls are large and boisterous, you should carefully consider every person or animal with which the dog is likely to come into contact.


If you have elderly individuals or very small children in the house, you will probably want to consider a different breed. Pit bulls are unlikely to harm a person deliberately, but their rowdy behavior can be hazardous to fragile individuals.Think carefully about introducing a pit bull if there are already other dogs in the home. Despite their love of people, pits were bred as fighting dogs, thus they are often difficult to socialize with other members of their species., Whether you pick up a puppy or adult dog, you should be prepared to pay for the initial neuter or spay. At a shelter, this cost can run as low as $50.00, but a private veterinarian can charge as much as $300.00.


Don’t forget that you’ll also need to schedule an initial check-up with your local veterinarian. Expect charges for rabies and distemper vaccinations, as well as flea and heartworm medications.
 Just like humans, pit bulls can suffer from various ailments throughout their lifetimes, so you should be prepared to spend some of your income on your pet’s health.


Regular check-ups and shots are necessary to keep your dog disease- and parasite-free.
Pit bulls are, like many other large dog breeds, prone to hip dysplasia. This hip condition can be a major pain for both your dog and your wallet: treatments can run as high as $20,000.00 over the course of a lifetime., Medical plans can help you avoid incurring significant charges in the event of a serious malady, but they’ll cost you between $40.00 and $60.00 a month., Since the pit bull is so commonly maligned, you’ll need to take special care to ensure his behavior is beyond reproach.


You should seriously consider registering for a dog training class or attending a one-on-one session with a dog behavior specialist. The benefits of professional training are manifold: not only is the course likely to be more effective, but it can also help socialize your pit bull with other dogs in a safe, monitored environment.If you prefer to train your dog at home, you should still purchase some professionally-sourced training manuals and implements to assist your efforts. You will need general supplies like a leash, collar, and crate, as well as pit bull-specific provisions like break sticks, tools which are placed into the mouth of a pit bull in order to force the dog to release its grip., A pit bull can weigh anywhere between 30 and 85 pounds, so be prepared for a substantial monthly food bill.


Pit bulls should be fed twice a day in portions between 3/4 and 1.5 cups at a time.Depending on the brand and type of food you plan on giving your pet, count on spending between $20.00 and $50.00 every month on your pit bull’s food., Though pit bulls have short coats, you should plan on taking your dog to a professional groomer. A professional groomer can check your pet’s coat and skin condition for parasite activity, rashes, dryness, or other signs of irritation.


Expect a trip to the groomer to cost between $30.00 and $90.00.The groomer determines price according to size and coat condition, so they will have a breed-specific price-list available.Call your local groomer for an exact quote.

