 If space is more of a concern than weight, you will need to compress each travel item into its most compact form. Roll or bundle clothes; put smaller objects inside of larger objects; fit things together so that minimal space is left in between. Many airlines and buses limit the size of carry-on bags, so you may need to pack tight to make sure that your carry-on fits the requirements.


Avoid folding and stacking clothes. Folded clothes take up a lot of space and are more prone to becoming wrinkled during transit. Try to roll, bundle, or compress your clothes into their most compact form so they take up less room.
Put large, heavy and solid items--books, laptops, shoes, blow-driers--at the bottom of your bag. Heavy things are more secure at the bottom, and thus less likely to move around during travel. Clothes may get wrinkled when they're trapped beneath heavy objects. As a matter of convenience, you may find it easier to find small objects if they aren't trapped beneath large objects.Place fragile or easily-wrinkled items on top. Item like suits, pressed shirts, or easily-creased dresses should be laid out flat at the top of your suitcase, in a protective garment bag, if possible. Remove them from the bag and hang them up as soon as you reach your destination.
 You can put books, devices, food, and other small items into the pockets to free further space within your luggage. If it's hot, don't worry--you can always take your jacket off once you've gotten situated into a seat. If you're especially pressed for space, consider wearing several layers of clothing to free up room in your bag.
 If you roll your clothes tightly, they can take up less space than folded clothes, although perhaps more space than bundled clothing. You will need to exercise your own judgment regarding the most efficient way to roll each item. Bear in mind that rolling clothes—especially if you fold them first—may leave them wrinkled when you unpack. Do not try to roll suits, pressed shirts, and easy-to-wrinkle items.


Put socks inside matching socks, and consider putting socks inside shoes. Roll the socks into a ball, or leave them flat inside one another. You can stuff rolled socks in between other items to fill space.
Roll shirts as tight as possible. Fold the sleeves of shirts in toward the center, then roll from the bottom of the shirt up toward the neck. This applies to short-sleeve shirts, long-sleeve shirts, and jackets. Use your best judgment.
Fold pants in half so that one leg sits flat atop the other, then roll from the bottom of the pants up to the waist. These will be the bulkiest items no matter how you roll them, so plan space accordingly.
Fold underwear, then roll it as tightly as it will go. Stuff it in between other rolled items, wherever it will fit.
 If you are at all unsure about the weather conditions at your destination, consider packing layers rather than bulky "just-in-case" items like rain jackets or jeans. That way, you can layer up or down depending on whether it's hot or cold.


For example, you can pack a combination of long-sleeved and and short-sleeved t-shirts which you can wear individually or layer up if it's cold. Consider packing long-sleeved button-down shirts, and rolling the sleeves up or down as needed.
Instead of bringing bulky jeans, try packing some light-weight but cozy leggings which you can wear underneath dresses and skirts.
If you're going somewhere warm, tropical, and beachy, consider wearing your swimsuit as underwear, or wearing your swim trunks as shorts. You'll "wash" them when you go in the water, and you'll always be prepared for a dip!

, Bundling is known as an efficient packing method that makes excellent use of space and prevents clothes from becoming seriously wrinkled. You will need to wrap several items of clothing tightly around a central object such as an organizer pouch (filled with more items - of course) to form a cylindrical shaped bundle. You can pack several of these bundles into a relatively small space, making for economical packing.


When using the bundling method, place the most wrinkle-resistant items like jeans and jackets on the inside of the bundle, and more delicate, wrinkle-prone items like linen trousers and fine knits on the outside.Wrap each item individually, rather than all at once, making sure the fabric is pulled taut enough that it doesn't wrinkle, but not so tight that it stretches the material.
Once you have reached the bottom of your pile of clothing, place the bundle into your bag or suitcase and pack tightly or secure tightly with the bags tie-down straps. If the bundle is not secured properly before travelling, it may unravel, causing your clothes to crease.
 Compression bags are a great way to fit bulkier items, like ski gear or heavy winter coats, into a limited space. Compression packing bags work by removing all of the air from the bag, pushing the items within into their most compact form. Many brands offer their own version of the compression packing bag, including Spacepak bags from Flight 001 and Space bags from Ziploc.
 Don't forget about all the empty space inside your shoes that you can use for storing smaller items like socks, underwear, jewelry or anything else you can think of. When packing efficiently it is important that you use up any and all available space.


Once the shoes have been packed, place them at the bottom of your bag or along the edges of your suitcase.
If your shoes are a dirty and you don't want them touching your clothes, wrap each shoe tightly in a plastic bag before you place it into your bag. Consider wearing your dirtiest shoes--say, your hiking boots--when you're in transit so you don't need to store them amid your other things.

