 You'll need to download this either on your Android device (version 4.1 and up) or iPhone (iOS7 and up) as an app.Download the app, and sign in using your Gmail account, otherwise you won't be able to access it on your desktop.


If you don't already have a Gmail account, you'll need to Create a Gmail Account.;
, The Google Inbox app is only available on desktop through these browsers.Make sure that you have the most updated version of your browser by checking your browser version at whatbrowser.org.
 You will need to visit this webpage on your computer to access Inbox on your PC. Be sure you've first set up your Inbox app on your Android device or iPhone; not doing so will bar you from accessing it on your computer Internet browser.
 Make sure it's the same account you're using with you Inbox app. The use of another Gmail alias in place of the email address you used to sign up for Inbox will prevent you from logging in.
 The layout for your computer Inbox is generally the same as that of your phone, with a few exceptions:


If you want to flip through emails or reminders that are bundled in your inbox, hover your mouse over the bundled area. You should see two white arrows appear, one to each side of the bundle. Use these to scroll left or right through your emails or reminders, as opposed to swiping left or right, as you would on your phone.
When you hover over an email or reminder in Inbox, you'll see icons appear the right-hand side of each email snippet. These enable you to pin, snooze, mark done, and move messaged from within your folder view., A common error that occurs with your Inbox app has to do with Gmail aliases. To prevent excess clutter, Inbox does not route messages you send to your own alias.You should be able to find these messages under the "Sent Mail" or "All Mail" tabs.
 Google Inbox for desktop has a Hangouts menu already integrated in it. Click on the speech bubble in the top right-hand corner to access your Hangout conversations.
 If you need more tips about getting to know all of Inbox's features, check out How to Use Google Inbox.

