 Once you have both chords memorized stone cold, just work on moving back and forth between them. Strum the Em once, then try to move your hands right to D2. Transition back, pause, then do it again.









You should be able to go right to the chord, from memory, before learning to transition between them.
 This means you play the Em for a full count of "1, 2, 3, 4," or one whole measure. You can use any strumming pattern you want. If you're struggling, however, simply strum each chord on the one, then use the rest of the measure to prepare to shift chords until you get faster.









Remember, the Em is when you have a finger on the 2nd fret of the 5th and 4ths strings

, On the "one" of the second measure, go to the D2. Then simply alternate each measure, switching chords on the one every time.









Remember, the D2 is when you have a finger on the 2nd fret of the 3rd string, and a finger on the 3rd fret of the 2nd string.
 Always count out the song to practice your rhythm -- "1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3, 4" The earlier chords are from America's hit "Horse with No Name," and you could try to mimic the pattern on the record with a simple strum on every count of the song ("1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3, 4 // 1, 2, 3..."). If this is hard, however, just work on only one strum per measure, strumming on the one beat.









The actual song uses "swung eighth notes," which you can practice once your chords are down. Eighth notes are when you count, and play, on every beat ("1 and, 2 and, 3 and, 4 and // 1 and...") If you're curious, the "swung" part is when your alternate a hard downstroke on the count (1 and, 2 and...) with a quick upstroke on "ands." The result is a kind of plodding, horse-like rhythm.
 Once you've got the hang of things, challenge yourself to try newer strumming styles. Play a little faster, though remember to make sure you still hit the chords cleanly and without buzzing. Then, move on to several new chords and beginner songs to keep getting better.







