 You can see what version of iOS you're currently running by going to General in your iPhone’s Settings, and tapping About. This menu will show your current iOS next to Version.
 Going back to a previous iOS version will require you to restore your iPhone. Backing up your device will make sure you won’t lose any of your data such as your photos, contacts, and installed apps.

If you don’t know how to back up your iPhone, this article will show you how to do a complete back up using iCloud or iTunes.
 You will need an iPhone Software File (IPSW) to manually install iOS software on your iPhone. Make sure to include the model of your device and the iOS version you’re looking for in your Google search. For example, if you want to install iOS 10.2 on your iPhone 6S, include “IPSW iOS 10.2 iPhone 6S” in your search.

Alternatively, you can go to IPSW.me to find the file you’re looking for. This website has an up-to-date archive of IPSW files for older iOS versions.
 This file will only be used for iOS installation. You can delete it from your computer after you’re done installing your iOS.

IPSW files for older iOS versions will typically be Unsigned. This means the file is not authorized by Apple anymore. If you’re trying to install an Unsigned IPSW on your iPhone, you will first need to jailbreak your device. If you need help jailbreaking, this article will guide you through the process.
 You can use iTunes to manually install an IPSW file on your iPhone., Use your USB cable to connect., This button is located below the play button in the top-left corner of iTunes., It will be at the top of the menu under Settings.,

On a Mac, press and hold ⌥ Option on your keyboard, then click Restore iPhone.
On a PC, press and hold the Alt button on your keyboard, then click Restore iPhone.
 Find the IPSW file you’ve just downloaded, and click on it to select., iTunes will now open the IPSW file and start the installation process for your iPhone., iTunes will delete your iPhone’s current software, and replace with the IPSW file you’ve just downloaded. If you’re installing an IPSW file for iOS 10.2, your iPhone will now run iOS 10.2.