 The noise reduction rating is the number of decibels that your earplugs are blocking out. Being exposed to an environment with over 90 decibels of sound can be dangerous for your ears and hurt your hearing. Take a look at the decibel rating on the product's packaging or information page online. To determine whether you can block out enough sound, take the NRR rating, subtract the number by 7 and divide by two.Then take this number and subtract it from the likely decibel rating in the environment that you're in.


For example, 33dB earplugs at a rock concert at 100 decibels would reduce your decibel by (33-7)/2 = 13, thus reducing your exposure to noise to around 87 dB.
A rock concert can expose you to 150 decibels, and a jackhammer can expose you to around 130 decibels.
Things like the lawnmower, the subway, and construction saws can reach 100 dB.
 Disposable earplugs are the most affordable type of earplug. These earplugs are often made of foam and are a good quick solution for situations where you find yourself surrounded by loud noise. If there is an event that you need to attend, or if your job requires you to be in noisy environments occasionally, consider disposable earplugs.


A box of 200 pairs of disposable earplugs cost around $30.
 Reusable earplugs are a bit more expensive than disposable earplugs and fit inside of your ear. If you have trouble keeping disposable earplugs in your ear or want a tighter fit, reusable earplugs may be your best option.


If you aren't in noisy environments all throughout the year but do attend live concerts or other loud environments occasionally, consider investing a little extra to get this moderately priced earplug.
The cost of reusable earplugs is somewhere between $100-$200 for a box of 200., If you know that you have to be in a noisy environment regularly, custom earplugs may be your best bet, as they can cancel all noise that you might hear. These earplugs require you to take a mold of your ear and ear canal so they can fit tightly in your ears.Custom molded earplugs cost around $150., Different brands of earplugs will cost different amounts and be more and less effective. Read customer reviews online of the possible brands of earplug that you want to purchase. Eliminate brands that get overwhelmingly negative reviews or that don't cancel enough sound.


Popular noise canceling earplug brands include DUBS Acoustic Filters, ETY-Plugs, and Macks Acoustic Foam Earplugs., The comfort level of the earplugs will need to be different depending on what you're using them for. For instance, if you're using them to block out sound while you sleep, it's important that they are comfortable and stay in your ears even when you toss and turn. Other times it won't matter as much because you'll only have your earplugs in temporarily. Try out different brands of earplugs and choose ones that match your required comfort level.