 The goal of technology is to increase efficiency and save time, so if it takes a small team of full-time employees to maintain your technology, or your staff is constantly running into problems, then it is not working for you. Opt for the solutions that take the least time and effort to set up and maintain., Old computers may save money, but seconds spent every day booting up or waiting while machines grind away can add up across your workforce. Investing in new computers not only saves time, it shows your employees that you care about giving them the best tools available. They will reward you by giving you their best work., Workers who do some of their work remotely have been shown to be more productive. Another great way to boost productivity is to work during “bonus” time such as a commute or while waiting for appointments. To take advantage of this type of work, your employees need the right technology.



Laptops – Laptops are key for allowing employees to work remotely, but only if they sync with office computers and programs.

Smart phones and tablets – They allow workers to check their email and edit documents while on the go.

Programs that sync across multiple devices – Whatever is on your worker’s desktop computers should be available on their laptops, smart phones, and tablets as well. This creates a connected, flexible workforce. If employees can only access certain programs at their desk, then you lose valuable flexibility that could let them put in more hours.

Collaborative technology – Invest in business social network software like Tibbr, Jive, and Yammer, and use communication services like Skype and Google Hangouts to keep your employees connected even when they are off site.The Cloud – Moving your business onto the cloud makes work easier to share and accessible from anywhere., Think of all the time your employees spend checking in with one another to be sure tasks have been completed, or discussing their progress in meetings. Virtual task tracking software like Flow, HiTask, Producteev and Asana allows team members to instantly update their progress on a project so that other team members can access the information from anywhere.This allows for shorter meetings, less back and forth email, and thus greater efficiency., These inexpensive programs, like Todoist, Wunderlist, Task, and Pocket List, allow you to prioritize your tasks based on deadlines or other parameters, thereby ensuring that projects are finished on time., Programs designed for specific functions, like customer relations management for instance, are much more powerful and easier to use for those tasks than more generalized programs like Excel. Boost productivity by purchasing task-specific software.