 Giving verbal affection, such as saying, “I love you” or “I care about you”, is an important way to strengthen bonds and is even good for you physically and mentally.Don’t let texting or emailing the ones you love replace verbal affection. If you are apart, then pick up the phone to check in because it’s more personal, even if it takes more time.


Verbal expressions of affection are the words you speak intended to validate your positive feelings of love and affection and make your partner feel loved. This can be unique to you, your partner and your relationship as long as what you say produces the intended emotions and reinforces your affection for each other.
If you must use electronic modes of communication, sign off with a phrase like “Thinking of you” or “Miss you” instead of a something generic. , Since you won’t be able to physically touch and bolster your bond that way, you will need to tell him or her how you feel more often. This is important to maintain the closeness in your relationship and reinforce feelings of safety, comfort and trust. If possible, use Skype or Google Hangout so you can make eye contact and pick up on physical cues while talking.
 Compliments are a form of showing verbal affection that can boost self-esteem, show you care and make the ones you care about feel good. Additionally, compliments motivate people to succeed because they believe they can. Always give truthful compliments though or you risk what you said being dismissed as shallow flattery.


Look for things that you admire, appreciate or that the other person is good at to compliment. This can be anything from the way they look, a feature of their face that you particularly enjoy (such as eyes or lips), a personality trait, accomplishments, the positive way they make you feel or a skillset that you admire.
Be honest, and don’t let opportunities to compliment those you love pass you by. Tell your wife, “You have beautiful eyes” while looking at her or “You complete me”, if it’s true. Tell your husband, “You look handsome in that shirt” when he gets ready for work or “You’re a great cook” when he makes you breakfast. Tell your child, “You’re so smart” when you see a report card or “You’re good at sports” after practice.
 Stop what you are doing and interact with your partner or children so they know you care. You want them to know they are more important than anything else and that you missed them. Combine verbal affection with physical affection by giving your kids a peck on the cheek or top of the head. You may want to kiss your partner on the lips or cheek.
 A positive nickname shows that you have a special bond. The name you choose usually reflects some characteristic, habit or event related to the person. It can also be a shortened form of their legal name.


Some common nicknames include: Angel, Cowboy, Doll, Babe, Dear, Honey, Love or Sweetheart or Sweetie.
 Think of all the things the other person does for you or the ways they improve your life. Look them in the eyes and express your appreciation in a few sentences. You want them to know exactly how much you love and appreciate them and everything they do.
 If you are not saying it, you should try to make it a regular part of your vocabulary. Phrases like “You’re great”, and “I’m so lucky to have you”, are also good ways to show affection. There is probably also something specific to your relationship, such as a mutual interest in cars, that allows you to expand on these simple phrases to include descriptions of something you really love for added meaning. If you love cars, then you might use a favorite vehicle to explain how you feel by saying, “You’re my 1968 Plymouth Road Runner Hemi.”

