 You can use Apple's location tracking service, "Find My iPod", on the iPod Touch 3rd Generation and newer. You must also be running iOS 5 or newer. Find My iPod will not work on iPod Shuffle, Nano, or Classic.


Find My iPod needs to be enabled before it can work. When you update to iOS 8, it is enabled by default.
To enable Find My iPod manually, open the Settings app, tap iCloud, log in with your Apple ID, and then tap the "Find My iPod". You must have enabled Find My iPod before the device was lost.
There are other apps that can track your lost iPod, but just like Find My iPod, they all require that you install the app before you lose the iPod.;
, You can track your lost iPod using the Find My iPhone website or iOS app.


Visit icloud.com/#find on any computer to access Find My iPhone.
Download and install the Find My iPhone app on your or a friend's iOS device. If you're using a friend's iOS device, you'll be able to log in with your Apple ID as a guest. You can download the app for iPhone, iPad, and iPod Touch.
 Whether you use the website or the app, you'll be prompted to log in with your Apple ID. Make sure to log in with the same ID that is linked to the missing iPod.
 Your iPod Touch will appear on the map based on its location reported by the Wi-Fi adapter. If the iPod is not connected to a network or is turned off, you won't be able to track it but you can still lock it.
 Click the "My Devices" menu and select your iPod from the list. If your iPod is online, the map will center on its current location. If it's been turned off, the map will display the last known location.
 Click the "Play Sound" option to make the iPod play a sound, even if it's been silenced. This can help you find it if it's been turned off.
 If you're iPod is lost and you aren't able to retrieve it, you can enable Lost Mode. This will lock the device with a new passcode and allow you to display a custom message on the screen. Lost Mode requires iOS 6 or later.


You can enable Lost Mode on an iPod that isn't turned on, and it will automatically enter Lock Mode when the iPod connects to a network.
 If you're sure you're not getting your iPod back, you can erase it remotely by clicking "Erase iPad". This will delete all of the data on the iPod and lock it.Like Lost Mode, you can enable this if the iPod is offline, and it will automatically erase when it is turned on again.
 If you think your iPod Touch may have been lost or stolen and you don't have Find My iPod, you should change your Apple ID password immediately. This will protect the data in your iCloud account and Apple Pay.


You can change your Apple ID password at appleid.apple.com/.
 Besides changing your Apple ID password, you should change any other passwords for services you accessed from the iPod. This could include Facebook, Twitter, your bank, email, or anything else you may have logged into from the iPod.
 Without Find My iPod enabled, there is no way to track your iPod. To find a lost iPod without Find My iPod, you'll have to find it the old-fashioned way.


Think back to the last place you remember using it and try to track it down there. Make sure to look for places it could have fallen into, such as cracks between the couch cushions or between car seats.
 If you're sure your iPod has been stolen, you can contact your local police department to report it stolen. You'll likely need to give your iPod's serial number, which you can find on the box or at supportprofile.apple.com if you registered your iPod with your Apple ID.

