 When you’re typing, it’s important to choose a chair that provides proper support for your back. The best type of chair is one that features a slightly curved backrest so it helps maintain your normal spine curvature. It also helps to use a chair that has a cushion built in near the bottom of the backrest to provide support for your lower back.You may prefer reclining slightly in your chair to help take pressure off your back. However, keep in mind that typing in a reclined position may cause shoulder and neck strain. Moving your chair closer to the desk can help alleviate some of that stress.
If your chair doesn’t have a built-in cushion for your lower back, you can place a small pillow between your back and the chair for additional support.
 As you sit in your chair to type, make sure to keep your shoulders and neck relaxed. In most cases, you can accomplish this by sitting back against your chair’s backrest. It will help support your neck and shoulders, so you don’t have to put stress on them to keep them straight.If you’re not sure that your shoulders are relaxed, breathe in and out slowly. The position that your shoulders naturally fall in as your breathe out is usually relaxed.
 As you get comfortable in your desk chair, check that you’re keeping your elbows tucked into your sides. You may want to use a chair that has adjustable arm rests that make it easy to keep your elbows comfortably at your sides.You don’t have to use your chair’s arm rests if you don’t want to. Just make sure that your elbows remain close to your sides even without the added support.
 Once you’re settled in your chair, it helps to sit up straight with your feet planted flat on the floor so your lower body is supported. Crossing your legs or folding one underneath you make it more difficult to maintain proper posture. If you have a chair with adjustable seat, adjust the height until your feet comfortably reach the floor.If your chair doesn’t have an adjustable seat, you may want to purchase an ergonomic footrest that makes it easier to keep your feet in a flat position.
 When you're typing, you'll be able to work more quickly and accurately if you avoid resting your wrists or palms on the desk or other surface that your keyboard is on. Keep them elevated, but don't bend them up or down because that may cause discomfort. Instead, keep your wrists in a neutral position, with your thumb in line with your forearm and your wrist slightly bent back so they’re level with the keyboard.Some keyboard and keyboard trays are equipped with wrist pads, but they're not there for you to rest your wrists on as you type. They're only for brief breaks when you're not typing. If you must rest your hand on the wrist pad, try to place your palm on it rather than your wrist.
If your chair has adjustable arm rests, set them so that your forearms are parallel to the floor and your wrist is a neutral position.
 For the most effective typing, your keyboard should be just above lap level, which is lower than most people actually set theirs up. The benefit to placing your keyboard at this height is that it allows you to tilt your arms down so your elbows are in an open, 90 degree angle.You may want to invest in an adjustable keyboard and mouse tray that you can attach to your desk or work surface. That will allow you to position the keyboard at the most comfortable height.
If you don't have a keyboard tray, try adjusting your chair's height to make your position more comfortable.

