 In the wild, cockatiels will be ready to mate when they have access to sources of fat and protein in their environment. If your cockatiel’s diet is rich in fat and protein, her body will essentially be in a constant state of being ready to mate and lay eggs.You should not go as far as removing all of the fat and protein out of her diet, but you can start giving her more low-fat foods, such as fruits and vegetables.Decrease her intake of birdseed, since this is typically high in fat.
Consult with your avian veterinarian for guidance on making her diet more healthy without cutting out any important nutrients.;
, The more places that your cockatiel can find to nest, the more likely she will lay eggs. Potential nesting sites include just about any areas that are dark and quiet on the inside where she can hide, such as empty cardboard boxes, small bird tents, and old clothes. If you occasionally let your cockatiel out of her cage, she may also try to seek out other locations for nesting, such as closets and empty cabinets.Keeping her in her cage more often will reduce the chances of her finding places in your house to nest., For wild and captive cockatiels, the urge to mate will begin when there is more than 12 hours of daylight (spring and summertime). Your cockatiel may be laying eggs because her cage is receiving 12 or more hours of direct sunlight. Try moving her cage to an area of your house where it will not be in the direct path of sunlight for more than half of the day.Another option is to partially cover her cage with a towel or piece of bed linen during the day to keep out the direct sunlight., If you spend a lot of time bonding with your cockatiel, you may not realize that she might see you as a mate. Doing things such as petting her head or scratching under her wings mimics what cockatiels do in the wild with their mate, as either a mating ritual or regular preening.Although you want to have a good relationship with your cockatiel, you certainly do not want her to mistake you as an object of her affection!


Talking to your cockatiel and having her in the room with you are ways in which you can bond without her seeing you as her mate.Cockatiels are very vocal and enjoy talking, so she may even start talking back to you.Your cockatiel may also see an inanimate object, such as a stuffed animal or mirror, as a potential mate.Remove these items from her cage.
 Molting occurs when a bird sheds her old feathers and grows new ones. A female bird will typically molt after she has finished laying her eggs and weaned her babies. For your cockatiel, inducing her to molt after she has laid her eggs will send a signal to her body that she should not try to lay any more eggs. You can induce molting by making changes to her environment, such as moving her cage to a different location or rearranging some of the items in her cage., This will be important if you have more than one cockatiel. If you have two females and one is a chronic egg layer, she may stimulate your other female to lay eggs as well.If you have a male and a female cockatiel, the male may want to mate with your female cockatiel. If either situation applies to you, it will be good to separate your cockatiels to reduce the likelihood of excessive egg laying.If you have a male and female cockatiel, trying to breed them to stop her from laying eggs is not recommended for several reasons. First, they simply might not be a good match for each other. Also, there is a risk of disease transmission if you do not know their disease statuses. In addition, your relationship with your female cockatiel may suffer, especially if you try to mate her and something goes wrong., On average, a female cockatiel will lay about five to eight eggs at a time. She will be able to feel her eggs beneath her when she is laying on them, and will know when she has laid all of her eggs.To stimulate the feeling that she has finished laying all of her eggs, you can place marbles or scotch mints in her nesting site.Place the mock eggs in the nesting site when your cockatiel happens to stand up and move away from the nesting site.
Mock eggs are also available at your local pet store.

