 Before you can begin to overcome a fear of success, you have to understand what success means to you.Even though it may be tough to pinpoint specifically what being successful means to you, doing this will help you understand exactly what it is you’re fearing.


Be sure to identify your vision for personal and professional success.
Ask yourself, “What does success look and feel like to me? How will I know if I’m successful? What will I do and how will I act when I’m successful?”
Write down as your answers to these questions. Include answers that may not seem to relate to success if they pop into your head. For example, if you think “Success looks like luxury,” write that.
Be as specific as possible. For example, instead of writing, “If I have a lot of money I’ll know I’m successful,” write something like, “I’ll know I’m successful when I have $10 million in savings.”;
, Sometimes when we are afraid we can recognize the feeling, but not still understand exactly what we’re afraid of. In order to overcome your fear, you have to ask yourself what specifically you are afraid of and where the fear cam from.Once you know what you’re really afraid of, you can work to overcome your fear.


Try asking yourself, “Am I fearful of this because someone put it in my head? Or, is it based on past mistakes or failures?” If the fear is truly unfounded, this may help you let go of it.
Look over your list of definitions of success. Think about each item on the list and how you feel about it. For instance, if success is winning a football championship, how will you feel if you do win?
Write a few words that describe how you feel about each item. For instance, if you wrote “success is graduating,” you might write, “means I’m not a child anymore; makes me nervous about responsibilities.”
Pay attention to signs of success that give you negative feelings. For example, if you listed financial security as a sign of success and you noted it makes you think of loneliness, you may want to explore why this is.
 Being honest with yourself about just how your fear of success is holding you back is one way to overcome it.Take some time to think about specific ways in which your fear of success is limiting your potential and your future success.


Write down examples of how you have sabotaged yourself. For instance, you might write, “I procrastinated on my report.”
Also, write about what might have happened if you hadn’t let your fear hold you back. For example, you may write something like, “I could have gotten the raise and afford the vacation I want.” Take a moment to thoroughly visualize yourself succeeding. Positive visualizations may help to eliminate your fear.
 Writing a short statement declaring that you aren’t going to let fear stop you from succeeding and reaching your goals any more is a concrete way to overcome your fear. Doing this can help you improve your self-confidence, as well as remind you that your fear of success doesn’t control your life.


Write a sentence or two along the lines of, “I am not a victim of my fear. I am not afraid of success. I will be successful and I will enjoy it.”
Read your statement out-loud on a regular basis. For instance, you might read it before work each morning or before a major presentation. You can also read your declaration to an accountability partner who can help keep you focused on your goal. You may be more likely to follow through with things if someone is holding you accountable.

