 It is very common for two friends/best friends to fall in love or fancy each other after being friends for quite a long time. Knowing what your crush's hobbies, interests and turn-offs are will boost your chances of becoming his/her partner.

Try talking to them as a friend first. If you approach the person as a crush, they will only see you as someone who likes them. This could potentially be problematic if they don't like you because they will be less likely to want to get to know you. Become friends first, and then later try to pursue them.
Make sure they feel comfortable around you, through communication. Get to know him or her and let them know you (what you like, what you don't like....etc.) This determines whether you are compatible or not.
 Hang out with the crush. Not one-on-one yet, but maybe ask your crush and one or two other friends to go to the park or come over to play video games or something. This way, you can see and interact with each other in a more natural environment.


Do activities together. The more you interact, the more they'll think of you. It's a no-brainer!
Eventually, you could ask the crush if he or she wanted to do something casual with you one-on-one. Maybe it’s a sport or a movie. Figure out what interests the crush and ease into the suggestion.
 Apart from having an unhappy or forced relationship, pushing things too fast could also ruin the bond you’ve already created, which could lead to losing him/her as a friend as well. Be patient!


Clinging is one of the things people dislike most in a relationship. Give your crush his or her space, and let any relationship unfold at a natural pace.
Do not stalk the person. Not only is this inappropriate, but it can be illegal – and it doesn’t work. Do not flirt uncontrollably with the crush. Do not make sure you hear everything about this person, either. Don’t try to be around the crush constantly. If they ever did like you, this will put them off.
Hang out together, have fun and talk. If it's meant to be, it'll happen. If not, there are plenty of other fish in the sea. Don't try to make your crush love you. Love is not a game.
 They say the best relationships consist of the best of friends! Get to know your crush, and they'll get to know you. More importantly, let the crush know they can trust you and turn to you.


Help the person out whenever your crush needs help or support and be there for the crush at the right time. Be attentive to their wants and needs. If your crush forgets lunch one day and you can afford to get them a snack or share your lunch, they'll greatly appreciate your kindness and compassion.
Make them a priority, and be there when they really need it. Be the kind of person they can rely on because you do what you say you will do. Be affirmative. Make your crush feel good about himself or herself.
 Get interested in things he/she is interested in. Say, for instance, your crush loves everything about sports. Watch some more sports games so if they start talking about sports with your friends, you'll actually know what they're talking about.If your crush loves older music, ask what their favorite song is. Then, listen to the music, and see if you can find similar songs they might also like.
All you can do is be yourself around your crush, and see how the cards play out. Remember to pay attention to your crush's likes and dislikes and to be aware of their feelings and their interests, but don’t adopt interests that truly bore you.

