 DEET stands for either N,N-diethyl-m-toluamide or N,N-diemethylbenzamideis. It is a reliable mosquito repellent that has been in use in the US since the late 1950s under brands like Cutter, Repeller, and Off! You can find DEET mosquito repellents at most outdoors, sporting goods, and hardware stores in lotion and spray forms.DEET can be highly effective. But be aware that these repellents come in different concentrations, from 5% to 100% DEET.
Be aware that DEET’s toxicity is still under study and be careful with it especially if you’re using it on children. Some kids may have skin irritation and can also have harmful reactions if they accidentally swallow some.However, know that DEET repellents are still considered safe for children in low concentrations. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends levels of no more than 35% for kids.;
, Picaridin was created by Bayer corporation in the 1980s as an alternative active ingredient to DEET and has been available in repellents in the US since 2005. It’s as effective in keeping away mosquitos but lacks some of DEET’s unpleasant qualities. Consider it if you’re wary of DEET.Know that Picaridin is safe and as effective as DEET in similar concentrations. It is also odorless, non-oily on the skin, and will not cause skin irritation or melt plastics.
Look for brands at the pharmacy or outdoors store like Cutter Advanced and Skin So Soft Bug Guard Plus.
 Permethrin is another proven repellent. It has been used in agriculture, for lice in humans and animals, and as a repellent for mosquitos, ticks, and other insects. It can also last a long time. The thing that makes this product stand out, however, is that it’s used on clothes rather than on skin.Be assured that Permethrin is fairly safe. While it causes skin irritation in some cases, the product is biodegradable in only a few weeks when it bonds to the soil or clothing.
Permethrin is low in toxicity to birds and mammals. However, it is more toxic to insects, bees, and fish, so you’ll need to avoid accidentally contaminating blooming crops and water with it.
 There are a number of mosquito repellents with other kinds of active ingredients, many derived from plants. You might want to consider these products if you are concerned about the possible side effects and toxicity of chemicals like DEET or Permethrin.You might try a repellent with oil of lemon eucalyptus, a synthetic form of the naturally occurring oil in eucalyptus leaves. This compound is as effective as 15%-20% concentrations of DEET.
Don’t use oil of lemon eucalyptus on children, as its safety hasn’t been tested. Don’t confuse it with the natural variety, either, lemon eucalyptus oil. This is a different product and hasn’t been tested and approved as a repellent.
Think about trying repellents that use citronella, lavender, sassafras, peppermint, or soy oils as active ingredients, too. These have all been tested and are moderately effective, though less than synthetic counterparts.

