 Go to memrise.com and choose a username or sign in with Facebook.;
, In the language section of the site alone there are courses in over 200 languages available, including invented languages like Elvish and Klingon. The course screen should roughly indicate how many hours it will take to complete. A course may be divided into levels so it is easier to manage. To choose a course, click to the 'Browse' button at the top of the site. You can then sort through courses by language or popularity or search for keywords. Once you've found a great course (or three), click on 'Start Learning'!

, Memrise uses a garden as a metaphor for memory. When you start learning a course, the vocabulary items will be planted as 'seeds'. As you are tested on them through typing and multiple choice tests, they be transferred from your 'greenhouse' (short term memory) into your 'garden' (long term memory).
 Once an item of vocabulary is in your long term memory, it will need to be watered (tested on) periodically. If you get the answer right in the test, you won't need to water it again very soon, and vice versa. Growing and watering items and creating mems will give you a certain number of points each time.
 According to Memrise, "A mem is anything that helps you create a connection between a word and its meaning. Often colloquially called “educational memes”, a mem could really be a photo, GIF, mnemonic, video, cartoon, example sentence, etymology or even a witty remark. The only end goal of a mem is to enrich your learning by helping you commit something to long term memory in an enjoyable, vivid way." Look at mems other people have made to help you remember something; rate mems or make your own to help other people remember things too!

, If there isn't one that suits your needs, or you want to make a course based on what you personally find difficult, create your own! You can make your course unlisted, so just you can see it, or public and share it with the world. Just click on the 'Create' button at the top of the website.
 Get to know other users on the forums. Fill out your profile with a picture and a short bio. Leave comments on the courses you study with any questions you might have, errors you spotted or simply to say how much you liked it. Once you've 'followed' another user, you can see their activity on your Leaderboard. Engage with the community to improve everyone's learning experience.

