 You have one of the toughest decisions of all ahead now: finding the right boat. You want to get a boat that's tough, especially if this is your first inflatable boat.

A good choice is a 30 gauge plus vinyl PVC or more. You can get inflatable boats in PVC or hypalon. Hypalon is more durable and lasts longer, but nothing inflatable lasts forever. PVC boats are cheaper and can be long lasting and tough, you just have take care of them.;
, Now that you have the boat, consider this on some inflatable boats, you can add trolling motors! Trolling motors come in handy for fishing and certain weather such as wind. Paddling is hard and is not fast or easy.
 Consider all the fun recreational options it provides. Fishing is optional; make sure you can cast cautiously, even thought the boat may be durable and tough, puncture resistant, etc, it still would be wise to use caution. Floating is another option, so is just jumping off and swimming!

, You know what they say "a boat is an endless money drain". This is true, especially on the day you get the boat, you will need paddles (if not included), life vests, an anchor, an electric/ manual air pump (if not included/owned), and rope for anchor (if not owned). This can all add up to an additional $40+.

The life vests should be nice, adjustable ones. The paddles should be classic 48"+ french oars if you want to steer the boat like a regular. you can use kayak paddles if you are experienced with paddling.
The anchor should be an 8 pound mushroom anchor. You can get spiked ones, but they are not as east to base, they get caught, etc. Mushroom anchors are also very easy and are favorites of boaters with small boats. They catch in mud and gravel easy and don't catch on plants easy.
 After use on the water, you should wash your boat inflated. This helps get rid of sand, chemicals, etc that could damage your boat. Use dish soap and a sponge and wipe the boat down. Rinse and repeat several times and let the boat dry completely before storage.

If you are storing inflated, just scrub, rinse repeat and dry off a bit and put it up!

