 Think about how many days you want to camp and whether you want access to bathroom or cooking facilities.


Spread out the activities in your itinerary. If you go hiking one day, plan on swimming or barbecuing the next day.
Look up easy camping recipes.Not only will this help you decide what food to bring, it will tell you what cooking tools are necessary.
Pack your items in advance. Start with essential items like first aid kits and flashlights and end with optional gear like skewers and marshmallows.
 Make sure the environment and scenery are to your liking.


For first time campers, pick a campground that is not so deep in the wilderness. National Parks like Yosemite or Yellowstone are great first time camp spots.
If you don't want to "rough it" but still want to enjoy the outdoors, National Parks and National Forests are ideal. They usually provide restrooms, showers, picnic tables, fire rings, and sometimes laundry facilities.Keep in mind the season and weather. If camping during the summer, pick a spot next to a lake or river. For colder seasons, camp near the woods.Find out if there are any local attractions that you can visit during your stay. For example, if you're camping in Yellowstone, you might want to check out the Old Faithful Geyser.
 Camp grounds are either on public or privately owned land. In either case, you are often required to notify the grounds ahead of time before setting up camp.


Call or book your reservation online. You will need to supply vital information like your name, address, and billing information.
You will need to notify the grounds of your arrival time and length of stay. Grounds management may also ask if you require a wheelchair accessible campsite or if you are bringing any pets.After providing the necessary information, the grounds will notify you if they have available reservations.
Be sure to make your reservation long in advance. This will give you enough time to pick the right campsite and plan your trip accordingly.
National Parks and other public grounds sometimes allow you to camp without a reservation. You will be informed of which areas you are allowed to camp in and what living quarters you are allowed to bring (whether RVs are allowed and what size)., Before setting up camp, you must notify management that you have arrived for safety and tracking reasons.


You will be assigned a certain site within the grounds or you may have the option of picking a site.
If you're camping in hot weather, choose a place close to a water supply and under some shade. Tents can become oven-like in the summer, so be sure to pick the coolest spot possible.If your campsite offers facilities, choose an area that is a reasonable distance from a bathroom or shower. If you become injured in some sort of way, having access to running water is better than using water from a lake or river.
 Before going on a hike or exploring the wilderness, be sure to disclose your plan in full detail.


Provide details of where you're going, when you plan on returning, and directions and alternate routes that can be taken. Supply your cell phone number if you brought a cell phone.If camping on public grounds, know how to contact the park or forest rangers. If camping on private land, keep a cell phone with local authority numbers already programmed into the phone (for example, state police or sheriff's department).If camping alone, keep your compass or cell phone with you at all times. In case of an emergency, you will need to know how to contact park rangers or navigate to secure areas.
 Every campground has a set of safety and courtesy regulations that every camper must follow.


Get clearance and required permits for planned activities. Some places have rules and restrictions regarding fishing and hiking. Inquire about these at the ranger station or check online.
Make sure you are using environment safe equipment. Ask campground personnel about seasonal fire or campstove restrictions ahead of time.Check with local park or forest agents about how to properly store your food. The last thing you want to wake up to is a hungry bear rummaging through your watercooler.
Be safe. Only camp and congregate in authorized areas. Areas that have been declared "off-limits" are in place to protect you from animals or other environmental dangers, or to protect the local vegetation and wildlife.Respect the wildlife. Don't litter and don't feed any local animals. Remember that you are a guest in this natural habitat.
Be courteous. When camping on public grounds, chances are you will be near fellow campers who are also trying to enjoy the outdoors. Try not to be too loud or too imposing when pursuing activities.
 Begin unpacking your items and pitching tents.


Try to set up camp while the sun is up. Organizing food and pitching tents is much more difficult in campfire or lantern light.
Position your items in a practical manner. Place tents away from fire sources and close to water sources, store food in easily accessible but safe areas, and keep safety materials like flashlights and first aid kits in every tent.
When done with a campfire, douse it with plenty of water. Remember the classic words of Smokey the Bear: "Only you can prevent wildfires."Be sure that you take all your items with you when you break camp. Any garbage should be picked up and thrown away. Use a broom to brush away residual food particles so that you do not attract wildlife.

