 When it comes to bread baking, adding yeast is the surest way to get bread to rise. When you mix flour, water and yeast together, the yeast releases enzymes that break down the flour into simple sugars. The yeast consumes the sugars and produces carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol. As a result, air bubbles form in the dough, helping it rise to tall, fluffy heights.When you don't add enough yeast, the dough is unable to rise properly. Make sure you use the exact amount called for in the recipe you're using. For example, this recipe for white sandwich bread calls for 2 1/4s teaspoon yeast. It's not much, but it's just enough to make the dough rise correctly.
On the other hand, using too much yeast will negatively affect the flavor of the bread.;
, Most bread recipes call for either instant yeast or what's called active dried yeast. Instant yeast can be added directly to flour and other dry ingredients. Active dry yeast, on the other hand, must be "activated" before you can mix it in with the rest of the ingredients. This prepares the yeast to release the enzymes required to help the dough rise. To activate yeast,


Measure out the amount of yeast the recipe calls for. The recipe may instruct you to mix the yeast with a certain amount of either warm water or warm milk. Make sure the liquid is not to cold or hot, or the yeast won't activate.
Wait for the mixture to start bubbling. It should take anywhere between two and five minutes. When the yeast bubbles, you know it's "live," meaning it will rise your dough. If it never bubbles, the yeast may be old. You'll have to use different yeast.
If a recipe calls for instant yeast, but you only have live active yeast, you can make a substitution. Measure out the amount of yeast called for. Mix it with a small amount of water subtracted from the total amount of water to be added later in the recipe. This will ensure the moisture of the dough is correct., Follow the instructions in your recipe to mix the dough and knead it well. In most cases you will be instructed to knead for 10 minutes, using either your hands or the dough hook attachment on your mixer. Kneading the dough helps to distribute the yeast thoroughly. Kneading also causes the dough to glutenize and become stretchy. This will help it rise more effectively and result in a delicious chewy texture.


When you're finished kneading the dough, it should form easily into a ball that doesn't fall apart. The dough should barely stick to the sides of the bowl you're using.
If the dough falls apart or is extremely sticking, you need to add either more water or more flour. The texture of the dough is important at this stage.
 After kneading, the next step is usually to let the dough rise. Place the ball of dough in a lightly oiled bowl and cover it with plastic wrap or a dishcloth. Put the bowl in a warm spot in your kitchen to wait for it to double in size. Look for a spot that isn't close to doors or open windows. The warmer the spot, the faster the dough will rise.


If you can't find a good warm spot in your kitchen, preheat the oven to 200 degrees Fahrenheit, then turn it off. Place the bowl in the oven and keep the oven door slightly ajar. This warm environment is the perfect place for dough to rise.
If the dough is kept at a cooler temperature, it may take extra time to rise. Even if your recipe says you should let the dough rise for an hour, you don't actually want to stop letting it rise until it has doubled in size, no matter how long it takes.
 After the first rise, many recipes will instruct you to shape the dough, then let it rise again. Punch it down, then knead it for the instructed amount of time. Shape the dough into a loaf, then prepare it for a second rise. The second rise will ensure that the finished bread is deliciously fluffy and light, so don't skip this step.


Put the dough in a loaf pan, divide it into rolls, or otherwise shape it according to the recipe you're following.
The second rise should be conducted like the first one. Cover the dough, put in a warm spot, and let it rise until it has doubled in size.

