 Your knowledge of cause and effect with regards to your possessions and so on is directly tied into your ability to increase the amount that you own. The more knowledge you have of cause and effect the more likely you are to gain more because you know how to make it happen.
 People have more resources than they think usually, and knowing the resources that you have available to you allows you to organize or gather them in ways that leave you with possessions. Think what resources are in nature - forests, beaches, plains, mountains. What resources can be found in cities - scrapyards, charity shops?, When you make your own possessions you gain exactly the possessions that you want with the only cost being the cost of the resources necessary to make that thing and the effort and time that it takes to make it. It is often incredibly fun too and makes what you can own limited to your imagination. Through making your own possessions you begin to develop creative and problem solving skills as well as becoming more skillful with your hands., Buying in bulk is one way to minimize the cost of everything you buy to the point that you effectively buy it for free. Supermarkets and shops exist to break bulk and sell individual items in order to create a profit. If you go to the place that supermarkets buy from they will often be happy to sell you bulk items for the required price - which makes each individual item in that bulk considerably lower than the supermarkets and shops., Wastefulness and resourcefulness are on opposite ends of the spectrum and being less wasteful with what you have leaves you with more possessions at the end of the month - think on how you are wasting your money, the things you buy and the things you already own - are you putting them to their best use? Are you throwing them away when they still have use left in them? Are you buying new ones when you can repair the ones you already have?, Building networks of people is one surefire way to figure out who you need to talk to in order to gain possessions and property. Through utilizing networks you can look for job opportunities, see what people are selling and buying, see what people are willing to trade for, you also gain a list of skilled workers and laborers that you can pay if you want to engage in any endeavor. Networks allow for many opportunities for economic growth., Money is a very important thing when it comes to owning more possessions and having even a little knowledge of how monetary systems work will aid significantly in owning more things. Planning your finances effectively is how you coordinate all of your monetary activities and allows you to produce timescales and plans for your own economic growth. Budgeting, producing purchasing plans, keeping track of your expenditures - this is how you track how you are doing financially., This skill saves a lot of money in the long run and allows for you to own more possessions. Over time, its a skill that takes patience and discipline but it is economically justified. The internet makes this step much easier - things that are expensive in shops are often incredibly cheap online with the only downside being that you do not get them right away. which is almost always an economically justified cost., The amount of money that can be saved from simply searching for a discount online is substantial. Many companies have promotions and deals on offer that allow you to get the same thing at a fraction of the cost - even a quick search for '(your item) discount' online can be very beneficial financially., In any given city there are usually a handful of retailers which are buying things in order to resell. These retailers can be key to both building contacts and having a place to sell any items which you come into possession of for some extra cash in order to get what you want - try furniture retailers, scrapyards, computer parts shops and markets. By doing this wherein there is not a set price for everything you learn key skills of bartering and haggling that aid you significantly in all off your successive transactions., Money can fill this role well but it does not just have to be a monetary thing - it can be skilled labor, property or some other possession that you keep exclusively for trading. Think of marbles - when playing marbles you have a taw, and if you ever lose your taw you lose your ability to play marbles. Make sure you always have something you can trade.