 Most teachers explain homework instructions at the time the assignment is given. If the instructions are verbal, write them down in your notebook or planner as your teacher explains the assignment. If the instructions are written, listen for any additional instructions or hints your teacher may give and take notes on those.


Review the homework assignment immediately, even if the dismissal bell is about to ring and you’re eager to leave. Ask your teacher for clarification if you don’t understand the details of the assignment.;
, If your teacher talks too fast, or you feel distracted at the time he or she explains the homework, ask your teacher to write or post the instructions where you can see them. This allows you to gather information needed to understand the assignment at your own pace.


In the short-term, this generally works best for assignments with easily summarized details--e.g., problems 1-35, odd numbers only, on page 82 in your textbook. For more complex assignments, you can ask your teacher to put the information on the board, but they may decline and offer to explain it to you after class instead.
If you consistently have trouble copying down the details of your teacher’s assignments, consider approaching them after class one day, explaining your difficulty, and asking if your teacher would be willing to start writing the details of future assignments on the board so you can copy them down without feeling rushed or panicked.
 Ask your teacher for clarification on homework instructions. If you don’t understand how to do your homework because the instructions aren’t fully clear, clarify the assignment instructions with your teacher or instructor after class ends.If you’re worried about arriving late to your next class, you can usually ask your teacher to write and sign a note explaining your tardiness to your next period’s teacher. Alternatively, you can try approaching your teacher after school ends, but this can cause a problem if your teacher leaves early or if you need to catch a bus home.
At most colleges and universities, and at some high schools, your instructors will generally have office hours posted in a syllabus or on an office door. During these hours, they’re usually available to help students with questions. You can try stopping by if you need quick clarification, but for more detailed questions, it might be better to schedule a specific time to meet., If you don’t understand the homework because your teacher explained the assignment in a way that doesn’t make sense, ask other teachers if they can explain the assignment differently.This often works best if you approach a teacher you already know, whether you know them from a previous year’s class or through an extracurricular activity. If you don’t know any other teachers, consider asking a friend in another class to introduce you to their teacher instead of approaching that teacher on your own.
Don’t worry too much about hurting your teacher’s feelings or pride. A good teacher will want what’s best for their students. That being said, be sure to avoid insulting your teacher’s ability to teach when asking for help since that may hurt your long-term relationship with your instructor.

