 When you are charged with a crime, you are being held responsible for a violation of a public law. In a civil case you can be forced to pay money. In a criminal case, you can be imprisoned.If you have been charged with a minor crime, called a misdemeanor, you can be confined in the county jail for up to one year.A felony is a more serious class of crimes that can lead to incarceration in a state prison from six months to the death penalty. A felony conviction can also lead to the loss of your right to vote, own firearms, get a job, and obtain professional licenses and permits.There is also a class of laws called infractions. These petty offenses usually carry a fine and the risk of losing a privilege, such as your driver's license.;
, Criminal defense attorneys in many situations will expect most if not all of the money upfront. Sometimes the fees will be staggered. You may have to pay all of the money upfront for all of your representation up to trial and then make an additional payment if your case is going to trial. Some criminal defense may be amendable to talking real property instead of cash (this may include cars, boats or houses). Depending on the area, expect to pay between $100 and $300 per hour with a retainer ranging from $1,500 for a misdemeanor to a minimum of $5,000 for a felony.Contingency fee arrangements are prohibited in most jurisdictions. Criminal defense attorneys are not allowed to make fees dependent on a promise of results.Expensive does not automatically mean better or more competent. A criminal defense attorney who practices out of his house because he spends all of his time in court may charge less than an attorney with a fancy office and large staff. Every bit of elegant decor is paid for with legal fees.
 The sixth amendment of the constitution states that citizens have the right to counsel in criminal proceedings.In 1963, the Supreme Court determined that indigent defendants had a right to an attorney at state expense.States define being indigent differently and some states will not appoint a public defender to someone who is out on bond. However, if you are low income, you can apply through the court via a Pauper's Affidavit and financial statement.A study comparing the efficacy of public defenders versus private attorneys appointed by the court in major felonies found that the clients with public defenders had equal or better outcomes., You can put this list together in several ways. The local bar association should have a roster of attorneys in the area who practice criminal law.You can also go through the phone book, conduct online searches, and take down information from advertisements.


Most criminal defense attorneys still get their clients through referrals. Many criminal defense attorneys specialize in certain areas (DUI, drug arrests, etc.). Talk to friends or colleagues and ask them who they would recommend. If you have any friends or relatives who are routinely in trouble with the law, they may be a good source for referrals. However, do not talk about the details of your case. If you say too much, the person could potentially be called into court to testify against you.
 You need to look at reputation, availability, and cost. You can call law offices and ask about the hourly rate, retainer amount, and if the firm is taking new clients. You are looking for the right fit of quality and affordability.


Many criminal defense attorneys are solo practitioners rather than part of a large firm. The advantage can be lower cost because they have less overhead and flexibility to meet with you during off-hours. On the other hand, a solo practitioner may have fewer resources and be more difficult to contact because defense attorneys spend much of their time in court. You need to think about your comfort level. Are you comfortable leaving messages or do you want the phone answered every time? If so, you may prefer working with a multi-lawyer law firm.
 Complaints against attorneys are handled by the legal disciplinary authority for your state. Most states have online searchable records of disciplinary hearings and results, up to and including disbarment.Criminal defense attorneys are magnets for frivolous complaints from disgruntled clients. If you find a disciplinary action against a potential lawyer, read it thoroughly and don't be afraid to ask her about it.
 All practicing attorneys are licensed by the state bar and must meet annual requirements for training and continued education. Reputation is harder to explore.


Attorney client lists are confidential. However, if your county has online dockets or a public records terminal, sometimes you can search by the attorney's name and see what kind of cases she has handled.
You can also conduct online searches of both the attorney and client names to find records, written court opinions, and newspaper articles. The tone of what you find can help you determine if the attorney has a good reputation and is someone you can trust.
Perform an online search of the attorney's name along with words like "review," "complaint," and "scam." These searches can lead you to online complaint sites, blogs, and forums. Read these complaints thoroughly and take them with a grain of salt. Emotions run high in criminal cases and many clients and their families are unhappy with the outcomes. However, if the complaints have a common theme, then this is a red flag that you may want to consider another lawyer.
 Criminal cases move fast in the early stages and you may have a court date before you have a lawyer. Do not miss your court date. If you are making a good faith effort to hire an attorney, most judges will give you extra time. If you fail to appear, the judge will issue a warrant for your arrest.
 Most lawyers offer a free consultation. You can speak freely during the initial meeting. The more information the lawyer has, the better she can evaluate your case. Attorneys are bound by confidentiality even with potential clients and are not allowed to reveal information they learn during an interview.You may need to have your friends or family help get you a lawyer when you are in jail. If you are not sure about the lawyer your family hired, you may use the person just at the arraignment, and conduct a search for a new lawyer when you are released.
Inquire about the lawyer's communication policy. Criminal cases are very stressful. However, there may also be long stretches between court dates where little or nothing happens. Your lawyer should agree to communicate with you at least once per month and at least once during the week before a court appearance. You have a right to reasonable communication, but not hand-holding.Find an attorney who makes you feel comfortable with her level of contact.



Start with general questions about background, education, and areas of practice. Is she a criminal specialist or does she have a general practice? How much of her caseload is criminal cases? Does she have the resources to take your case to trial if needed? Questions like this can give insight into her competence and ability to handle your case.
Ask about her court experience in the county where you are charged with the crime. An attorney with local experience will be familiar with local procedures, the temperament of prosecutors, and how to manage her court schedule.
Experience, as in years in practice, is not always the determining factor. A three-year criminal attorney who handles 300 cases a year may be more qualified than a ten-year attorney with a general practice who only goes to court once a week.
If you are charged with a serious felony, it is important to ask about trial experience. The vast majority of cases are handled by plea agreement. In lower level cases you want a shrewd negotiator who has a good relationship with the prosecutor. If incarceration is a serious possibility because of the level of the crime or your history, you need a trial specialist. Ask about the number of trials she has conducted, the types of charges, and the outcomes.
Steer clear of hyperbole. It is perfectly acceptable for you to ask about a lawyer's successful cases. Confidence is good, but boasting and promising to "get you off" should trigger alarm bells. You want an attorney who will work for your best interests, not just for bragging rights. Quiet competence is often the sign of the best attorney for the job.
 Criminal courts are open to the public. If you have time, observe your prospective attorney in action. Look at her ease, communication skills, professionalism, and how she treats her clients.
 This is the contract between you and your lawyer. You need to make sure you understand it and have all your questions answered before you sign. Under the ethical rules of the profession, the retainer agreement will have certain parts.


The hourly rate, retainer, and billing methods must be clearly spelled out.The scope of the attorney's representation must be clearly spelled out. A flat-fee agreement, in particular, must state whether or not it will include representation at trial.The retainer should also address how both sides can terminate the agreement. In particular, how termination for non-payment will be handled. You don't want a missed invoice to leave you stranded in the middle of discovery. Once a criminal case gets past the first appearance, your attorney will have to file a motion to withdraw with the court., Arrange for payment of the flat fee or retainer. Most attorneys will not file and entry of appearance with the court until there is a payment agreement. After that, attend all court dates and be completely honest with your lawyer. She can only give you good representation if she has all the information.

