 Regular exercise helps gradually slow down your resting heart rate. As your cardiovascular system strengthens so does your heart and in return it needs to work less to maintain circulation.You should get at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity every week.Also, add regular strength training exercises to your weekly schedule to strengthen your muscles.
Always consult your doctor before starting a new exercise program.
 Obesity is another risk factor for heart disease — the larger your body size is the harder your heart must work to supply oxygen-rich blood throughout your body. Thus, losing weight can help slow down an elevated heart rate.


In order to lose weight, you need to eat fewer calories than your body consumes, without entering starvation mode (you should consume no less than 1,050 – 1,200 calories). When this negative calories balance occurs, your body is forced to burn stored fat for energy.
If you burn 500 calories (or are have a negative balance of 500 calories) a day, you will burn 3,500 calories a week, which equals to one pound of fat. Maintaining this balance for 10 weeks would equal to 10 pounds of fat.Add regular aerobic and strength training exercise to your weekly schedule to burn calories. The amount of calories you burn during an exercise depends on your age, gender and weight. Use an exercise calorie counter to assess how many calories you burn per exercise.Consume a healthy, low-fat diet consisting of vegetables, fruits, lean meats, seafood, whole grains and low-fat milk products.
Use a basal metabolic rate calculator and food calorie counter to analyze how many calories per day you need and to count the calories in your diet., Stress stimulates the sympathetic nervous system and can increase your resting heart rate. Relaxation exercises, such as meditation, yoga and tai chi, and other stress-lowering techniques help lower your heart rate over time. Add these to your weekly schedule to promote healthy heart rate.


Try different relaxation techniques, such as autogenic relaxation, progressive muscle relaxation, visualization, and/or deep breathing, and pick one that fits your lifestyle and schedule the best.Sign up for yoga or tai chi classes at your local gym or do them at home using DVDs, books or free youtube videos.
Hypnosis, meditation and massage can also help clear your mind and help your body relax.
 Smoking can increase your resting heart rate and is associated with other health risks, such as cancer.Talk with your doctor about quitting smoking. There are several options available, such as nicotine replacement therapy, so you don't have go "cold turkey."Make a plan and let your family and friends know about it. This will help you stay on track and give you the support you need.
Consider joining an online or in-person support group.

