 Look at what type of feedback you are providing to your employees, and how frequently you are providing feedback. Determine if there is anything you need to change or add to the evaluation itself. You may decide to build on what you already have or to develop a new system altogether.;
, Performance management systems help rally staff members around your organization's goals because they help staff know how they are to be involved in reaching that goal. Take the time to clarify what your goals are for the next year as a company.


Identify processes or procedures that could be simplified or done more effectively.
Declare your sales goals for the next year or new products you would like to develop.
Share your hope for better communication between departments and staff members.
 As you sit down with each employee, clearly lay out your expectations for them.


Acknowledge what they are already doing well. Use this to encourage them.
Share some weaknesses that you have observed in them and in their work habits, and how overcoming those would help their performance in the company.
Identify specific things you would like them to accomplish over the next year, or whatever time frame works best for you. Prioritize these so the staff member knows which is most important and make sure to give them a deadline for each task.
 As employees begin to work on their performance, keep an eye on how they are doing. Give praise where performance is strong. If they appear to be struggling to meet performance expectations, talk with them and see if you can offer any support or coaching.
 At each performance review, let the employee know how they are doing. It is often helpful to assign a numeric value on a scale, rating the employee from "not meeting expectations" to "meets expectations" to "exceeds expectations."


Provide feedback on their performance. Be as specific as possible, noting key examples of when they demonstrated a certain quality.
Talk about the consequences or rewards of their performance. Let them know if they are on probation, are getting a raise in pay, changes in vacation days, or any other relevant action.
Discuss any problems they may be having. Listen to their concerns or worries as you talk through potential solutions.
Align feedback with feedback given throughout the year in their one on ones

, Some items may be the same. However, since these are also based on organizational goals, you will need to re-examine your goals for the upcoming year.

