 Peonies perform their best in areas where there is some winter chill and, therefore, are not recommended for gardeners who live in the lower portions of the Southern United States. Peonies in zones 8 and 9 may fail to bloom if the winters there are too warm for their liking. Minimum temperatures in zones 8 and 9 are 10 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-12.2 to -6.7 degrees Celsius).


Warm climate gardeners who are determined to grow these plants should select early blooming cultivars, because they are generally resistant to botrytis blight and will bloom before the weather turns warm.;
, The area where your peonies are planted will affect how well they bloom. Be sure to plant them where they will be exposed to a minimum of six to eight hours of direct sunlight each day. The soil must drain quickly or the peony roots or tubers can rot or develop fungal disease.


In shadier conditions, they may still bloom but will not reach their full potential.
 Ideally, the soil should be organically fertile clay loam with a pH between 6.5 and 7.0. Have the soil pH tested at a local garden center or purchase a soil pH testing kit that you can use to test the soil yourself.


When using a soil pH test kit, dig down four inches before retrieving the soil sample. Be careful not to touch the test kit with your hands as this can influence the test results. Put the soil in a clean bowl, break up any chunks, remove weeds, grass or roots and let the soil dry.
Place the dried soil into the testing container, add the chemical solution provided, add the recommended amount of distilled water, put the lid on the container and shake it vigorously.
After the soil settles, check the color of the liquid in the test container against the pH chart provided with the test kit.
 Peonies can live for many years. The planting site should be prepared before planting to insure that they will continue to thrive and bloom throughout their long lives. Prepare the site three to six months before planting to give the soil time to settle. Add sulfur or lime to the soil to adjust the pH, if necessary.


The amount required to change the pH of soil varies, depending on the soil type and how much the pH needs to be adjusted. For example, adjusting the pH of sandy soil from 5.5 to 6.5 will require 2 ½ pounds of lime per 50 square feet of soil while making the same adjustment in clay soil will require 5 ½ pounds.
Adjusting the pH in sandy soil from 7.5 to 6.5 will require ½ to ¾ pound of aluminum sulfate per 50 square feet while the same adjustment in clay soil will take 1 ½ pounds.
 Spread the sulfur or lime, if necessary, along with a 3- to 6-inch depth of organic matter over the planting bed. Sphagnum peat moss, composted shredded pine bark, well-aged cow manure and compost work very well. Use a rototiller to work the soil amendments into the soil thoroughly to a depth of at least one foot.


A depth of 3 inches (7.6 cm) is fine if the soil is already high in organic matter but, if it is low in organic matter or if the level of naturally occurring organic matter is not clear, add a 5- to 6-inch depth.

