 Try your best not to let any negative comments affect you. Even if you are affected, make them think that you really don't care about their opinions.No matter how bad the jerks have hurt your feelings, try to keep your cool and avoid yelling or crying. If they get a reaction out of you, they're more likely to bully you again. If you don't seem to care, it won't be as much fun for them, so they'll probably leave you alone.
If you choose to respond at all, try saying something simple like, "Whatever" before walking away, to show your apathy. You can also just walk away calmly without saying anything at all.
 There is strength in numbers, so try to be with a group of friend if you know you're likely to run into some jerks. Not only will you seem less vulnerable to others when you're with friends, but you will also feel more confident., Pursue your interests by joining clubs, playing sports, and participating in activities. Don't let the possibility of having an interaction with a jerk at your school prevent you from doing something you love.Don't let cliques at your school get in your way. If a clique is dominating a certain activity, join in with confidence and let them know that you have every right to be there. If you're afraid to do this alone, try to get a friend or two to join with you.
Jerks like to prey on people who seem weak and vulnerable. By excelling at something, whether it's drama club, softball, or academics, you're showing them that you're strong and capable.
Getting involved at school is also a great way to meet new friends, which will help your confidence and give you more of a support network to ward off jerks.
 Show the jerks at your school that you don't care what they think of you by being truly unique. Instead of doing what everyone else is doing, stay true to yourself.


There are lots of way to be unique. You can express yourself with the way you dress, the music you listen to, and the activities you participate in. You can also distinguish yourself as being really smart, really fun, or really nice. Don't be ashamed of who you really are!

, This may take some work, but there are lots of simple steps you can take to feel more confident. Remind yourself every day that you are a wonderful person with a lot to offer, and that anyone who doesn't see that is not worth your time.Walk through the halls with your head held high.
Look people in the eye when you talk to them.
Pay attention to any fidgeting you may do when you get nervous, whether it's twirling your hair or moving your hands. Once you notice the behavior, do your best to stop it so that others will not notice when you are nervous.
Even if you don't feel very confident, you can still act the part! Start working on your body language and people will begin to believe you are confident even if you aren't. Before long, you'll be feeling pretty confident too.

