 Do you want someone with whom to discuss both life and personal choices? This would necessarily be different than a person with whom you have a specifically professional relationship. What kinds of information do you want to discuss with your mentor, and what kinds of advice do you think you need? You need to be sure you know what exactly you want before pursuing a mentor., Start by thinking of four or five possible mentors, as it’s possible that some will be unable or unwilling to act as a mentor for you. If you don’t have some kind of relationship with each person, initiate contact. Ask to become part of their network, email them with some kind words about their work, or ask a mutual friend to introduce you. Establish some kind of relationship with each person.


Assess possible mentors by what they can offer you. Look for people who you can easily talk to and be friendly with first, as friendship is the basis of a successful mentorship.
Narrow your candidates by thinking about who can give the best advice. Which of them has been where you are now and can give guidance and help you through the challenges of your career?
Finally, consider finding a mentor that can offer sponsorship. A sponsoring mentor promotes you to the upper levels of your industry or company and can help you move up the ladder. In this case, you'll want to narrow your mentor search to within the company.
 Tell him or her the kind of skills or advice you are hoping to gain from him or her. Realize that he or she might be too busy to take you on in a mentee relationship, so have a gracious response ready for that scenario. If your first choice is unavailable, move to the next person on the list and ask again. If the person is local, meet face to face to ask if he or she will be your mentor. If you have a long-distance email relationship with the person, write a formal email to ask. Some possible approaches might be:Dear Ms. X, I have admired your work since I first saw your “Bingo!” campaign and realized I wanted to work in advertising. I am currently working at ZVT but hope someday to own my own agency as you do. I am looking for career advice and wondered if you would be open to giving me advice occasionally as a business mentor. I realize that you have a busy career, but I hope you will consider my offer.
Dear Mr. J, As a fellow alum of the Wharton School, I have been impressed by stories about your business acumen for years. I’ve recently moved to the Bay Area and am looking for career advice in your field. Would you be open to getting drinks with me one night and answering some of my questions? I know that you are a very busy man with many other colleagues wanting your advice and mentorship, but I hope that we can find a time to meet.
 Mentoring requires a close personal relationship, so the interview should be used as a time to see if a potential relationship would be mutually satisfactory. This means that the interview should go both ways, with both parties asking questions of each other. You can start by asking for advice. Ask all of them a work-related question and see their response.


Did they give good advice in a way that made sense to you? Did they perhaps not even respond? How the possible mentor responded can tell you a lot about their suitability. If they didn’t even respond, chances are they would not be a good mentor., Figure out which of the people you think would be the best fit for you. He or she might not be the one at the highest point in their career, but instead someone you could see having a close working relationship with. Know that you can, and should, have more than one mentor. For example, you could have one mentor at work and one outside of work. Most successful people have the guidance of more than one mentor and benefit from the multiple perspectives offered to them.

