 You want to avoid appearing tired or worn out. You also want to eliminate the possibility that you might wake up with dark rings or bags underneath your eyes. Not even makeup can fix that tired appearance!;
, Don't lounge in the bed for a few more minutes or you may end up being late.
 Opaque primary colors - such as red and blue - tend to appear horrible on film. Stick to sheer neutral shades, for they'll enhance your features without overpowering your face. Use non-liquid foundation to avoid oily looking skin. As for lipstick, avoid adult colors such as a brownish-red. Hot pink, light pink, or lip gloss would look nice.


Remember that makeup colors - especially lipstick - tend to look darker and more pronounced in photos, especially black-and-white photos!
For a great photo, apply a special cream to hide any pimples or unattractive spots on your face. Concealer also works, but it's best not to apply it to pimples.
 Some people appear stunning when they show their teeth during their smile while others may look better by just curving their lips without showing their teeth. It's best if you ask for a friend's advice or a family member's advice.


When asking for a family member's advice, it's best to ask your mom. Even though the idea may not appeal to you, mothers can give great advice on your appearance, especially since they know you best!

, Keep in mind that this outfit is what you'll be wearing for the whole school day so make sure that it looks and feels fantastic. However, make sure it remains within your school's dress code - if you have one - or you may end up getting in trouble.


Avoid wearing a plain T-shirt or the blouse you already outgrew because you won't look as good than if you wore something that fit you. Make your outfit a little more dressier than usual, but be careful about going overboard!
It's best to wear an outfit or a certain color that you've received many compliments for wearing before.
 Avoid grabbing any old pair on your way out the door. Instead, slip on or purchase a comfortable, pretty pair that is easy to match with your outfits and style.


Don't purchase shoes that you'll only wear one time or only with that certain outfit. Otherwise, your money will go to waste and so will the shoes!
Make sure that your shoes match your outfit. Don't wear a pair of running sneakers with a fashionable outfit.
 Be careful about wearing too many, however. Limit yourself to only one or two. Suggested accessories are:


Earrings
Bracelets
Necklaces
Hair decorations
Scarves

, Although it may feel a little uncomfortable, the picture will turn out beautiful. If you're not comfortable doing this or you don't have enough experience to do this properly, wait till next year to try it out or practice it in front of the mirror the night before picture day till you feel confident.
 As the photographer does the count down, close your eyes. When he/she says, "One" before snapping the photo, quickly open your eyes and let out your natural smile - while keeping the good memory in mind - before the picture is taken. This will make sure you don't blink and it'll give you a more natural appearance. However, make sure you have good timing or you might still have closed eyes or you'll be caught in the middle of opening your eyes!

,