 Your last day usually isn't the best time to let everyone know that you're not coming back. It can seem hasty or rude to have one foot out the door and shout a "so long" before it closes. Take the time to let everyone know your plans and your schedule for leaving, so everyone can be on the same page.


A general rule of thumb is that the management needs at least two weeks notice ahead of time, though more specific time-tables for leaving may be built into your contract. Make sure that your bosses are the first to know.
After letting management know, it's ok to tell your coworkers. Do so whenever you feel comfortable, or whenever it's convenient, but do it before your last day.;
, Consider saying goodbye on your second to last day so that your last day can be less stressful and packed, especially if you've still got work to do. Waiting until the day before you leave will also give you the chance to finish up all of your projects without your coworkers flooding in to say goodbye.Once you have announced that you are leaving, chances are that your coworkers will come trickling in to say goodbye. Because of this, saying goodbye can be made easier if you are done with all of your tasks.
 Get your stuff packed up early so that you can take the time to say goodbye to your coworkers individually. Doing this can give you both a sense of closure because this will be the last time that you meet together as coworkers.


However, keep in mind that unless you are moving, you will be able to see your coworkers outside of work if you really want to. Consider organizing a small event for your close coworkers outside of the office environment.
If your coworker is leaving and you're staying, it might also be a good idea to get together a small group of coworkers to all go drop by and say goodbye at once. This can make it a lot easier on your coworker, by taking the first step.
 Try to connect with as many coworkers as you can before you leave the office, either through social media platforms or with email. Connect with people that you actually have an interest in staying in touch with, but don't feel like you have to friend everyone on Facebook to make it easier.


In the weeks before your departure, consider beginning to connect with coworkers on business platforms like LinkedIn, if you have not already. This can be an excellent way to feel like you've still got professional contacts and references at the ready, if you should need them in the future.
 If you're in a professional environment, treat it professionally. There's no need for a big display or procedure. Tell your coworker that it's been nice working together, wish them luck, and tell them to get in touch sometime. It doesn't need to be any more complicated than that.


If your coworker is leaving and you're staying, try to remember that they've got a lot of people to talk to, and might not want to have a 45 minute long debrief with every single person. Even if you're sad to see them go, keep it quiet and make plans later if necessary.
It would be perfectly fine to say something like, "Mark! It's been good working together. Keep things locked down around here. You're a good guy. Let me know how you're doing, ok?"

, If you have been asked to leave, or are leaving in frustration, it may be challenging to keep your composure when you're saying goodbye to your coworkers. However, you should try to remain calm in order to present yourself in the most professional light. Stay positive and brief, even if you're feeling frustrated. You'll be glad you did.
 Workplaces can be a mixed bag: you might have some real friends that you hope to stay in touch with, some downright enemies that you can't stand, and a whole bunch of people somewhere in the middle. There's no sense in having a big party with everyone if the occasion doesn't call for it.


On the down low, invite a few of your close friends to after-work drinks or dinner to decompress after the day and talk more openly. This can be an excellent way of spending a bit of time with the people your'e legitimately interested in keeping in touch with outside of work.

