 Use a socket wrench with a 13mm socket to remove the nuts that hold each wheel to its truck. Between each nut and wheel will be a small washer. Another washer will be between the wheel and the body of the truck. Take care not to lose these small partsSkate tools will usually feature a 13mm socket, as well as the other sizes you will need to disassemble a penny board.;
, In order to keep track of the nuts, spacers, and bolts that hold your penny board together, place them in some sort of receptacle as you disassemble the board. A resealable plastic bag or cup will work.It’s worth using several different receptacles to hold different sets of small pieces.
For instance, keep the pieces that go with the bearing and wheel washers in one cup, and the pieces of the trucks in another cup.
 To get the bearings out of the wheels, insert an arm of the axle about 1 cm (.5 in) into one side of a wheel at an angle. Lever the wheel and truck apart from one another to pry the bearing out. Repeat this process on the other side of the wheel. Knock the wheel against your work surface to remove the cylindrical spacer from the wheel if it doesn't fall out.Take care to position the end of the truck axle against the outside edge of the bearing. You want to avoid damaging the bearing itself.
 Start by removing the axle from the truck housing. Use a 14mm socket to remove the single kingpin that holds each truck together. Beneath the kingpin will be two washers and a rubber bushing, and beneath the truck there will be another bushing and another washer.To remove the truck housing from the deck, use a phillips screwdriver to unscrew the bolts from the top of the deck. There are four bolts for each truck. You may need a wrench to hold the nut on the underside of the bolt.
 Cosmetic issues on the deck can often be removed with abrasion. While fine grit sandpaper is best, you may be able to use a key to gently and evenly scrape off unsightly scratches in the deck’s plastic.Use a damp, soapy cloth to scrub the deck clean.
 Place dirty bearings in an empty bottle and pour in enough rubbing alcohol to submerge them. An empty pill bottle works especially well, as you’ll only need to use a bit of rubbing alcohol to submerge the bearings. Do one wheel’s worth of bearings at a time. Swish the bottle around gently for a minute with the bearing inside.Wipe the bearings dry with paper towel after allowing them to sit for a few minutes.
If your bearings aren’t visibly dirty, simply wipe them with a clean cloth.
If bearings cannot be cleaned with rubbing alcohol and/or wiping, replace them. They can be purchased from the penny board website.
 Place the wheels in a plastic container with soap and warm water. A mild, environmentally friendly soap will be plenty strong enough. Use your fingers to scrub dirt or grime from each of the wheels, one at a time.After scrubbing with soapy water, rinse them with clean water to remove soap residue and dry each wheel with a cloth or clean paper towel.
Do not use an antibacterial soap.
 The pieces of the truck as well as the various spacers and washers can simply be wiped with a clean cloth or paper towel.Pay particular attention to wiping down the parts of the truck that fit within the truck housing, and the parts of the housing that hold that touch the truck. These include the small black plastic cup, the kingpin, and the rounded nub of the truck.
 Reassembly will be simple after taking apart the board to clean it. The most important part is placing the correct washers and bushings on either side of the truck. You will be able to tell which is correct by sight, but make sure you’ve selected the right one each time.From the truck housing, the order of reassembly for each truck is: bottom washer, bottom bushing, truck, top bushing, top washer, and bolt.
 Position the board on its side and slide a bearing with the outside edge down onto the truck bolt. Slide the wheel onto the bolt as well, and press it onto the bearing until you hear a pop.Then remove the wheel, insert a spacer into the other side, and repeat the process with another bearing on the other side of the wheel.
 Make sure the edge of the bearings are flush with the wheels' surfaces before reattaching. The order for reattachment of a wheel to a truck is: washer, wheel, washer, 13mm nut. After tightening, check to see if the wheel spins freely. If not, loosen the nut until it does.