 In the Marine Corps, you must pass a physical fitness test (PFT) every six months. A perfect score (300) is achieved by doing twenty dead-hang pull-ups(no time limit), 100 crunches in 120 seconds and a three-mile run in 28 minutes.

You don't need to be perfect to enlist, but make sure you can do at least two pull-ups, 60 crunches and run 1.5 miles (2.4 km) in 12 1/2 minutes.
The stronger you are, the less torturous boot camp will be.



 

;
, Although "Every Marine is a Rifleman," there are hundreds of different jobs in the Marine Corps.

Each job is called a Military Occupational Specialty (MOS). By doing a little research, you should be able to find what suits you.
The Marine Corps offers jobs in everything from infantry, to photography, to truck drivers. Eventually your contract will end or you will retire, so pick something you think will help you make a living in the civilian world.
 If you want a higher position and more respect go to college and contact a marine recruiter after you finish your freshman year. They will take a look at your grades and physical ability. If you're eligible you will be sent to PLC (platoon leaders class). This is for six weeks for two separate summers. Or if you already have your bachelor's degree you will be sent to OCC (Officer Candidate Course), a ten week program.
 They'll see if you're eligible and guide you through all the paperwork. You can even do this first, before you do anything else, and he/she will guide you through everything.
 The Military Entrance Processing Station (MEPS) is where you will get medical screenings and tests, to evaluate if you are eligible to join any military service. A drug test and a physical will be administered among other things. Typically MEPS are located near big cities. If you live far enough you will be taken to a hotel where you will stay the night. Be prepared to wake up early in the morning and leave late in the afternoon, the process is a lot of sitting and waiting. It is here you will take the oath of enlistment. You will also go to MEPS again before shipping out to boot camp, the process will be shorter though., This is the test to determine what jobs (MOS's) you are eligible for. Many high schools offer the ASVAB to its juniors and seniors, at no cost. Ask your school if they offer the test and register for it. ASVAB scores are good for 2 years, when you visit your recruiter, give your score. If you haven't taken the ASVAB it will be given while your at MEPS. Make sure you study for this because certain jobs in the Corps require higher scores than others.
 Expect to hear some whining and crying. Stick to your guns. If you've decided to "man up" and do it, then do it. Just wait till they see you graduate boot camp and they're bawling their eyes out because they're so proud.
 If you live east of the Mississippi River you'll go to Marine Corps Recruit Depot (MCRD) Parris Island, S.C. If you reside west of the Mississippi River you'll go to MCRD San Diego, Ca. However all females regardless of residence attend Parris Island.
 It is here that those torturous 13 weeks of bootcamp have ended. And now you will stand as a proud Marine in front of your family. However it doesn't end here, there is still more training to be done before you will go out to the fleet. But in that moment you have joined the Few, and the Proud, and have earned the title of a United States Marine.

