 Silver plating is much too expensive for a beginning instrument.;
, If you have been playing for 2 or 3 years on the same horn and have improved then, yes, you may be ready for a new trumpet, especially if your instrument is a basic or student trumpet. If you haven't been playing for that long, and there is very little need for you to purchase a new trumpet, hold off for a little while.
 An intermediate trumpet will usually have more resistance in the upper register to prevent the player from over-blowing and ruining his/her chops. A professional instrument, depending on the model, will have little to no resistance, but will cost you a good bit more.
 If your sound is really bright and brassy, then you may want to purchase a cornet, a large bore trumpet, or a Ring Mute. These two offer a darker sound. However, if you manage to produce a darker sound, which is hard to do without practice, you might want to start out on a small bore Yamaha, or a King.
 Trumpets are expensive- the most expensive ones can easily run into five digits. Most step-up trumpets, though, are around one or two thousand dollars. That it still a lot of money, so be sure you can afford a new trumpet. If you can't afford the two thousand, but desperately need another trumpet, try looking for a used horn for sale. Many trumpet players, upon buying a new horn, no longer want or need their old one, and will sell it for a large discount with very minor wear.
 Learn about what particular types of trumpet are considered better by the trumpet-playing community. Many Kings, for example, are considered next to useless, although they may catch your eye for having large designs of roses etched into the bell. The Bach Stradivarius, meanwhile, looks rather bland, but is considered a very good quality horn for its cost. (A bit over two thousand in most cases.)

, Go to the local music store, and not-so-local ones, and test all the trumpets they have. You don't want to make a bad decision, so give yourself as many options as possible. Test as many trumpets as possible. You should be able to test trumpets before you buy them at your local credible music shop. If you're not allowed to, don't give them your business. You might want to get a reliable worker at the store to help you out. Decide which horn has the least pressure and resistance when you play in the upper register.

