 If you don’t get stains out the first time you clean your boots, try cleaning them again. Be sure to condition each time you clean, however, as too much cleaning could dry out the leather., Dampen a cloth and use a bit of dish soap to make a lather. Rub the stain with the cloth. Wipe the spot with a different damp cloth, then dry it with a dry cloth.Be careful using dish soap on expensive boots. While it shouldn’t damage your leather, it’s not as safe as leather cleaners.
If you’re worried, perform a spot test by using your dampened cloth and dish soap on a hidden part of the boot. Wipe and dry the spot and wait a few minutes to see if the soap affected the leather.
 Make sure your boots have been cleaned. Then, dip a dry, soft cloth into a jar of petroleum jelly. Rub the jelly onto the spot that’s scratched or scuffed up. Use a different dry cloth to buff it off by rubbing the spot in small circular motions.Do not use petroleum jelly on suede boots.
 Mix one tablespoon (14.18 g) of white vinegar with 1 cup (236.59 mL) of water. Dip a cloth into the diluted vinegar and wipe the cloth over the salt stains. Use a dry cloth to wipe the remaining solution and residue from the boots.
 Make sure your boots are completely dry. Cover the stain completely with a healthy amount of cornstarch. Leave it on there for at least a half hour and up to overnight to allow it to absorb the grease or oil. Wipe the cornstarch off with a dampened cloth and a very small amount of dish soap.This works on both leather and suede shoes.Repeat this method a few times. It may not work after the first or even second attempt.
Do not soak your shoes with water. Keep the cloth only lightly damp.
 Pour a little bit of rubbing alcohol onto a cotton ball. Use your dampened cotton ball to rub at the ink stain, moving in small circular motions. The stain should begin to disappear.Perform a spot test to check the effect of the alcohol underneath the tongue or in a hidden spot on the shoe. Dab the alcohol on and leave it for 10 minutes.
Condition the spot with leather conditioner after you’ve rubbed it with alcohol to restore moisture.
 If no amount of cleaning is getting out stains on your boots, visit a shoe store or cobbler. They’ll either be able to help you or tell you that the stains are permanent. Trying to remove these kinds of stains on your own could damage the boots.

This may be your only option for ink, wine, or deep-set water stains in the leather.

