 Are you wanting to throw a children’s birthday party, a themed party, a formal dinner party? There are many different kinds of parties that you could throw, so the first step is getting a clear idea about the type of party you are throwing.Consider other things like time of year, whether the party will be indoors or outdoors, how many people you can invite, and whether or not there will be alcohol at the party.;
, This will help you to figure out how many hours or days you have to plan for the party. If you only have 15 minutes to throw a party, you will be pretty limited in what you can do, but if you have 6 or 7 hours you will have more time to hang decorations, make food, go shopping, etc.


Obviously you also need to decide on a date and time so your guests will know when to show up.
 How much additional money are you willing to spend? Write it down and try to stick with it. Parties can be pretty expensive, especially if you are providing most of the food and drinks. As a quick and cost-saving alternative, you could do a potluck style party.If you don't want to cover the cost yourself or can't afford it, consider asking guests for help.
Asking guests to bring extra snacks or drinks is perfectly normal. Most guests will ask what they can bring., This doesn’t have to be a complicated list since the party is last minute, but quickly jotting down names of people you want to invite will give you an initial idea about how many people to plan for, and will make it easier when you are contacting everyone to let them know about the party.


When you make your list, it may be helpful to think about whether this person is likely to bring a guest with them (e.g. boyfriend, girlfriend, husband, wife). If you are allowing it, and you think they will bring someone with them, mark “+1” next to their name so you will have an accurate head count.
 Under normal circumstances, you might mail invitations through the post or via email. However, this isn’t an option for a last minute party. In this case, the best option for letting your potential guests know is to give them a call.If the party is more informal you could also send them a text message, a group message, or a message via social media.
If there is enough time, many people also use social media to invite their guests. For example, some social media platforms allow you to create an event where you can provide all the necessary information and invite specific people.
Don’t put pressure on people who can’t give you an answer right away. If they have to get back to you, but you can’t wait around to get everything ready, then just assume they are coming. It’s better to have too much than too little in this case.
If you’re wanting to throw a casual house party, you may want as many people as possible. If this is the case, call up or text message a few friends and ask them to bring friends and spread the word. You can also post on social media letting everyone know that you’re having a party and everyone is invited.
 For many party hosts, it is really helpful to know how many people to expect. Since your party is last minute, your guests probably can give you a straight answer about whether or not they can come.


Be polite, but direct. For example, you can say, “I know this is really last minute, but I am having a party tonight. I don’t mean to put you on the spot, but I’d love it if you could come. Are you free?” Don't forget to tell them the reason you are having a party, or tell them it's just to have some fun if you don't have a specific occasion to celebrate.
You should also be straightforward about your expectations for the party. For example, if it’s a costume party, be sure to tell them that you want everyone to dress up. If you want them to bring something (e.g. food or drinks) be clear about that as well. If the party is a formal dinner party, be sure to make that clear.
It is not uncommon to have parties where guests are expected to bring any alcohol, and you can easily make this clear by saying the party is “BYOB.” Alternatively, if you want to have an outdoor barbecue, but can’t afford to by all the meat, you can also make the party “BYOM,” which means “bring your own meat.”

, Though you might think you shouldn’t waste time doing this, having a list of everything you need to accomplish before the party will reduce your stress in the end. You will have a clear idea of your tasks, and you won’t be scrambling around trying to think of what you need to do next.You can prioritize the list by placing the most important tasks (e.g. buy drinks/food) at the top and the ideal, but less important tasks at the bottom (e.g. mop the floors).
 If you are lucky enough to have one or two people around willing to help you, then you should take full advantage of this. Look at your to-do list and see what can be done by someone else.


When you delegate a task it’s important to give the person control over the task. If you ask your helper to take care of hanging decorations, don’t walk around behind them criticizing their decisions. This will waste a lot of time, and will likely frustrate your helper.
 Since you don’t have much time, you won’t be able to make multiple trips to pick up everything you need. Write down any food, snacks, and/or drinks you want to pick up. If you want to buy ice, write that down. Write down any specific decorations you want to pick up. For example, streamers, balloons, confetti, etc.If possible, try to do your shopping at a store where you will be able to get everything you need. For example, most big box stores such as Target or Walmart have everything you need all in one place, which will save you lots of time.
If you are sending someone else to do the shopping be sure to include quantities and details about the things you want. If you want to buy 6 liters of soda, be specific. Write down how many liters and the specific kind. For example, write, “6 liters Coca Cola” don’t write, “6 bottles of soda.”

, How well you clean depends on how much time you have. If you don’t have much time, do a quick cleaning of the rooms where your guests will be. It doesn’t have to be spotless, but it should be fresh and presentable.For example, quickly vacuum the carpet, pick up any dirty clothes, toys or anything that is just lying around. If your guests will be in the kitchen, make sure all the dishes are washed or at least in the dishwasher. You can light a few candles or open a window (weather permitting) so the house will be fresh smelling.
If there are rooms you can’t get to in time, just close the door to these rooms. Place a sign on the door that says “Bathroom” so your guests won’t have to guess where it is.
Be sure to stock any guest bathrooms with plenty of extra toilet paper., How much you decorate will really depend on the type of party you are having. If you are having a formal dinner party, you may not need to do anything more than add a bouquet of fresh flowers to the table along with the plates, bowls, knives, forks, etc. If you are having a children’s party, you’ll want to have bright, colorful decorations that will be exciting for the children.Don’t stress too much if you don’t have enough time to get the decorations perfect. Do what you can, and remember that it won’t make or break the party.
Prioritize the most important things. For example, set up all the food and drinks wherever you have planned to have them. It’s best to have one or two main locations for food and drinks. If you are having any “main attractions” such as a beer pong table, a fire pit, a piñata, or board games, make sure you set these things up before working on any minor decorations such as balloons or streamers.
 Almost every type of party can benefit from a bit of background music. Even if you are having a formal dinner party, having a speaker playing some soft jazz or classical music will really add to the ambience of the party.If you want to have dancing at your party, set up an MP3 player with some speakers in the “dancing area.” If you aren’t having dancing, but still want to have background music, set up the music where it loud enough to hear, but also out of the way.
You can look on the internet for free playlists that you can stream or you can make your own party playlist using music you already have.
 If you are having food and planning to make it yourself, then make sure that you schedule enough time to get it all done. Alternatively, if you want to have food, you could consider ordering food. This will cost more money, but it will save you lots of time.For example, you could order pizzas to have delivered just before the party starts, or you could pick up some fruit, vegetable, and sandwich trays at a local deli. Some restaurants even offer complete meals that you can order for each guest if you are having a dinner party.
If you don’t want to order food, but don’t have time to make food from scratch you can pick up lots of pre-prepared foods. For example, frozen appetizers are tasty and easy to heat up.
 After running around trying to get everything together, you might look a bit frazzled. Try to give yourself a few minutes to put on some fresh clothes before your guests arrive. Obviously what you wear will depend on the party. If you’re having a formal party, but on something to match the tone you’re trying to set. If you’re having a costume party, make sure you have time to put it on.


Splash some water on your face and run a comb through your hair if you don’t have time for anything else. You want to look like your fresh and ready to party!

, Unless you are throwing a huge casual party, you’ll want to try to greet every guest as they come in. Take their jackets and ask them if you can get them a drink.If they have brought their own things (e.g. drinks or meat to grill) show them where they can mix their drinks and where the grill is, as well as a place where they can store their things.
 Part of being a good host is making sure that everyone is enjoying themselves. Obviously you can’t do everything for everyone, but you can periodically ask around to see if anyone needs a fresh drink.


If you have had helpers, consider them co-hosts of the party if they are willing to keep helping you out. They can also make sure everyone has what they need.
 Although you definitely want to be a good host, you also want to enjoy the fruits of your labor. Enjoy the food and drinks, dance, and talk with your guests. Don’t just spend your time running around trying to please everyone.If you are constantly running around, you will wear yourself out very quickly, and you will probably give the impression that you are very stressed.

