 Maybe it's your basement, spare bedroom, front porch or maybe even your attic. Make sure your room can fit in quite a few people in case you want to do family portraits and such.;
, You are going to want at least three backdrops, and two of them MUST completely be black or white. Then, you can get cool patterns and other colors as you go along. To make your life easier, find a curtain rod and hang it on the wall. Then, instead of buying all that expensive hanging equipment, you have your own inexpensive way of hanging and changing your backdrops.
 There really aren't many loopholes when it comes to having the proper lighting for taking shots of people and/or pets. You must have bright, white light when you take pictures. However, an easy way to make light go where you want or reflect it, you can put aluminum foil over cardboard to direct the light where you wish. Have at least two big lights and two small ones, and at least three reflectors. The place of your light source is significantly important, and can reflect, highlight or ignore certain pre-planned areas.
 You are going to want a nice camera with lots of features to please all your customers. You may even have to spend up to $500 for a great camera. Usually though, it's worth it because you get great shots and a camera that lasts. You don't want shaky footage or blurry pictures either from your new, nice camera, so buy a tripod. You can change the height, angle, and prevent bad pictures just by turning a few knobs! Especially consider a tripod if you plan on taking family pictures with YOU in them.
 When you take someone's picture, they may want to sit down. You will need several different types of stools and chairs in an assortment of colors and materials. For a toddler or baby picture, their parents might want a teddy bear or some of those giant building blocks. Build up your accessory inventory-you won't regret it.
 Your customers may want to have their photos digitally framed, cropped, or changed with a colored filter. Many computer programs can do this which you can find for less than $30.
 Good ideas include:

Central air conditioning units. They can provide a strong turbine that is more natural and not shooting only in one direction.
Some common household appliances that provide a weak blow in a single direction include hair dryers and/or fans.
 What's the point of having your picture taken if you can't take them home to put on the table?

, Pass them out at social gatherings, ask your family to give them out to friends, and have fun with them.
