 If you can, ask your partner, a family member, or a close friend to accompany you on the trip. Tell them how to recognize your visible symptoms (not the things you feel, but symptoms that are noticeable to other people), and let them know how they can help you manage them.For instance, you might tell your partner that if you have a flashback in a public place, they can help by taking you to a quiet area to recover.;
, If you happen to experience severe symptoms while you're away, it can help to have a plan for handling them. This might involve reaching out to some local doctors/therapists at your destination, or having your health providers recommend some. You may also need to locate crisis hotlines or centers if you have suicidal thoughts.


Make sure that you know how to contact your mental health provider in case of an emergency.
Another helpful addition to your crisis plan may be to search for a support group near your destination, so you can attend it if you require additional support., Physical activity can help relieve the fight-or-flight response of PTSD. If your symptoms flare up, try hitting the hotel gym, or walk to your sightseeing destination instead of taking the subway., If you start to feel anxious or panicky, take deep breaths. Notice whether any muscles in your body are tense, and consciously relax them. Remind yourself that you’re OK and not in any danger.It may help to stop what you’re doing and sit down for a moment as you breathe deeply.
You can also repeat a soothing mantra to yourself, such as “I am safe” or “All is well.”
Also, try bringing some guided meditations along with you and practice them daily.
 If you have a flashback, grounding yourself in the present moment can help to stop it. Focus on the physical details of the world around you and the sensations you feel in your body. Remind yourself where you are and what you’re doing.Consider asking your travel partner to help you ground yourself. For instance, it might be helpful for them to ask you to describe certain details about your surroundings.
As another way to ground yourself, take a moment to identify five different colors you see, five different sounds you hear, and five different textures around you.

