 In particular, pollen levels are highest between 5am and 10am, so limit your time outside during that part of the day. If you need to be outside, try to do it in the afternoon and also after a heavy rain. This is when pollen levels are lowest.Dry and windy days can be especially bad for allergies. Try to stay inside as much as possible on day like that.Many news broadcasts and weather apps now include local pollen and allergy information. Keep up to date on the latest information, so you can limit exposure on high-allergen days.
 Just as you should limit your time outside, you should limit the amount of unfiltered outside air that gets into your home. Keeping doors and windows closed will limit the amount of grass pollen that gets into your home.If you want some air circulation in your home, try turning on an air-circulation feature on your heating and air conditioning system, if you have one. This will allow air flow but will filter the air to get rid of pollen and dust.
 If your home HVAC system does not filter the air in your home enough, you can get a portable air filter to filter it even further. These will get even more pollen out of the air.


HEPA-grade filters can be bought online or at your local home improvement store.
 If you do spend time outside, you should remove pollen covered clothes immediately when entering your home. Launder clothes that are potentially covered in pollen and don't allow them to come into contact with indoor surfaces before they are cleaned.


You will not always be able to take your clothes off when you come inside. However, if you have outer layers that can be removed and isolated, do that.
 A person with severe grass allergies should not be mowing lawns or having a lot of direct contact with grass. For instance, do not lay on your lawn or move grass clippings with bare hands. The physical contact can place pollen directly onto your skin.


In cases of severe grass allergies, physical contact with grass can lead to red skin or rashes, in addition to cardio-vascular problems.
However, unmowed lawns can be worse than clipped lawns for those with grass allergies, depending on the type of grass. Be sure to have your lawn mowed regularly so that it does not flower and produce more pollen.If you must cut your own grass, wear a N-95 respirator mask, take your allergy medication beforehand and shower immediately afterward.

