 Decide between shorts or pants. Shorts might keep you cooler, but make sure to wear longer shorts as they will ride up. Pants would help protect your legs from possible vegetation and bugs. You can always roll your pants up if it's too hot.


You may also want to bring a hat, bug spray, and sunblock.
Take a change of clothes with you. Some elephant trails cross or arrive at rivers in which the elephants might enter to play. Be prepared to possibly get wet.
Leave anything you would care about breaking behind.;
, When you ride an elephant, you use your feet to control the elephant's movement. Your instructor should teach you the commands before your ride. Be sure that you understand and practice the commands before you get on your elephant. Here are some basic commands:To walk forwards, press your toes behind the elephant's ears.
To walk backwards, press backwards with your heels.
To have the elephant lift its trunk, use your toes to push upwards.
To have the elephant sit down, push downward with one of your heels.
To have the elephant turn to the left, hold your left heel backwards and press forward with your right toes.
To have the elephant turn right, hold your right heel backwards and press forward with your left toes.
 Always approach the elephant from the side where it can see you. If you come at the elephant from the back or from the front, the elephant may not be able to see you. Many elephants are trained to attack anyone that approaches from the left so always approach from the elephant's right side.Pay attention to the elephant's demeanor as you approach. Signs of a happy elephant include flapping ears and a swaying trunk and tail.
The elephant may examine you with its trunk to smell you or see if you have some food.
If the elephant is staring at you intently, holding their trunk in the mouth, or blowing the elephant may feel threatened or anxious. Do not approach the elephant if you notice any of these things.
 There are many different ways to mount an elephant. You can mount an elephant by using the front or hind legs, ears, trunk, or by stepping on the tusks.The instructor will have the elephant kneel so that you can mount. Grab the elephant's right ear and place your foot on its bent knee. Bend your knee and then swing your other leg over the elephant.Your instructor will give you directions before you mount and walk you through the process.
Try to mount as quickly as possible. Your elephant may begin to stand up rather quickly., Sit as forward on the neck as possible and tuck your legs behind the elephant's ears. Keep your toes behind the elephant's ears so you can give instructions. Sit up straight but be flexible and move with the elephant. This helps to keep your balance.Remember, elephants sway as they walk, so do not be too rigid.
If you feel like you're losing your balance place your hands on the elephant's back or neck to steady yourself.
 If you have the option, choose to ride the elephant bareback instead of using a chair. An elephant's neck is much stronger than its back.Riding on a chair puts more pressure on the elephant's back.


Often times saddles are on put on incorrectly or tightened improperly which leads to chafing of the elephant's skin.
Riding bareback also allows you to be closer and more intimate with the elephant.
 You will dismount the elephant the same way that you mounted the elephant.Command the elephant to sit down. Hold on to the elephant's right ear, bend your knees and swing your left foot over the elephant's body. Place your leg on its bent knee as you step down.


Make sure the elephant is in the sitting position before you begin to dismount.
Remember to maintain your balance as the elephant kneels down.

