 People are more likely to follow a page with a specific and clear theme. When you're crafting yours, try to think about what you're likely to include in your photo feed. What are you passionate about? What are your interests?


Eating, cooking, or drinking
Animals
Nature photography
Memes or humor
Partying
Yoga or exercise
Home decorating and lifestyle
Fashion or style
Sports

, When someone looks at your page, they need to be able to tell what you're about immediately. Connect your bio to your theme in a short and clear way. Most bios should be no more than a few sentences.


You mostly take pictures of your food at your dog? Make that obvious in your bio: "Kitchen creations and the hijinks of Moofus, the wonder-dog."
Don't share private information. Your bio doesn't need to list where you live and your full name, if you want to attract strangers to follow your page. Only include private info if your page is private.
You can use multiple lines and emojis in your bio to make it stand out and attract followers. Be creative!

, Pick a profile picture that matches the theme of your Instagram feed. If you're taking pictures of your own life, include a selfie profile pic. If you're taking pictures of your animals, you better include a picture of your animals in the profile. Craft beer enthusiast? Show us the suds.


Pictures show up pretty small on Instagram. Pick a very focused and close-up picture, not something with a lot of clutter.
 If you want to attract followers, you need to create a positive presence on Instagram. People are always thankful of positive comments and many will visit your profile to learn more about the person who just flattered them.


A community posts with the hashtag #jj, which includes a series of rules that get people more involved. For every picture tagged #jj, you have to comment on two pictures and like three more., Following lots of people and being friendly on Instagram may get you a fair number of followers, but you also need to have the content there to back it up. Keeping your followers is just as important as gaining new ones. If you want to keep followers, you have to post every day at least.Recent studies show that 2-3 posts a day are optimal.The life of Tweets is typically pretty short, so Twitter operators will Tweet a lot more often than you should for Instagram.
Thursdays are the most popular day to post on Instagram, and Sunday is the least popular day. That means you should post on both days, so you catch people when they're using on Thursday, and so your posts stand out on Sunday.Post no more than one or two pictures at a time. Don't flood the feed. If you've got a bunch of good ones, that's great! But space them out over the course of the day or a week.
 Shoutouts involve posting the names of some of your followers in the comment stream or tagged in your photos. This promotes their pages to get your followers to follow them, and will give people a reason to do it in return. It's a good way to spread the followers around.


Some accounts like @shoutzz or @Pretty.GirlShoutz exist, which will exchange shoutouts for money. This practice is discouraged from Instagram and these typically don't last very long, usually paid shoutouts last for an hour but permanent shoutouts can also be purchased at a higher price.
As with anything on Instagram, if you overdo it, you'll lose followers. Shoutouts can look a little tacky or crass, and a lot of people don't like them.
 People like to be entertained. If you want to be popular on Instagram, you need to provide entertainment for people. Don't just put up pictures and expect that people will like your page. Engage with people who express interest and stay social on Instagram.Hold contests. Give away something fun to the "best comment" or to a particular follower for doing something. Make your prize somehow related to the theme of your page.
Ask questions of your followers and respond to questions from your followers. Have actual conversations and express an interest in their lives and their pictures. Be there for your followers.
Make a funny comment that people will want to share. If they share your post that will make your account visible to many more users.

