 The senior slide might of kicked in already the fall of your senior year. This is not the time to slack and your grades still count as part of your GPA and this may give you many benefits such as lower car insurance, better college eligibility, higher career opportunities, etc. You will less likely to be involved in criminal activity or get on academic probation in college if you get higher grades senior year.;
, Senior year is based on electives and that will be great for career exploration, not catching up on that missed freshman Statistics credit. If you love math,take more advanced math as well or something like that. If you have a passion for computers, take some web design, computer repair or programming classes. If you love PE, take some advanced PE courses.
 If you are a basketball fan, see every basketball game.
 You are a senior and you may not see all of your fellow classmates ever again after graduation, so it is time to mingle and be nice to everyone. You can still have your group of friends, but don't clique. Be goofy and squirmy as well, nobody cares what others think at that age.
 If you want to go to state in track, work hard and do it. Or you can take the risk of pulling a senior prank, but you might get in trouble for that one, even hindering your graduation.
 You don't have to work for your dream job yet; choose a major for a trade that is based on your talents and interests and go from there. You can also consider joining the armed services. For better results, it is best to have your future figured out by the summer of your senior year, not April.
 Or take a real good friend. Try to look nice and approachable at the start of your senior year and start looking around Thanksgiving or Christmas if you are not in a steady relationship. You can go single but it may not be as fun, unless you are the type to go single. The prom is not mandatory, if you could care less and think it will be less stress, don't go. You can attend the prom or formal a few years past senior year, so don't sweat it. If you don't have a chance in 2010, you can come back in 2011.
 It is a great to have one last time with your friends before they go off in their own directions.
 You can come back to visit your high school after senior year, but don't try to redo the past, live in the present and focus on the future.

