 You may want to choose one that identifies the holiday, such as green for Christmas or orange for Halloween.


For this specific project, you'll need to cut the construction paper so that it is 6 inches by 9 inches (15.2 by 22.9 cm) in size. Though, for the record, any rectangular size, within reason, will do.;
, Fold the paper in half lengthwise. Crease with a bone folder or straight edge for an angled, oriental feel. Avoid creasing if you want something more romantic and softer.









Then, fold the top, open edges down by 1/2 inch (1.3 cm). Crease with a bone folder. These will be your rims at the top and bottom of the lantern, once it is finished -- you will not be cutting into them.
 Glue a 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) strip of decorative scrapbooking paper in a holiday design to your rims. You could also use a complimentary color of construction paper. And, of course, you may leave them the original color, but the extra spark really makes them pop.
 This is easiest if you hold the paper so that the folded edge is facing downward. Space your slits approximately 3/4 of an inch (1.9 cm) apart. If your last slit is too thick or too thin, that's fine. You can combine it with the first slit when you wrap it around.
 Curve the paper around, so that it is a cylindrical shape, with the center fold sticking out in the middle. Overlap the ends of the lantern. Staple the top and bottom rims where the paper overlaps.









If you prefer, you may use tape or glue. Just try to keep either from being visible.
 Cut a 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) by 6 inch (15.2 cm) strip of construction paper. Staple it to two points inside the top rim. You may also forego the handle entirely (but then how will you hang it up?) or make a smaller one that stays closer to the lantern itself.
 You can glue on glitter, stickers, snowflakes, stars or other decorations to your lantern to make it even more eye-catching. Even just one star or sticker really spruces up the "holiday-ness" of your lantern.









Make a series of homemade hanging lanterns and string them up to create a lantern garland.

