,,,,


There are 4 sets of goals and each set contains 5 goals, so you can create a maximum of 20 goals.
,


The "On" radio button will be selected by default, but you can select the "Off" radio button if you want to activate your goal at a later time.



The Goal Position field can be useful if you have multiple goals and want them to appear in a specific order in your Analytics reports.



Choose "URL Destination" if your goal is to have visitors land on a specific page on your website. This goal option will allow you to set up a funnel, which is useful if you want to track the progress of visitors as they click through pages to reach the goal destination.
Choose "Time on Site" if you want to measure the amount of time a visitor spends on your website.
Choose "Pages per Visit" if you want to view how many pages visitors browsed while they were on your website.
,


The Match Type field determines how you want the URL used by the visitor to match with the URL you identify for this goal type. In some cases, a URL can change slightly depending on where the visitor is coming from. An Exact Match is when all your URLs remain the same and never change. A Head Match allows you to designate a specific string of characters in your URL that you want matched and can be useful if visitors have an identification number when they are logged into your website. Regular Expression enables wild card matching of certain characters in the URL and is helpful if visitors land on the URL from a sub-domain.



Include the part of your URL that follows after your domain; do not provide your domain. For example, if your website ends in ".com," include all the characters following ".com," including the forward slash.



If your domain or URL requires certain upper-case or lower-case letters for it to work, place a check mark in the field next to "Case Sensitive."

,


For example, if your URL Destination is a checkout page for visitors that buy a product from you, enter the amount of total transactions you want to occur.



Click on "Yes, create a funnel for this goal" to open your funnel options.
Provide each URL in the series of URLs for the funnel by typing in the characters following your website's domain.
