 This can be done in combination with most sabbatical goals. Seeing another culture and making contacts is often beneficial, both personally and career-wise.If your company is looking for international contacts or markets, choose a location the company is interested in to make your sabbatical more likely to be approved.
 You could volunteer for a charity, or do field research for humanitarian or environmental causes. Some companies interested in social responsibility may appreciate having a worker who represents them in this type of work.
 This could mean attending a meditation retreat, running a triathlon, or writing a novel. Other goals could be as simple as spending time with your family, especially if your job requires a lot of time away from home or after-hours work. Not only will this type of goal make you more confident and happy, your employer may also benefit from a happier, more motivated worker.
 Search for training courses, certification opportunities in new software or procedures, or language-learning programs. You may be able to visit another branch of your company or a sister organization, and do a little work for them to increase your knowledge and learn from a different corporate culture.


If you can't find opportunities like these, you can design your own schedule to teach yourself one of these skills.
 This is essentially work away from work, and can be a compelling reason for your employer to approve a sabbatical if you have a useful independent project proposal. Depending on your job, you may be developing a new product, process, or theory.
 Decide on a specific volunteer program to join, or a specific location to travel to. Give your research project, skill learning opportunity, or personal goals their own timeline and deadline, so you are motivated to reach those milestones.
 Even with concrete goals, it can be difficult to actually complete them without a regular work structure. Hold yourself to a certain amount of "sabbatical goal time" each day, whether this means spending time with your children or actively working on a project. This will cut down on wasted time and missed opportunities.

