 Can eating or drinking turmeric improve your skin? As with topical applications, there is scant hard evidence that would support such claims. But, turmeric is unlikely to do any harm and can add quite an appealing zing to a wide range of recipes.


From the countless curry recipes that include turmeric, to turmeric teas and “golden milk,” to turmeric powder sprinkled into soups or scrambled eggs, you really have limitless options for increasing your daily intake through food and drink.
See Include Turmeric in Your Diet for some great ideas, tips, and recipes.
 Turmeric can also be taken directly as a dietary supplement, in powdered, capsule, or other forms. People take turmeric supplements in hope that it will help prevent conditions ranging from Alzheimer’s to cancer and beyond, although, again, such evidence is sketchy at best. But, so long as you stick within recommended dosage ranges (for instance, in powdered form, 400-600 mg three times daily), it is unlikely to cause negative effects.However, if you have high blood pressure, take stomach acid reducing medicines, have gallstones, have diabetes, are pregnant or nursing, take blood thinners, or are going to undergo surgery, consult a doctor first. In reality, it is best practice to consult with your physician regarding all supplements you take.
Check out Take Turmeric Powder for more insights on turmeric supplements and restrictions.
 Beyond the wide-ranging medical benefits claimed for turmeric, advocates for this golden powder say it will help skin and beauty conditions ranging from oil skin to dry skin, excess hair to hair loss, and color, elasticity, blemishes, “glow,” and on and on.Can it do all or any of these things? Maybe. Will it work for you? Maybe.


You simply have to accept that there are a lot of “mays” involved when talking about using turmeric for skincare. For instance, it may have anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. There simply have not been many detailed scientific studies done to support or reject turmeric health claims. The bottom line seems to be this: turmeric is unlikely to hurt you; and it may help you, but is at least as likely to do nothing.