 If you want to be a Gryffindor then you have to think about their qualities, brave, loyal and loving. You have to be a Gryffindor in and out.;
, Cross your fingers it says Gryffindor.
 Again, cross your fingers!

, It's a disgrace to Gryffindors everywhere. Most HP non-fans will spell it "Griffendor", "Griffindoer", or the common mistake, "Griffindor". Politely correct them, and for HP fans, add "I thought you ought to know that."

, Look him up on Wikipedia and the Harry Potter Wiki. You will find interesting facts which will help you on your way to Gryffindor life.
 You can substitute gold for yellow, but you may look half-Hufflepuff then. Yes, they're sweet, but we're talking Gryffindor here. Find scarlet and gold scarves, gloves, hats and shoes. Just use a black robe for your uniform, and for the finishing touch, add a Gryffindor badge (which you can find from the HP website) to your uniform.
 Since it's Hogwarts, most of the Gryffindors have a British accent, so try to practice that. Unless you're trying to be Seamus, in which case, speak like you're from Ireland. Use a few slang words

, Most Gryffindors are polite, dignified, and a bit modest. Have you seen Harry? Open doors for people, help old ladies cross the street. You may be a bit of a sissy, but that's better than being a bully.
 Most Gryffindors are brave (pardon Peter Pettigrew) and love adventure. Discover a plan from your school. See in advance which teacher your crazy old professor's going to marry. Dig for treasure. Discover a secret artifact. Anything's possible, as long as you think you can do it.
 (You can just think it if it might offend them.)


Ravenclaws: Smarties. People you get along well with. People who are a bit shy and bookish.
Hufflepuffs: Crazy, unexpected people. People with a love of cooking. Preferably a little bubbly around the waist.
Slytherins: People you can't really work with. Nope. People who you think are loony.
Snape: The professor you know who hates you,but has a soft spot deep,deep down for you.
Death Eaters: Natural enemies.
Voldemort: Your one and only mortal enemy.
 Add scarlet and gold/yellow beanbags, flags of Gryffindor (usually red and gold striped), red bedsheets, yellow cabinets, and an owl for the HP look.
 Keep repeating these steps until you are a true Gryffindor.

