 Ensure that they will look forward to the experience by making them part of the decision-making process. If the idea of camp is yours rather than theirs, broach the subject casually by asking them to think about what they would expect from a fun camp. Allow them some time to think it over so they don’t feel compelled to answer for the sake of answering., Create a list of their favorite activities. Mark their most favorite to see if there are any camps devoted exclusively to this subject. If not, use your list to find a camp whose programs cover the majority of your child’s interests. These may include:Sports
Art and music
Math and science
Religion
Outdoor/nature activities

, Determine the length of your child’s stay. Decide between sending them to camp for a few hours each day and for whole weeks at a time. If you decide on a day camp, increase your options by also considering other institutions that offer summer programs. Such institutions include:Activity centers
Churches
Colleges and universities
Fine art centers
Municipalities
Museums
Zoos

, Some camps may offer bus transportation to designated drop-off/pick-up sites outside of camp to minimize the distance that parents need to travel.For day camps, extend your search a little wider than you can personally drive each day and ask about provided transportation when you contact the camp. For overnight camps, extend your search over an even greater area since you will have to make the trip less frequently.Local day camps will probably offer a limited variety of locales. Still, ask your child where their ideal camp would be located. Would they prefer the deep woods? Do they imagine it situated by a river, lake, bay, or ocean? Or is the location less important than the facilities and activities provided?

, Refer to the criteria that you and your child have established. Add your child’s age as well as your budget to the list. Perform a keyword search to find prospective camps that meet your criteria (example: “overnight nature camps in upstate New York” or “basketball day camps in Southern California”).Or, visit websites that perform the search for you based on your entered input, such as:find.acacamps.org (the American Camp Association)
www.camps.com
www.kidscamps.com
www.summercamps.com

, Treat finding a summer camp like applying to colleges. Compose a list of your top picks. Give yourself some fallbacks in the event that your top pick is all booked up for the summer. Additionally, determine your child’s top pick by presenting them with three camps that focus on their interests with different approaches. For example, if your child is eager to learn outdoor/nature skills, ask them to decide between:An overnight camp set in the deep woods that focuses exclusively on this subject.
An overnight camp that offers other activities, as well as field trips into town, so they can get a breather from this one subject.
A local day camp that focuses on outdoor/nature skills but allows your child to return home at night.
 Get a sense of what a day there is really like by taking a tour while it is in full swing. If the camp only runs summer-long sessions, pay a visit the preceding summer. If they run multiple sessions throughout the summer, go during a preceding session. Note the following:The mood of the kids
The enthusiasm of the staff
The staff’s supervisory and safety skills
How many children are assigned to one counselor

, Make sure the camp is equipped to handle any special needs your child may have regarding food, health, or handicaps.Take a careful look at the conditions to make sure they match the brochure’s photographs. Measure their adequacy versus your child’s concerns and personal goals. For example:


If your child isn’t too thrilled about a down-to-earth, rustic experience, make sure the campers’ cabins have reliable air-conditioning and leak-proof roofs.
If the aim is for your child to develop particular skills in, say, computer science or tennis, check the quality of the equipment to make sure they won’t be using out-of-date computers or worn-out rackets.
 Expect many camps to have a specific mission or underlying philosophy. Have a conversation with the director about the camp’s goals, even if their promotional material mentions it. Be aware that faith-based camps may still emphasize core concepts of their faith even though they accept campers from outside the faith or downplay their church’s sponsorship in their brochure. Camps may emphasize:Strong interaction, camaraderie, and community-building between campers.
Leadership and self-reliance
Competition

, Consider this an excellent litmus test of the camp’s quality. Ask the director how many of the same children return year after year. Time your visit to coincide with the first day of camp or Parents Day, when other parents will be on hand. Find those parents whose children are similar to your own and ask about their experiences. For instance:If the camp specializes in certain activities, have their kids shown significant progress in developing those skills?
Have their children had issues with others at camp? If so, did the staff handle the situation effectively?
Did their children enjoy participating in other activities even if they weren’t their strong suit?

, Whether the camp supervises your child overnight or only during the daytime, ease your mind by making sure the camp has received accreditation from the American Camps Association or a similar advisory board.Double-check with local authorities to see if the camp has passed all required safety and health inspections.Ensure that your child will be well cared for in your absence.


Such accreditation only applies to actual camps, rather than summer programs run by museums, fine art centers, and the like.
 Expect one camp’s base fee to differ from another’s in terms of what is covered. Ask the director for a complete list of additional charges that you will have to pay on top of the base fee. Additionally, ask if your child will need hard cash on hand for onsite canteens or off-site excursions. Extra fees may include:Clothing and/or equipment
Insurance
Meals
Transportation

, Find out if the camp offers any specials that may reduce their usual base fee. Ask if they offer any scholarships (sometimes called “camper ships”) that your child may qualify for based on your income. If not, check for any alternate discounts that may be offered. These could include:Early enrollment
Group discounts
Referrals

, After you establish the total price for summer camp, determine whether you can afford it on top of the expense of any programs that your child (or entire family) take part in during the school year. If not, consider enrolling your child or family in annual memberships that include summer programs or offer deeper discounts for them. Such organizations may include:The Boys & Girls Club
The Boy & Girl Scouts
Fine art centers
Museums
The YMCA

