 It's a blue app with a white "e" on it; you can typically find it in the Start menu, though you may need to type "edge" into the Start menu search bar to find it.


You can open the Start menu by clicking the Windows icon in the bottom-left corner of the screen.;
, Since Reading View emphasizes text and removes any visual media (e.g., ads, photos, videos), you'll want to use Reading View on a news site or a blog. There are a couple of ways to search for pages:


Click a news article you'd like to read from the Edge home page.
Click the URL bar at the top of the Edge window, then type in a site's name or web address and press ↵ Enter.
Open an article from your favorites by clicking the three horizontal lines in the top-right side of the Edge window, then clicking a favorite.
 It resembles the outline of a book and is in the far-right side of the address bar at the top of the window.


If you don't see the book icon or it's greyed out, Reading View isn't available on your selected page.
Reading View may take a few seconds to load after opening a page.
 When a site switches to Reading View, a plain background appears, and you'll see nothing but text displayed on the page.


On some news sites, the article's primary photo will appear at the top of the page. You won't see advertisements or dynamic media like videos, however.
 Once you finish your article, you can click the Reading View icon (or the Edge "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen) to close out of Reading View.
 It's located at the top-right of the Edge browser.
 It's located at the very bottom of the drop-down menu.
 It's located towards the bottom of the settings page just above "Advanced Settings."

, Here you can select the color theme for Reading View Mode to whichever you find is easier on your eyes. While in Reading View, select the following to preview each option:


Light
Medium
Dark

, Here you can select the font size for Reading View Mode to whichever you find easiest to read. While in Reading View, select the following to preview each option:


Small
Medium
Large
Extra Large

, This will close settings and apply your changes.

