 Offer appropriate praise when you child does something well. Encourage them. Compliment them and be specific. Praise them when they are working hard and sticking with something challenging.
For example, don't say "You are good kid." Instead say,"I like the way you cleaned your room. You have good organizational skills."

, If a child does something inappropriate like spill a cup of grape juice on a carpet, learn to correct them in a supportive way. Avoid yelling at them with harsh words. Teach them that making mistakes can be a way to gain wisdom and learning for the future.


Encourage them during set-backs. Help them to understand the importance of persistence.
Mistakes can be learning opportunities. For example, if they spill grape juice on a white carpet, teach them the tools about how to clean up the spill, and what are good cleaning agents for such a spill. Get them involved in how to clean, rather than just punishing them for their mistake.
 Children learn the most from your behavior. Children invariably imitate adult behavior, good and bad. They want to act like adults themselves.Your actions ultimately influence their future behavior. Teach them about good manners and appropriate etiquette in different situations. If you are at special dinner party and your children are present, help them talk to other adults in a polite way. Teach them about shaking hands with adults when meeting them, or giving a hug to their relatives.
Take note that your child is watching how you do things. If they see you swearing, they are more likely to swear. If they see you helping someone, they are more likely to help others.
 Whether the people are your friends, family, or even strangers, show your child what good behavior looks like. Talk with your child about what that person did well, and what they did in the process.Choose role models such as ordinary heroes in your community or people who have overcome adversity throughout history. Avoid using modern-day celebrities as primary examples of good behavior.
Help your child to understand that these admirable qualities are attainable by using real-life examples. Show them how resilience and confidence are possible despite challenges.

