 Sometimes blood will leak through your clothes. It is ok, most girls will or have experienced this before. If you are at home, change your clothes immediately. If you are not home, you can tie a jacket or sweater around your waist to hide the blood and then change your pad or tampon.You can also keep a change of clothes in your locker.
As soon as you can, rinse your underwear and clothes with cold water and then put them in the washing machine. You may be able to get rid of the stain.
 If you do not have a pad or tampon, ask a friend, teacher, or school nurse. You can also go to the office and ask to call your parents to bring you the supplies that you need. If you are desperate, fold up tissue or toilet paper and put them in your underwear to protect your clothes.Some schools have tampon and pad dispensers in the bathroom.
The toilet paper and tissue will not last for long. Try to find a pad or tampon as soon as you can — the school nurse is your best bet. Remember that the nurse is a healthcare professional and you don't need to feel embarrassed to go to them and ask for help.
 You may need to excuse yourself from class to insert and/or change a pad or tampon. You can quietly tell your teacher, "I need to go to the bathroom." If they say no, you can say something like, "It is that time of the month." Your teacher will know that you are on your period. You can also ask to go to visit the school nurse.


Many bathrooms have a small trashcan in the stall that you can throw your used pads, panty liners, and tampon applicators in. If you cannot throw it away in your stall, wrap the used product in toilet paper and then throw it away in the bathroom trashcan.
Most girls will have their period. You will not be the only girl changing her pad or tampon at school.
 Many girls worry that they cannot swim or play sports when they are on their period or that other people will notice that they are on their period. None of that is true. No one else will know that you are on your period unless you tell them.Other people cannot smell you when you are on your period. As long as you change your pads and tampons regularly, you will be fine.
Wear tampons when you are swimming and playing sports. They are more comfortable than wearing a pad and will allow you to move around better.