 You can cut it as long as you'd like, but keep in mind that the thicker your material, the smaller the length. Additionally, you should use different colors to make your lanyard look prettier and to help you differentiate between your strands as you weave.









For boondoggle, 3 to 4 yards is a good length for a beginner's lanyard., To secure your lanyard hook, you can use a push-pin on a desk or a wall, tape it down, or pinch it between your knees. The more secure, the better, as you will want to be able to tug on your strands of material throughout this process to tighten the stitching.
 Draw your lanyard hook up to the center of your strands by doubling the strands over it until their ends line up. You will need to arrange your strands so that the two halves in back are positioned to the left of the two halves in front.
 Your right most strand is one of the halves in front, so pull it around behind the two, center strands and on top of the center-left strand.
 Pull the left-most strand around behind the two, center strands and on top of the center-right strand.
 Pull your strands to tighten the weave you have just made. Your lanyard hook will need to be secure for you to do this effectively.
 Repeat the exact same process with whichever strands are in the positions designated (e.g. right-most, center, left-most). You will repeat this process until you are satisfied with the length or you almost run out of material.









Stop before you run out of material, as you will need to tie-off your end to secure your stitching.
Do not twist your strands as you bend them around behind the others, otherwise it will disrupt the diamond pattern., When you are finished, tie a granny knot using the two, uppermost strands: that is, the two strands that are higher up the braid, one of which would have been your next strand to weave.









A granny knot basically consists of two half knots: cross the strands, wrap your top strand around your back strand, and then repeat this for the ends of the half knot you've just created.