 These guidelines are essentially part of an anti-inflammatory diet, which is gaining more and more acceptance with physicians.


Chronic inflammation has been linked with diabetes and other diseases — including heart disease, Alzheimer's, depression, and arthritis.;
, This means that you should try to limit any processed or prepared foods and cook from scratch using fresh ingredients as much as possible.When you cook your own food, you can better control the ingredients and avoid excess sugar and other ingredients that might affect your diabetes.


If you are pressed for time, try using a crock pot or preparing the basics (like rice, beans and even meats and vegetables) ahead of time and freezing them.
 Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods such as whole grains, peas, lentils, beans, and vegetables.


Carbohydrates are converted into sugar, or glucose, when you eat them, so it is important you are very aware of your intake of carbohydrates.Simple carbohydrates are often found in processed foods and include added sugars like glucose, sucrose (table sugar) and fructose (most often added as high fructose corn syrup).
Recently, the ingestion of high-fructose corn syrup (by consuming soft drinks and other beverages with HFCS added) has, like the over-ingestion of sugar, been associated with increased risk of T2D, cardiovascular disease and obesity. Obesity can lead to insulin resistance and diabetes.
The reason that processed foods should be avoided is that they include both simple carbohydrates along with added sugars. Sugar by itself does not cause diabetes, but ingesting more sugar-filled beverages, for example, is linked to an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes.
 Reading labels can be useful to determine the amount of sugars in a food, but manufacturers are not required to list added sugars. You can avoid any added sugars by sticking to the unprocessed foods.


A good rule of thumb is no “white” foods: no white bread, white pasta, white rice.
 For example, you can include a tablespoon of ground flaxseeds at every meal. Either get a coffee grinder to grind your own flaxseeds or keep pre-frozen ground seeds in your freezer (to keep the healthy oils that you also get in flaxseeds from getting rancid).
 Look for wild-caught fish, such as salmon, cod, haddock and tuna. These fish are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids that are essential for your health and are anti-inflammatory.


The skin of fish and poultry is avoided because it can be high in animal fat, as well as any added hormones and antibiotics. This promotes inflammation.
 According to the Institute of Medicine, women should consume about 2.7 liters (91 ounces, or 11 cups) of water each day, and men should consume about 3.7 liters (125 ounces daily, or 15 cups) of total water.This may seem like a lot, but that's because this measurement takes into account the water we get from foods and other beverages.Your hydration needs will vary depending on your gender, age, location, activity level, and many more factors.Beverage intake includes tea and coffee. Unsweetened, habitual coffee drinking may even decrease your risk of type 2 diabetes., A diagnosis of T2D does not mean you can’t eat ANY sugars. It means that you control the amount of sugars you eat and how you ingest them. For example, the sugars in fruit are combined with fiber and this means that the absorption of sugars from the fruit are slowed down.
 There are a large number of herbs that you can add to your diet to help control blood sugar levels. Add to taste whenever you want! These herbs may help you get over some of those sugar cravings as well. These herbs are all very safe with no side effects when taken in commonly used amounts as food:


Cinnamon
Fenugreek
Okra (not quite an herb, but more of a side-dish)
Ginger
Garlic and onions
Basil

, Type 2 diabetes is an acquired disorder. There is also gestational diabetes and prediabetes.


In Type 1 diabetes (T1D), specific cells in the pancreas, the beta cells, are destroyed. Because beta cells make insulin, in T1D, the body is no longer able to make insulin and no longer able to control blood sugar levels. People with T1D have to take insulin their whole lives.
Type 2 diabetes used to be considered an adult condition that is unfortunately appearing more and more often in children. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) or diabetes mellitus is the most common form of diabetes — genetics, diet and environmental factors play an important role in the development of Type 2 diabetes. In T2D blood sugar levels can be controlled by diet, medication, supplemental insulin, or a combination of all these.
A third form of diabetes is called gestational diabetes. It occurs in the second half of pregnancy and occurs in less than 10% of pregnant women.Some physicians include a condition called prediabetes as an early form of diabetes. Individuals with prediabetes have higher than normal levels of blood glucose, but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetics. Individuals with pre-diabetes (also known as insulin resistance) have a very high risk of developing T2D.
 Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, is the main chemical messenger that tells the cells that it is time to take up glucose. Secondly, insulin is involved in messaging the liver to take up glucose and transform it into the storage form of glucose known as glycogen. Third, insulin is involved in a wide range of other functions like protein and fat metabolism., The reason they have high blood glucose (blood sugar) is that the cells in their body do not take up glucose and the reason for this is that the cells in their body do not respond normally to insulin.


Every cell in our body uses glucose (sugar) for producing the energy needed for the cells to do their jobs. The glucose is derived from the foods we eat, primarily from carbohydrates. These are molecules composed of chains of various different sugars, including glucose. Complex carbohydrates have many chains and are often branched while simple carbohydrates have shorter, unbranched chains. Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, is the main chemical messenger that “tells” the cells that it is time to take up glucose.
If the cells become insulin resistant, they “ignore” or can’t respond to the signal from insulin. This can increase the levels of glucose in the blood. When this happens, the pancreas responds by producing even more insulin, in an attempt to “force” the glucose into the cells. The problem is that since the insulin has no effect on the insulin-resistant cells, the blood glucose levels can keep rising. The body’s response is to convert the high levels of glucose in the blood into fat, and that can set up a scenario of chronic inflammation and other disorders like full blown T2D, obesity, metabolic syndrome and heart disease.
 These can come on at any point in your life. The most common symptoms of T2D are:Increased thirst along with more frequent urination
Increased appetite
Weight gain or unexpected weight loss
Blurry or changed vision
Fatigue
Increased number of infections from cuts or bladder/vaginal/gum infections

, Type 2 diabetes is diagnosed by a number of specific blood tests that measure how well your body handles sugars. Tell your doctor your symptoms and, if she sees a need, the doctor will test your blood.


These tests include taking blood samples to test for blood sugar levels at various times, such as after fasting, after meals, or after ingesting a pre-set amount of glucose.
If you have been diagnosed with diabetes, you should let your doctor know how you have changed your diet to improve blood sugar control.
Get regular checkups, including blood tests, as advised by your physician.
If you are trying to prevent diabetes, regular checkups are also advised.
 Most cases of diabetes can be controlled with a combination of medications, diet, and exercise. While you are in charge of the diet and exercise changes, sometimes you need additional help in the form of medication. Medications include hypoglycemics, which are medicines that lower blood sugars. These medications are generally safe, but do have some side effects. Talk to your physician about any medications you are on and ask especially about potential side effects. Common hypoglycemic medications include drugs in various classes:


Sulfonylureas are the oldest medications used in T2D and stimulate insulin secretion. Examples include Glibenclamide (Micronase®), Glimepiride (Amaryl®) and Glipizide (Glucotrol®).
Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors delay glucose absorption after a meal. An example is Acarbose (Precose®).
Glinides stimulate the secretion of insulin and include Repaglinide (NovoNorm®, Prandin®, GlucoNorm®).
Biguanides such as metformin makes the cells less insulin resistant and include metformin formulations such as Glucophage®, Glucophage XR®, Riomet®, Fortamet®, Glumetza®, Obimet®, Dianben®, Diabex® and Diaformin®.
Dipeptidyl Peptidase-IV Inhibitors prevent the breakdown of certain proteins that improve glucose tolerance. An example is Sitagliptin (Januvia®) and Linagliptin (Tradjenta®).

