 If you must take your ex-partner to court to obtain a custody modification, you need to consult with an attorney. The more adversarial you and your former partner become, the greater your need for a professional advocate.That’s because the more adversarial it gets, the more each side has an incentive to prove their case—meaning there’s a greater incentive for each side to introduce evidence. Rules of evidence are complicated and you don’t want the other side to have an unfair advantage because they’re introducing inadmissible evidence or getting your evidence thrown out on a technicality.
If you can’t afford an attorney to handle your entire case, at least consult with Legal Aid, who will give you legal services at little to no cost. They can guide you through the out-of-court process. Do whatever you can to have a lawyer represent you for the in-court hearing. You can find a Legal Aid attorney at http://www.lsc.gov/what-legal-aid/find-legal-aid.
 The forms you’ll use for asking the court to mandate a modification to the custody agreement are mostly the same forms that you would use if you and your former partner were cooperating. Since you aren’t cooperating, there’s a lot more back and forth.The process will start with the Petition to Change a Custody Order. You’ll need to describe the basic terms of the original order, how circumstances have changed, how you propose to modify the order, and how that will affect child support obligations. You’ll probably need to sign the Petition in the presence of a notary, so you might wait until you file.
Attach the original custody order to the Petition, along with the proposed Parenting Plan and any child support or financial documents required in your jurisdiction.
Fill out a summons form, which compels the respondent (the other parent) to appear in court and answer your claims. Along with the summons, include an Acknowledgement of Service—a document the process server will bring back to the clerk of court after the respondent is served.
 You will file the entire packet with the Clerk of Court, taking care that the required documents are signed in the presence of a notary. There will be filing fees, which vary by the type of case and jurisdiction.If you cannot afford the filing fees, fill out an application to waive the fees on account of indigence. All jurisdictions allow fees owed by low income filers to be waived.
 Depending on your jurisdiction, either the Sheriff or a process server will serve your petition to the respondent. Service of process notifies the other party that you’ve filed a petition so they can prepare for the upcoming hearing., After the respondent is served, they will have a certain amount of time to file an answer to the petition. They can contest your petition, ask for more time, or agree to it. The Consent to Change Custody form is actually the respondent’s answer if they agree with your petition.If the judge agrees with the respondent’s answer and believes that your Petition has no legal merit, they can dismiss the claim outright. The court could also schedule a hearing to decide on both parties’ claims, or order mediation.
If you are order to attend mediation, understand that you don’t have to agree to the mediator’s proposals, but you do have to negotiate in good faith.
 Gather your evidence and go over your Petition. Make sure that your witnesses know about the date of the hearing and have made time to be there. Connect each piece of evidence to an allegation in the Petition.


For example, if you allege the respondent is a drug addict, don’t introduce evidence of the respondent sending you an angry voice message. Both addicts and non-addicts get angry, so anger in and of itself doesn’t prove drug addiction.
A really good way to prepare yourself is to attend another person’s hearing. Court procedures are open to the public, after all. That way you can get an idea of the procedures, pace and what else you should expect.
 Be respectful, forceful, and logical. Follow your attorney’s advice. Even if it’s a Legal Aid attorney, they are still looking out for you—that’s their job. Your attorney must legally place your interests ahead of all other competing interests.


Don’t let your emotions get the best you, even though it’s an emotional occasion. It’s much more likely to hurt your case than help your case. You don’t want to seem like a hothead. 