 Hardware is the physical stuff that makes up the computer and the media that is used to connect computers to other computers.;
, Software is the stuff that makes the computer work and it includes the applications, protocols, and the operating system.
 There are some programs one can use in order to learn the specific specs a computer has, if you do not know off-hand. E.g. CPU-Z.
 Learning to use your computer's command line (MS DOS Prompt/Command Prompt in Windows, Terminal or Konsole in Linux) is essential to at least boosting your efficiency on your computer. In Windows, the DOS prompt isn't especially useful, but it's a good idea to know how to use it. However, in Linux or UNIX, Mac or BSD, or other Unix-like operating systems, it is important to be able to use the command line so that you can work more efficiently via bash scripts.
 This isn't especially important, but this will definitely boost your efficiency at the computer, and make yourself look more sensible.
 If someone does something on a computer that you would like to know, ask them about it.
 This is one of the most important things to do. Don't confuse certain types of languages with others. Interpreted languages like BASIC aren't very good for true computer programming, but if all you want to do is write a simple computer game, it's fine. HTML or CSS are for web pages, and it's a good idea to know them, but they won't be especially useful for really programming your computer. It is recommended that you learn the scripting language of your prompt (e.g. Bash) as that will bring power and simplicity for a novice programmer and admin. However, you may learn any language you like.
 This can help you out a lot if your or someone else's computer breaks down, which will also increase your reputation as a computer geek. You may learn the advanced methods, but that may require lessons from an actual computer geek.
 By interacting with other PC users, you may find that they know things that you don't and vice versa. However as a computer geek wannabe, you'll want to know more about computer than your friends, at any given time.
 Not only will you build a name for yourself, but it is good practice and can help you learn about situations and problems you have not encountered before.
 This will come in handy when you re-install your Operating System.
, Of course, you should know how to use it!

, Most computer geeks will use an open OS such as *BSD or Linux, because it is (usually) free and allows them to do geeky stuff such as programming, running servers and using a command line interface (CLI).
 It is important to know shortcuts as it shaves off valuable seconds of your precious time.
, Skip overwhelming or overly-complicated ideas. Instead, focus on learning the knowledge and skills you may need to accomplish a big idea in the future.
 Computer geeks aren't too smart to learn something new about computers. True computer geeks are always learning, and when they don't understand, always asking for help. Collect knowledge. Put things together. Read articles on Wikipedia, join computer forums for your programming language or just regular forums, and ask questions. If you have trouble learning, write things down and quiz yourself. Whatever your methods, be sure to be continuously learning more about computers.
 One bit of data is a binary digit - a one or a zero. Eight bits make a byte. Learn how many bytes are in a kilobyte (KB), megabyte (MB), gigabyte (GB) and so on. While most people think that there are 1024 megabytes in a gigabyte, there actually aren't. There are exactly 1000 megabytes in a gigabyte. The things that most people are speaking about are gigabytes and megabytes. Do some research on the topic of data storage. Once you have that down, get comfortable with binary. From there, learn to use octal and hexadecimal, and how to convert from one base to another. When you understand why programmers always get Christmas and Halloween mixed up, you're well on your way to becoming a true geek.

