 Add 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of soy sauce and 2 ½ tablespoons (37 ½ ml) of black vinegar to a small bowl. Use a whisk to stir the ingredients together until they’re completely mixed.If you have celiac disease or a gluten-sensitivity, be sure to choose a soy sauce that is labeled “gluten-free.” Some contain wheat or other sweeteners and flavorings that contain gluten.
You can usually find black vinegar at Chinese grocery stores or from online retailers.
You can substitute Worcestershire sauce for the black vinegar if you prefer.;
, When the soy sauce and black vinegar are fully mixed, add 2 tablespoons (25 g) of sugar to the bowl. Whisk the mixture until the sugar is fully incorporated., After the sugar is mixed into the dressing, add ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt. Use the whisk to mix the dressing until the salt is completely blended in.You can adjust the amount of salt to taste.
 For the slaw, you’ll need 1 small head of Chinese cabbage. Use a sharp knife to cut off the bottom of the cabbage. With clean hands, peel away the stalks to free them from the head.You can substitute a Napa cabbage for the Chinese cabbage if you prefer.
 Once all of the cabbage stalks are removed from the head, it’s important to trim them. Cut off the leafy tip ends of the stalks with your knife and throw them away.If you notice any brown or wilted stalks as you’re trimming them, discard those as well.
 After you’ve trimmed the stalks, run them under cold water to rinse them well. Next, spin them in a salad spinner several times to remove the excess moisture.If you don’t have a salad spinner, put the cabbage stalks in a colander and shake them well to drain the water.
You can also drain the cabbage stalks by patting them thoroughly with paper towel or a clean kitchen towel.
 Once the cabbage is rinsed and drained, use the knife to cut it into ½-inch (1.27-cm) wide julienne strips. When you’re finished cutting, separate the shredded cabbage into thicker stem portions and thinner leafy sections.The thicker stem pieces of the cabbage take longer to stir fry than the leafy pieces, so it’s important to separate them so you can add them to your pan first.
 Add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of canola oil and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of toasted sesame oil to a wok or large skillet. Turn the burner to high, and heat the oils for approximately 3 to 5 minutes, or until they are hot and start to shimmer.You can substitute vegetable or olive oil for the canola oil if you prefer.
Toasted sesame oil has a very distinctive flavor so it’s hard to substitute for it. If you can’t find any, though, peanut oil is usually the best option., When the oils are hot, add 1 teaspoon (2 g) of crushed red pepper and 2 ½ tablespoons (8 g) of minced fresh ginger to the pan. Stir them with a wooden spoon, and allow them to cook for 15 seconds.If you’d like your slaw to be especially hot, you can increase the amount of crushed red pepper that you add.
 After you’ve cooked the crushed red pepper and fresh ginger briefly, add 1 diced red bell pepper to the pan and allow it to cook 30 seconds, stirring frequently. Next, pour 1 ½ tablespoons (22 ½ ml) of rice wine into the mixture, and stir fry it for another 30 seconds.You can substitute sake for the rice wine if you prefer.
 Once you’ve allowed the diced red pepper and rice wine to stir fry for a minute, add the stem pieces of the cabbage and 1 ½ cups (75 g) of grated carrots to the pan. Toss the ingredients lightly with the wooden spoon, and allow the mixture to cook for 1 minute.You can also mix in one 8-ounce (227 g) can of bamboo shoots that have been drained and thinly sliced if you like.
 After you’ve stir fried the stem sections of the cabbage and carrots briefly, add the leafy pieces of cabbage to the pan. Use the wooden spoon to toss the leafy sections into the mixture, and then pour the dressing mixture over the slaw. Stir the slaw well to coat it, and allow it to cook for another 30 seconds., When you’re finished stir frying the slaw, use the spoon to place it in a serving dish or bowl. You can serve it hot, room temperature, or cold. Refrigerate any leftover slaw.The hot and sour slaw is an ideal side for grilled meats, such as pork or chicken.
