 Swapping out drum heads is an easy and inexpensive way to customize the look, feel, and tone of your drum set. Drum heads are manufactured in a wide range of materials and thicknesses, from the ubiquitous clear or coated mylar heads, to exotic faux calfskin heads, to special colored drum heads.


Note that new drum heads should not be chosen on appearance alone, as they will also impact the tone of your kit. Warm, dark calfskin heads are not ideal for playing hard rock, for instance.
If you use black or colored drum heads, the colored coating will gradually rub off onto your drum sticks. This coating can deposit onto drum heads that are white or clear, so avoid using your drum sticks on another drummer's kit.;
, Another way to dramatically alter the appearance of your drum set is by changing the hardware. Lugs, hoops, tension rods, tom mounts, snare strainers, and leg brackets are all available in a range of different finishes from major drum manufacturers.


Gold, chrome, white, and black finishes are the most common available. Some parts, such as drum hoops, can be made from wood as well.
If you are operating on a budget, you can try refinishing your current hardware. Metal-safe spray paints and bronzing dips are 2 methods you can use to give your hardware a fresh appearance.
 Of course, most drum sets feature the same standard 4-piece or 5-piece arrangement of snare, toms, and bass drum. To customize a drum set and make it more unique, you can add elements that aren't included in this arrangement.


For instance, you can add a second snare drum to your kit. A snare drum with a smaller diameter or depth (often called a piccolo snare) can be placed next to your existing snare to provide you with a new range of tonal opportunities.
You can also add additional toms. For example, adding an 18 inch (45 cm) floor tom to the right of an existing 16 inch (40 cm) floor tom will allow you to achieve a new depth of pitch with your toms.
 Updating the appearance of your drum shells is perhaps the most dramatic way to customize a drum set. Drum shells are finished either using wood stain, paint, or a wrap finish that is glued to the wood shell.


Refinishing drum shells is not, however, a job suited for amateurs. Attempting to remove an existing finish carries the risk of damaging your drums. Always have your drums professionally refinished unless you have experience working with drum finishes.
Because the drum hardware will need to be completely removed to refinish the drum shells, consider updating the hardware as well to coordinate with the new finish.

