 Long, choppy layers look really nice and so do short styles. It just depends on what looks best with your face shape. Indie is all about being "independent" so always do what you feel most comfortable with and don't try to be someone else. If you want a wild color like purple that's fine but if you don't want to dye your hair that's fine too.;
, everyone needs them unless you're extremely indie and happen to be a nudist. Thrift stores, best friends and concerts are where the goods are. Walmart and Target, are great too for basics. Now everyone always says stay away from Hollister, American Eagle etc. because those brands aren't "indie" but honestly if you see something you like at one of these stores then go for it...you can always add a personal touch to clothes. Depending on your body type, choose your jeans. Skinny jeans have become very popular and that's okay, a lot of people feel confident in them. If you prefer skirts or even dress pants then those look really good too. A good thing to keep in mind with all of your clothes is that you should REALLY love them, because you shouldn't be changing your wardrobe all the time, just enhancing it! So feel free to express yourself and add personal touches to everything you wear. Tie dye, beads, sharpies, pins and patches are good things for enhancing your clothes. If you want to be truly indie, don't go out and spend a ton of money on more clothes. Try working with what you have first and deciding on the kind of effect you want your style to have and keep in mind..some looks are better for certain situations, whereas they can not be so great in others.


P.S. Goodwill is a great place to find all sort of different styles of clothes and they have really good prices.
 Experiment with different looks and be daring. If you really don't like the outcome you can always wash it off.
,, That's the most important thing. No one likes a poser., Marilyn Monroe and Audrey Hepburn are very popular, some others include Raquel Reed, Audrey Kitching, Twiggy, Hanna Beth, Hayley Williams, and Vanna Venom.