 This one may seem like a no-brainer, but it is still important. Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to avoid getting sick and spreading disease. Wash your hands regularly, particularly after you use the restroom and before you eat food.Wash your hands with warm, soapy water for at least 20 seconds. Dry them well with a clean towel.


If soap and water are not available, hand sanitizer can work in a pinch; however, it is less effective when hands are visibly dirty., Although keeping your hands clean is important, it is also okay to get dirty every now and then. Your immune system functions to prevent disease, but has to first be exposed to that disease or something similar before it can fight off future infection. Keeping your environment too clean and limiting your exposure to microbes can be detrimental your immune system's ability to fight disease.Do be careful to sanitize after handling animal products such as raw meats and eggs.
 Probiotics are the good bacteria that help your body function and stay regular. These “good” bacteria are important in maintaining intestinal health, as opposed to the bad bacteria that can lead to infection. They may also help in the prevention of yeast infections and urinary tract infections.Probiotics can be found in yogurt or taken as a daily supplement.
In addition, don’t ask for antibiotics every time you get sick. Your body needs to develop its defenses by fighting the infection on its own. In addition, antibiotics only work when you have a bacterial illness. They will have no effect when you are sick with a virus, such as when you have the flu.
 It’s no secret that smoking is bad for your health. It’s also not easy to quit smoking, but there are ways to help you succeed. Benefits of quitting include decreased risk for heart attack and stroke, decreased coughing/shortness of breath, reduced risk for mouth, throat, esophageal, and bladder cancer, and better overall quality of life.Nicotine gum and patches are available to help ease the cravings during the process of quitting.
Talk to your doctor about prescription medication that can also assist in quitting.
Join a support group to help you quit and keep you motivated.
Write down all of the reasons you want to quit and refer back to that when you have a strong craving.
 A glass of wine or a beer every now and again is okay, but drinking every night or excessive drinking (like binge drinking) can be hard on your body. Your liver in particular has to work overtime to process alcohol. Drinking too much over a lifetime can lead to liver failure and other bodily harm. Alcohol is also very calorie-dense and can lead to weight issues.


Women should limit alcohol to less than one drink a day, men less than two.Do not drink alcohol if you are pregnant or have other complicating conditions.
 Many studies have shown that keeping your brain active by doing puzzles can be beneficial to your health and lower your risk for dementia and memory loss.Keep a puzzle book handy by your bed or in the bathroom.
Try an online subscription to a brain games website.
 A great way to keep yourself healthy is through prevention. Going to your annual check-ups allows your doctor to know how you are doing and catch any potential illnesses before they begin. Many illnesses are manageable in their beginning stages, but become much more difficult to treat if they have been left unchecked.


Schedule your appointment for the following year before you leave the doctor’s office.

