 If you've noticed that your shoelaces seem to come untied frequently, try this knot, which is based off of the super-secure knot that doctors use to tie sutures after surgery (the knot is also popular with fishermen.)To start, make the same sort of basic "right over left" knot that you'd begin with when tying your shoes normally.To do this, simply take your right lace and cross it over the left lace. Wrap it around the left lace once and pull tight. You're done!;
, After this, make a small "looped" section by doubling one of the laces back on itself. You're not doing any tying or wrapping here — just re-positioning one string so that it makes a U shape.
 Next, take the lace that you didn't make a loop with and pull it so it crosses behind the loop. Then, pull it back around in front of the loop. This should make a small "hole" between the two laces and the initial "right over left" knot at the bottom.
 Take the slack end of the free lace in your hand and make a second loop by doubling it up on itself in a U shape (just like you did with the other lace.) Push this second loop through the "hole" that was formed in the previous step.


Resist the urge to pull the knot tight at this point — if you do, you'll just be left with an ordinary shoelace knot.
 Now, take the second loop that you just pushed through the hole and wrap it all the way around the first loop. Push it back through the hole one again. "Double-wrapping" the loop this way is what makes the surgeon's knot so secure — the friction that's generated when the tightly-wrapped laces rub against each makes it very hard for this knot to come undone.
 Now, you can simply pull the loops in opposite directions to tighten the knot. The results will look a little like a standard shoelace knot, but should be much more secure.


If you really don't want your laces to come undone, try soaking the knot in water before pulling it tight. As the water evaporates, the fabric of the laces will constrict, making the knot even tighter., Though this knot shouldn't come undone accidentally, it's not hard to undo when you want to take off your shoes. Simply pull on the loose ends of the laces like you would with an ordinary shoe knot and the surgeon's knot should come apart easily.

