 In general, late winter through mid-spring is the best time to prune. The new flourish of growth will fill out the shrub quickly. However, if the shrub is rather large and growing vigorously, it should be trimmed during the summer. Pruning at this time suppresses aggressive growth.


Pruning from late summer through fall should be avoided. Shrubs pruned at this time will put on new, lush growth that is either lost in the fall or damaged during the winter. Blooming season and whether the shrub blooms on old wood or new wood should also be taken into consideration.
For example, border forsythias (Forsythia x intermedia) bloom on “old wood” or stems that form during the previous year. They should be pruned immediately after they finish flowering, usually in mid-spring, so that they will have time to form new flower buds for the following year.Roses (Rosa spp. and hybrids) should be pruned in late winter or very early spring because they form blooms on new stems. Broken canes need to be removed as soon as they are noticed regardless of the shrub type., Reduce the height of cane-growing shrubs by completely removing the oldest, tallest canes. Cut them off close to the base of the shrub. Prune out a few of the canes at the center of the shrub if it seems to be too crowded. You should also prune any canes that are growing at an odd angle across other canes.
 Over-grown, older shrubs that are still healthy can be rejuvenated. The first rejuvenation option is cutting all of the canes back to a height of 6 to 10 inches (15.2 to 25.4 cm) in late winter or early spring.


Then, in early to mid-summer after the shrub has put on new growth, prune off half of the new canes and trim several of the remaining new canes back by a few inches.
The other option is to completely remove the older, thicker canes in late winter to early spring each year for three years. Remove up to one-third of the canes each time but always remove the oldest canes first.
 When diseases like stem canker attack a cane-growing shrub, the diseased canes should be completely removed immediately, regardless of the shrub’s blooming habit or the time of year. Put the diseased canes into the garbage or have them removed from the property. Disinfect the pruners or loppers with household disinfectant before and after each cut to help prevent the spread of disease.

