 Sometimes you may not want to talk to certain people because you feel uncomfortable in your surroundings. Take a deep breath and tell yourself that you are an enjoyable person to be around. Remind yourself that you are entitled to your boundaries and it’s ok to voice your feelings to feel comfortable.

Focus on what you want and what will make you happy. Then, try and find people that have a similar attitude as you. Instead of trying to avoid people, which is a negative, focus on surrounding yourself with people like you who make you feel comfortable.
Your thoughts contribute to your mood, and even your actions. Smile and take a moment to tell yourself that you are where you are meant to be.
Having a positive attitude will help you to attract other positive people.;
, You won’t always like, or want to talk to everyone everywhere, but doing activities you enjoy is more likely to surround you with people you are comfortable engaging with.


If you’re in school, join a group or club that interests you. Whether you’re introverted or extroverted, there are plenty of extracurriculars for every type of person. From theatre, to the track team, you can find an activity and a group of people that are like you.
Not only will doing something you like give you confidence and let you get to know people like you, but it will give you a way to stay busy and avoid situations and people you’d rather not be around.
 Instead of worrying about other people, and how someone may react to you, focus on enjoying yourself. Know that if someone is being mean to you, or trying to make you feel bad, that it’s always not your problem.


Oftentimes people will take out frustration on someone else due to personal insecurities.
Putting your energy into enjoying what you are doing can make it easier to avoid someone. You won’t have time to deal with someone who isn’t helping your experience.
 Whether you’re in a social setting, at school, or at work, surrounding yourself with people you get along with is a great way feel more comfortable.


If you are often in a situation where you are near rude people or people you don’t want to talk to, enlist your friends to come to your defense.
Tell your friends about the person(s) that bother you. Explain why in a calm manner and ask your friends to provide a barrier if this person approaches you.

