 This mask is great for dry skin, but it can also give your skin a healthy glow. Simply mash up the avocado until it is smooth and lump-free, then stir in the honey. Massage the mask onto your face fo a few minutes. Leave it on for 15 to 20 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water and pat your face dry.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
½ tablespoon (11.25 grams) honey;
, Mash up the avocado until no clumps remain. Stir in the plain yogurt and honey; for extra moisture, add some olive oil. Spread the mask over your face, avoiding the eyes. Wait 15 minutes, then rinse the mask off with warm water. Gently pat your face dry.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
1 tablespoon (15 grams) plain yogurt
½ tablespoon (7.5 milliliters) olive oil
½ to 1 tablespoon (11.25 to 22.5 grams) honey

, Mash up the avocado until it is smooth and free of clumps. Stir in the egg white and lemon juice. Apply the mask over your face, avoiding the eye area. Wait 15 to 20 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water and pat your face dry.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
1 egg white
1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon lemon juice

, Mash up the avocado until it is nice and smooth. Stir in the honey and cinnamon, then spread the mask over your face. Wait 10 minutes, then rinse it off with warm water. Pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
½ tablespoon (11.25 grams) honey
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon

, Mash the avocado until it is smooth, then stir in the honey and oatmeal. Apply the mask to your face. Wait 10 to 15 minutes, then rinse the mask off. Gently pat your face dry.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
2 tablespoons (10 grams) rolled oats
1 tablespoon (22.5 grams) honey

, Mash up the avocado and banana until they are smooth, them mix in the olive oil. Apply the mask to your face, avoiding the eye area. Wait 10 to 15 minutes, then rinse the mask off with warm water. Gently pat your face dry, then follow up with moisturizer.½ avocado, peeled and pitted
½ banana, peeled
1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) olive oil

