 Quit stressing and worrying about the perceived negative parts of your life, and glamorize them instead. So you’re broke? Many of the best artists were broke and it forced them to abandon materialism and focus on their art. So you’re lonely and loveless? All the best blues songs are about broken hearts. Recognize your problems as making you a deeper, more thoughtful person.;
, Blues artists are all about improvisation. This helps them to develop an unflappable, always in control frame of mind. They’re always in control because even when the unexpected happens (either during a jam session or in everyday life), they know how to improvise and roll with the punches. Don’t fear the future. Trust your resourcefulness to get you through any future jams, it always has in the past.
 The women of blues have always been ahead of their time. The earliest artists were sassy, the leaders in their relationships, they weren’t afraid to get into scraps. Stay in control but don’t be afraid to stick up for yourself. Do what you feel is right, then you’ll never need to make apologies. Always be yourself and be honest.
 In the early days of blues, the female vocalists often made more money and had more fame than the men in their lives. If you’re in a relationship, only keep a man around if you have good times together, not because you need him for money or for a confidence boost or any other reason.
 Bessie Smith, Ma Rainey, Billie Holiday, and more modern artists like Aaliyah and Erykah Badu will mellow you out with their grooves, and their lyrics will inspire you to be a confident, independent woman who doesn’t stress about the hard times in life.
 Blues artists don’t sweat it if they don’t look like the stereotypical beauties. They work with what they’ve got and make it sexy with their confidence. If you’re big, love it. Blues hotties are too busy thinking deep thoughts about their art or getting rowdy with their friends to spend too much time on the makeup. They look natural, effortless, though sometimes add some eyeliner or red lipstick to look as if they just came from a show. Natural hair is always best, though marcelled waves really kick up your 20’s look a notch for a more formal occasion or a performance.
 The blues originated among the poor populations, so you don’t need much money to pull of a sexy blues fashion style. Thin cotton dresses are perfect for performing in a smoky, hot New Orleans club in the days before air conditioning. The more vintage the better, especially from the hey-day of blues, the 1920s and 1930s. Flapper style dresses, stockings, and heels take the look to the max. Accessories could include feather hair accessories, brooches, and long strings of bead necklaces. A fedora can be hot when paired with an otherwise feminine outfit. If you want to have a more subtle, contemporary look, just add one of these items to jazz up one of your modern outfits. Colors like black, blue (of course), deep reds, dark greens, and rich purples always work. Wear vintage style lingerie like thigh high stockings with garter belts, tap short panties, bloomers or silky nightgowns.
 Blues artists were among the first to bring sex into mainstream art. They enjoyed sex and didn’t care who knew it. They flaunted their sexuality, flirted openly, and celebrated their enjoyment of pleasure. In our day and age it’s not safe to have sex so casually, so understand the difference between feeling sexy and enjoying your sexuality and actually having sex. Just feel good in your body and treat the men in your life like they’re sex objects. Don’t worry, they’ll enjoy it. Blues women turned the tables on sexual traditions, so if you like a certain fella, don’t be afraid to flirt or make the first moves. If he’s not into you, don’t act hurt or put any pressure on him. You just want him for a good time, and if he’s not down, there’s plenty of other good times to be had elsewhere.
 Blues women were always out at bars and shows. They were always good for a party. Clara Bow epitomized their attitude when she said “here today, gone tomorrow…. How about a drink?” Basically, life is short, live it up. But be responsible, so your life won’t be TOO short. Unfortunately many blues artists made this mistake.
 Blues artists came from humble origins and knew that no one was better than anyone else. They were open minded to everyone and knew that everyone had something to contribute to their lives. They’d treat a homeless person as well as a high class person. Also, if an “uncool” guy asks you to dance, dance with him. Dance with everyone. Its just a dance. Taking yourself too seriously is uncool.
 Blues artists lived life as if living itself was an art, as if everything they did was an opportunity to express themselves and their culture. This was especially evident in the way they spoke. Blues language and slang is colorful and creative! Throw some blues terms into your everyday language. Any males are “cats,” women are “mamas.” Flirt with men by calling them “big boy,” or “sugar.” A term of endearment for anyone is to call them “baby.” If you’re going to dance, you’re going to “boogie.” If something is good, it’s “bad.” If you don’t know a guy’s name, call him “Jack.”

