 If you purposefully manipulate people to get what you want, people might see you as a jerk. Maybe you make demands or put people in a bad position in which you end up on top. Don’t exploit other people’s weaknesses or convince them to give up something for your own gain.Find compromises when you want something. Be willing to give something up on your own so that other people feel like exchanges are fair.
 Maybe you’re an excellent student or a gifted athlete or martial artist. You should definitely be proud of your accomplishments, but don’t go around gloating about them. People may get sick of hearing you talk about your accomplishments. Let your work and abilities speak for themselves.If you’re excited or proud of an accomplishment, share it with a small group of people instead of boasting about it loudly all over school or in your workplace.
 Alcohol and drugs can alter your behavior, often for the worse. If you know you tend to be an angry drunk or aggressive when you take drugs, keep away from these things.Caffeine can also make people feel grumpy or anxious. Take note of how things affect your mood and stay away from substances which affect you negatively.
 Go to someone who knows you and ask for their help. If you say something stupid, give them permission to point it out and let you know that it was inappropriate.Use a code word or just have them talk to you later about your words or behaviors and why they were uncool.


For example, if you realize that you get very aggressive or insulting at certain times, ask those closest to you to inform you when you are doing so and attempt to stop doing it.
 Make an effort to give back in some way. Start volunteering at an animal shelter or after-school program. Offer your time or expertise at fundraisers. Give back to your community and do things out of the goodness of your heart. Be generous with your time, love, and resources.


Be kind of the sake of being kind.
This charitable behavior can help influence you to do more good and be kind and loving to people.

