 This basic shower tool makes a big difference when it comes to having softer skin. Dry, dead skin builds up on the body, and plain water usually isn't enough to wash it away. A quick rubdown with a loofah or washcloth every time you take a shower will help slough away the dead skin and allow fresh, healthy, soft skin to shine through.


Try using a squirt of moisturizing body wash or body oil with your loofah or washcloth.
If your skin tends to be dry, avoid using plain bar soap to cleanse and during exfoliation. It can dry out your skin, resulting in a surface that ends up rougher instead of softer.;
, Dry brushing is an exfoliating technique that brushes away skin flakes and improves circulation, promoting the growth of healthy skin. This technique is particularly effective if your skin is very dry and tends to flake or get scaly during the drier parts of the year. Dry brushing should be done while both the brush and your skin are totally dry. The technique is gentle enough to do every day. Get a body brush with natural bristles and use it the following way:


Spend three or four minutes brushing the skin on your legs using upward strokes, from your ankles up toward your torso. Focus on areas that are particularly dry.
Spend another three or four minutes on your arms, brushing your skin from your wrists up toward your shoulders.
Gently brush your belly, backside, and other areas that are dry.
Avoid brushing your face with a body brush; use a facial brush with special bristles designed to be gentle on the face.
 Body scrub contains a mixture of oils and an exfoliating substance like salt, sugar, or ground oatmeal. As you gently rub it into your skin, it sloughs away the dead skin while also conditioning it with the oil. When you rinse it away, your skin will be soft and smooth. Use a body scrub to exfoliate once or twice a week. You can make your own body scrub using one of the following recipes:


1/2 cup coconut oil and 1/2 cup coarse sugar, for dry skin
1/2 cup aloe and 1/2 cup sea salt, for oily skin

, Alpha hydroxy acids, including citric acid, lactic acid, and glycolic acid, act as gentle exfoliants that don't abrade your skin. These acids are naturally found in fruit, milk, and sugar cane. When you apply them to your skin, they remove dead skin cells.Products containing 5 to 10 percent alpha hydroxy acids are available over-the-counter in the form of lotions and creams.
Be sure not to use more than the recommended dosage per day. Overusing acids, or any type of exfoliation technique, can be harmful to your skin.
Facial peels and treatments with a concentration of more than 10 percent alpha hydroxy acids should only be used after consulting with your dermatologist., Exfoliation is a necessary part of a good skin-care routine, but it's important not to take it too far. Exfoliating too harshly or too often can lead to damaged or irritated skin, completely defeating the purpose when your goal is softer skin. Keep the following pointers in mind:


Only use body scrubs once or twice a week. The scrubs remove protective oils from your skin, and using them too often can dry your skin out.
Do not scrub your skin with too much force. No matter what technique you're using, apply gentle pressure.
Be careful when you exfoliate your face. The skin there is more delicate than the skin on the rest of your body. Remember to use a special facial brush if you want to dry brush your face.

