 If you want to burn a movie file so that it plays on any DVD player, you'll need special "DVD authoring" software. There are lots of these programs available, but DVD Styler is free and open-source. You can download it from dvdstyler.org/en/downloads.Chrome may report the DVDStyler installation file as malware. If you get this warning, use a different browser to download the installer.
Pay attention when installing the program. As of 6/6/2015, the Windows 64-bit installer did not bundle any adware, but this may change in the future. Read every installation screen carefully.
 When you launch DVD Styler for the first time, you'll be taken to the New Project window. There are a few settings you can adjust here before adding your video file(s):


Disc label - This is the name that will appear when the disc is inserted in a computer.
Disc capacity - Most DVDs are DVD-5 (4.7 GB). If you have Dual Layer (DL) discs, select DVD-9 (8.5 GB).
Video/Audio bitrate - This affects the quality of the video and audio. Most users can leave these at their defaults.
Video Format - Choose PAL if you live in a PAL region (Europe, Asia, Brazil) or NTSC for NTSC regions (Americas, Japan, Korea). You will be prompted to change this if you add media that is in a different format.
Aspect Ratio - Choose 4:3 if you're going to play the DVD on a standard definition television. Choose 16:9 if you're going to play the DVD on an HDTV. Note that this will not affect the aspect ratio of the actual video file.
Audio Format - You can choose between AC3 or MP2. Most users can leave this on AC3.
 DVD Styler comes with several menu templates that you can choose from. You can also select "No template", which will just start playing the video as soon as the disc is inserted.
 This will add the video to your project. DVD Styler supports most video formats so you won't need to convert before adding.


The bar at the bottom of the window will display how many minutes of video you have used and how many you still have free.
Depending on the type of video you're adding, you may be able to add multiple files. For example, you can usually fit 4-6 episodes of a TV show onto a single DVD, or a single full-length movie and some extras.
 Once you've added your video files, you can edit your menus to your liking. Double-click on any of the elements to edit them, and you can click and drag objects to move them around the menu.


Double-clicking on button objects in the menu editor will allow you to change their navigation commands.
 Once you've set all of your options, you can start burning the DVD. Insert a blank disc and click the "Burn" button at the top of the window. This will give you several different options. Click Start when you're ready:


"Temp directory" - You can set the folder that you want DVD Styler to store the temporary files during the burning process. These will be deleted once the burn is complete. You will need enough free space for about twice the size of the disc.
"preview" - Check this box if you want to preview the disc in your media player program before burning it.
"just generate" - This saves the project to your hard disk in the DVD Folder format, which can then be burned later.
"create iso image" - This saves an image of the disc to your hard drive in ISO format. You can then burn or share this ISO file.
"burn" - This will burn the project to a blank DVD. You can then use this DVD in any DVD player that supports DVD-R/RW discs.

