 A (No.2) pencil, a pencil sharpener, pieces of paper or a small, pocket size, spiral bound sketch book. Optional: a stick of sanguine (rust colored) Conte crayon, a medium gray pastel stick, a charcoal pencil, a travel set of watercolors, and a brush. Also, a pencil case to carry your supplies.;
, Find a place to settle yourself. Become a “fly on the wall,” perhaps sheltered from others so you will not be disturbed as you think and work. Engage all your senses and open yourself, let things come to you.
 Lose the fear of a blank page by describing the scene in words, record your impressions. You could list the specifics of your situation at that moment; your location, weather, wind, temperature, etc. Just start making marks on the paper. Whatever it takes to help you open the eye to hand connection and get those lines flowing., The world abounds with eye catching things. Once you begin this activity, you will be inundated with material worth documenting on paper. Just the process of singling out an image and recording it brings it to life.
 Trees, tree tops, branch patterns, tree trunks with differing bark, how trees are connected to the ground, etc. The sky, clouds, layers of color or shades of value from white to grays, to black. Sturdy weeds, seed pods, grasses, tiny flowering plants, rocks, pebbles, etc. Flowers, shrubs, wild flowers, planted flowers in all stages of growth.
 Cast off paper, bits of thrown away junk on the ground. Park benches, seats, boats, buildings, cars, bikes, walkways, bridges, fences, walls, etc. are rich material.
 By working in a series, you might explore the facets of a single thing, for example your morning coffee accouterments and routine. You might want to celebrate a particular food or fruit. You can make a visual collection of random images. Open yourself go with it.



When stumped begin with a single thing, for example, a clump of weeds or dog passing by. Then work out in all directions from that central figure until you come to the edge of your picture plane or paper.
 This gives you parameters and provides a frame for your sketch. Vary formats, work horizontally vertically, square, etc. If desired, these can later be transferred to a “scrapbook” or “photo album,” even a page that you paste into a colorful collage.
 Divide what you see into three or four basic geometric shapes, like a puzzle within your picture plane. Try making initial lines touch two or more edges of you paper.
 Repeating one shape to create a pattern results in texture. Push it. If the texture is subtle, play it up to make it more dramatic., No need to draw exactly what is in front of you, shift things to suit yourself. It’s all about the art work, designing a page, not necessarily capturing reality., Use the sharp point with everything from light pressure to heavy pressure. Tip the pencil to the side and rock it as you sketch. Draw lines that go from thin to fat. This is called a weighted line and can quickly depict the volume of an object, such as a tree trunk or rock.
 Turn in on its side and rub an area of your sketch. Show where the light is strong on the object as the white of the paper, to where it is in shadow. Shade your textural areas to make them appear almost three dimensional., Or not. If you desire a less smooth transition from one area of shading to another, leave the pencil marks alone., This is simply doing a series of lines in one direction and then repeating them in the opposite direction., If you want more detail, put it in. You can manipulate your drawings, taking them from abstract to realistic. Drawings comprised of lines that are rough and retain the a gestural quality to those that are delicate and refined, each has its own beauty. Retain and celebrate examples of each.,, The possibilities are endless.
 Most have a thumb hole and are light weight. Your palette and paints are designed for working on the fly and quickly become an extension of your non-dominant hand., It doesn't have to be much, but change it often, when it gets dirty. Fill a discarded cup half way from your water bottle for drinking.
, Paint within the lines or more abstractly. Paint only what is most important and leave the rest black and white lines. Paint softly or use harsh shapes and colors.
 Try painting directly without sketching first. Explore the unlimited possibilities.
 It is there when you need it and can be called upon in times of need. Its value grows with use and familiarity. It helps pass the time, even easing you through difficult events. Keeping sketches is a gift you give yourself.

