 One way to help you stay focused with MS is to get organized. Use a planner or a digital calendar to place all of your information, appointments, and reminders into. Put anything you need to remember and be aware of in your calendar.An organizer keeps everything in one place. This means you will always know where the information you need is. If you try to use notes or pieces of paper, they may get lost.
 If you are having trouble remembering things, set up certain places where things go so you can find them later. This helps you avoid losing things or getting upset when you can’t find something. Make an effort to put things back in the same places or label shelves or spots where things go to remind yourself.For example, you may want to put your keys in the same place, like on a hook or in a bowl by the door. Leave your wallet or purse on your nightstand. Scissors should go in the same drawer, and your cell phone may always be on the coffee table.
Make a list of where you place all your things. You can carry this list with you or place the list on the refrigerator.
Try using an MS app on your phone to help get you organized and help you remember certain important things. One helpful app is MS self Multiple Sclerosis app, which helps you set reminders, make lists, and write important things in a journal. You can also try organization apps, such as Planner Pro-Personal Organizer, Google Keep, or To-do List, Task List.
 One way to stay focused is to stop multitasking and spreading your concentration thin. By focusing on one thing at a time, you ensure that you are giving your full focus to whatever task you are doing. This can help your recall, improve your concentration, and help you stay focused.When you are doing something, like watching television, talking to someone, or reading, focus only on that activity instead of trying to do multiple things at once.
For example, while watching television, try to focus on the character names and the plot. Focus on one thing while doing everyday tasks, like what someone is saying during a conversation or following a recipe when you cook.
Try to block all distractions, such as noise or other conversations. Part of working on your focus is learning how to not let distractions get to you. For example, when you are talking to someone, keep your eyes on their face and listen only to their words. When you are reading, focus only on the words on the page while ignoring everything else.
 To help prevent the loss of focus, do difficult tasks or cognitive functions during the best times of day for you. This may be in the morning or the afternoon. Doing difficult tasks that require your full focus or mental ability at your best times ensures that you are putting your full concentration into it.For example, if you have to go over your monthly finances, you may choose to do it after breakfast when you are at your optimal functioning for the day.
 It may take you longer to learn new things, do things, or remember things than it used to. Getting frustrated because you can’t do or remember something will only add to your problems focusing. Instead, stay calm and give yourself plenty of time to accomplish the task.You may have to practice certain skills to get used to them again.
 Another way to stay focused when you have MS is to pause and mentally rest while you are doing tasks. This helps reduce the amount of cognitive fatigue that you might experience. When you start losing focus or feeling mentally foggy, take a short break to give your mind time to refocus.Try five to 15 minutes of mental rest or another activity before tackling the difficult task again.

