 If possible, begin your search well before the new school year. Give yourself plenty of time to meet any requirements. These may include:


Fees you have to pay in order to join or use equipment. Private music lessons will charge you for each session, for instance, while the school band may charge you a rental fee if you don't have your own instrument.
Whether any travel is involved. Say you join the swim team, but they practice off-campus at a private pool. Is transportation provided by the school, or do you have to get there on your own?
What grade point average (GPA) is required for you to be eligible. To participate in school activities, you will most likely need to maintain passing grades.
Whether new members are welcome at any time, or if they have to apply by a certain deadline. Many team sports will have try-outs, for instance. Volunteer groups, on the other hand, will probably welcome you at any time of year.
 Search your school’s website for a complete list of all the sports, clubs, and organizations that it provides. Also look for calendar details, such as start- and end-dates, plus event schedules, to make sure it won't get in the way of anything else going on in your life. If the website seems incomplete, talk with your guidance counselor or adviser. Also look for other organizations in your community, such as:Local churches and volunteer centers, like food banks or the Red Cross.Private clubs, lessons, and organizations, like the YMCA or the Boy & Girl Scouts.
Recreational centers run by your town.
Job opportunities., Once you have a list of activities that match your interests, do a little research so you have a better idea of what to expect. Make certain that you are comfortable with the level of commitment they expect from you. Also make sure that their culture is a good match for your own personality. For instance, with team sports, do they practice good sportsmanship or a win-at-all-costs attitude? Whatever the activity is, make sure the people involved will be a good fit for you personally.Visit their website or social media pages if they have any.
Speak with current and former members for their personal take.
Ask to sit in on meetings or practices to observe them in action.

