 Immunotherapy, also called Allergen Specific Immunotherapy (ASIT), is usually the best choice for treating CAD. It can help your Golden Retriever achieve remission (no visible signs of CAD) without the use of other medications (e.g., steroids, antihistamines). ASIT works by gradually desensitizing your dog’s immune system to the allergens causing the CAD.The immunotherapy medicine, commonly given by injection, contains small amounts of the specific allergens to which your Golden Retriever is allergic.By exposing your Golden Retriever to small, measured amounts of the allergens (rather than a large, uncontrolled amount in the environment), your dog’s immune system would slowly become more tolerant of the allergens over time, therefore lessening the allergic reaction.Results of the skin tests your vet performed to diagnose CAD would indicate the specific allergens.
Immunotherapy is most helpful for dogs that have skin allergies for longer than two to three months at a time and have not responded well to other skin allergy medications. It is a lifelong treatment., Immunotherapy injections are usually given about once every one to four weeks.Your vet will let you know how often your Golden Retriever will need the injections. It may help to schedule several appointments at one time to make sure your dog receives stays on schedule with the treatment.


At the beginning of immunotherapy, your vet will increase the dosage of allergens until a maintenance dosage is reached. Your vet will determine the maintenance dosage and keep your Golden Retriever at this dosage level. Your vet may change the frequency of injections during the course of therapy., This may be the hardest part of immunotherapy, since it may take anywhere from a few months to a full year before a dog responds to this type of therapy. Because your Golden Retriever will not respond to immunotherapy very quickly, your vet will recommend treating your dog with other skin allergy medications during the course of immunotherapy.Before starting immunotherapy, your vet will probably ask that you commit to this treatment for at least 1 year to see if it will work.Approximately 60 – 75% of dogs on immunotherapy will experience a 50% improvement in symptoms. This amount of improvement could mean that a dog does not need to be on other skin allergy medications.