 The first kiss in any relationship often takes that relationship to the next level, so you want to make sure that you are ready before you make the first move. Maybe you are in a friendship with someone that you really care about and want to become more, or you are in a relationship and are ready to show your partner that you love him. Either way, you don't want to jump into something without thinking over the results.Maybe kissing someone isn't a big deal to you, but when you kiss someone you love, it's usually more than just a casual flirtation. In this case, you want to make sure you are at a point where your words can match your actions, meaning you are committed to the relationship, or the prospective relationship.
It could also be really sweet to tell your friend or partner that you love him along with your kiss. This really takes the relationship to the next level, but is very thoughtful and shows your partner that you care about him and are committed.
If you are interested in kissing a close friend, because you realize you are in love with him, just remember to think about the possible results of this action. You don't want to ruin your relationship or make your friend feel awkward, so feel out the friendship to see if it is an appropriate time.
They key to knowing if you are in love with someone may be that you are willing to take the risk in showing them, no matter the results.;
, Along with deciding if you are ready, you also want to figure out if the person you love is in a place where they want to kiss you too. Observe how he is acting around you to figure out if he shares the same feelings that you do.Is your love being especially flirty with you? Is he making romantic gestures to show you he really cares about you? Does he seem committed to the relationship? Is he spending more time with you than usual? Does he help you without being asked? These could all be signs that he's in love with you or at least feels strongly about you.
This step mainly helps prevent heartbreak in a relationship. Kissing someone you love who doesn't feel the same way about you can be embarrassing and also hurtful, so before you make a move you should feel confident that he would want to reciprocate.
 This doesn't mean physically, but before you kiss someone you love, you should know him emotionally, because this will amp up the kiss and make it more meaningful. Kissing someone you love is different than kissing someone during a hook-up -- you want it to be special and communicate strong feelings towards that person.


If you are not at a point yet where you know someone intimately, take time to get to know them. Maybe you fell in love with him because you saw how he interacted with others, but you haven't had the chance to know him personally. Taking this time to learn who he really is will help create a special kiss.
 One key to making a kiss special and magical is to kiss the person you love in an environment that you view as romantic. This doesn't have to be a stereotypical romantic scene, like on a horse-drawn carriage ride, but it can be something that feels sweet and magical to you. Think about some special spots that you have been to in your relationship or some spots that you think of as romantic. Plan to kiss your partner in one of these locations.Some romantic locations are at a park with a lake or pond, in a secluded corner of a restaurant, at the beach, under the stars, on the top of a building with a great view, etc.
Often times the best kisses are somewhere secluded and quiet, so the two of you aren't distracted. However, you can kiss your partner in a place a with a lot going on if you still feel that it would be meaningful.
 You can kiss a person anywhere, but to make it meaningful, it's helpful to plan a meaningful date to set the scene for the kiss. As previously mentioned, choose a romantic location and plan a date that you and your partner would both really enjoy. Maybe you don't find roses and candlelight romantic, but you both love sporting events. Whatever you think would be the most enjoyable date, plan your night around that.During your time together, there will need to be a time where it is appropriate to move closer to your love. If you are doing something where there's always a foot between the two of you, it may not be the best place to kiss. Plan a date where you can become close and intimate with your love.
 The most romantic times in a relationship can also be the most thoughtful, when you've planned a date or given someone a gift because it means a lot to them. Don't just go with a classic "date night" but do something fun and different. Take your love to the first place that you met, or the place you first realized you loved him or her.


For example, a couple may be really into books and so a romantic place to kiss would be in the secluded section of an old library. Or maybe they are really into the outdoors, so kissing in a canoe might be really sweet.
If you think your partner would enjoy a classic date night, then do that! There is no perfect formula for a good date, so just do whatever you think your date would most enjoy.
 One way to make your love eager and excited for the upcoming date is to leave little hints or reminders throughout the week. Text your love throughout the week saying that you are excited for your date, or send him or her sweet messages throughout the week with compliments or expressing your feelings towards your partner.
 Maybe you aren't much of a planner so a planned date and picked out location seems a bit mechanical to you. In that case, kiss that special someone at a moment that feels right to you. It doesn't always have to be a planned out, perfect date, so when you are with your love and you look at him or her, realizing you are in love, then make the move at that moment!

, Before you make the move to kiss your love, you'll want to look your best so that the kiss can be really special and meaningful. If you normally hang out with your partner in t-shirts and sweats, try a new style like throwing on a nice pair of pants or a skirt and fixing up your hair. This will likely make your love more attracted to you, which will make the kiss even more romantic and passionate.


Consider spritzing on a nice cologne or perfume so that your love will want to snuggle up even closer to you.
 Before you kiss someone you'll want to make sure your breath doesn't smell and that your lips aren't chapped. If you just ate a meal, chew some minty gum to freshen your breath, or if you have time, brush your teeth. You might also want to put on some chapstick if your lips are more chapped than usual., Now that you look the part you're ready to actually make the first move. On your date, or wherever you are, become more intimate with your love by inching closer to her. Consider sitting next to her and putting your arm around her or holding her hand.
 This is key to showing your partner that you love them and to making your kiss special. Eye contact can do so much, as people who know each other well can often communicate a lot of emotions just by staring into each other's eyes. Looking people in the eye is also a way to show someone you aren't just playing around and that they can trust you.
 Show your love how much you care about her or what she means to you by expressing your feelings in sweet words to her. Tell her how you feel about her or compliment her on qualities you really admire in her. This will stir up both of your affections, making the kiss sweeter and more intimate.
 First, look your love in the eyes. Then, you can tenderly stroke her face or move her hair behind her ears. Now, go in for the kiss. Slowly move your face towards hers, coming so close that your lips almost touch but not quite -- this will build suspense. Then, tenderly kiss her lips.
 After you have made the first move and kissed your love, wait a few seconds to see how she responds. She may be really into it and start kissing you back, or maybe she is apprehensive. Either way, after you've made the first kiss let her make the next move.If this isn't the first time you have kissed your love, try increasing intimacy levels. Instead of going straight in for the kiss, begin by kissing her cheeks and her brow. These are tender kisses that will likely get her blood flowing.
You may want to avoid using tongue on the first kiss to make sure your love is into it. Once you know your love wants to kiss you back, then you can proceed to french kissing.

