 Type “Outdoorchannel.com” into your web browser and hit enter. This will pull up the website. Search for “Spirit of the Wild” in the search bar at the top of the page. Then click the link that says “Ted Nugent Spirit of the Wild.”Another option is to search for “ted nugent spirit of the wild” in your web browser. The first link should take you to the show’s webpage on the Outdoor Channel’s site.
 Once you have found the website for Spirit of the Wild, you’ll need to locate the contact form that is available there. Look for the tabs near the top of the page that say “Main,” “About the Show,” and “Videos.” Click on “About the Show.”This will load a page that has the show’s information and gives you options for contacting them.
This page has a link to Ted’s personal website. There is also a link which lets you give guided feedback about the show. The feedback link does not let you contact Ted directly.
 Use your mouse or laptop’s trackpad to scroll down the Spirit of the Wild page. About halfway down, you’ll see a form with various boxes. They are labeled “Name,” “Email Address,” “Re-enter Email Address,” and “Comment.”

, The form is already addressed to someone in Ted’s press or public relations team. The form asks for your name and your email address. After you fill those out, type the message that you’d like to send Ted in the box labeled “comment.”


If you want to send an email from your own email account, highlight and copy the email listed in the “To” box and paste it in the “To” box of a new email in your own email account.
Keep your comment short and direct so that whoever is reading it knows exactly why you are writing to Ted and the show.
 Double check all of your information, especially your email address, to make sure it is correct. They can’t reach you if your information is wrong. Click the submit button and the contact form will automatically be sent to Ted’s show.
 People and shows with a large following get lots of emails every day. Because of this, you’ll need to wait patiently to see if you get a response. They can’t respond to everyone, so don’t get your hopes up too much because you may never hear back from the show.