 Before you can pick any yucca flowers to eat, you have to be able to locate them. The plants usually have tough, evergreen leaves that are shaped like swords and grow on tall, fibrous stalks. In ideal conditions, yucca can grow to up to 30-feet tall. Its ornamental, edible flowers are white and bell-shaped. They sprout off the plant’s stalks in clusters, and typically bloom in late spring and early summer.You’ll find the yucca plant in the Southern and Western parts of the United States, including New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Texas, and California. It also grows in Central and South America.
When the flowers are first starting to bloom, there may be a greenish tint to their petals.
The flowers also produce a light, sweet fragrance that can attract insects.;
, Timing is everything when you’re picking yucca flowers for to eat. When the blooms are older, they can take on an unpleasant, bitter taste. For the best flavor, you should eat the flowers within the first two to three days of their opening.When you pick yucca flowers at their freshest, they usually have a mild, sweet taste that is similar to asparagus or artichokes.
It’s a good idea to taste the petals of one of the yucca before you begin harvesting a large number of flowers. That way, you won’t waste your time picking a bunch of blooms that are too bitter to be eaten.
 Yucca flowers produce a nectar that is appealing to a variety of insects, including ants. There is also a moth that serves as the flowers’ only pollinator, which lays its eggs in the flowers. That means you may find larvae on the flowers, which you don’t want to eat. Examine each flower that you’re planning to harvest to make sure that there are no insects present before cutting them off the stalk.You can use garden shears to clip the flowers off the plant, but the stems aren’t usually that thick so regular scissors can work well too.
If you’re harvesting a large number of yucca blooms, it helps to have a bag that you can cut the flowers directly into it so you don’t drop any.
 Even if the yucca plants were grown on your property where you know pesticides weren’t used, you must clean them before you eat them. Shake them to remove any insects that you might not have seen, and then wash under a fine mist or jet of water.Next, remove the center bulb, along with the stamens and pistils, from each flower because it has a bitter taste.If you want to keep the petals intact and are concerned about the washing process damaging them, you can also set them in a strainer inside a large bowl of water and let them soak.
After washing the flowers, make sure to drain them carefully. Place them on paper towel to dry, so it can absorb any excess moisture.

