 A healthy, mutually respectful relationship with the police is a good way to ensure that neither side will become aggressive during the protest. Visit the police station before your protest to talk to a representative about how to keep the protest peaceful.A police presence is not a bad thing. If there are people who oppose your cause, the police can protect the protestors. They can also help keep the protest organized.
If you are planning on having a police presence, tell your volunteers in advance. Remind them that the police are there to protect them, not to harm or arrest them.
 A legal observer is a lawyer that will observe the protest to make sure that it follows the law. They can help keep protestors in line by discouraging illegal activity. If protestors are arrested, they will work with the police on their behalf. If the police overstep their boundaries, the legal observer will record the details of the event to file a complaint later.You can hire legal observers from a local law firm. Civil rights organizations may also have legal staff that can be loaned out to the protest.
A legal observer will not protect protestors if they break the law. They are there to make sure that no laws are broken, either by the police or by the protestors.
 It is a good idea to keep the crowd contained. Not only can this prevent the protest from spreading out uncontrollably, but it will also help your crowd look larger and more organized in photographs. This will help you advertise your cause in later protests., A large group of core volunteers will need to help manage the protest. These volunteers should be responsible for controlling the crowd, handing out flyers, and enforcing the rules.If some protesters start to heckle people or vandalize, the marshals can talk them down before the violence spreads.
If the police are acting aggressively towards peaceful protestors, the marshals can talk to the police to help negotiate a peaceful resolution.
If the protest will be moving, the marshals can help keep the crowd in line so that it does not spread out beyond its designated boundary.

