 For example, if your boyfriend is into sports, it's most likely because he plans to be good at the sport, he enjoys watching a game, or sports are just fun for him. If he is more of a science boy, aka an adorable nerd, it's most likely because he is smart, or finds it fun when doing math and science. He may also be interested in getting good grades for his future.;
, Mostly every guy is a sports fan. They love it when a lady watches a game or talks it for a little bit. It's a turn-on.
 Also seek to enjoy the things he does. If your BF enjoys certain things, his friends are most likely to be into the same sort of things. They may all be sports fans or be in a math group, for example. Try putting yourself with him and his friends.


If you don't like some or all of his friends, learn to be polite and still hang around them without causing tension. You don't have to be best friends with any of them, just tolerant.
 Tell him about your day, and find out about his. If he had a bad day, find a way to cheer him up. You might give him a big hug and let him know that you care about him.
 If you feel that you two are comfortable with each other, there is nothing wrong with asking him flat out if he wants to take the relationship to the next level. This isn't advisable to do in the very beginning of things, as you may want to be certain that he wants to commit to you in a relationship.
 Flirt with him—do playful pushes or pokes, and see how he reacts. If he flirts back, then great. Don't be too persistent, though, or he will probably get annoyed.
 For example, if you find your boyfriend is writing a song, but he can't find anything to write about, give him some suggestions! Or, if he's planning to draw a picture or write a poem, give him ideas on what to draw, or a topic for a poem to write. However, avoid advising him where it's clear he's not interested in your opinion or meddling in his family and friend relationships.
 If he is on a sports team, go to his games. Cheer for him as loudly as you can, so that he knows you are there for him and him only.
 For example, if you don't have much to do, you can offer to throw a ball around or play basketball with him. If he's going kayaking, making miniatures or going to a rock wall climbing class, join in. You might find new activities you love, or at least, some activities to be shared together.
 Invite him over to your place, or find a way to spend time with him alone or together with close friends. At the same time, respect his personal space. Don't forget that it's perfectly okay for each of you to have time alone and away from each other.
 Buy him a present. Compliment him. Joke with him. As you begin to develop more personal bonds with him, he will feel more comfortable around you.
 Have faith in your relationship, and don't cheat on him. Have trust in him and his actions—he will take notice. Remember that trust and communication are the most essential parts to a healthy relationship. A lack of trust will most surely bring a relationship to the gutter.
 Does he make attempts to make you feel better if you are having a bad day? Does he make you happy, or make you laugh? Does he respect you? If so, you are well on your way to reaching the next step with your boyfriend.

