 Typically, this occurs for most children between the ages of 22 and 30 months, and girls are often ready a little earlier than boys. Every child is different, though.


Recognize the signs. A little girl is physically ready when she can control her bowel and bladder muscles. If bowel movements are around the same time each day and do not happen at night, that is a good indication. Moreover, if her diaper stays dry for two hours or more, that is another indication.
Take a hint. Children are emotionally ready once they begin talking about wanting to use the toilet. If she talks about wanting to be a "big girl," she might be ready to start potty training.;
, Both tools can help you potty train your daughter. Which one you choose will depend on your individual bathroom situation, but here's what you need to know:


A training potty is a portable toilet-shaped container that a young girl can climb onto without much difficulty. It is generally recommended that you start training with the child-size potty first, since a little girl can climb onto it by herself. She may also feel more secure being lower to the ground, which will make the process much easier.
A training seat fits on top of a normal toilet and makes the opening narrower, preventing her from falling in or feeling as though she might slip in. You should also buy a small footstep for her to use as she climbs up.
 As a result, it is important that she sees her mother or other female relatives using the toilet rather than her father or other male relatives.


Be wary of incorrect demonstrations. If she does see an older brother or father use the toilet standing up, she may try to do likewise. In instances like this, you should explain the difference between boys and girls and let her know that girls need to sit down to use the potty.
If there are no other females in her life, you can also demonstrate the process to your toddler by showing her books or videos specifically designed to act as potty training aids.
Another good way to demonstrate the process is by acting it out with a favorite doll or teddy bear. Little girls tend to develop an emotional attachment to their dolls and stuffed animals, and if they see their beloved companions "using" the potty, they might feel more motivated to follow the toy's example.
 Determine when your daughter is most likely to need a bathroom break, and try to coordinate your efforts around those times. If she attends daycare or stays with another person for part of the day, you may need to skip over those times and focus your attention on the times of day you spend with her.
 You could go back-and-forth between diapers and underpants, but this can get confusing for your toddler. Try these options instead:


Disposable training pants are useful because they absorb like diapers do, but your toddler can pull them up and down on her own.
You can make use of training pants, or you can switch directly to actual underwear or cotton training pants. These will cause your daughter to feel wet as soon as she starts urinating, which may make her more motivated to go to the potty. These also tend to be much messier, though.
Let your daughter spend some time each day naked. This will help liberate and relax your daughter, and help her feel more aware of her bodily signals. You might worry about her having an accident directly on your floor or carpet, but if this happens while she's naked, you won't have to worry about any clothes to wash, diapers to change, or having to give your daughter a bath.
Note that you will likely need to continue keeping your daughter in diapers at night for several months after she learns to stay dry during the day. Her body needs to train itself to stop urinating at night. Once she stays consistently dry at night, you can transition over into underpants.
 Your daughter may feel more comfortable and excited about learning to use the potty if the experience is tailored to her.


Choose a training potty or training seat with a design or color that appeals to your little girl. If possible, write her name directly on the training device, or allow her to decorate the sides of the training potty with colorful stickers.
Similarly, when it is time for your daughter to switch to underpants instead of diapers, choose colorful, fun designs to make her feel eager about wearing them.
 Your toddler may feel apprehensive about climbing onto the potty since it seems so unfamiliar, but you can help ease her anxiety by allowing her to transition into the process gradually.


Let her start with her clothes on. By allowing her to sit on the potty with her clothes on, you are allowing her the chance to get accustomed to the view and to the way the seat feels.
Transition to a pants-off approach after a week or so. After she seems comfortable sitting on her training potty with her clothes on, she might be ready to sit on it with her pants off. If she resists, though, give it more time. Avoid getting into fights or power struggles that could dampen the experience and make her even more resistant.
 Children often have an easier time determining when they need to use the bathroom without clothing on. Make sure that your daughter's training potty is nearby, and rush her there as soon as her body language suggests that she needs to go. Encourage her to sit until she goes.


Keep her entertained while she's waiting. Supply her with a stack of picture books, or a few toys to play with.
 Girls are at a higher risk of developing urinary tract infections, and girls in the middle of potty training are at an even higher risk since they are more likely to spread bacteria around. Instruct her to move the toilet paper from front to back.


If she cannot remember to move the paper in a certain direction, teach her to pat herself dry after she urinates.
 Celebrate her triumphs and be patient with her through her failures. Remember, the goal is for her to want to use the potty by herself, not for her to use it out of fear of punishment.


The occasional reward allows your little girl to know just how proud you are and may make her feel more determined to continue pressing forward with her training. You can reward her every so often by allowing her to watch a video or by giving her stickers or small treats after successful potty trips.
 Once your daughter is toilet-trained during the daylight hours, begin checking her diapers in the morning to monitor whether or not she is still going at night. If her diapers start looking dry, she is likely ready.


Additionally, if she expresses a desire to try wearing normal underpants at night, allow her to try doing so. If her body is not ready yet and she continues wetting the bed for a few nights in a row, switch back to diapers for a little while longer.

