 (S)He might be interested in swimming, running, golfing, lacrosse, football, soccer, volleyball, or many other things.;
, Mostly this is a choice that must be made by the student, but there are ways you as a parent can help. Gently remind them to do their homework and ask about what they are doing in school. Make sure they are doing well academically as many schools don't allow children with low grades to participate in sports. Sometimes, children try to tell their parents about school. When those parents act bored and uninterested in their student's work, the student gets discouraged. He may drop classes or get bad grades, just as a result of the parent not acting interested.
 Occasionally ask if they want to play catch, throw around the football, kick a soccer ball, or go for a run. If you run, make sure you go their pace! Tell them what they need to brush up on & when they do well.
 Be supportive and always cheer for your child and their team. Be careful not to embarrass them, but also don't skulk silently on the sidelines.
 Ask about upcoming tests and if they need help studying. Ask about upcoming games and if they want to practice. If they decline your offer, don't worry about it. Many times, even if you don't see it, your child has a lot more things under control than you might think.
 You can't support them if you are never there! Tell them they did well. Don't talk about mistakes or slip ups. Keep the praise on your child,try to stay away from telling them that "number 12 was really good." Tell them they did well win or lose!

,, Often parents will force a sport on their children, making the child feel Pressured to do that thing.
 Make sure they get their vitamins and minerals, and have a balanced diet. That means protein, good carbs, good calories, not so much sugar, not as much fat and oils, and have them drink lots of water and green tea. For breakfast, maybe make pancakes with blueberry syrup (heat blueberries and add maple syrup) and eggs with protein meat and a little bit of cheese. For lunch, they could have a HEALTHY Whole Wheat (not the molasses-colored crud they call whole wheat) bread with some ham or chicken, cheese, and lettuce or spinach. You might also add a tomato. For dinner, you could make alfredo pasta with shrimp and some sort of fresh, frozen, or dried fruit. You can make smoothies out of frozen fruit and different liquids as snacks. There are many things you can do to keep your child's diet balanced!

,,,, This means that they go to school half a day, and do sports the other half, but you will have to go early or leave late. For example, you may have class from 9:00 am - 12:30 pm, and then have sports from 1:30 pm - 8:00 pm. Some schools also do sports from 6:00 am - 12:30 pm and classes from 1:30 to 3:30.

