 Many people are self-conscious about sagging skin on the abdomen, which can be pronounced after pregnancies or weight loss. A tummy tuck is a surgical procedure that can tighten this skin. The cosmetic surgeon will remove excess fat and skin to create a smoother, tauter profile.Talk to a doctor about whether you qualify. Usually, patients should be in good health, non-smokers, and have realistic expectations. Also, be sure to discuss the surgery itself and possible complications.
Know that a tummy tuck is a major operation. It takes about 3 to 5 hours and you will be put under general anesthesia.
Expect a long and potentially painful recovery, as well. Swelling and inflammation is common and you may need several weeks or even months to see the final results.
Other risks include bleeding, infection, scarring or skin loss, asymmetry, or nerve damage.
 Like a tummy tuck, a facelift will tighten the skin on your face and neck and reduce sagging and other signs of visible aging. However, like a tummy tuck again, it is also a major surgical procedure with benefits and risks. Talk to your doctor about these and seriously consider them.Candidates for face lifts usually have sagging in the mid-face, drooping eyelids, deep creases between the nose and lower mouth, or loose fatty deposits in the jowls or under the chin and jaw.
Again, talk to your doctor to see if your qualify and are healthy enough for the procedure.
Be aware, too, that a facelift is an operation. The surgeon will make an incision along your hairline near the ear, tighten the skin, and remove excess skin and fat. It takes several hours.
You should also expect a lengthy recovery. Results can be long-lasting, but it may take weeks or even months for swelling to subside and incision scars to lighten.
 Body lifts are usually for people who have lost significant amounts of weight in a fairly short time, often from bariatric surgery or exercise and dieting. They treat sagging skin and tissue in the abdomen, thighs, waist, and buttocks. Surgeons can do this full lower body lift in a single procedure.Make sure that you are able to undergo the operation. Your doctor will advise you on the requirements. For example, your weight must be stable for at least a year. Women considering having children may want to postpone the operation, too.
Patients should also be non-smokers, healthy, and have realistic expectations.
You can expect the surgery to remove folds of excess tissue and tighten up skin in your lower body. The surgeon may also recommend liposuction to get rid of excess fat.
During this major operation, you’ll be under general anesthetic for several hours and have to stay in a hospital for a number of days.
Know that recovery time varies widely. It may take months for pain and swelling to subside, and your usually activities will be limited for four to six weeks or more.

