 If you are preparing to accompany a soloist for a performance, get the sheet music as soon as possible. Get your hands used to the chord progressions by practicing them often, preferably before rehearsing with the soloist. If you are already comfortable with the piece's chord progressions, you can focus your attention on other, more subtle aspects of the song during rehearsal.


Accompaniment parts are often notated in what is called a "lead sheet." Lead sheets provide only minimal information about how you should play—rhythms and specific voicings are not presented. Generally only shorthand markings are given for the chords. For example, "Em7" denotes an E minor seventh chord, in whatever position or voicing you feel is appropriate.
Choose your chord voicings deliberately. For example, in a section of the piece that is meant to build tension, voice chords in their 1st inversion. Conversely, to establish stability you should voice chords in their root position.;
, During rehearsal (or during an impromptu performance), note both the rhythm and pitches of the soloist's melody. As an accompanist, you must be careful not to overshadow or compete with what the vocalist is doing. On the guitar, this means not attempting to match the rhythm or pitches of the melody. If you are worried about competing with the vocalist, keep your strumming simple and sparse.
 Your job as an accompanist is to let the soloist take the lead. During rehearsal, note their use of rubato (tempo fluctuations) or dynamic changes, especially ones that are not marked in the sheet music. Do your best to respond to these fluctuations by following suit—if the vocalist sings a certain passage very quietly, for example, you should play quietly as well.
 As you rehearse, you may find that some of your playing is not meshing well with the soloist's part even if you are sticking precisely to the lead sheet. In this case, it's always okay to make changes to the lead sheet. For example, if the soloist's part is getting lost beneath the rhythm guitar, you could try simplifying your chord structures. If the lead sheet calls for seventh and ninth chords, you could substitute basic major and minor triads to provide more auditory "breathing room" for the vocalist.

