 Any mentally engaging activity you engage in helps keep the neurons in your brain firing. Take a class or read a book about something you don’t know much about. Do puzzles, crosswords, or Sudoku. Play games that get your brain working, like Trivial Pursuit or Scattergories.If you like to play games on a phone or tablet, there are many applications that can be fun and enjoyable.
 Regular, vigorous exercise keeps your cardiovascular system healthy, which keeps the blood flowing properly to your brain. Regular exercise has been shown to keep Alzheimer’s at bay.It also helps keep your brain working at a steady level.Plus, it’s good for you!

, Feed your brain omega-3 fatty acids with fish and nuts. Eating antioxidant-rich foods like fruits and vegetables, especially leafy-green vegetables, also keeps your brain nourished.Omega-3 fatty acids are great for brain health and development. They have also been implicated in reducing inflammation and pain.
Add whole grains into your diet by eating whole wheat bread instead of white and brown rice instead of white rice.
Dark, leafy greens like kale, spinach, and collard greens are high in fiber and iron-rich. Eat them as a side dish or extra ingredient with your meal.
Instead of cookies or chips, try eating a handful of nuts for a snack. They’ll stave off hunger longer and are better for you.
 Stress can cause memory problems and make you feel crummy, which isn’t good for your ability to focus. Try activities like exercise, meditation, or deep breathing to reduce your stress levels.Try meditating for ten minutes every morning. Sit up as straight as you can in a comfortable chair and relax your body. Close your eyes and clear your mind. Count your breaths: one in the inhale, two on the exhale, three on the next inhale, and so on to ten. Then repeat until your time is up.Do some deep breathing when you get frustrated or overwhelmed. Breathe in deeply through your nose and exhale slowly through your mouth. This will help you (and your body) to calm down.Mild exercise like a brisk walk or even some mild stretching can help shift your focus to your body and release endorphins, a type of mood-lifting hormone., Studies show that people who are socially engaged experience less mental decline. This is because being around other people stimulates your brain and provides social support, reducing stress.Visit with friends and family as regularly as possible.
Try volunteering. You’ll meet other volunteers and maybe interact with the people you help. Most communities have lots of volunteer opportunities—look for something that relates to a hobby or skill you already have or something you’d like to learn more about.
Senior centers are great places to make friends and participate in group activities like dance nights and bridge games.
Join a club. There are all kinds of clubs in most communities—book clubs, garden clubs, puzzle groups. Look for one that relates to something you love to do.
Take a class. Learn that language you’ve always wanted to speak or improve on your knitting. The class can be something you’ve never tried before or something you want to get better at; the key is to interact with other people with similar interests. 