 First and foremost, you have to decide your aim and what you wish to achieve with your campaign. If planned and executed properly, such mobile campaigns can prove to be extremely effective.;
, Short codes are special short telephone numbers, which can be used to address SMS messages to users via their mobile service providers. Your short code can be a combination of alphabets and 5-6 digits.


Choose a code that reflects your cause or campaign. It should be easily identifiable, so that donors can grasp the code and retain it in their memory. As an example, The Breast Cancer Research Foundation uses “CURE” (27722).
 Your donation drive will be successful only if donors are willing to support your cause. Respect them and their need to privacy. Give them clear opt-in and opt-out choices. This will ensure that they sign-in on their own accord and that they can unsubscribe as and when they wish.
 Typically, donors in the United States are permitted to donate only $5 or $10 at a time. Besides, it can take up to 90 days for your organization to receive the donations via mobile transaction channels. Keep all these points in mind and understand that it will take plenty of your time and resources to build and manage your mobile donations., If you are just starting off with mobile fundraising, it is advisable to partner with an organization that has successfully run similar campaigns. Some of the most trusted names include Mobile Commons, Mobile Accord and Causecast Mobile. The Mobile Giving Foundation features a list of Application Service Providers on their website.
 Note that, at present, there are only two US nonprofits that work with mobile carriers as conduits for mobile donations via SMS. These include mGive Foundation and Mobile Giving Foundation. Each one presents its own terms and conditions to approve your organization’s eligibility for a campaign.
 Before zeroing-in on one service provider, make sure that both parties agree to all the terms and conditions. The terms of the negotiation will revolve around the administration fee which the MASP will take for each donation, the initial setup and leasing fee for the SMS code and the network maintenance fee. Before signing on the dotted line, do the following:


Plan your team of negotiators well in advance. They should be experienced and should know how to go about the bidding and negotiating process.
Before meeting with your desired MASP, discuss your agenda, so as to ascertain that both parties are on common ground.
Clearly demarcate each party’s role and level of authority in the partnership.
Be honest and open during negotiation, but not to the extent that your reveal sensitive company-related information.
Do not be in a hurry to come to an agreement. If there are any grey areas, you can always choose to close the meeting, think about it and get back to it at a later time.
If you think certain areas of the contract may cause issues, think of compromises and/or resolutions, well in advance.
Decide on clauses to annul the contract, if the need ever arises.
Take legal advice. It is desirable to take legal counsel, before signing any type of contract.
 If you are happy with all the terms and conditions, go ahead and finalize the contract with your chosen MASP.
 Once you have closed the deal with your MASP, you can request them to lease your SMS short code from the Common Short Code Administration.
 Once this is done, you can work to build your mobile donors’ list. You can then start sending them text messages, requesting them to donate to your cause.
 Once you have setup your mobile fundraising campaign, you need to let people know about it. One good way to start is by distributing pamphlets and flyers, or by sending them across to people along with their regular newspaper.
 You can easily get banners made, with details on your campaign and SMS code printed on them. Hang them outside your building, in the market or just about any other place where people are most likely to spot them.
 Login to your social media networks and encourage your friends and contacts to fund your cause. Participate in forums to spread the good word.
 Send out regular email newsletters, talking about your text-to-donate campaign. Tell your readers what you hope to achieve and how they could help others by donating their mite to your cause.
 Host an event to promote your campaign. You could even tie-up with other organizations to co-host an event. That will give you plenty of exposure among your community.
 Reach out to your local radio station, newspapers and media outlets and let them know about your work. Many of them are looking to promote social causes. Meet up with them and request them to advertise your code.
 As you build your mobile list, you will initially have only limited information about your donors, such as their mobile number. Use this to send follow-up text messages. Next, ask for their email address and/or send them opt-in messages to join other similar campaigns.


Make sure to give your donor the choice to opt-out at any point in time. It would be annoying for them to keep receiving unwarranted messages. Allow them to opt-out by replying with a single-word message such as “No”, “Stop” or “Unsubscribe”.

