 One way to help break your obsession with productivity is to leave work at work. When you are not at work, don’t think about work, talk about work, or do more work. Make a clear separation between work and not-work time.Instead, use your downtime for other non-work related things, such as relaxing, spending time with friends and family, or participating in a hobby.
If you work from home, leave work in your office, or move all your work to a place that is out of mind so you aren’t tempted.
 If you find yourself obsessed with productivity, you may have to schedule recreational time. This may be especially true when you first try to break your obsession. Get out a weekly calendar and pencil in time where you do activities not related to work.This can include:


Dinner with family or friends
30 minute walk around the neighborhood
An hour of television watching your favorite show
Three hours to go to the movies
A day spent at the park
Two hours reading a book
Half a day painting
An hour taking a sewing classes
45 minutes baking something from scratch

, One way to help you get your mind off work is to stay physically busy. When you are not at work, do something physical that gets your body moving. Many jobs people have keep them at a desk, so doing physical activity helps break the cycle of being sedentary. Plus, moving around can increase your energy levels and even help clear your head so you can think better.


Physical activity can include a variety of things. Go for a walk, a hike, or a jog. Bicycle with your kids around the neighborhood. Go to a gym class. Play a basketball game with friends. Anything that gets you moving and enjoying yourself is a good activity.
 Another way you can break your obsession with productivity is to talk to people. This can be at work or at home. This helps get your mind off what you feel you have to get done, helps you connect with real people instead of being addicted to your electronic devices, and can even help you learn and grow.When you talk to people, make sure you are actively listening. Don’t pretend you are listening when you are actually thinking about what you need to get done.

