 Establish a regular bedtime, and stick to it. Having regular hours set aside for sleep will train your body and your mind to expect sleeping at this time. Practice using your bed only for purposes of sleeping, not for reading or playing with electronics.Most teenagers experience changes in their sleep cycles. Try to make sure your activities at night are calm to counteract against this tendency.
Keeping a diary or a "To-Do" list by your bed may allow you to jot down any notes or ideas that keep you awake. Then you'll be able to tell yourself to come back to these ideas in the morning, and let them go during the night.
Make sure your room is dark and quiet. Use curtains, or an eyeshade, to block the light. #*Use a white noise machine, such as a fan facing the wall, to block the noise from other parts of the house. Some people find that listening to soft music helps them go to sleep, and blocks other noise.;
, You'll do best if you try to follow your regular sleep schedule even on the weekends. Try to wake up within 2-4 hours of your usual wake time in order to maintain your regular pattern.If your friends talk about how much fun they had staying up all night, you can remind them how good you feel after a full night's sleep.
Remember that getting more than 10 hours of sleep on one night doesn't mean you can sleep less the following night. A healthy sleep routine involves sufficient sleep every night.
 Doing the same things before bed every night will help your body understand that it's time for bed. Examples of things included in a nighttime routine are: brushing teeth, washing face, putting on soft pajamas. Taking a warm bath or shower will relax you, and you will wake in the morning already bathed for the day.Reading a book before bedtime can be relaxing, as long as the book isn't a thriller.
Listening to soft music or meditations can be a good way to relax for sleep.
 Electronics, whether they're tablets, computers, phones or games, interfere with the body's sleep mechanism in ways that researchers don't entirely understand. Adolescents with a bedroom television report more difficulty getting to sleep, significantly higher rates of sleep disturbance, and shorter overall sleep times.Texting at night, even once a week, results in daytime sleepiness, according to researchers.
Reading from light-emitting electronic readers also has been shown to interfere with sleep quality, and lowers the secretion of melatonin, a sleep-inducing hormone., Not getting enough sleep means lower cognitive abilities, being more moody, irritable and cranky, and lower grades in school. It also means that if you get sufficient sleep, you'll be in a better mood, with more energy. You'll be quicker to think of intelligent solutions. You're more likely to get better grades too.Set your own goals for sleeping. If the benefits of getting enough sleep are important to you, you'll find a way to work it in.
Don't be embarrassed to tell your friends that you have to say goodnight. Good friends will understand your priorities.

