 The formula is bought from the NPC in Ventos Prairie named, Pallite. This NPC can be found at the eastern part of the map of Ventos Town (X 835, Y 725).


To go to Ventos Prairie, simply approach the warp stone in any town. Click it and then choose Ventos Prairie in the list.
The Ventos Prairie map is only available to characters level 50 and above.
1 Fusion Formula: Zaahir's Grasp costs 85 gold.;
, Now that we have the Fusion Formula, warp to Navea using the warp stone and then look for the blacksmith. She can found at the eastern part of the city; you can also simply open your map window, select the blacksmith's name from the NPC drop list, and then click on the boot icon to automatically navigate to her location.


Blacksmiths are used to refine your items, making it stronger with additional stats every time you upgrade it.
Blacksmith requires gold every time you enhance or refine a weapon so make sure you have enough gold with you.
 Choose the "I want precise casting and forging" dialogue option after talking to the blacksmith. A window will then appear showing you the list of items you can create.
 This will open up a new window with a list of weapons and equipment recipes you can learn for a fee.



The Pay button will be available as soon as you drop the Fusion Formula into the slot; click on it.
 Now that you successfully learned the recipe, click on the Zaahir's Grasp to see the required items to create it. You will need the following:


1 Zaahir's Unbreakable Spine
10 Immortal Fire Crystal

, Head to Infernal Abyss and defeat the boss Zaahir, found in the last room of every level of the dungeon.


The Unbreakable Spine is a rare item drop, so make sure you're equipped with armors that have additional loot percentage.
 This item can be obtained by combining 100 Scarlet Fire Crystals.


Scarlet Fire Crystals are dropped from Infernal Abyss monsters.
You need to collect 100 Scarlet Fire Crystals in order to create 10 Immortal Fire Crystal for the Zaahir's Grasp.
 After collecting all the required items, return to Navea to talk to the blacksmith again. Choose the same dialogue, "I want precise casting and forging," to open the forging window.


Before you approach the blacksmith, make sure the items are in your inventory and that you have enough gold to pay for her service.
, Place the ingredients in the slot at the right-hand side of the window.


After you lay the ingredient in the slot, you will be able to see the fees at the bottom right-hand side, indicating that you can now pay and successfully forge the item.
Congratulations, you now have Zaahir's Grasp!

