 If your hair is any color other than jet black, you’ll have to dye it. You can go to your local hair stylist and have them dye your hair or you can buy dye from a local store and do it yourself at home.


If you need to look like Shino for a long period of time, you can use permanent dye that will last until your hair grows out.
If you only need to look like Shino for a few days, temporary henna hair dye will do the trick.
If you really don’t want to dye your hair, you can use a wig, but it may not look as natural.;
, Wash and dry your hair and comb out any tangles. Squeeze a quarter size amount of hair glue in your palm, rub it between your hands and work it into your hair. Starting at the base, use your thumb and forefinger to create spikes that stand straight up. Repeat the process with the rest of your hair.When you’ve finished spiking your hair, Spray a copious amount of hair spray all around it to ensure your spikes stay up.


If your air is curly or wavy, you may need to use a hair straightener before creating spikes.
Use hair glue designed to hold hair straight up. If you use hair gel, your spikes may fall.
 Draw the leaf village symbol on a piece of metallic paper with a sharpie. Cut the metallic paper into a rectangle with an x-acto knife and smooth out the edges. Cut a long thick strand of black fabric for your band. Fold the fabric and sew the edges together. Leave one end of the fabric unsewn and pull the band inside out through it. Sew the remaining end of the fabric together and superglue the metallic paper to the center of your headband. After the super glue dries, wrap the headband around your head. Make a mark on the back of your headband where both sides of it meet. Cut off the excess cloth at your mark and sew both sides together so that your headband fits snug.After your fabric is folded, it should be the same width as your piece of metallic paper. .
 It should have a long collar that covers half your face. Shino wears a jacket that is too large so that others don’t see his bugs burrowing into his skin.
 Shino never shows his eyes. His sunglasses help him to hide his emotions and intentions from his opponents.


If you can, find glasses with circular lenses like Shino’s.
 Cut them around eight inches shorter than your leg. Get some white tape and wrap it around your right thigh. Then get some black tape and wrap it around the same thigh on top of the white tape.


There should be thin strip of black tape in the middle of the white tape.
Brown sweatpants may work best. Shino battles often and needs pants that allow him to be as mobile as possible.
 You can order these from a cosplay site like cosplayfu.com or you can make your own. Use scissors to cut the tops off of an old pair of sneakers leaving only the soles and the back of the shoes. Put on a pair of blue knee-high socks and make a mark on them at the top of your index toe. Take of the socks. Cut them at your mark and pull them over the shoes. Slide your feet into your newly designed shoes. Your toes should be exposed., Shino is a master strategist. He often uses false attacks to plant bugs on his opponents that slowly drain their chakra. (life energy) Educate yourself in combat strategy the way Shino does to gain the edge on his opponents.


Smoke out your enemies and inwardly declare war so that you can strike without warning.
Focus your mind on the present moment. Learn to detach yourself from chaos to make rational decisions.
Learn to read your opponent. Pay attention to your enemy’s behavior., Shino’s favorite hobby is insect watching. Observe the actions of various bugs and study them as much as you can. You may not be able to command hordes of bugs the way Shino does but you can train insects to go where you want them to if you know what motivates them.Ants follow lines of sugar.
Spiders tend to flee away from the heavy streams of air from a hair dryer.
 Shino keeps his emotions hidden, making it difficult for his enemies to read his intentions. Practice hiding your emotions. Be sure to watch out for body language that could betray the way you feel.Uncross your arms and don't clench your neck when you're feel defensive.
Relax your stare and loosen your fists when you feel anger.
 When Naruto returns to the village after three year, he doesn’t recognize Shino. Shino holds a grudge against him for the rest of the series. Don’t let anything go, at least while you’re Shino Aburame., If people ask you questions, respond with short answers. For example, if someone asks you what you do for a living, respond with a simple “I’m a businessman,” or whatever it is that you do. Don’t give any further details.Don’t feel any need to explain yourself. Let people wonder about you.
 When Shino does talk, he says exactly what he means. Don’t sugarcoat the truth. For example, if someone asks you if you like their cosplay outfit, say either “yes I do,” or “no I don’t.” .


Make sure people know you’re speaking in character so they don’t think you’re a jerk.
 When daily nuisances arise, don’t get worked up. Instead, focus on ways to solve them.


If you stub your toe on a couch while your getting ready, don’t get mad and kick the couch. Rather, rearrange the furniture so the room is less cluttered reducing the chance of you stubbing your toe again.
If you have a flat tire on the way to a cosplay convention, don’t waste time cursing and being upset. Calmly, replace the tire with your spare and carefully drive to the nearest automotive shop.
 Shino Aburame takes control of situations. Be firm with people and don’t let them take advantage of you.


When someone cuts in front of you in line at a cosplay event, calmly demand that they move to the back of the line.
If you go out to eat with your friends after the event and a waiter brings you the wrong food, calmly alert the waiter to mix-up and ask for the food you ordered.

