 Do some research into places in your area that offer photo opportunities with Santa. Your best bet will usually be a shopping mall, large department store or town square, although toy stores and hobby shops might also offer holiday photo services. Mark off a day on your calendar when you’ll have some time to take your child in.More popular locations will usually charge higher prices and be in more demand. If you want to avoid some of the chaos or expense, take a look at alternatives like smaller studios.
Be prepared to spend a few hours negotiating traffic, waiting in line and getting the pictures taken.;
, Your child’s first picture with Santa is a memory that you’ll cherish forever, so pull out all the stops to make sure their cuteness gets captured. Use this as one of your few yearly occasions to get them into a nice, dressy outfit, or have fun putting together a festive costume. Don’t forget your props, like elf ears, reindeer antlers or a wintry scarf and pair of mittens.Get your child in on the fun by letting them pick out some of their own clothes and accessories.
 It’s customary for young children to ask Santa for a special gift or a request that they’re hopeful to receive on Christmas day. Tell your child that Santa is capable of granting wishes, and that they should try to think of something really exciting or meaningful that they want to come true. Their head will be spinning with the possibilities!Filling your child’s head with thoughts of toys, games and surprises can distract them from the scary unfamiliarity of the situation.
Emphasize that Santa only brings presents to nice, well-behaved children.
 When young children don’t know who Santa is, they may become frightened at his appearance or the strangeness of the setting. If your son or daughter hasn’t already learned about the wonders of Santa Claus, give them a little primer on his backstory, what he does and why they should be excited. Once the time comes to meet him, they’ll barely be able to contain themselves, rather than turning into a tearful mess.Show your child an image of Santa so they’ll already know what he looks like.
If possible, do a walk-by of a photo session going on at a mall or community center and give them a sneak peek of the proceedings.Be careful about making unnecessary reassurances about Santa. Saying things like “there’s nothing to be afraid of” may backfire and put ideas in their heads that weren’t there before.
 The closer to Christmas it gets, the longer you’ll be forced to wait to see Santa. If you don’t want to spend all day slogging through slow-moving department store lines, set out first thing in the morning and try to arrive before business starts picking up for the day. This will save you, and your little one, a lot of stress.Arriving early will also give your child a chance to see other kids getting their pictures taken, which can help prepare them if its their first time.
You might even have some extra time to sit and chat with Santa the studio is vacant.
 One reason kids often get scared when they pose for pictures with jolly St. Nick is because they get separated from mom or dad and plopped down on the lap of a complete stranger. When it comes your child’s turn, make sure you remain nearby and in plain sight. If they can see you standing there cheerful and unconcerned, they’ll be less likely to get upset.If your child is inconsolable, ask if it would be alright for you to get in the picture with them.
Bring a favorite toy or a stoic older sibling to help your young one see that there’s nothing to be afraid of., While the photographer is snapping the pictures, you can take part in the process from the sidelines. Lavish your child with praise to help keep them calm. Throw them the thumbs up, grin big and tell them how lucky they are for the opportunity to be introduced to the one and only Kris Kringle.Don’t try to do the photographer’s job for them. They’re usually trained in ways of making distraught kids more comfortable in front of the camera.
 Now for the hard part: taking a good picture. Giving an overwhelmed youngster some gentle cues to “say cheese” or flash their pearly whites can help put them at ease by calling to mind happy family photo sessions. Chances are, they’ll be looking your way for any indication of how they should feel, so the more ecstatic you appear, the better the chances that happy feelings will flow.There’s no guarantee that your child will be as thrilled by the spectacle as you are. If they seem totally overwhelmed or start pitching a fit, get them out of there and try again next year.Be happy with what you get. Even if somebody blinks or screams their head off, it doesn’t mean the photo is ruined. Try to enjoy the experience and the memories that came from it.
 Most commercial photo services will offer to print and frame your child’s picture with Santa for a small charge. A framed portrait can go on the wall, in your bedroom or over the fireplace where the stockings are hung. They make great gifts, as well.Put the portrait out every year when you’re decorating for the holidays.
Add a custom message or greeting to commemorate the occasion, such as “Smith Family Christmas 2016.”

, While you’re at it, get a few copies of various sizes made that you can slip in your wallet or pocket book, use for crafting purposes or frame to give to others. Print packages are usually inexpensive and give you a number of options in choosing how to share or display your photos. That way, you can always have that touching (or at least entertaining) moment with you wherever you go.Wallet-sized pictures are also perfect for making scrapbook collages, crafting photo ornaments for the tree or pasting in a multi-photo frame.
 Celebrate the holidays by proudly using your child’s photo as the centerpiece of your family’s annual mailer. All your friends and relatives will be able to see what a delight they were when they met Santa for the first time.Include a short caption detailing the experience, especially if there’s a humorous or adorable anecdote involved.
Reward your child for their bravery by making them the star of the Christmas card.
 Once you get the proofs back, scan them (or take a few candids of your own at the event using your phone) and upload them to your hard drive for eternal safekeeping. You can then post the best shots on Facebook, Instagram or Snapchat for all your followers to see. A picture is worth a thousand words—or, in this case, likes.Social media is a great way to keep in touch with distant loved ones and give them glimpses of your family as they grow.
Tag the business or location where the pictures were taken so that other parents can see how well they turned out.

