 When geckos are brought into a new cage or house, they are very defensive and scared. Geckos need time to get used to their new home before you can handle them. Allow him three to four weeks to settle in before you pick him up.Babies should not be handled before they have grown to three inches long.;
, All windows and doors should be closed. The floor should be cleared of toys, books, and other objects.Turn off any TV, music, or radio. This will create a calm environment while preventing your gecko from escaping.
 Very gently remove the top of the cage, and set it aside. Do not toss or drop the top; the noise may frighten your gecko. Geckos can be easily stressed out by movement and noise. They will become flighty, running around the cage. They may even bite you or drop their tail., With your hand flat, slowly place it in the cage in front of your gecko. The gecko may run away at first. Simply move your hand towards the gecko. Avoid making quick or abrupt movements. Your gecko will realize after a minute or two that you are not going to hurt him.


You do not want to reach in and grab your gecko. Sudden snatching may cause your gecko to drop his tail. Tails do not grow back on crested geckos, so it is good to avoid this.
If your gecko refuses to climb on your hand, replace the top of the cage, and try again later. Your gecko does not want to be handled.
 Slide your hand under his chin, and let him crawl onto you. Lift the gecko out on the flat of your hand. He should be resting comfortably on your finger, palm, or arm. Cup your other hand under him in case he falls off or jumps. If he tries to run to the other side of your hand, turn your hand so that he remains on top at all times.


If he does not crawl onto you, you can try sliding your hand under more of his body while slipping your other hand under his tail. Wait for him to grip onto you before you lift him out of the cage.
Do not hold the gecko by his tail, and do not grasp him with two fingers. A flat or slightly cupped palm is key. He may also rest against your arm., Cup your gecko in the palm of your hand, and lower him into the cage. Put your hand as low as possible so that he does not have to jump off. He may climb off your hand immediately. If not, you may nudge him off with your finger.

