 Remove your dog’s excess hair in a controlled way by brushing it regularly, at least once a day. These brushing sessions should not last long, only a few minutes, but should become part of your regular routine. You can use a rake-style brush to reduce a thick undercoat, or even a brush-glove to mimic the action of petting and reduce your dog’s anxiety.Many people prefer to brush their dog outdoors to reduce fur scattering in the home. If you do this, just make sure that the weather is suitable, not too cold or wet.
If your dog is a family pet, get everyone to take turns doing the brushing by assigning them ‘brush duty’ on particular days.
If you take your dog to a groomer on a monthly basis, ask them what tools they would suggest for daily grooming. They may suggest a mat brush for difficult areas or even a blade-style comb.;
, Bathing your dog on a regular basis will wash away excess hair while keeping it clean as well. Choose a warm water temperature and bathe your dog in a bathtub for the quickest and easiest process. For even better results, apply an anti-shed shampoo, such as Groomers Blend Shed Defense Shampoo or Shed-X Shed Control Shampoo.Keep a close eye on your dog’s skin and if you notice signs of dryness, such as flakes, go ahead and spread out the baths to every other week.
Anti-shed shampoos work by moisturizing your dog’s skin. You can also create homemade dog shampoo by blending 1 cup of raw oatmeal with 1 quart of water and 1 cup of baking soda., Heavy shedding can be a sign of stress in some dogs. If you’ve made a recent life change, such as moving, that could have your dog stressed out, make sure to spend some extra quality time with them. Exercising or playing outdoors is often a good way to reduce stress and strengthen your bond with your dog., This may sound a bit odd, but there are various full-body and shirt-style garments that dogs can wear to minimize shedding in the home. The hair falls off into the garment, which is then washed frequently. Some owners also use these items, such as Shed Defender, as a way to reduce their dog’s stress during car rides or thunderstorms., You can either ask your vet about the shedding during an annual visit, or you can make a specific appointment to discuss this issue. Expect your vet to look over your dog and then present you with a variety of options. If your dog is excessively shedding, it is possible that they need allergy medication or even treatment for the itching that comes with fleas or other pests.Make an appointment immediately if you see open sores or a rash on your dog’s skin as it may be a sign of a more serious condition, such as mange., If you look around online, there are a variety of websites and blogs that offer creams or bizarre suggestions to reduce your dog’s shedding. Apply common sense to these solutions before you attempt them on your pet. Using a fabric softener sheet as a brush (one digital suggestion), for example, can leave your dog with chemical burns.