 Coping with a mentally ill parent can be detrimental to your own physical, mental, and emotional health. Children of parents with PTSD are at risk of developing anxiety, depression, or trauma symptoms of their own. Stress can tempt you to reach for fast or convenience foods from a drive-thru or a package. Support your health by consuming a balanced diet rich in essential vitamins and nutrients.


Include whole grains, lean source of protein, fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy. Drink plenty of water.
Certain foods like berries, avocados, green tea, dark chocolate, and oatmeal are recognized for helping the body fight off stress and depression., Another way to support your health and well-being is through physical activity. Getting moving can do wonders for your mental state by releasing feel-good chemicals called endorphins. These chemicals flood the body and give you more energy and a brighter outlook. Exercise can also help you stay alert and concentrate better in the classroom.Aim for 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. Do whatever makes you feel good and raises your heart rate at the same time. Try boxing, running, yoga, basketball, or dance.
 If you find yourself worrying about your parent on a daily basis, your anxiety could be affecting your sleep quality. Try to get at least 8 hours of sleep each night. You can also implement a few strategies to give yourself a better chance of having a restful night’s sleep.


Turn off electronics at least an hour before bed. Make your sleep environment comfortable by lowering the temperature and using curtains that block light. Do relaxing activities like taking a hot bath or reading a good book before bed., People who are caring for a family member with a mental illness are known to neglect their own health in favor of pouring their attention and love into their ailing loved one. It’s okay to want to help Mom or Dad, but you need to look after yourself, too.


If you find yourself frequently getting sick or feeling increasingly sad or hopeless, consult your doctor. They may be able to suggest methods to help you cope., Try deep breathing to quell anxiety when it happens. Learn meditation to focus your mind. Plan a special day to hang out with your friends or significant other to take your mind off things at home. Pour some love and care back into you, and you’ll have more available to care for your parent., Try to set aside at least a little time every week to work on your hobbies and do things that you find fun or relaxing. Try to schedule regular times to do things you like, even if it’s just half an hour of playing your favorite video game after dinner, or a quick walk around your neighborhood in the morning.Take care to set aside time to socialize with your friends. It can be very easy to feel isolated when you have a parent struggling with a serious mental health issue.
 Everyone needs space, and this can be especially important if your situation at home is stressful. Try to take a few moments every day to be by yourself in a quiet space. Take that time to gather your thoughts and recharge your mental and emotional batteries., It’s easy to feel guilty if you find yourself struggling to deal with the situation. Remember that nobody has all the answers, and that you cannot control the situation you are in. It’s completely normal to feel lost or helpless sometimes., Even if your parent is working hard to cope with their condition, change takes time. You can do your best to be supportive, but you cannot change your parent. Remember that you can only control your own reactions to the situation., When your family situation is stressful, it can be easy to fixate on everything that’s wrong. Make an effort to remember and be aware of the good things that happen in your life. Celebrate and appreciate happy moments with your family when they happen.