 If you can afford a family law attorney, you should consider hiring one to help you navigate the child custody modification process. See this article for directions on how to find a good family law attorney. Even if you cannot afford a full-service attorney, many attorneys provide limited services at a reasonable cost. This means you may be able to hire an attorney to prepare your documents, give you limited legal advice, or potentially even teach you about this area of the law, without having to pay the attorney to take on the entire modification process.
 In order to request a custody modification hearing, you will have to fill out a request for an order.This form will require you to divulge information including your request for a custody modification and the facts supporting your request.These facts should indicate why there have been changed circumstances that require a modification to an existing custody order.Explain why it is necessary to make the changes you want and attach any proposal you have regarding what the new parenting arrangement should look like., Once you have filled out the required forms to request a custody modification hearing, you will want to review them carefully.These forms are going to be the basis of your custody modification argument, so you want to make sure they have been filled out accurately and completely. If you have hired an attorney, have them look over the forms you have filled out. If you have not hired an attorney, consider using some of the free legal resources available to you.


For example, in California, you can contact a family law facilitator or a self-help center for assistance with these forms.If you are in California, use this link and this link for more information about those resources.
 Once your forms have been reviewed and you have determined they are ready to file, you will want to go to your local courthouse to file them. At the courthouse, file your forms with the clerk of courts.The clerk of courts will take possession of your forms and will require you to pay a filing fee.Fees will differ from state to state, and even county to county. If you cannot afford the fee, you can always ask for a fee waiver.In order to receive a fee waiver, you will need to show some sort of financial hardship.For example, you could show that you are receiving public benefits or that you do not have enough income to provide for basic necessities and pay the filing fee., When you serve the other party, you will hire someone (the sheriff or another competent adult) to give a copy of your filed documents to the other party to look over and respond to. To serve the other party, the person you hire must provide the required documents to them, either in person or through the mail.If you are serving someone through the mail, it must be sent by certified mail. In Pennsylvania, this process must be completed within 30 days of filing your documents with the court.In some states (e.g., Michigan), your answer must also be served on the other party at least five days before the hearing if you provided service through the mail, and at least three days before the hearing if you have the other party served personally.For more information about serving another party, look here.


In addition to serving the other party with the documents you filed with the court, you will be required to give the other party a blank response form they can use to respond to your modification petition., Once you have served the other party, have the server fill out a proof of service and give it to you so you can file it with the court., In some states, the court will require you and the other parent to take part in mediation prior to going to court to resolve your custody issues. Mediation gives parents an opportunity to work out their disagreements outside of court and allows the parents to have a bigger impact on the decisions that are made.In mediation, both parents will meet with an expert mediator and discuss their disagreements in an attempt to come to an agreed upon solution.If you and the other parent come to an agreement, the mediator will help you draft a parenting plan and that plan will then be submitted to the judge for approval., If you are not required to go through mediation or you and the other parent cannot come to an agreement during mediation, you will be required to go to your court hearing.At the court hearing, you can expect the judge to ask you and the other party a number of questions meant to give the judge an idea of why there should be a modification to the existing order and who should be the new or continued caretaker of the child at issue. The judge's main concern is the well-being of the child. The judge will ask questions and request evidence to try and understand two things:


First, the judge will need to know what the changed circumstances were that led you to need a modification to your existing order. Bring documents and provide testimony that helps the judge understand what the changed circumstances were. Think about discussing the common changed circumstances that were discussed above.
Second, the judge will want to know how those changed circumstances result in a need for a new custody agreement. For example, if the other parent had custody but they are now moving out of the state, you may want to argue that you should receive custody so the child can stay in the same or similar environment they have been in during the recent past. Talk about the need to keep the child in the same school system, the need to keep the child near their friends, and the need to keep the child where they feel comfortable.
 Once the judge reaches their conclusion, they will sign a court order.In some states, the clerk in the courtroom will prepare the judge's order and file it automatically.In other states, it will be the responsibility of the prevailing party to fill out a court order form and submit it for the judge's signature and filing.The court order is a document with the judge's decision and this document will set out exactly what the new custody arrangement will be and how it will be enforced. You and the other parent will be required to follow this order or risk legal ramifications.

