 Lean proteins are foods that are relatively low in fat and calories per serving.When attempting to lose weight while focusing on meat-based foods, it's important to choose leaner meats over high fat meats the majority of the time. This can help keep your weight and cholesterol in check. Select non-fatty, lean meats such as:


Seafood. This is an excellent source of protein. Choose shellfish (like shrimp or crab) in addition to finfish (like flounder, tuna or mahimahi). In addition, some fish like salmon or mackerel, contain heart-healthy omega 3-fatty acids which have been shown to decrease the risk for heart disease.Poultry. Like turkey and chicken is also a great source of lean protein. Choose skinless, white meat options for the lowest fat content.
Pork. Most pork has very little fat or marbling throughout the meat.Cut away or remove any excess fat for the lowest fat option.
Red meat like beef or lamb. These proteins can also be considered a lean - especially if you're choosing lean cuts or 97/3 lean ground items. In addition, lean beef contains an abundance of zinc, iron and vitamin B12., Organic meat products, in general, are slightly more expensive than conventionally raised and processed meat products. However, organic meat is free of growth hormones, additives and preservatives.Look for the USDA seal of approval, which means that the animal was fed 100% organic food and was free-range.
Do note that organic meat has no nutritional difference when compared with conventional meat. However, free-range meat is typically higher in omega 3 and 6.
 Eating a serving of lean meat at every meal or snack will give you the foundation for a weight loss diet focused on meat.


To maintain a balanced and varied diet, eat a variety of proteins throughout the day. For example, you may have eggs for breakfast, a grilled chicken salad at lunch, beef jerky as a snack and grilled salmon and vegetables for dinner.
Other foods that are also high in protein (like dairy products, beans or tofu) can be included in some of your meals. Whether you choose to include them will be based on how you create and design your diet.
 Oil and sauces (like marinades or dressings) can contain a significant amount of added fat, sugar and calories. Limit the amount of oil and sauces you cook with to manage the overall calorie content of your meals.


For the lowest calorie method, lightly brush the meat with a small amount of olive oil prior to cooking it.
Or, try sautéing lean protein in a non-stick pan with the addition of some no-calorie cooking spray.
Fresh or dried herbs and citrus are healthful ways to add a lot of flavor to meat dishes without adding a lot of calories or sodium.
Avoid added excessive amounts of sauce to serve meat with. Even though you may love ketchup or barbecue sauce, both contain a lot of sugar which may counteract your weight loss goals. Instead look for alternatives that contain little to no sugar and calories. You can also try making these sauces from scratch to control the sugar and calories.
 Fruits and vegetables are essential to a healthy, nutritious and well-balanced diet. Even when choosing a meat-based weight loss diet, it's important to consume adequate amounts of fruits and vegetables each day. These foods are high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that are vital for your health.


1 cup of raw or 2 cups of leafy green vegetables are considered a serving.Aim to consume two to three servings daily.1 small whole fruit, 1 cup of sliced fruit and 1/2 cup of dried fruit counts as one serving. Aim to consume one to two servings of fruit daily., Many weight loss diets that focus on meat or are high protein are also low-carb diets. You may choose to limit how many carbohydrates you consume - especially from the grain group. However, if you choose to consume grains, choose 100% whole grains over processed grains.


Whole grains are minimally processed and contain all the parts of the grain: the bran, the germ and the endosperm. They are generally higher in fiber, vitamins and minerals compared to more refined grains.Whole grain foods include: 100% whole wheat bread or pasta, quinoa, brown rice, barley, or millet.

