 This will help the authority you are filing with quickly and accurately assess the incident. It will also help to make sure you provide all the information they need. Make sure you fill out the entire form correctly and that you include any necessary information. This will streamline process, ensuring timely response.


Search the websites to determine whether there is a form that you can fill out and submit entirely online. If so, this will be the quickest and easiest way to do it.There may also be a downloadable form that you can print and mail.If you do not have access to a computer, you can either call the organization and ask them to mail you any forms you need, or you can use a computer at a public library., When you fill out the complaint, be as specific as you can. This will help the organization to do a thorough, rapid investigation. If you have supporting documentation such as medical records or second opinions from other doctors, include copies of these reports — never send the originals. It is particularly important to provide:Names of the individuals and organizations involved.
A clear concise description of the events that occurred. State the facts only, without inserting any opinions.
A timeline that is as accurate as possible. Provide dates and times.
 Keep copies of all complaints, notes, and supporting evidence you provide. This is important in case you are asked for additional information later to verify the details. It is also crucial that you have copies in case the documentation you send gets lost.Keep a record of when you sent everything. Many online systems provide you with a confirmation number. Save the notification with the confirmation and date.
If you send materials by mail, consider sending it with a tracking number so you can confirm that it was received.
Keep records, including names, dates, and times, of all people you communicate with throughout the investigation.
 Many organizations have formal procedures and timelines for notifying people about the status of their complaints. Things to ask include:Will you receive regular updates on the status of the investigation? If so, how often?
Will you be notified of the outcome of the investigation? If so, how?
Will the organization contact you by mail or email? Can you check online to see the status of your complaint?

