 You can wear pretty much anything, but vintage and skate-brand shirts are the most popular among skaters. You can wear a faded t-shirt, a fitted shirt, or even a tank top. Consider wearing a fitted top if you are wearing baggy pants.


Consider going vintage. This doesn't mean that you have to wear clothes that are ripped or torn. Instead, try going to a second-hand store and picking up some vintage t-shirts from the 80s and 90s.They don't even have to be skateboard-related. Many skaters also like to wear vintage cartoon shirts as well.;
, Even if you are posing as one, you may want to look as though you actually skateboard. Skateboarding requires a lot of leg moment, so you'll want something that is easy to move in. Here are some popular options for you:Baggy leans are the most popular choice amongst skaters.
Loose-fitting cargos are another popular choice. They are tomboyish, and the extra pockets are great for storing things, such as music players.
Capris are another popular choice, especially if they are loose fitting and baggy. Think guy shorts.
Avoid wearing anything that is too ripped or torn looking. It will just look messy.
 Skater girls will wear what is easiest for them to skate in. You might find that baggy clothes aren't all that comfortable, and that skinny jeans are the easiest for you to move around in.Shorts are popular, especially in the summer. Many skater girls find high-waist shorts to be very comfortable. If you are learning how to skate, however, you might want to wear some kneepads in case you fall.
Leggings are easy to move in, but they tear easily too. If you are just learning how to skate, you might want to hold off on the leggings to avoid ruining a nice pair.
Skirts may look cute, but they are not always practical either. If you choose to wear a skirt, you might want to wear some leggings or biker shorts underneath them to prevent any embarrassing incidents.
Skinny jeans can look great, but they can be difficult to move around in. If you want to wear skinny jeans, make sure that you can bend down and touch your board easily. If your jeans are too tight, you might not be able to perform any tricks., You can sneakers that have a flat bottom and a good grip. Canvas shoes (high-tops are especially popular) are also a great choice, but keep in mind that they wear out quickly. Most skater girls will pass on the ballet flats and heels because its difficult (and sometimes dangerous) to skate while wearing them.Try changing out the laces in your shoes for bright-colored ones. This is a great way to show off your personality.
If you have canvas shoes, try drawings some cool designs on them using a fabric marker. You can also doodle on the toe area using a permanent marker.
 The skater look is all about layering, and a jacket thrown over a shirt can complete the look. A long-sleeved, plaid, flannel shirt can look especially chic when layered over a plain shirt or tied around the waist. When choosing jackets, try not to get anything too form-fitting; you want to be able to move your arms in order to perform tricks on your board.
 Most skater girls like to keep things simple and laid-back. Besides, long, dangling earrings and necklaces will only get in the way while skating. If you want to wear some jewelry, here are some things for you to try:


Wristbands often come with stamped, printed, or engraved words and phrases. They are a great way to show your individuality.
Sweatbands are comfortable to wear, and are often embroidered with a brand logo. They are a great way to show your support and enthusiasm for your favorite brands and companies.
Studded bracelets are like mini versions of studded belts. You can find them in shops that sell punk attire.
 They not only keep the sun off your head, but can also keep long hair out of your face. Try finding one that has a logo of your favorite brand. If you can't find one, then get a plain one, and decorate it with a patch or pin. This is a great way to show support for your favorite brands.
 If you'd like to show off your punk side, you can always put on a pair of fingerless gloves. They'll also help protect your palms in case you fall. If you can't find any, you can make your own by getting a pair of leather gloves and snipping the fingers off at the first knuckle.
 Baggy pants can be easy to move in, but if they are so baggy that they are sliding off your waist, you might want to use a belt to keep them up. A studded belt would be a great touch. You can get a standard belt with silver studs, or you can get a belt with colored studs.
 When you aren't listening to music, let the headphones hang around your neck.


If you use earbuds, then you might want to roll them up and put them away so that they don't accidentally fall off and get damaged.
 Most skater girls will have a slight tom-boyish look to them. If you like to wear makeup, limit yourself to a tinted moisturizer and dark-colored eyeliner. If you want to give your lips some color, try wearing some lip gloss.


Try a smoky-eye look with thick, black eyeliner. You can also pair this with some tinted moisturizer, but don't add blush, bronzer, contouring, and lipstick, or your makeup will look too heavy.
 You can also tie it back into a ponytail.


If your hair is curly or wavy, you can straighten it or leave it natural.
If your hair is already straight, try adding in some beach waves into it for some texture.
If you have long bangs, consider braiding them, and pinning them out of the way with a couple of bobby pins.



If your hair is too long to spike up, but too short to pull back, try wearing a hat over it. You can also brush it off to the side, or clip your bangs back.
 Keep in mind, however, that if you have really dark hair and want to dye it a lighter color, you will need to bleach it first. If you don't bleach it, the color may not show up. You can dye your bangs a punky color, such as blue, green, or purple. You can also try adding some colored streaks to it.


If you want to dye your hair a punky color, but don't know what color to choose, try using some colored hair chalk in your hair; it will wash out the next time you wash it.
You can experiment with streaks by clipping in a colored hair extension.
 The skater style takes some inspiration from the scene and emo style. If you want to get fancy with your hair, this is something you could try. Be sure to cut lots of layers and to texture it with razor scissors. Style it by brushing the bangs off to one side.


If you have curly hair, try straightening just the bangs and leaving the rest of your hair curly. This will create a nice mixture of different textures.
 Almost anything goes when it comes to skater fashion, but most girls will pair a certain pattern, such as florals or checkered, with something solid colored. Here are some patterns and colors commonly seen in skater girl fashion:


Plaids
Checker
Pinstripe
Black and white
Black and red
Solid white
Solid black

, Skater fashion is all about layering baggy and fitted clothes. It's also about combining patterns, such as plaid or checkered, with solids. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Wear a long-sleeved shirt under a short-sleeved shirt.
Pair a plaid button-down shirt with a white fitted shirt.
Wear a loose shirt if you are wearing tight pants, and a fitted shirt if you are wearing baggy pants.
 Skater girl fashion is usually a combination of punk, scene, and tomboy.Here are some ideas to get you started:


Go monochrome with black jeans, black skater shoes, a faded black or grey vintage t-shirt, and a black and red cap.
Mix and match with a pair of baggy capris, knee-high socks, a fitted shirt, a cap, and a pair of skater shoes.
Play with layers by wearing a black ¾ sleeve shirt with a white t-shirt over that. Tie a red, plaid flannel shirt around your waist. Finish the look with some skinny jeans, canvas sneakers, and a cap.
Go casual with a pair of skinny jeans, a loose-fitting white t-shirt, a pair of canvas sneakers, and a beanie.
 There is nothing wrong with that. Just be sure to layer different textures, colors, and patterns. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Try a red, plaid uniform skirt and a white, button-down shirt. Don't forget to wear a pair of fitted biker shorts under your skirt, especially if you plan on doing some skating that day.
If it's a hot day, try wearing a pair of shorts and a white cropped, fitted top. Pair this with a light-colored beanie or a loose-fitting macramé top.
Pair a black fitted shirt with a pair of shorts and black canvas sneakers. Wear a red plaid flannel shirt over this to complete the layered look.
If you like wearing long pants, you can show off your girly side by pairing loose-fitting jeans with a pink tank top. You can also pair a loose t-shirt with some floral-printed skinny jeans.
 Don't limit yourself to just one wristband. Try wearing several. You can also pair a cap with some fingerless gloves, or a choker necklace with a pair of earphones draped around your neck.

