 This is another easy-to-assemble enchilada dish that can be ready and on the table in less than an hour. Prep time is only 10 minutes. Cook time is 30 minutes. The recipe makes use of store-bought salsa verde, which speeds up the assembly quite a bit.

Look for jarred salsa verde with medium heat (or hotter).
The yield is 3 to 4 servings.
 Heat the canola oil in a medium-sized skillet over medium heat. Add the minced garlic and cook for approximately one minute. Spoon in the store-bought salsa verde, stir them together and cook for another minute. Remove the skillet from the heat. Add the sour cream and chopped cilantro and mix well.

Season the sauce with salt and pepper (to taste).
If, upon tasting, the creamy sauce is too spicy for you, mix in a little more sour cream to temper it.
Divide the sauce, setting aside 1 cup (120 grams).
 Place the shredded rotisserie chicken and half of the shredded cheese into the main sauce mixture (not the reserved cup) and stir the ingredients together until mixed well. Coat a large baking dish with non-stick cooking spray. Spoon a small amount of the reserved creamy sauce all over the bottom of the dish., Lay the tortillas out flat. Spoon about 1/3 cup (75 grams) of the chicken filling onto the middle of each one. Roll them up tightly, like cigars, to create the enchiladas. Transfer the folded enchiladas to the baking dish, one at a time, using a spatula. Lay them side by side, seam-side down.


Drizzle the remaining reserved sauce over the top of the enchiladas.
Scatter the remaining shredded cheese over the entire dish.
 Tightly cover the baking dish with aluminum foil and carefully place it into the oven. Bake for 15 minutes. Check to make sure the enchiladas are heated through, and then take off the foil. Bake for 10 more minutes, so that the cheese gets bubbly and lightly browned on top.


Plate the enchiladas and serve immediately.
Garnish with cilantro, chopped tomato and avocado slices (optional).
Serve with tortilla chips (if desired).

