 Education opportunities are available in most correctional institutions.Take advantage of opportunities to get your G.E.D., start or complete your college education, get vocational training or other unique skills. For example, culinary skills or sales/business development skills would help you in the food service or retail industries. Good preparation is especially important if you have been incarcerated for an extended time, if you have limited job skills and experience, or if you will not be able to return to your previous area of employment.


For example, If you were a bank teller and were convicted of theft, you will almost certainly not be able to work in banking.
 These groups can help you find and apply for positions that don't require a squeaky-clean record. To find a local group, ask your probation or parole officer or look online.


Try searching for “Ex-Offender support” or “Re-entry resources” to find assistance in your area.
To find out more information about the types of services these groups offer, visit the National Institute of Corrections website (http://nicic.gov).
 Government agencies and non-profit organizations provide many opportunities for job seekers to get more training or education.


For instance, the Second Chance Act, a federal law passed in 2008, funds local groups that help newly released prisoners with substance abuse issues.In 2012, the Second Chance Act funded programs in Los Angeles, California, San Francisco, California, Florida and Texas.
Goodwill Industries runs several programs that help ex-offenders find training and employment.Goodwill re-entry programs exist in many states, so contact your local Goodwill to ask about possible programs you can apply to.
The experience and skills you develop in these programs can make a big difference in the success of your job search. Some agencies will also help you to find a job after you complete your training program. Stop by your local library and check out adult education centers in your area to find out what they offer.

