 Make sure that the people that remain will be able to cover the work of those who are being laid off. Layoffs, unlike firings, are typically about the company performing poorly and needing to let part of the workforce go. With layoffs, employees will be able to claim unemployment benefits. Firings, on the other hand, are usually about the poor performance of the employee.How exactly will the downsizing work? Will people be changing offices, or are you moving to a smaller space? Think very carefully about layoffs because you don’t want to regret losing key people., You need to know the best way to go about laying people off. You should know your rights and responsibilities as an employer. You will also need to know your employees’ rights and responsibilities, and how they can go about collecting unemployment benefits., If you’re going to be laying off people, chances are it’s because your business is not doing well. Discuss the health of your business with your staff before doing layoffs. They might have good ideas about how to turn it around or find some creative solutions to the problems you are facing. It might turn out that you don’t need to lay off people (or at least not so many as you thought). If you do end up doing layoffs, at least your staff will be aware that this is part of a larger problem and not due to their performance.”I’m sorry to have to tell you all this, but our business has been dropping for the last two quarters. I am considering layoffs, even though I really don’t want to do it. We just don’t have the money to pay everyone going forward.”
”We’re looking at bankruptcy if we don’t make some changes in the staff. I don’t want to lay anyone off, but I think it’s going to be necessary.”
”The recession has made our client list almost dry up. If you have any suggestions, I’d love to hear them. But if we don’t make some changes, I’m going to have to lay people off.”

, Some business experts suggest Tuesday morning. It’s early enough in the week (but not Monday) that you’ll be able to control the response in the office. People can talk about it and think about it during work, rather than getting upset alone about it over the weekend. Avoid Fridays at the end of work and first thing Monday morning -- both are times when it will make people feel more resentful. Also steer clear of announcements right before holiday weekends for layoffs., Try to think of ways to explain the situation compassionately. Imagine possible responses to being laid off and strive to find good answers or replies to different reactions. Be honest and respectful. Think about preparing a script to follow and memorizing the key points you want to make., Once you know it’s unavoidable, plan the time and place for your meetings with employees. It’s better for everyone to get it over quickly., Even though it’s going to be uncomfortable, you have to tell each employee to their face that they are being laid off. This way you can have a conversation, listen to each other, and try to find ways that you can help the employee move forward.”Jan, I am so sorry, but I’m going to have to let you go. You’ve been a great employee, but we’re going to be closing the department you work in because of budget problems.”
”No one wants to hear this, but we’re going to have to lay you off. We can only operate with a skeleton staff going forward, and this means that we are going to eliminate your position.”
”This is really hard, but I’m going to have to let you go. You’ve worked so hard for us, and I’ve seen how much you’ve grown. I know that wherever you find your next job is going to be so lucky.”

, You need to be empathetic in dealing with your employees, who will almost certainly be very upset by the news. Make sure to detail the fine work they have done for you and how much you have valued it. Think about preparing the following:Tissues and water
Times when the employee can come and clean out his or her desk when other employees are not there. (If they want a chance to say goodbye to coworkers, figure out a time for that as well).
 If you have the capability, you could also offer to connect the employee with career advising and placement assistance, but not all companies are able to do so. Refer the employee to the Human Resources department (or whoever is in charge of the layoff details) if they have further questions about filing for unemployment or finding a new position., Based on your employee handbook and their contracts, different employees might be entitled to different amounts and benefits. Familiarize yourself with each contract so that you can be sure of the details. Go over the package with the employee to make sure he or she understands it completely.


If you are asking them to sign a waiver, give them some time to think about it. If you offer severance, they have to sign a waiver saying that they will not come back to the company at a later date and sue, demanding more money., You might even want your lawyer with you as you conduct the layoffs. Workers are protected by both federal and state law. Determine if your business and layoff plan fall under the WARN Actor the Older Workers’ Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA)at the websites cited below. Make sure that you are not giving your employees cause to sue you at a later date. Discrimination is one of the main causes laid off employees sue -- gender, race, and disability laws cover these situations., Everyone will be talking about the layoffs -- allow it. Give employees a few days to deal with it and then ask that the conversations at work stop.”I know we all need time to think about these changes. That’s fine. Let’s take this week to deal with it, and when we get back on Monday we can be ready to move forward.
”I am saddened by the layoffs, as I know you are. Talk about them with your coworkers now and over the weekend. We’ll have a meeting Monday to talk about how our company is changing and how you are a part of that.”
”Layoffs are terrible for all of us. Let’s take some time today and tomorrow to talk about them with each other. I’m happy to answer any questions you might have.”

, Send an email or call a meeting to talk about what the company will be doing going forward. Thank them all for their work and ask for their help.”I want to hear from you about how you think we should deal with the changes. Email me with ideas or to set up a meeting for a discussion.”
”I’d like to call an all-company meeting for Tuesday afternoon. I want to hear from anyone who has questions or concerns so that we can deal with them publicly.”
”What should our company do to prepare for the future? Email, message, or call me to let me know. Employees often know better than management what a company and its clients really need.”

, Communicate with your public honestly. Let them know that your layoffs happened, and how your company will be changing.

