 Continuing to have an active, fulfilling life will make acceptance of your aging easier. Even if you've reached a point where you are physically unable to do a lot of things you might like to do, you can keep learning new things.


Read books and watch documentaries. Keep learning things and explore multiple perspectives on the world you live in. Seeing and finding out about new things will keep life interesting and help give you a sense that you haven't seen it all yet.
Research has shown that people who keep learning throughout life are happier and retain their mental capacities better than those who do not.Keep your mind sharp and stay curious. Life will be better, and you'll keep feeling a sense of potential as you age.
 Similarly, keep developing new skills. Take up a new hobby. Learn to play an instrument or take a music class. Take up chess. Learn to cook. Doing new things makes life feel more promising and keeps your mind sharp.Challenge yourself mentally. Even doing crosswords or other brain-teaser puzzles can help you maintain your mental facilities and stave off dementia.Knowing that your mind is still sharp and that you can still do new things in life will help you accept the fact that you are aging.
 Aging isn't all about decline. Experience can mean you've honed certain skills to a level that younger people have not. In addition to trying new things, keep doing things you excel at.You may be an expert in a certain field of knowledge, or maybe you've developed an artistic talent or technical skill over many years of practice. Such expertise is valuable to others, so keep using it!
You might consider delaying retirement, if your job gives you satisfaction. If you want to retire or already have, you might looking for a way to use your expertise in retired life. Maybe you could teach a class at a local community center, or use your skills in a volunteer capacity. Explore your options.
 Many older people allow themselves to become isolated and solitary. This doesn't make for a fulfilling life and also can hasten mental decline.Talk often with friends and family. Stay in touch with old friends, and look for opportunities to make new ones.
Community engagement is a great way to stay social and give your life a sense of value. Consider volunteering at a soup kitchen or some other organization doing community service. This will give you a network of people socialize with and a task that feels worth doing.
 However you decide to occupy your time, make sure it feels purposeful. Many people, post retirement, find that they feel cast adrift and don't have anything to live for. Find something that gives your life a sense of meaning or value.


This could be volunteering, an artistic pursuit, or finding some way to share your knowledge and perspective with others. Whatever you opt to pursue, having a sense that your life has meaning will make it easier to accept aging.
Research shows that people with a sense of purpose often live longer! Not only will it make it easier for you to accept the stage of life you are in, it may give you some extra years to enjoy, too.