 Once you come into possession of counterfeit goods, you should preserve them. Store them in a safe place. Also try to find out the following information:


Who is selling the goods?
Who made the goods (if this is not the same person who sold them)?
Where is the seller located? The manufacturer? Do you have the name of a contact person?
Were the counterfeit goods sold on a website? If so, what is the web address?;
, In order to bring a lawsuit for counterfeiting, you must have registered your trademark with the federal government. If you didn’t, then you can only bring a “trademark infringement” claim.Go through your papers and check that you actually registered your trademark.
For information on bringing an infringement claim, reach out to an attorney.
 Trademark counterfeiting lawsuits are complicated. They also are usually brought in federal district court. Unlike your state’s small claims court, federal district court is not set up for people representing themselves. Instead, you will need a lawyer’s help.


You can find a trademark attorney in a couple of ways. For example, you can ask other people in your industry if they have ever sued someone for trademark counterfeiting. If they have, ask if they would recommend their lawyer.
You can also get a referral to a trademark attorney by contacting your state’s bar association.
Once you have a referral, you should call the lawyer and schedule a half-hour consultation. Lawyers usually offer these for free or for a small fee.
 When you meet for your consultation, you should discuss with your lawyer what compensation you can get. Generally, you can sue for the following:You can have the goods seized and destroyed. By destroying them, you get them off the market immediately.
You can be compensated for lost profits. If you noticed that your sales fell once the counterfeit goods came onto the market, you can sue to recover the profits you would have earned.
You can also get a multiple of your lost profits. For example, the defendant might have caused $15,000 in lost profits. In order to punish the defendant, a judge can award you three times your actual damages: $45,000 in this example.
You could also get “statutory damages.” These are amounts set by the federal law. You don’t have to show lost profits or other damage. Instead, the fact that the defendant counterfeited the trademark is enough. Generally, you can get $1,000 to $100,000 per counterfeit trademark. If the defendant intentionally counterfeited your trademark, you could get up to $2,000,000.You can get a court order commanding the defendant not to counterfeit anymore.This order is called an “injunction.” If the defendant violates the injunction, you can sue for money and even get the defendant put in jail.
You can also get attorneys’ fees.This could help make suing more reasonable, especially if you have a strong case.
 Trademark counterfeit lawsuits are very expensive. Unfortunately, they often cost more than the amount of money you could get in your lawsuit.For this reason, you should talk with your attorney about whether you should sue by analyzing the strength of your case.


If your damages are very high, then you might want to sue. In that situation, you could get multiples of your lost profits and come out ahead. In particular, you could get high statutory damages if the defendant willfully violated the law.
You also might want to sue to prevent others from counterfeiting your goods. If you don’t punish one counterfeiter, then others might think they face no risk by counterfeiting your goods. In this situation, you might save money in the long run by bringing a lawsuit.
Suing also helps protect the quality of your brand. Most counterfeit goods are of poor quality. People who buy these goods might come to associate your brand with poor quality goods.
There may be ways to resolve the dispute outside of court. You should talk about these methods with your lawyer.
 A good place to start is to send the counterfeiter a cease and desist letter.In the letter, you threaten to sue the defendant. Sometimes, this threat will be sufficient to stop the counterfeiter. At a minimum, it puts the counterfeiter on notice to stop his activity.


Set up your letter as a regular business letter.
Provide a heading. You should title the letter “RE: Trademark Counterfeiting”
Identify yourself. In the first paragraph, you should state who you are. If your lawyer drafts the letter, then your lawyer will identify himself as your attorney.List the trademarks you have. You should include the registration number and registration date.
Allege that the defendant is counterfeiting your trademark. You should state, “It has come to our attention that you are counterfeiting .” Also state where the goods were sold.
Demand that the counterfeiting stop. You should be explicit. For example: “I request that you cease any continuing or future uses of my trademark.”Threaten to sue. Again, make an explicit threat: “If you do not take prompt action, then I will take legal action to protect my proprietary rights. Any future counterfeiting after receipt of this letter shall be considered willful.”, Counterfeiting goods is also a federal crime. If you contact the feds, then they might investigate and catch the defendant. This is a good way to get the goods destroyed and the defendant punished without having to pay for your own lawsuit.


If the goods are imported, then you can call U.S. Customs and Border Protection.The Department has a web reporting tool, available at https://eallegations.cbp.gov/Home/Index2. Click on the “Report Trade Violations” button.
If the counterfeit goods are made in the U.S., then contact your nearest Attorney General’s Office. Look in your phone book for a number.
If the counterfeit goods are pharmaceuticals, then you can contact the U.S. Food and Drug Administration., The defendant might be willing to settle, especially if he or she didn’t intentionally counterfeit the goods. In order to come up with an effective settlement, you should have your lawyer represent you at any negotiations.


The amount you are willing to settle for will depend on the strength of your lawsuit. For example, if you have evidence of an intentional, obvious violation, then you shouldn’t settle for much less than what you are suing for.
By contrast, if your evidence is weaker, then you might be willing to settle for less.
No matter how good the settlement offer, you nevertheless might still want to sue. For example, if you settle, then there is no guarantee that the defendant won’t start counterfeiting again. If you sue, you can get a court order against the defendant.
 Your lawyer can sue for an “ex parte” order to seize the goods. “Ex parte” means that you do not have to provide the defendant notice of your lawsuit and you possibly do not need a hearing. By proceeding “ex parte,” you can prevent the counterfeiter from destroying the goods.Your lawyer will have to file the following:


A verified complaint. In the complaint, your lawyer identifies you and the defendant and explains the factual circumstances surrounding the lawsuit. You will also have to file sworn affidavits in support.
An application for relief.
A brief in support. This document includes the legal arguments in support of receiving an order to seize the defendant’s goods.
A proposed order. The order must state when you will be seizing the goods. You must seize the goods within seven days of the date the judge grants your order. Your order must also particularly describe the goods being seized., Your lawyer will also need to post a bond. The purpose of the bond is to protect the defendant in case the seizure is unlawful.Your lawyer should know how to get a bond from a reputable company that sells court bonds.
You will probably have to pay for the bond, as you will need to pay for all court costs. You should discuss the costs of filing the lawsuit before telling your lawyer to go ahead.
 Your lawyer will probably want to file the lawsuit under seal. By filing under seal, the counterfeiter won’t be tipped off that a lawsuit has been filed against him.Your lawyer will have to file a Motion to File Under Seal at the same time as he or she files the complaint., Every federal lawsuit has a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” In discovery, you and the defendant can request documents from each other and propose questions to be answered. In trademark counterfeiting litigation, however, your lawyer can request “expedited discovery.”With expedited discovery, you can request documents or ask the defendant to answer questions in a face-to-face deposition with only three to seven days’ notice.Without expedited discovery, months could pass before you receive a document. However, because you want to seize and destroy the counterfeit goods as soon as possible, you should request expedited discovery. The defendant will have less time to destroy its goods.
 You might be able to freeze the defendant’s assets. By doing so, you ensure that the defendant will have money to pay you in case you win the lawsuit.Not all district courts will let you freeze the defendant’s assets. Nevertheless, your lawyer can still file a motion to ask.
 If the judge grants the ex parte order to seize the goods, you will need to execute the order. The seizure itself will be carried out by U.S. marshals or other law enforcement officers.Your lawyer will often have to go along with the marshals, to identify exactly which goods can be seized. Your lawyer may be assisted by private investigators or photographers who can document the seizure.
Once seized, all goods must be kept in the custody of the court. The court may also appoint a custodian to store the goods.After you seize the goods, the defendant will be able to defend him or herself.
 The counterfeiter might try to fight the seizure of the goods. One way he can do this is to claim that your seizure was “wrongful.”


For example, if you seized mostly non-counterfeit goods, then the seizure could be wrongful. Seizing a few legitimate goods is okay, but you can’t take too many.The seizure is also wrongful if you didn’t have a good faith reason for seizing the goods.
 One way to speed up the lawsuit is to file a motion for summary judgment.In a summary judgment, your lawyer will argue that there are no meaningful facts in dispute and that you are entitled to win on the law.Keep in mind that the other party may also bring a motion for summary judgment.
Your lawyer will have to draft a summary judgment motion. The defendant will also be able to respond by filing a motion.
The lawyers will then have to argue the motion in front of the judge. The entire summary judgment process can take several months to complete.
If you win, then you win the lawsuit and there is no need for a trial. However, the defendant can always appeal the judge’s decision to award you summary judgment.
 If you do not win your summary judgment, then you will need to resolve the dispute with a trial or a settlement. A settlement is the most common way for a civil trial to resolve, but if this is not possible then you will have to go to trial.As the trademark holder, your own role in the lawsuit will be limited to possibly testifying about how you discovered the counterfeited goods.


As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will have the burden of showing that the counterfeit goods are virtually identical to yours.For example, if someone uses your logo on a pair of sneakers, you have to show that the sneakers and the logo are virtually identical to the sneakers and logo that you sell.
If someone used your trademark on goods which are not identical to yours, then you would need to bring a “trademark infringement” claim.
The defendant will have few defenses at trial. For example, he can argue that the goods and/or trademark are not virtually identical. This will be a factual judgment that the judge or jury has to make. He could also argue that the counterfeiting was innocent.

