 If you or your child develop any signs or symptoms of jaundice, see you doctor as soon as possible. You may not need treatment for the jaundice, but if there is an underlying condition causing it, this will require medical attention.Some symptoms of short-term jaundice in adults are:


Fever
Chills
Abdominal pain
Other flu-like symptoms
A change in your skin color and whites of eyes to a more yellow pallor.;
, Children and infants can also develop jaundice. Jaundice is common in infants and it often goes away on its own within two weeks.However, severe jaundice can cause serious complications for some infants.To check for jaundice, look for a yellowish skin tone and a yellowish tone to the whites of your infant or child's eyes.
If your child or infant develops jaundice, then call your doctor right away.
 In adults, jaundice is often caused by underlying conditions that require treatment. Your doctor man run tests to confirm a diagnosis of these conditions causing your jaundice and then formulate a treatment plan from there. You may need to have have to have blood work, an ultrasound, CT scan, or a even a liver biopsy to find the cause of your jaundice. Common conditions that can cause jaundice include:


Hepatitis A
Chronic Hepatitis B and C
Epstein-Barr viral infection, or infectious mononucleosis
Excessive alcohol consumption
Autoimmune or genetic disorders
Gallstones
Gallbladder inflammation
Gallbladder cancer
Pancreatitis
Certain medications such as acetaminophen, penicillin, oral contraceptives and steroids may also cause jaundice.Your doctor can diagnose jaundice by looking for signs of liver disease including bruising, spider angiomas, palmar erythema, and urinalysis that indicates the presence of bilirubin. Your doctor may also use imaging or liver biopsy to confirm a diagnosis., If your doctor discovers an underlying condition that are causing your jaundice, she will likely treat that to see if it clears up other related health issues. Treating causes and complications of underlying conditions may help relieve your jaundice., In most cases, jaundice will go away without treatment. Speak with your doctor to make sure that foregoing treatment is the best option for you, especially if you have underlying conditions causing jaundice., Some people with jaundice experience itching. If the itching becomes bothersome or affects your daily life, take a medication such as cholestyramine to relieve your symptoms.Cholestyramine works by controlling cholesterol in the liver.Side effects of this medication include abdominal discomfort, indigestion, nausea, flatulence, and constipation., Infant jaundice is very common and, like adult jaundice, often doesn’t require any treatment.However, if your doctor diagnoses jaundice in your baby, she could call for one of the following treatments to help relieve the condition:


Phototherapy, which uses light to help your baby excrete excess bilirubin
Intravenous immunoglobulin, which can reduce antibodies in your baby that cause jaundice
Exchange transfusion, which is a type of blood transfusion that removes small amounts of blood and dilutes bilirubin. Exchange transfusions are used only in severe cases of infant jaundice., Contracting the hepatitis virus is one of the main causes of jaundice in adults. Avoiding contact with the virus as much as you possibly can may minimize your risk for contracting not only hepatitis, but also jaundice.You can prevent Hepatitis A with a vaccine. Anyone can get this vaccine.Hepatitis A is spread when a person eats tiny amounts of fecal matter, most often in tainted foods.Be careful when traveling for food that hasn’t been properly cooked or cleaned.You can also prevent Hepatitis B with a vaccine. Any person from newborns to adults can receive this vaccine.There is no vaccine for hepatitis C.Hepatitis B and C are spread through the blood and bodily fluid of an infected individual, but not through casual contact.Avoid reusing any type of needles—from tattoos to recreational drugs—to help prevent the spread of these viruses., Since your liver processes alcohol and is the source for jaundice, limit your alcohol consumption to daily recommended values. Not only can this help alleviate the symptoms of jaundice, but may also keep you from contracting alcohol-related liver diseases such as cirrhosis.The recommended daily limit for women is 2-3 units of alcohol. For men, the recommended daily limit is 3-4 units.As a reference point, one bottle of wine has 9-10 units of alcohol., Keeping your weight at a within a stable and healthy range can promote your overall healthy. But this can also keep your liver healthy, and in turn prevent jaundice.Maintaining your is easy if you eat healthy, balanced, and regular meals. Food choices that are nutrient rich and contain moderate fat and complex carbohydrates, are best to promote your general health.
Keep your daily calorie intake around 1,800-2,200, depending on how active you are. You should get your calories from nutrient-dense whole foods such as whole grains, fruits and vegetables, dairy, and lean proteins.Exercise is important to maintaining your weight and promoting your overall health.
Participate in low-impact, moderate intensity cardiovascular activities every day.Aim to exercise for least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week., Keeping your cholesterol in check can not only help prevent jaundice, but also help maintain your overall health. You can manage your cholesterol through healthy diet and exercise or, in other cases, with prescription medication.Eating more soluble fiber, healthy fats, and foods high in omega-3 fatty acids can help manage your cholesterol. Foods such as lean cuts of meat, low-fat dairy, olive oil, salmon, almonds, oats, lentils, and vegetables contains these three nutrients.Reduce or eliminate trans fats from your diet. Trans fats increase your bad, or LDL, cholesterol. Limiting or stopping your intake of foods such as fried foods and commercial products including baked goods, cookies, and crackers may help control your cholesterol.Thirty minutes of exercise a day can help increase the levels of good, or HDL, cholesterol, in your body.There is some evidence that quitting smoking will increase your HDL cholesterol levels., Making sure that your baby is getting enough to eat throughout the day. This is the best prevention or jaundice in infants.,