 Comb with the grain of the fur. If you go against the grain, you could cause your cat great discomfort. Move gently, yet with enough force to remove loose fur.


Start combing at your cat's head and gradually move toward their tail., Continue to move with the grain of the fur. Look and feel for tangled balls of fur called mats, which are very common in these areas. Be very gentle as you brush and search. Many cats feel threatened when touched in these areas. It might take them several brushing sessions to get used to being combed there., Try using your fingers first. Gently work out each mat in downward strokes. Start at the bottom of the matted hair and gradually work your way up as it detangles. If this doesn't work, use a mat-splitter, working in the same manner as your did with your fingers.You can buy a mat-splitter in any pet supply store.


If you encounter one or more stubborn mats, don't try to cut or shave them off yourself. You might unknowingly cut your cat's skin. Call your vet or groomer for a professional detangling as soon as possible.Breeds like the Norwegian forest cat require extra care due to the long tufts of fur that grow from the pads of their feet.If you're lucky enough to have a cooperative kitty, comb any mats or kitty litter out of these tufts with a finer-toothed comb. If they put up a fuss, contact your vet.
 After you put the mitten on, pet your cat in a normal fashion. This will pick up any dead hair from the undercoat or topcoat. It will also help to relax your cat, especially if you had to de-mat their hair.Rubber mittens are available in most pet supply stores.
 Apply a small dab of water to your gloves and spread it around the palm and fingers. Pet your cat as you normally would. This give their coat a glossy shine. It will also pick up any loose hairs that the comb or brush missed., Depending on how thick your cat's undercoat is, you might have to do this several times per brushing session. Quickly pull the fur out of the brush. Place the fur ball(s) to the side until you're completely finished.
 It's a myth that all long-haired cats shed more often than short-hairs. However, they are more prone to matting and hairballs. Daily brushing (or brushing every other day) will make these hazards less likely to occur.