 Cuban bread is long and thin, and turns crisp in the panini press without getting uncomfortably hard. You can find similar bread at a Latin bakery. The next best substitute is a long, soft French or Italian loaf (but nothing as narrow and hard as a baguette), followed by a hoagie roll.Cut it about 7 inches (17.8 cm) long, or to a size that matches your appetite.


Leave one long edge of the bread intact for a tidier sandwich.;
, This will stop it from sticking to the sandwich press. It's easiest to do this before adding the ingredients.If you're using nonstick cooking spray instead, spray it on the inside of the sandwich press.
 Spread about 2 tbsp (30 mL) of regular yellow mustard evenly over both sides of the bread.Almost all recipes include mustard, but you can serve it on the side if you're using extra-flavorful pork., Cover both halves of the bread with mild Swiss cheese.Many traditional recipes use an equal ratio of cheese, ham, and pork, but you can cut the slices thinner if you prefer.
 Slice two large dill pickles to make eight or ten long, thin slices (or buy them pre-cut into "sandwich stuffers"). Lay these onto one side of your sandwich.
 Fold four slices of very thin ham over the pickles. You can use any ham you like, but the most traditional choice is a mild, sweet-cured ham such as York ham, bolo ham, or any honey-cured ham.You can even bake a ham with a home-made honey glaze.
 Now for the star of the show. Warm several slices of roast pork in a pan over low heat, then add it to the sandwich.For extra flavor, use pork marinated in Cuban mojo sauce, or drizzle on the sauce in the pan. The sauce's main ingredients are garlic and sour orange (or orange, lemon, and lime where sour orange isn't available).You can use pulled pork if you don't have any sliced pork.
 Although traditional Cuban sandwiches are made with a grill press called a plancha, most cooks outside of Florida have to make do with one of these options:


Sandwich press or panini maker
Waffle iron, with the metal plates flipped so their flat sides are inward (if possible)
Griddle or frying pan, with a heavy cast iron skillet or foil-wrapped brick to press the sandwich down

, Once the press is hot, put in the sandwich and press it down to about a third of its original thickness. Cook the Cuban sandwich until the bread is brown and slightly crisp, and the cheese is melted. This usually takes two or three minutes on each side.


Remember to butter the bread or add nonstick spray to the press surface if you didn't do it earlier.
If the sandwich is falling apart or a little too large for the sandwich press, wrap it in foil.

