 Try to gradually change over from conventional food products to organic ones. Find out the ways in which each product is farmed and produced and what chemicals are used during the conventional processes. You will also note that some organic foods can be quite expensive – explore which foods should definitely be organic and which are okay if they're still conventionally grown and read How to choose the most important organic foods for more details.


Consider looking for delivery of organic food straight to your home from the farmer or from an organic cooperative. This can save you time and effort if you lead a very busy life. You won't be sure what you get each week but that's a lot of the fun and the food is always in season.;
, Let in more fresh air and learn to make healthier air fresheners using natural ingredients such as essential oils and water.



See wikiHow's Indoor Air category for lots of homemade air freshener ideas.
Use plants to keep your indoor environment fresh too. Borrow a book about which plants ensure indoor health - there are many.
 And reduce the amount of cleaning products you use. Many products will do a lot more cleaning jobs than the single one specified by the manufacturer.


Make your own cleaners from items such as baking soda (bicarbonate of soda), vinegar, lemon juice and borax. Purchase a good green cleaning book or look for recipes online.
If your home or business is professionally cleaned, only use cleaners prepared to use just organic cleaning products.
 Getting fresh, organic produce from right outside your back door is a great way to keep healthy and to stay involved with where your food comes from. If you have children, it's really important that they learn how to grow their own food too.
 Are they full of chemicals you can't even pronounce? Start choosing organic, low ingredient products instead. Take the time to make your own too.



See this category for many handmade cosmetics recipes.
 Get organic sheets as well. Then get a really good night's sleep regularly. You'll feel much better for it.
 While the range isn't huge still, there are some things that you can choose from that are better for the environment and your health, such as organic t-shirts and jeans. Unbleached clothing is a good option and there are even organically produced shoes.
 These are an important part of living a holistic, organic lifestyle. Less rubbish in, less rubbish out and less clutter in your mind.
 Find lots of options for using less energy and thereby being less of a source of pollution.
 Talk to people about the benefits of organic products. There is a lot of misinformation about organic produce and even more misunderstanding, so help by sharing the facts and not the fiction. And help people to see that their consumer choices do matter while at the same time reassuring them that they are good individuals whatever they do. There is no point making people feel guilty when the system and corporations we have to work with are most responsible for the ultimate choices but we can write to them and to government officials to demand changes and use consumer power to refuse to buy products that harm human health and the environment.

