 Cherry tree flowers are either white or pink in color, and they do not have a scent.They grow in clusters, with each flower stalk emerging from one central point. Cherry tree flowers also have long stamens that poke up from the flowers.


This distinct clustering flower growth pattern is a key way to distinguish cherry trees from trees with similar traits. For example, peach trees grow single flowers, and almond tree flowers grow in pairs.
Cherries are likely to flower early in the spring. They produce clusters of pale green berries later on in the spring.;
, On cherry trees, each single flower has 5 petals. Semi double flowers have 6 to 10 petals, and double blossoms have 10 petals or more.Cherry tree petals each have a small cleft, while plum petals are rounded., Cherry tree styles are the long tubes that connect to the flower’s ovary, distinct from the stems. The ovary is the part of the tree that becomes the fruit. Each cherry tree blossom has only one style.Some trees, like crab trees that flower, look a lot like cherry trees. However, in flowering crab trees, each flower has four to five styles. Apple and pear trees have two to five. Mespil trees have five.
If you look more closely at the tree and notice that the flowers are attached to only one style, that’s a good sign it’s a cherry tree.
 Ornamental cherry tree varieties do not produce fruit. Fruiting cherry trees have hanging fruit that grows in pairs or clusters. The fruit hangs where the flowers did before. The fruit will be small, pale and green in late spring. In late summer, the cherries get larger and redder. Some cherry trees produce fruit that is yellow or black instead of red.If you take a close look at the fruit, you should be able to distinguish cherry trees from other fruiting trees, such as cherry plum trees or apple trees. Cherry fruit is rounder in shape than either of these.
A good rule of thumb is that if the fruit is smaller than ¾ of an inch, it is probably a cherry. Cherry plums and regular plums are usually bigger, about 1 inch or larger.

