 If you are struggling with a class, your first step should be to talk to the teacher and let him or her know you are struggling.Your instructor should be able to offer you some insights on how to pass the class, and whether that is still even a possibility.


Many instructors will be able to give you helpful study tips or insights on how to perform better on assignments. In some cases, you might even be given an extension on assignments you are struggling to complete on time.
Try not to until the last minute to communicate with your teacher. If he or she doesn't hear from you until the end of a course, there may not be much that can be done at that stage even if the instructor would like to help. Further, if you don't communicate with the teacher early, she or he may assume you just don't care about your performance in the course.;
, If you are at risk of failing a class because of work you did poorly, contact the instructor and ask if you might be allowed to revise and resubmit your assignment.


While you probably still won't be able to get full credit for a revised assignment, many instructors will be open to this possibility, because it shows you want to learn from your mistakes and improve your performance. For this reason, many instructors will be more open to this than offering extra credit opportunities.In making this request, explain that you would appreciate another opportunity to show you have mastered the material. Try to make it about demonstrating learning, not just about a grade.
 If you are at risk of failing a class because you missed an exam or assignment(s), ask about an opportunity to make up some or all of the missed work. Even if you only get partial credit for it, this is better than no credit at all.


If you have a course syllabus, look at what the instructor's policy is for late work. This will give you some sense of how likely it is your request will be granted.If you missed work for medical reasons, be prepared to show documentation of your illness if possible. Many instructors require this.
If you miss an assignment or exam due to illness, a crisis, or some other unavoidable situation, let your instructor know as soon as possible. You will be more likely to be given a chance to make up the work if you do so.
 Some teachers offer extra credit opportunities that allow students to add points to their final score in the class. These opportunities are often designed to supplement the primary assignments or give students a second chance to master skills.Find out if your teacher offers any opportunities.


If you don't see any listed in the syllabus, it doesn't hurt to ask if there will be any opportunities of this sort. While many teachers are unlikely to create an extra credit assignment just for you, if enough people ask, he or she may offer an opportunity like this to all the students.
Do not beg for extra credit. Instead, think in advance about some reasons you can offer for why you should be granted an opportunity to earn extra points. Be prepared to make a strong case for your position. Arguments such as "I really need to pass this class" are unlikely to take you far.

