 Creating a baby registry can be a deceptively long process and may take a few revisions, so it is best to start early.


Most expectant moms start around twelve weeks, and add to their registry as they find out the gender of the baby. Aim to have your registry completed by the time you are six months pregnant.
Take into account when your baby shower is being held, and give guests a good opportunity to access your registry beforehand. The sooner you create a registry, the sooner people can being purchasing your desired items.;
, The first big step in creating a baby registry is choosing where to do it. Nearly every department store or baby store has a baby registry option.


Most moms register at one or two stores to give their baby shower guests options without making it too overwhelming.
If the thought of registering more than once makes your stomach churn, register for everything at a store that sells all of the baby basics.
 You should try to choose a store that is convenient for them. You’ll also want a store with a location near you for those inevitable returns or gift cards.


Choose a store with a large online selection, so out of town friends can still send gifts.
 Make sure it will be easy to return unwanted or duplicate items. Some stores also offer perks to their baby registers, such as completion discounts to get items left on your registry that weren’t given as gifts.
 If you enjoy bargains and aren’t picky about brand names, a registry at Target or Walmart is a good option. If you prefer fancier items, register at a place like Pottery Barn.
 A growing trend for baby registries is to use a universal registry that pulls from multiple stores.


This gives you the dream items from multiple stores in one place, so you can manage things easily and your friends and family can conveniently see everything at once.
Universal registries, such as MyRegistry.com or Wishpot.com, can be convenient for some people but may not offer the perks or ease of returning like with traditional registries.
You’ll also most likely have to complete your entire registry online, instead of choosing items in the physical store.
 This is especially helpful for the big-ticket items like cribs, car seats, and strollers.


Discuss with your partner how much money you want to spend and what characteristics of these items are important to you. Read reviews and talk to other moms about products they liked and didn’t like.
Preparatory research will help calm your nerves during the actual registering and help you find items that will be a good fit for you and your baby.
 Once you have chosen your registry location, visit the store to meet with a registry consultant, typically in the guest services center.


Some stores have a kiosk to enter your personal information, and other stores have a person to talk to and take your information.
You’ll then be given a “zapper gun” to walk around the store and scan the barcodes of items you would like. Once an item is scanned, you can change the quantity and edit items. Most stores also let you edit and add to your registry on their website.
 Be aware of your friends and family’s budget constraints and choose a selection of smaller, less expensive items.


You also shouldn’t shy away from larger, more expensive items in case friends give a group gift or someone is feeling particularly generous.
However, the bulk of your gifts should be in the mid-price range, somewhere between $30 to $700.
 Your best bet is to stick with the basics and resist the urge to register for everything in the store. The more items you have on your registry, the less likely you are to get the things you actually need. Many stores offer baby registry checklists of things that should be included on your registry—these can be a good guideline, but don’t feel like you have to register for every single thing on the list. A sample list is as follows:


Onesies (4-8)
Pajamas (4-8)
Socks (5-10)
Hats (1-3)
Crib or Bassinet, Mattress, Sheets
Portable play yard
Blankets (4-6)
Car seat
Stroller
Changing table or changing pad
Diapers, wipes, diaper rash cream
Diaper pail and liners
Baby bathtub
Hooded towels and washcloths (2-3)
Soap, lotion
Burp cloths (6-12)
Bottles, formula, breast pump
High chair
Bowls, spoons, bibs, sippy cups
Baby swing or bouncer seat
Baby monitor
Safety gate and childproofing products
Nail clippers, thermometer

, Although the focus of a baby registry and a baby shower is to get you ready for a newborn baby, that doesn’t mean you can’t add essentials your baby will need as he grows, such as supplies for eating solids, or clothes in larger sizes.
 After you have registered for the essentials, you can add a few fun items like clothes, toys, or books. Keep in mind that many people will give you clothes and other items without using your registry. Only include toys and other extra items if you are set on that exact item.
 The completed registry form is submitted to the store or entered online so that the information can be added to the store's database. Friends and family will be able to access the registry at the store or online to choose a baby item to purchase.


The registry will automatically keep track of items that were purchased and mark them as such so that the parents do not get unnecessary duplicates.
The parents can also access their list at any time to add or remove items and make any other changes, such as adding the baby’s gender when it is known.
 If, for some reason, the parents choose not to go with a store registry, they can still get a list of baby items from various parenting and store websites. The only problem with doing this is that there is no automatic tracking for what has already been purchased.


In order to keep the gifts more of a surprise until the baby shower, the parents can ask a friend or family member to manage the list and be the main contact person for people that are shopping for the baby gifts.

