 The candles need to be of the solid, thick and broad kind for this to be most effective, especially if you're a beginner. You could try thinner candles when you feel more confident.;
, Acrylic paints tend to be the best for this project, in any colors suitable to matching the candle. When choosing the paint, if it is not certain from the paint instructions as to suitability, ask the retailer for help.


Be aware that not all paint will adhere well.
It's a good idea to ensure that the paint chosen is non-toxic, as the candle will burn through the designs eventually, releasing smoke and particulate matter into the air, air which you and your family breathe.
 It is best to keep this simple and repeat the same one or two symbols. Some ideas for simple and effective designs include:


Celestial objects: Sun, moon, star, rainbow, etc.
Animal: Dog, cat, mouse, etc.
Plant: Flowers, trees, leaves, etc.
 Either draw a design onto thin cardboard or use an existing stencil. If making it on cardboard, cut out the template design.
 Transfer the outline of the template onto the eraser using pencil or a marker that works on the eraser. It can help to use a bit of poster tack to keep the cardboard template in place, while a stencil sheet should be held in place with care as you draw around its outline.


Repeat for any additional designs, using separate erasers.
 This is now your stamp for adding the design image to the candle.
 Are you using just one symbol or perhaps two? How will two or more designs be interwoven down the candle? Work this out on paper beforehand. Some approaches might include:


Rows or columns of a single design; or use two designs and alternate the rows or designs
Make a band or two of a single design only, perhaps across the top or base of the candle
Follow a pattern that uses the design to form the shape or outline of a word, geometric shape, picture, etc.
Easiest of all––simply add designs randomly. This option is the best if younger children are making the candles, as they don't have to line anything up or get the patterning accurate.
 Use a color that complements or contrasts well with that of the candle.
 To do this, hold the stamp to the candle where you wish to place the design and press firmly. Pull away quickly and cleanly to avoid smudging the stamp. Repeat as often as required to achieve the overall design, adding the design to the locations you've already chosen.
 The time required for drying will depend on the paint used; read its relevant instructions. Overnight is a safe bet, so plan on leaving to dry before lighting the candle the next day.

