;
,


After the chicken breast is skinless and boneless, dice it into small (quarter size) pieces.
 Squeeze the juice from all (4) lemons into one of the small bowls. Discard the remains of the lemons.


Similar to the lemons, cut the orange into (2) even parts. Squeeze the juice from the orange into each of the small bowls. Discard the remains of the orange.
Cut the cherry tomatoes into (4) even pieces, each of them the size of a dime.
 In the large bowl, add (1/4) cup of paste, (2) cups of spinach, and the diced onion.


Mix all of these ingredients in the large bowl until they are blended well. In the small bowl full of lemon juice, add (3) teaspoons of salt. Stir until the salt deludes.
 Put the large bowl into refrigerator for 30 minutes. After 30 minutes, add the orange juice to the large bowl. With an electric mixer, blend everything that is in the large bowl until it has a thin, water-like texture.
 Mix all of these ingredients in the large bowl until they are blended well.
 Stir until the salt deludes.


Add bowl of lemon juice and deluded salt into large bowl.
Put the large bowl into refrigerator for 30 minutes.
After 30 minutes, add the orange juice to the large bowl.
, (May have to use 2 bags).


Add the chicken pieces (quarter sized) into each baggie. Zip the baggie tight shut and shake it. Continue shaking the chicken for 3 minutes, or until the chicken is completely covered in marinade.
Leave baggies with marinated chicken inside of them to cool in the refrigerator for (1) hour.


While oven preheats, prepare 8X8 pan that chicken will cook in. Pour 1/4 cup of extra virgin olive oil into bottom of pan. Mix 3 tablespoons into the extra virgin olive oil.
Pour 1/4 cup of extra virgin olive oil into bottom of pan.
Mix 3 tablespoons into the extra virgin olive oil.
 On top of the chicken, add the dime sized cherry tomatoes.

Add a layer of tin foil on top of pan.
Put pan in the oven for 30 minutes.


Remove chicken from heat.
Add (1) box of angle-hair noodles (cooked) to 8X8 pan.
Add 2 tablespoons to 8X8 pan.
Gently stir the ingredients combined in 8X8 pans until flavor is contributed equally.

