 A simple Internet search for “criminal justice jobs without a degree” will generate a long and useful list of positions that are available to people without a college degree. Many such sites, including http://www.topcriminaljusticedegrees.org/faq/what-criminal-justice-careers-are-available-without-a-degree/, will describe the positions and the salaries that you can anticipate.



Juvenile/Prison Corrections Officer: Any corrections officer typically works with criminals who are carrying out their sentence. It is the duty of the corrections officer to see to it that the sentence is indeed carried out by the convict. A juvenile corrections officer will deal with teens/young adults in a juvenile detention center and work with them until their entire sentence is carried out.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma, training through an academy, related work experience.
Average Annual Income – $38,970



Policeman: Policemen answer calls for service, investigate minor crimes, provide protective details, deal with traffic regulations and offer other law enforcement services.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma, Police Academy Training, and in some cases, work experience.
Average Annual Income2 – $56,980



Detectives/Criminal Investigators: Detectives are police officers with specific training and experience that helps them to investigate crime scenes and solve crimes. In order to become a detective, you have to start out as a police officer and work your way up.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma, at least two years experience as a police officer.
Average Annual Income – $77,860



Police Dispatchers: Police dispatchers are the first officers to arrive on the scene when a distress call is made. They a handle the situation until the detectives, paramedics and forensic specialists arrive. They typically have to deal with distressed citizens and quite often have to administer temporary damage control based on the situation at hand.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma, past public contact work experience.
Average Annual Income – $36,300



U.S. Border Patrol: Border patrol agents have their hands full with illegal immigration and smuggling of goods across the border. This is not an entry level job and requires some years of experience as a police officer.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma, rigorous training in a U.S. Academy, ability to speak functional Spanish.
Average Annual Income – $31,209



Uniformed Secret Service Officer: Just like specialized agents, uniformed secret service officers are in place to protect the president, vice president and other foreign dignitaries. They also provide security at the White House, the U.S. Naval Observatory and the U.S. Treasury Building.

Qualifications Required – High School Diploma
Average Annual Income – The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics does not state the wages of a secret service agent.

;
, Many people working in criminal justice have served in the military. If you choose to eventually pursue a degree, you may be able to get course credit for previous military experience.Working as military police or a corrections officer can give you the experience and training you need to enter the criminal justice field without a degree.


Military police protect the people and property on military installations. They enforce army regulations and may control traffic, prevent crimes, and respond to emergencies.A corrections officer oversees prisoners in military prisons. They enforce the rules and regulations of the facility, log prisoner activity, and manage the care of the prisoners.
 If you know someone who is a police officer, courtroom bailiff, security guard, or is working in some other field of criminal justice, then you have a perfect resource. Ask that person how they got started. Find out about the training that was needed, and about the type of work that they are doing. Use that person as a resource to find out what you would need to do to get into that line of work., If you don’t know someone who is already working in a field that interests you, you still may be able to get some useful advice. Locate someone who is working in a field that you would like to investigate. If you don’t know someone, you may have to make what is called a “cold” contact. Just find someone from a directory or even in person and ask if that person would be willing to spend a few minutes talking with you about the job. They will usually be flattered to be asked, and you can get some useful information.For example, if you would like to consider a job as a private security guard, you might even just walk into an office building or a shopping mall, find the security guard there, and ask if they would be willing to talk with you about the position for a few minutes. You should suggest meeting after their shift is over, and be willing to come back later.
For an informational interview, you should prepare a list of questions. Some things to ask about are the type of training required, the possibilities for advancement, and what you could do to make yourself a better candidate. Make it very clear that you are not asking for a job right away.
 If you are still in high school, your own guidance counselor or career counselor should be able to help you consider some job possibilities. If you are out of high school, you might search your local telephone book or online for career counseling agencies or a local employment office. Places like that often run seminars on various topics, and you may find a class on criminal justice careers. Make an appointment with a counselor to discuss your options.A military recruiter can answer your questions about enrolling in the military and discuss criminal justice opportunities.
Another option you might try is the job placement or counseling office at a local community college. Even if you are not enrolled, the counselors will probably be willing to spend some time with you. In addition, you may find a bulletin board with some useful information.
 Even if you choose not to pursue a full bachelor’s degree or a two-year associate’s degree, you will still improve your chances of getting a job in the criminal justice field by taking some targeted classes. Contact a community college near you and find out what classes you can take in the criminal justice field., Criminal justice training centers provide a wide variety of training opportunities, including many programs that are available at the entry level. Search online for a criminal justice training center in your area. When you find one, contact them. Ask for someone in admissions or the registrar’s office, and ask for information about entering as a student. Find out about the programs they offer and the kind of jobs that you will be qualified for after participating in their programs., Either run a search online or just call your local police department for information. Ask about the local or state police academy in your area. Find out about the style of the training, the jobs that will be available after graduation, and the availability of the coursework.


For example, the Baltimore (MD) Police Academy has a useful website that describes its program. The program is 27 weeks long, Monday through Friday. It includes classes in Introduction to Law Enforcement, Juvenile Law, Self-Defense Tactics, Crowd and Riot Control, Firearms Training, and many others.The city of Sacramento, California, advertises on its website a non-affiliate police academy. This is open to individuals who are interested in learning about law enforcement but are not already connected to any particular agency or police department., Chances are good that you will be enrolled in some type of training program, either at a police academy, a community college, or some other similar place. Any of these places will have career counseling opportunities. Make an appointment with a counselor and discuss your new qualifications and the job opportunities that are available to you.


If you enroll in a police academy or criminal justice training center, part of your training program will usually include some on-the-job training with a local police department. Find out about the possibilities of full-time work with that agency., A resume is your primary means of showing the world your qualifications and abilities for the job you want. It needs to be attractive, concise, and focus on your skills. A career counselor can help you prepare one, or you can check out this useful link to Make a Resume.


At the top of your resume, state the purpose of your job search. Emphasize your interest in criminal justice work, safety, and law enforcement. An effective purpose statement is something like, “I look forward to using my skills to help promote safety and security for others.”
Include all training or education that you have had that is relevant. If you have completed a full program like a police academy, make it obvious. But even if you have only taken a couple classes in criminal justice, explain what you learned and the relevance to the job you are seeking.
 Make use of any contacts that you made while you were in a training academy or in any coursework. Ask your instructors or professors if they know of any job openings in the field. Reach out to friends, neighbors or relatives. Finding a job is difficult, and you need to make use of any contacts you can. Let the person know about your interest and any recent training, and find out if they know of any job openings in their company that you might be qualified for.For example, you might start out, “Hi, Uncle John, this is David. I just finished taking some courses in criminal justice at the community college, and I wondered if your company might be hiring for a security guard.”
Use social media to reach out to people. If you met people in a training academy or in any courses you have taken, keep in touch with them through Facebook or Twitter. See if you can help each other locate job opportunities.
 If you are interested in working as a private security guard, research some local companies that employ security guards and find out the names of the agencies they use. Then send an application letter and resume to the agency directly.
 Use such online resources as ZipRecruiter to find job openings in the field that you desire. Search for the type of work that interests you, and you should be able to find lists of job openings. Send a professionally worded application letter with a copy of your resume. Highlight any recent training you have obtained, and make your letter sound as energetic as possible.

Some states may have developed their own internal job search sites. For example, if you are looking for work in Texas, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice maintains a job search tool that allows you to search regions of the state for jobs in criminal justice. You can tailor your search by location, salary range, and job category.As another example, the Maine Criminal Justice Academy posts a list of criminal justice jobs that are available across the state of Maine. These jobs include (at the time of this article) local police officers, marine conservation officers, and even a cook in a county sheriff's office.