 Get enough sleep, make sure you exercise and eat healthy food. Part of feeling inspired to accomplish the things you want to involves ensuring that you maintain a regular routine and pay attention to your body. Feeling physically healthy will help you manage your stress levels and improve your quality of life.


You might also consider getting into running. Running can help to clear your mind and refresh your brain.If you are not interested in running, then other physical activities like dancing, walking, or swimming are great for exercise as well.
 Doing fun activities that you enjoy on your own clears your mind. Solitude is necessary for finding your inner voice, improving concentration, and increasing productivity.Make sure that you set aside a little time to spend alone each day, even if it is only 15 minutes.


Alone time also boosts self-esteem and allows for self-reflection.This can help you overcome cognitive blocks or negative perceptions.
 Recognizing negative, intrusive, self-blaming, or self-defeating thoughts and replacing them with positive thinking enables your self-confidence.Starting off with the right attitude can make a big difference in feeling productive.


Spend fifteen minutes in the morning listing the good things in your life, and repeating a positive affirmation such as “I deserve to be happy and productive.”
Visualize successful outcomes in your life, such as receiving a good grade or earning a promotion. Picturing accomplishment can help you put the steps in place to realize it.
 After meeting goals, make sure to reward your accomplishment. Frequent rewards for completing tasks can help you stay on track.Rewards can be as simple as buying a new book or a fancy coffee, or as elaborate as a vacation.
Choose a reward that helps you celebrate your hard work, while also motivating you to continue your progress on your goals. For example, if your goal is to lose weight, treat yourself to new running clothes rather than ice cream or other high calorie treats.

