 Understanding the reasons that contribute to your feeling left out may help you develop goals in order to reduce these negative thoughts and feelings. Analyze the factors that might contribute to your being left out.


Some individuals who have mental health diagnoses may be more sensitive to and unfortunately more likely to experience social rejection.Ask yourself if a mental health concern might contribute your feelings of being left-out.
Those with medical conditions may also be more likely to be social rejected due to social stigma and the belief that some medical issues such as obesity and type II Diabetes are preventable.Is it possible that a medical issue is a factor?
Research suggest that people may be more sensitive and angry when socially rejected by members of different races or ethnic backgrounds.Identify if you are reacting to a social rejection more strongly because the other person is a different race than you.
Gender and age may also play a role in the perception of being left out; for example, females, especially adolescent females, may be more sensitive to social rejection.People who are more socially anxious may also be particularly fearful about people thinking negatively about them or excluding them.Does your anxiety about social situations contribute to your being left out?

, There are two types of social rejection, the first type is covert, such as when a friend does not invite you to a party. The second type is when you are explicitly rejected, such as that same friend telling you that you are not invited to the party.


Think about the reasons for your feeling of being left out. For example, perhaps you feel left out because your group of friends went out together and they didn’t invite you. Think about other ways of looking at the situation; is it possible that your friend wanted to invite you but forgot? Make sure you know the facts before you conclude that you are being left out on purpose.
 Understanding how being left out and feeling rejected affects you both mentally and physically may serve as additional motivation for positive change. Individuals who are socially rejected (other people not wanting to work with them or be around them) have higher cortisol levels, indicating higher feelings of stress. Another consequence of feeling left out is that social stress can make you more susceptible to diseases associated with inflammation; stress related to social rejection can cause inflammation.Being left out can also lead to depressed mood and possibly aggressive behaviors toward others.People who are rejected tend to spend money more freely.Ask yourself, “What are the bad things that happen when I am left out?” Do you feel depressed, stressed, or have aggressive behaviors?

