 International customary law should be practiced over time. You should look for this widespread repetition of similar international actions.It isn’t enough that a state did something once. The action must be repeated throughout time. For example, a state might give aid to another country once after a natural disaster. This does not establish a widespread practice of giving aid to countries.
Remember not to confuse international custom with what you would like the law to be. For example, you might think it is irrational that countries haven’t adopted binding agreements to stop climate change. However, there isn’t a general and consistent pattern over time simply because you would like there to be.;
, To qualify as international customary law, a significant number of states must take these actions. Furthermore, the action must not be rejected by a significant number of states.There is no bright-line test. However, you can tell that the clear majority of nations have outlawed the international slave trade.
Silence might be proof that the state agrees with the practice or proof that the practice hasn’t become controversial in a country. Generally, a state must consent to a practice before being bound. However, as an advocate practicing international law, you want to interpret silence in the best possible light. If you are arguing for the recognition of an international custom, then you could claim silence equals tacit agreement.
 Not all widespread acts rise to the level of customary international law. Instead, states must also feel a sense of obligation to act that way.In other words, they must feel that if they violate the custom they will or should face sanction.It’s difficult to determine what states “feel.” However, a state probably feels a sense of obligation not to commit war crimes against civilians because states have been prosecuted in international courts for doing so.
If a state changes its practices, then it might not feel a sense of obligation. For example, a country might have returned artwork stolen during a war. If the country changes its mind and stops returning the art, then it will be difficult to argue they felt a sense of obligation to return the work in the first place.
 You’ll need proof that certain actions are customary, so you should begin searching for these materials. The following are authoritative sources of international custom:treaties
national court decisions
national legislation
diplomatic correspondence
national legal advisor opinions
practices of international organizations, such as the United Nations
decisions of international courts

, To find a treaty, you should check different websites, depending on the country. You can easily find U.S. treaties. However, if you are searching for other nations' treaties, then you’ll need to use different websites. Look for treaties in the following places:United States Statutes at Large (which contains U.S. treaties until 1948)
Treaties in Force from the U.S. Department of State website: https://www.state.gov/www/global/legal_affairs/tifindex.html

Treaty and International Agreements Online, which is part of the Oceana Online website, TIARA

, A nation’s laws include court opinions, legislation, and administrative rules. You might want to research a nation’s laws to find out if it feels a sense of obligation to act a certain way.


To research a nation’s laws, you probably will need to use a law library. Your nearest law library might be at your nearest court house or at a nearby law school. Stop in and check whether you can research.
Columbia University’s Law School has a helpful webpage full of links for regional and national guides. The website is here: http://library.law.columbia.edu/guides/A_Selective_List_of_Guides_to_Foreign_Legal_Research. Click on a country to find helpful links and other information for doing legal research.
 You’ll want to research United Nations resolutions and the legal opinions of different international courts, both of which are helpful for establishing an international custom. You can find this information online.


United Nations resolutions are available at their website: http://research.un.org/en/docs/find/resolutions. You can do a search for words appearing in a resolution’s title.
You can find opinions from international courts at http://worldcourts.com/icc/eng/index.htm. Click on the court you want to research.
 International customary law can be created through official pronouncements from states. These can include the opinion of legal advisors, memoranda, position papers, and oral remarks.For the United States, you can visit the Department of State’s website, which contains speeches, briefings, testimony, and actions taken according to treaties. The website is here: https://www.state.gov/. Click on “Policy Issues” or “Press.”
For other nations, check their Ministry of Foreign Affairs or their State Department. They should have information available on their websites.
 If you have questions about how to find materials, you should stop in and talk with a law librarian. They can identify the search engines to find relevant international legal materials.


Contact your nearest law library to talk with a librarian. Larger law libraries have international law librarians. However, smaller libraries will only have one or two librarians.
Before meeting, take some time to properly identify the potential international custom that you are researching. For example, it’s helpful to tell the librarian that you are researching what qualifies as “torture” in military conflicts. Also tell the librarian what material you have already found on your own.

