 You're not the only one to sin. But that doesn't mean that you should keep on sinning. Romans 3:23 says:


For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.;
, The devil has many ways to let us sin. He could tempt us to misuse our bodies or disobey God. We ourselves couldn't resist the temptations of the devil. Fortunately, there is a way to defeat the devil.
 God is there for you whenever you need him. He is there to guide you and he will never, ever forsake or forget you. He is the Good Shepherd. He guides your way and saves you from the devil.
 Ephesians 6:1-2 tells us to obey and honor our parents. If your parents are true Christians, then you should follow their commands. False Christians are Christians who say they are Christians but don't act like it.
 Jesus Christ died on the cross for sins. That way, we could go to heaven and live with him. That way, we could conquer death. That way could conquer the devil. John 3:16 says:


For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.
 After reflecting on yourself, go to your parents. They will help you and assure you that God will be with you. Remember to pray to God and confess your sins to Him. That horrible guilt you once had will be wiped away. You will feel better thereafter.
 Praying is a way of communication between you and God. Cherish it because when you are alone, you could always talk to God. Wherever you are, you could always talk to God. If you need advice or help, God is the one to ask.
 Just as God listens to your voice when you pray to Him, you should also listen to His voice that is written in the Holy Bible. If you keep praying and not read the Bible, it would be like you keep talking and not listening to what the other person says. Then the other person wouldn't like it if you aren't leaving space for him/her. We should listen to God as much as we pray to God.
 Believe in Jesus and trust him. Remember that God loves you. He is always there for you.
 God gave you parents to help you on your way in life. Don't be wasteful of your time. Your parents won't be with you forever. But remember that God will. God could demonstrate to you many things through your parents and through other people.
 Church is a time for you to get into a Christian community. Church could also help you in your way in life. You can learn how to stay away from sin. You can ask the pastor some questions. You can learn many things in church. God wants us to be united among each other. We are one body with Christ as the head.
 Quiet time, devotionals, those stuff. This is the time for you to build up your relationship with God and to learn more about Him. This will help you to focus on God instead of doing the bad things.
 Sin is almost everywhere. Pray to God to help strengthen you with the Holy Spirit. Do not sin like the rest of the world. Instead, you should be different from the world. For Satan is the prince of the world, but God is the King of the Heavens. It is better to choose God rather than Satan. Romans 12:2 puts it this way:

