 Newborns grow very quickly and have a need to consume milk, either from a breast or bottle, to help support and sustain that growth. Breastmilk or formula is a choice each parent should make before a newborn arrives so they can be prepared with the appropriate knowledge and equipment that will be needed to feed a newborn. Make sure to ask the nursing staff or a lactation consultant if you need help feeding your infant before leaving the hospital.;
, Plus, it's a good indication that your infant is getting enough nutrients and formula. Each baby should have about 8-10 wet and/or dirty diapers a day through the first six weeks of life. After about six to eight weeks you may see this decrease to between 4-6 wet diapers a day, and some baby's may only have a bowel movement once every week or two! Make sure you are prepared with some diapers before your newborn arrives; pull them out of the pack and familiarize yourself with the way the diaper goes on and closes. Be prepared for "accidents" when your still getting use to changing your baby.
 Since most newborns do not get down on the floor and crawl around in dirt, bathing is not essential to everyday care. However, it is a good idea to give your infant a wipe down (especially in the diaper area and under chin/neck folds) just to ensure baby is clean and sanitary. A gentle bath at night before bed may help an infant relax and sleep better.
 Each time you change a baby's diaper you should use a cotton swab or ball to cleanse around the umbilical cord. Be careful not to pull or tug on the umbilical cord as this could force it to come off before has healed into a belly button. Also, when you are cleaning the umbilical area, be sure to watch for unusual discharge or blood as this may indicate an infection or tear. By the time your baby is two months old, this will fall off and you won't have to worry about it anymore!

, If you want to buy toys for your infant, pick things that are contrasting, like a soft black and white block with some red on it, as colors are very hard for newborns to make out.
 As a parent, you want to do all you can to make your baby feel safe, secure, and loved, so take some time out of the day to rub your baby down with lotion or hold him/her up against your bare skin (baby's skin should be bare also). This contact is reassuring to a newborn, who is used to being inside of mom's belly and hearing and feeling the constant presence of another human being.
 New babies should sleep about 16 hours a day, but they usually sleep in spurts. Don't get frustrated with your infant because they won't sleep, there is probably a reason why. Most babies need to be fed about every 2-4 hours because they have small stomachs. Uncomfortable wetness or dirty diapers can also wake a baby. Sometimes, babies just want to be held or comforted. Develop a strategy with your partner for taking care of an infant when you are both tired. Ensuring that everybody is well rested will make life with an infant much easier.

