 You’ll first need a deep or wide edged wooden picture frame. You can get these from the dollar or thrift stores for next-to-nothing. Your other supplies will be Balsa wood, a ruler, double-sided tape, a pencil, paint or something to mark the wood with, a craft knife, craft glue, and backing paper. Backing paper can just be your standard drawing paper. , The contents will determine the size and shape of the shadow box you end up putting together. You can put whatever you want in there as long as it fits!

, Many people use seaside objects such as shells, coral, pebbles. Some people make entire doll house/storefront/miniature scenes within shadow boxes. Others prefer nature objects: gumnuts, leaves, herbs, flowers, seeds, pods, etc. Take a look at other potential options below.


Collectibles: Stamps, spoons, coins, stickers, etc.
Scrapbooking: The shadow box provides an great display case for scrapbook elements of all kinds.
Insects: Do you have a butterfly or beetle collection? A shadowbox is perfect for displaying them. Be kind to the wildlife though; a paper or photographic collection can be just as interesting
Militaria: Medals, insignia, buckles, awards, badges, etc.
 Play around with a design in advance. That way you'll know where to glue everything in place. Arrange the actual objects on a sheet of paper about the same size as the inside of the frame, or draw the outline of the object onto blank paper to guide your arrangement later.
 If it doesn't have deep sides already, it won't work well for the purposes of this box. You can buy a shadowbox frame on the Internet or an arts and crafts store. You can even make your own if you want. It’s really just a picture frame.
 This will usually be cardboard or press board that sits between the image and the backing. Remove the backing but don’t discard it – you’ll use it shortly. You can discard any clips or holders on it. , The backing will sit at the back of the frame, resting on four pieces of inserted balsa wood. Start by measuring the edges of your picture frame. Now use these measurements to mark and measure out four pieces of the balsa wood. They should fit inside the inner edge of the frame, about 3mm/ 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) shallower than the frame sides. , When cutting, make sure the balsa lengths are the same length as the frame. Make the width lengths slightly shorter, as they need to slip inside the two other longer lengths. Trust your measurements. , Use the double-sided tape to attach the balsa pieces to the frame so that it will fit snugly in place. The longer pieces should be attached first.Then slip in the width pieces.
 Measure so it fits inside the frame. Remember that the frame is now slightly smaller due to the addition of the balsa pieces. Use this measurement to correctly calculate the size of the backing paper, then cut the paper to the correct size.
 This is why it is important to plan ahead of time. Try lightly tracing the objects you plan to put on the paper in pencil so you can see how the layout works. Don’t go too close to the edges of the paper or you’ll bump into the frame. , Use a craft glue or a spray adhesive to attach the paper to the backing. Don’t use too much glue or you might make the paper wet and sticky.
 It’s probably helpful to make small markers so you remember where each item was supposed to go. You can either glue or pin items on.
 If you’re using glue make sure you allow the glue to dry before restoring the backing to the frame. If you are pinning your items to the backing you might need to add a thin sheet of foam to the backing before gluing the backing paper in place, so that the pins have something to stick into.
 This is optional but may fit with the theme of your shadow box. Try to have fun with it. You want the shadowbox to look nice, and now is your chance to add any additional decoration.
 Carefully shift the backing into place inside the frame. Rest it on the pre-affixed balsa wood pieces. Make any adjustments needed so that it sits flat. , Use a strong tape, such as framer's tape, brown packing tape, or duct tape. The tape must be able to hold the frame in place long-term. Put enough on to keep it sturdy without ruining the aesthetic of the shadowbox. , Remember, if you are hanging your shadowbox you may need to attach a hanging device at this point, unless one is already in place. Put a nail or a hanging pin into the wall. If there is a portion of the frame hanging open because you've removed clips or holders, tape this section shut too.
 Once you’ve placed your shadowbox in its display area you can sit back and appreciate your accomplishment. You can hang, lean or stand the frame up, depending on the type of frame used.

