 Before bringing your Pomeranian home, decide on the place where you want your Pomeranian to toilet. Make sure that you choose a place that is convenient for you and your Pomeranian to get to. Your dog will need to be taken to the potty spot regularly in order to reinforce good habits. The options are a patch in the yard, or puppy pads by a door, or a litter box. If you are often gone for long periods of time (more than eight hours), puppy pads or a litter box will be necessary.The patch in the yard should be a place where you don't have special or prized plants, because you want to encourage the dog to pee and poo here.

Puppy pads are like a flat diaper, and they are made from the same absorbent material. Your dog can pee or poop on them and then you throw them away.

Litter boxes also work for Pomeranians. Choose a tray with low sides so the pup can hop in without problems, and put some absorbent cat litter in the tray. Scoop out the solids and soiled areas once a day, and clean the whole tray with pet disinfectant once a week.;
, Before you start training your Pomeranian to go potty where you want him to, decide on the cue word you are going to use each time your Pomeranian goes potty. This builds an association in the dog's mind between the word and toileting, so that eventually he may even go on demand.Use a single word, such as “potty” or “business.”

, Take your Pomeranian to the spot that you want him to go potty when you are house training him.Don't let him have the range of the house or he might squat and go to the toilet where he pleases. This scent marks the house which means he returns to those same spots and you have an uphill task house training him.


If you are training your Pomeranian to go potty indoors, try placing the puppy pads or litter box in a spot where your dog has already gone to the bathroom several times. This might make it easier to get him to use the pads or litter box.
You may need to take your Pomeranian outside or to the puppy pad or litter box several times before he gets the idea. Be patient and gentle as you do this.

