 If you find that you are sneaking to the cabinet for a snack at midnight, it may be a result of not eating enough during the day. Have three full and nutritious meals along with two protein-rich snacks during each day to help control cravings and keep your belly full.Get between 1,500 and 2,000 nutrient-rich calories every day. Eat a mixture of foods from the five food groups: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.Try foods like strawberries, broccoli, whole wheat bread, chicken, eggs, and yogurt.
Have one or two snacks every day. You can even try a small one right before bed and see if it helps you stop snacking. Choose high-quality nutritious snacks that will help keep you full, such as a piece of cheese and some pretzels or a cup of yogurt with fruit.;
, It is not uncommon to mistake thirst for hunger. Keeping yourself hydrated throughout the day may help curb late night snacking.In addition, setting a glass of water next to your bed can remind you to sip before you snack.


Drink 8 ounces of liquid every hour throughout the day to stay hydrated. You can have water, tea, coffee and other beverages. Avoid caffeinated beverages at least three hours before bedtime so that your sleep is not disrupted., In most cases, people go for carbohydrate-rich or “comfort” foods when snacking late at night.Getting rid of these types of food altogether or replacing them with healthy options can help curb your snacking habit.


Go through your kitchen systematically and remove any foods that you frequently snack on at midnight. Check the cupboards, refrigerator and any other places you might have snacks. Remove items such as chips, cakes, cookies, ice cream, or any other foods on which you snack. Throw away the food or donate it to a local food bank if it has not been opened.
Replace any snack with healthier options such as fruit or vegetables if you don’t feel you can remove snacks cold turkey. You may find that given the option between a piece of fruit and not having anything that you realize you aren’t actually hungry.Avoid impulse-buying snacks at your store or local bakeries. Making sure you shop with a full belly can help you curb buying snacks that may tempt you at midnight., If you get up to have a snack at midnight, stop and recognize what you are about to do. If you still want to hit the kitchen, try distracting yourself with another activity and then reassess if you really want a snack after 20 minutes. To distract yourself, try:Brushing your teeth
Taking a walk
Listening to soft music
Reading

, If you are tired or stressed, you may turn to midnight snacking to soothe yourself. Meditation can be very calming and could help you avoid raiding your stash of snacks at midnight. Start slowly and gradually increase the time you meditate to curb your cravings.Sit upright with your eyes closed and inhale through your nose to a count of four or five. Hold your breath for a count of one or two and then exhale through your nose for another count of four or five.
Visualize any triggers you have with food or stress as you meditate. Allow the image to come to you and then let it go. This may help you give up the snacks and curb any cravings.
 It generally takes about 21 days to replace one behavior with a new one.It may be a challenge for you to make it to 21 days and you may backslide a couple of times, which is completely normal and okay. Once you’ve reached 21 days, treat yourself to a non-food item for sticking to your new routine. This can help reinforce your new behavior.


Be patient with yourself. You may be changing a habit that you’ve had for years. It’s completely normal to have slip ups on occasion. Don’t let your progress be clouded by one mistake. Acknowledge your snacking mishap and move on to the next evening.
 If you can’t curb your snacking after two weeks, you may have nighttime eating syndrome. This condition is generally defined as excessive eating at night.It is often characterized by not eating in the morning, and then eating more than 25% of your food after your evening meal.There are many different symptoms of NES including:Having little or no appetite in the morning
Eating more food after dinner than during your meal
Eating most of your calories after dinner
Awaking multiple times a night and requiring food to fall back asleep

, It is not entirely clear what causes NES, but there are many different contributing factors to snacking or eating too much at night. It often occurs in people who are considered high-achievers. Some of the possible causes are:Irregular eating habits during the day such as skipping lunch
Responses to dieting and depriving your body of sufficient vitamins and nutrients
Stress
Different hormonal patterns or circadian rhythms
Eating disorders such as anorexia, bulimia, or binge-eating

, If you’ve tried to curb your midnight snacking and have a hard time, consider figuring out your specific triggers. Pinpointing the causes of your midnight snacking can help you to take positive steps to curb the habit.


Keep a journal next to your bed and note any time you snack at night. Make sure you describe how you were feeling when you indulged your cravings. For example, you might say, “had a stressful day at work and wasn’t able to avoid the cookies.” From this, see if there are patterns to your snacking habits. You may find that stress or insomnia are major triggers for you.
Be open and honest with yourself when figuring out your triggers. For example, if you’re trying to lose weight and not eating during the day, this can be the sign of a more serious eating disorder. It could also mean you’re not eating enough during the day.
 If you have the symptoms of NES over a two-week or longer period or notice patterns in your snacking habits, get medical attention as soon as possible. Not dealing with NES or late night snacking can lead to serious health problems such as obesity, diabetes, depression, and anxiety. Your doctor can make a positive diagnosis and help you formulate the best treatment plan for you.Provide your doctor all of the necessary information about your midnight snacking problem. Make a list of any symptoms or problems you’ve had and the ways in which you’ve tried to deal with them. Let your doctor know about any medications or illegal drugs you are taking, which may also give her clues about your problem.
Ask your doctor any questions that you may have about your snacking problem or related conditions such as depression or eating disorders.
Be sure to read any educational information your doctor provides you about nighttime eating or other eating disorders. In general, this is one of the first steps in treating your disorder.
Ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian who can help you create a meal plan that ensures you are getting enough calories and vital nutrients from your daily meals.
 For many people who suffer from NES or midnight snacking, it is necessary to change their behavior by changing their beliefs about food. Knowing that you have the power to change your midnight snacking is an important component of this. Seeing a mental health professional can help you address your respective issues with food, begin to change your behaviors, and curb midnight snacking.Be aware that many people with eating disorders (including NES) respond very well to various types of outpatient therapy including individual, group, and family therapy.Ask your doctor or mental health professional what the best option for you may be.Consider trying cognitive-behavioral therapy. This involves gradual exposure to triggers and can ultimately help you disassociate them with food and snacking at night.Complement therapy with continuing to see your primary care physician. Your doctor can monitor your health and progress.
 Midnight snacking and NES are often related to another condition such as anxiety, depression, or an eating disorder. Your doctor may prescribe medication to treat the condition as a complement to any therapy which you may be undergoing. If prescribed, make sure to follow the dosing or your doctor’s instructions. Some of the medications your doctor may prescribe are:


Seratonin-specific reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine
Antiepileptics such as topiramate, which may be the most effective
Appetite suppressants such as sibutramine, Eating disorders such as NES and even midnight snacking are increasingly common. Participating in a support group can help you realize that you are not alone in your fight with midnight snacking. In addition, it may help you figure out new methods of dealing with your snacking problem.Ask your doctor, medical professional, or local hospital if there are any support groups for eating disorders in your local area. Most will have some knowledge of local tools that can support you.
Find a local group by using the National Eating Disorder Association’s extensive database of support groups and programs for eating disorders.