 Pitching an idea or sharing it with friends can lead to someone else taking it. It is legal for another person to take a marketing idea and use it and improve on it.;
, Although the rules vary slightly depending upon your country of origin, the following are general rules for these 2 legal concepts:


A copyright protects original works of authorship, and it is mainly used for creative arts, like writing, music and painting. The person who owns the copyright, generally the author or publishing company, has the right to reproduce it or base other works on it. If you have written a jingle to market a product, you may consider protecting it by filing for a copyright.
A trademark is a name, brand, symbol, logo or device that is used to indicate a certain type of goods or service. Businesses often apply for trademarks to protect their name and logo. Marketing professionals can help businesses they serve to get a trademark after developing a company brand.
A patent is most commonly used for invention. If you have an idea for an invention, you must be able to prove that it is not obvious and novel. The patent process does not relate directly to marketing very often, unless you have developed an application, technology or a product that aids in marketing.
 Employ the services of a lawyer to make sure you research possible conflicting patents and complete all the necessary paperwork. Applying for 1 of these designations can cost between $100 and $10,000.
 Request forms from your secretary of state, if you have a business trademark that you want to reserve. This will keep a rival business from using a brand, logo or name, in many cases.
 If you are working a marketing job, chances are that your employer has some rights to the marketing ideas that you pitch. However, you may be worried that a rival at work will steal the idea.


Wait to pitch the idea to a manager, and then bring it to a wider audience. If you bring it up in a brainstorming session, chances are that other people will add to and improve the idea, allowing them to share ownership.
 You may be asked to test it, so create and lead a small pilot program until the point when you are ready to launch it officially.
 One way to protect your idea is to control the release of information about it. You can claim the responsibility for a novel marketing idea by releasing a book that explains it and proves your expertise.


Keep in mind that this should be done with the consent of the other parties involved. A marketing consultant will have more room to disclose their ideas than someone who is employed by a marketing company. Make sure to establish the rules regarding disclosure of ideas if they were used for a company's clients.
 Your marketing company may want to design a non-disclosure agreement that it asks potential clients to sign before the pitching process begins. A pitch should also be carefully designed so that it doesn't give away all aspects of the marketing idea, leaving it open to imitation.
 This is how the world of marketing grows and changes. Most ideas that cannot be patented, trademarked or copyrighted lead to other people adopting them; however, writing about the idea after you have used it and proved its worth may allow you to be considered the "father" of the idea.

