 Many people only know the stereotypes of ADHD behavior, but don't realize that many subtler symptoms exist, especially in girls and adults. Do some searching on the internet or at your local library for books, articles, and websites that explain ADHD in ways you can understand.;
, ADHD people can display a range of symptoms which make up three ADHD subtypes: inattentive, hyperactive/impulsive, and combined. Inattentive type is characterized by distraction, daydreaming, losing things, and trouble finishing work. Hyperactive/Impulsive type is characterized by disorganization, restlessness, impulsive decision making and constant movement. Combined type is typically a mix of inattentive/hyperactive symptoms.
 Most generic screening tools are aimed at children, and one of the requirements for an ADHD diagnosis is the presence of symptoms before the age of 7. Even if you are now an adult, knowing and recognizing childhood symptoms can help you determine if you are a candidate for ADHD diagnosis, or if your symptoms are more recent (and therefore not ADHD). The American Psychiatric Association uses the following questionnaire to screen for childhood ADHD, with section A being symptoms indicative of inattentive type, and B being indicative of hyperactive/impulsive type.


A. Six or more of the following symptoms of inattention have been present for at least 6 months to a point that is disruptive and inappropriate for developmental level:






Often does not give close attention to details or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork, work, or other activities.
Often has trouble keeping attention on tasks or play activities.
Often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly.
Often does not follow instructions and fails to finish schoolwork, chores, or duties in the workplace (not due to oppositional behavior or failure to understand instructions).
Often has trouble organizing activities.
Often avoids, dislikes, or doesn't want to do things that take a lot of mental effort for a long period of time (such as schoolwork or homework).
Often loses things needed for tasks and activities (e.g. toys, school assignments, pencils, books, or tools).
Is often easily distracted.
Often forgetful in daily activities.


B. Six or more of the following symptoms of hyperactivity-impulsivity have been present for at least 6 months to an extent that is disruptive and inappropriate for developmental level:
Hyperactivity:






Often fidgets with hands or feet or squirms in seat.
Often gets up from seat when remaining in seat is expected.
Often runs about or climbs when and where it is not appropriate.
Often has trouble playing or enjoying leisure activities quietly.
Is often "on the go" or often acts as if "driven by a motor".
Often talks excessively.


Impulsiveness:






Often blurts out answers before questions have been finished.
Often has trouble waiting one's turn.
Often interrupts or intrudes on others (e.g., butts into conversations or games).
 While all adults with ADHD should have exhibited childhood symptoms, these behaviors may not have been disruptive enough for a diagnose, and symptoms evolve with age to reflect behavioral and environmental changes. Adults with ADHD are more likely to exhibit the following symptoms:
Inattentive type






Procrastination
Indecision, difficulty recalling and organizing details required for a task
Poor time management, losing track of time
Avoiding tasks or jobs that require sustained attention
Difﬁculty initiating tasks
Difﬁculty completing and following through on tasks
Difﬁculty multitasking
Difﬁculty shifting attention from one task to another


Hyperactive/Impulsive type






Chooses highly active, stimulating jobs
Avoids situations with low physical activity or sedentary work
May choose to work long hours or two jobs
Seeks constant activity
Easily bored
Impatient
Intolerant to frustration, easily irritated
Impulsive, snap decisions and irresponsible behaviors
Loses temper easily, angers quickly



, Many trends exist in ADHD symptoms, for example young boys are the most likely to exhibit the hyperactive/impulsive subtype, and adults and girls tend to exhibit more inattention symptoms than hyperactive symptoms. However, symptoms vary from person to person, as does the degree of interference these symptoms cause. For some people ADHD does not pose a problem in childhood, but can become more disruptive with increasing workload, such as when the person starts college, enters the workforce, or has children. Some people go their whole life without ADHD ever posing a real problem.
 Beyond the symptoms that define it, ADHD can have a large impact on lifestyle and behavior. Girls with ADHD often struggle to relate to their peers and therefore have trouble making and keeping friends. Adults can become discouraged by a seeming inability to complete tasks or keep up with colleagues, and many women are falsely diagnosed with depression or bipolar disorder when the cause of their symptoms is actually ADHD. More and more research is emerging linking ADHD to troubles sleeping and mid-day fatigue and exhaustion, as well as eating habits like binge-eating.
 Some studies suggest that environmental factors like sugar and food additive intake can have adverse effects on attention, and that eliminating or regulating consumption can reduce the severity of ADHD symptoms. Caregiver relationships can have a profound impact on a child's attentional abilities as well, which may be linked to a higher incidence of ADHD-like symptoms in foster children and child abuse victims.
 Many ADHD medications are well known, such as Ritalin and Adderall, but medication is only a small piece in the effective treatment of ADHD and is not recommended in all cases. Medication can boost the ability to focus and calm some of the symptoms of hyperactivity, but behavioral changes and even diet can be important in managing symptoms. There are many ADHD websites that provide useful ideas, but the best resource would be a psychologist or therapist with experience managing attention disorders.
 Talk to your regular doctor about the possibility of be diagnosed with ADHD. Often a general practitioner (family doctor) can do a basic ADHD screening using the above questionnaire and prescribe medication, but it is a good idea to get a referral to see a psychologist or neurologist. They can provide a more thorough assessment through interviews and behavioral questionnaires. Some can even perform a comprehensive learning disability screening which quantitatively measures brain activity and provides hearing, vision, speech and language assessments. These tests are very insightful and can pinpoint the underlying learning disabilities that often go hand-in-hand with ADHD, such as sensory integration disorders.

