 (Recommended)
You have a lot of time on your hands. IV breeding tends to take a while (it can be picked back up whenever, though).;
, When you first get started with IV breeding (which will come up later in these instructions), it is recommended that you begin with a Pokémon found in one of your Friend Safaris (located in Kiloude City). In our example, we will choose Probopass (As Nosepass in the Friend Safari).
 The move-set and the natures are very important. To view the move-set of a Pokémon, go to www.serebii.net and look for your Pokémon in the XY Pokédex. You can select any level up moves, TM moves, or egg-moves. The move-set we will choose after reviewing the available ones for Probopass will be Stealth Rock, Power Gem, Discharge, and Explosion.
 To choose your Pokémon’s nature, you should look at its stats and determine what you would like to make better, and what can be lowered. The Serebii Pokédex is very helpful for this as well. For our Probopass example, you can see it has lower Speed, so we will not want to use that stat. We choose the nature “Brave” from the list provided here to lower Speed and increase its Attack in order to make it more of a tank.
 To get the egg-moves of a Pokémon, select the “details” link to see what parents in the Pokémon’s egg-group can give that move to your Pokémon. You must obtain that parent with the move and breed it with your Pokémon later. Stealth Rock is an egg-move for Probopass, so we will get an Onix that knows Stealth Rock.
 This will be helpful for the next section.
 Go to the Pokémon Center in Kiloude City and bring 6 of your new Pokémon to the man in the corner of the room. He will tell you which perfect IVs your Pokémon have. He will first judge your Pokémon’s potential with different descriptors, with “Outstanding” being the best. He will then go on to state which stats have the best IVs. If he ends the conversation with “Stats like those… They simply can’t be beaten!” It means each stat mentioned is perfect. Pokémon captured in the Friend Safari always have at least two perfect IVs.
 The labels go in order of HP, Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed. This Nosepass has 2 perfect IVs, one in Attack and one in Defense, signified by the Triangle and Square.
 This is where the Destiny Knot comes in handy. Choose the IVs that you would like to pass down. It is the most convenient to have only 5 perfect IVs because of how the Destiny Knot works. Because of Probopass’ ridiculously low speed, we will plan to have perfect IVs in everything except that., Give the destiny knot to a male Pokémon knowing the egg move, and give a power item corresponding to a perfect IV of a female of your Pokémon. We will attach destiny knot to an Onix with stealth rock, and we will give the Nosepass from earlier the power bracer to pass down attack., The more you move the more eggs you will get. Grab 5 eggs and take them to the center of Lumiose City.
 Egg hatching is determined by steps, so as you are going around the circle, your eggs will hatch. Once all of your eggs are hatched, fly back to Kiloude and figure out the IVs of your new Pokémon and label them like earlier. Once you have the same IVs as the mother Pokémon on one of the babies, you are done with egg move parent and you can move on to new IVs.
 Give one of them the destiny knot and the other a power item corresponding to one of their IVs. Put them in the daycare and do the same method as earlier to hatch and label them. For example, we would put our new baby Nosepass with Stealth Rock and Attack and Defense IVs holding a power bracer in with a friend safari Nosepass of the opposite gender with HP, Special Attack, and Special Defense IVs holding the destiny knot. If you do not have a Pokémon with the exact opposite IVs, use one with two opposite ones. Later, use a different friend safari Pokémon to add in the remaining IV (Explained in the next step)., For example, if we come up with a baby Nosepass with Attack, Defense, and Special Attack; we substitute that one with the original one in order to get Special Attack easier., You will go through dozens of Pokémon or just a few, determined only by luck. Once you have two Pokémon of the opposite gender with 5 of your selected perfect IVs and egg moves, you are done with the hard part and heading onto the natures., Constantly breed them until you come up with a baby that has your selected nature. It does not matter if the Pokémon does not have the 5 desired IVs. Give the Pokémon the everstone and put it in with the parent of the opposite gender. The everstone will guarantee that the nature of the holder is passed to the babies. Make sure the Destiny Knot stays in the mix! For Nosepass, we will breed until we get “Brave,” then breed that Nosepass holding the everstone with a parent holding the destiny knot., Here is our Perfect Nosepass:

, They can be bought for a price of 9,400 Pokémon dollars. Use them until you reach the desired number or to a maximum of 100. For example, if you want 84 HP EVs, use 8 HP Up then get the other 4 by the other methods below., Each wing adds one EV and is not limited by the 100 EV limit. Only use them if you have some on hand or if you have pokémiles you are willing to spend. Obtaining them can be tedious.,, Once the Pokémon has completed the exercise, they will gain EVs in that statistic. We want Probopass to be extra defensive, so we will train him with Defense and Special Defense Bags.
 The Super Training Soccer Challenge is very similar to the punching bag, except you play the mini-game and try to hit the targets with the ball. Pick a level that corresponds to a statistic and play it. Afterwards, the Pokémon will gain EVs in that statistic. We want Probopass to be extra defensive, so we will train him with Defense and Special Defense Challenges.
, It is recommended that you level up your Pokémon first and teach it a move that hits all Pokémon (like Surf or Rockslide) so it can battle for itself. Use a reset punching bag after you level up so that you can start with zero EVs. Then you can battle the hordes., In order to test if your EVs are maxed, try a punching bag. The game will prevent you from using it if the EVs are maxed. Remember, once you max out one statistic’s EVs, it is a waste of time to continue to train it. Move on to the next stat you want to boost., Once you have done enough super training or horde battling and you try to use a bag of an EV that has not yet been maxed out, the game will prevent you from doing it, saying it will have no effect. This means you are done and you have a fully EV trained Pokémon! You can see the effect it has on your Pokémon by looking at the super training base screen. Here, Probopass is fully EV trained, specifying in Defense and Special Defense.
