 While you may not get answers after being turned down for a date, getting clarification from places that have a lot of submissions may be useful. Reach out to the people involved in the hiring or selection process. See if they can provided insight.Reach out to others that may be applying or seeking the same thing as you. Understand the context of the rejection from their point of view.
For example, many writers may submit their works to publishers, journals, or writing competitions. Find ways to craft your work to the appropriate audience. Some places may be looking for certain ideas or points of view.
Sometimes we all want the same type of thing, but this means more competition. See if there are other places or people that may not have as much name recognition but fit better with your personality.
 Take an optimistic approach. Being turned down may help you to think about what to do differently in the future. Think of each trial and error in life as part of the journey to being a better and happier person.


Use this as a time to be wiser and stronger. After the initial shock, maybe you'll see that being turned down isn't has horrible as you imagined.
Think about your strengths and weaknesses equally. Avoid dwelling on the negative. Before the next opportunity arises, think about what you have learned and how to apply this knowledge.
 Avoid giving up and retreating. Be confident that you can continue to achieve what you want with perseverance and determination. Most people don't get what they want the first time they do something. Sometimes getting what you want takes practice.Being turned down is just one moment in time. Keeping going as one moment does not define you and your worth.
Being more confident afterwards may help you in the future. That person or place that turned you down may see you again, and see that you are resilient and strong in the face of rejection.
 Resilience is the ability to press on despite setbacks and challenges. It involves having a positive outlook on the future and believing in yourself. Being resilient can help make it easier for you to deal with setbacks like being turned down. Some things you can do to build resilience include:Putting things into perspective. When something bad happens, try asking yourself if it is really worth spending your time and energy worrying about. Most things are not worthy of as much time and energy as you might give them. Try to put things into perspective before you waste time and energy being worried or upset about something.Maintaining good relationships with friends and family. Knowing that you have people you can count on no matter what is a great comfort. Make sure that you maintain positive, healthy relationships with your friends and family so that you will feel supported during difficult times.

Looking for lessons when things don’t go your way. Instead of focusing on the negative aspects of a situation, you might find it helpful to think about what you can learn from the experience. For example, if someone turns you down, you might try to look for a lesson. It might be something simple like, “He/she is not my soul mate. That person is still out there.”

Challenging unhelpful thoughts. Resilient people also know how to alter their thinking to stay motivated and positive. Try to challenge any unhelpful thoughts that cross your mind. For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I am a loser,” then you might challenge this thought by saying to yourself, “I am an intelligent person who has value. I value myself and other people value me as well.”

