 A summary statement is a brief overview that highlights the experiences you've had that are applicable to the position you're applying for. It is placed in the beginning of a resume and gives the reader an idea of who you are and why you are a strong candidate without wading through extra information.


A summary statement is the perfect opportunity to highlight relevant skills, strengths, experiences and accomplishments. It may be the difference between your resume being tossed aside and it given a second glance.;
, A good summary statement effectively uses action words to highlight the qualities you have that the hiring team is looking for. It must also describe the results of your previous work -- being fantastic isn't enough, you've got to have proof!. Writing effective sentences will do just this, giving the reader (your potential boss) a good overview and entice them to read more.


An example of an effective sentence for a summary statement is, “Developed and led operating procedures in the US and Latin America to increase efficiency by 15%." You want concrete facts and numbers if at all possible to paint the most vivid picture possible. This is something you did (the action) followed by the result (the number). Quite the winning, incontestable combination!

, Writing “objective” at the beginning of your resume is seen as old-fashioned and does not provide much value to a recruiter or hiring manager. The phrase “to obtain a challenging position where I can....” does not say why you should be hired over others. Everyone seems to have the same objective and chances are your objective will be passed over.


This summary is not what you want to do -- it's what you've already done. Save what you want to do and what you see yourself doing for the interview process. Right now, stick to the things you've done that you're most proud of.
 The length of a good summary statement varies. It depends on your relevant experience and the job you are seeking. The summary statement, on average, should be anywhere from 3 to 5 sentences. Anything longer creates too much verbiage and takes away from the idea of a brief overview.


Keeping it relevant and simple is key. The hiring committee has piles of resumes to go through -- if you're too wordy, you could be tossed aside in a moment of human frustration. Keep it brief to keep the reader's attention.
 This is easily done by expressing your best personal qualities or “soft skills” that are relevant and essential to the job’s success. Look at the job description -- what qualities are they looking for that you can prove you have?


Don't shy away from describing yourself as a “self-motivated entrepreneur” or a “well-organized and dedicated administrator." Even if you don't feel like the cream of the crop, go for it. Think of any buzz-word adjectives that anyone has ever used to describe you. What qualities do you seem to bring to every team?

, This should be included if significant and relevant. If you only have months of experience under your belt and not a lot of titles, don't worry about this part. They'll gather the information from the body of your resume.


“Business Development Manager with over 10 years of experience in B2B software sales for the construction industry” is a perfect example of hitting time, title, industry, and sector all in one go. Such a complete role sounds impressive!

, This is not the place to list every award; you should limit it to one or two. It's a summary, after all. Not a contest or a novel!


“Awarded Top Performer of Southeast Region two consecutive years” would be a recognition you want at the top of this paper. Choose whichever ones stand out the most to you and the ones you consider most impressive.
 It's best to emphasize key accomplishments that are most relevant. That way they know off the bat that you're more than just a suitable candidate for the job.


“MBA and Six Sigma Black Belt” would be a great combination. And for certain jobs, providing something a little outside the box wouldn't hurt either -- so long as it's equally as impressive as the rest of your accomplishments!

, As mentioned previously, it is important to write your summary statement and show your value through the use of effective sentences. Think of this in a three-part magical formula:


Place an action word at the beginning of each sentence -- “led," “developed," “coordinated,” etc.)
Then explain what you did -- “company-wide restructure," “implementation of new procedures," “communication between subcontractors” etc.
Finally, provide the result -- “to realize a cost savings of 10%," “increase overall efficiency,” “reduce errors by 5%” etc.

Put these three together to ensure effective sentences that are to the point, impressive, and, almost above all else, intriguing.
 This means avoiding the words “I," “my," “me," “we," “he," “she," “his," “her," “us” or your name. Get straight to the point -- start with verbs and skip out all the words that aren't necessary.


If your sentence seems bulky, it probably is. All you need are verbs, nouns, adjectives, and the occasional preposition. Try cutting it down until it's as small as possible.
 For example, “trustworthy" and "loyal” are two qualities that, while you may have them, don't get the job done. What's more, whose opinion are you going off of? Stick to qualities you can prove with your work history and accomplishments.


Unfortunately, this is actually overused; everyone wants to appear trustworthy and loyal, or simply appear as if they value these qualities.
 The first thing an applicant should do is read over in detail the job posting/job description. Familiarizing yourself with the job and who the employer is looking for will help form an effective summary statement. It sounds like a lot of work if you're applying for dozens of jobs, but if you don't do it, you'll be applying for dozens and dozens more.


For example, if a company is looking for someone with 5-10 years of experience in project management, and you have 10 years of experience as a project manager, it is best to write that in your summary statement. Some things seem so simple it's hard to believe they could be overlooked!

, In short, recruiters and hiring managers look at tons of resumes per day for each job posted. They look over each resume very briefly, leaving the candidate with only one quick chance to impress. It is no longer enough to say you want the job; you must explain why they should invite you for an interview by effectively stating your value. You must start out strong to grab their attention and end strong to get them thinking, "We should call this person."


Summary statements that can frame an individual into the ideal candidate will get the recruiter or hiring manager to read further and possibly invite you for an interview. Starting out strong is necessary, but you've got to leave them thinking you're still a good candidate by the end. Refine your whole summary to prove you're the full package.

