 In general, look for a wider barrel (larger diameter) with a padded grip.


Make sure the pen writes smoothly, without skipping or dragging along the page.
Avoid buying pens that rattle or leave behind blotches of ink.
 Do not clench your fingers around the pen or grip it too tightly. You don't need to strangle it, just pull it against the page.
 Get a good pen so you don't have to press hard, then pull the pen lightly and evenly against the paper. If you prefer pencil, try the next softer lead.
 Writing is not drawing! Keep your hand and wrist still, and move your whole arm using the elbow and shoulder (like you are writing on a whiteboard).
 You may not have paid much attention to how to hold a pen since you were in early elementary school, but pay attention now.


Is your hand position neutral? Try to hold your wrist straight and don't turn or bend it as you write.
Are you reaching or straining in any way to reach the page or the desk? Move the desk, chair, and paper until you are comfortable.
Is the rest of your work space comfortable? Are the chair and desk at the right heights for you? Can you see and reach the page without straining or crouching? Are other items you need (such as the stapler or telephone) within easy reach?
Are you relaxed?
Are the rest of your wrist, arm, and elbow supported, at least when you are not actively writing?

, If you lean over your work, your neck, shoulders, and arms will tire that much faster. For longer writing sessions, vary your posture. Lean one way and the other in your chair. Lean back for awhile.
 Leave yourself extra time for writing. Unless this is the big, final test and you have no choice, stand up every hour, or less, and walk around for a minute or two. Relax your hands, arms, and wrists during this time.
 For instance, if you pause for a few moments to compose your next thought, set the pen down, relax your hand, recline in your chair, and even stand up and walk around a bit.
 Grab the pen or pencil and twist it between your fingers. Open and close your hand. Gently stretch your fingers and wrists.
 If you've been at it for several hours, come back later or even the next day.
 If you have a lot to write, try writing in several smaller sessions rather than one long one.



Keep your wrist position neutral. Do not bend your wrists in or out, up, or especially down while you type.
Use a keyboard tray to adjust the position of the keyboard.
Make sure your arm position and body positions are neutral.
Do not hammer the keys. Computers, unlike typewriters, work best if you use a light touch, and you'll be far gentler on your hands.
 If a test, writing assignment, or some important thought kept you writing extensively yesterday, use today to get some exercise and get out a bit.
 If most of your writing is for school or work, ask whether accommodations or arrangements can be made. Effective accommodations may be very simple and inexpensive, but you must first ask for them. Remember, you are the only one who knows what it feels like to you to write. Your doctor can help to make recommendations and ask that they be implemented. Would any of these accommodations make your work more manageable?


A workspace more suited to your size or work habits (e.g. a chair and table of a more suitable height, a slanted or elevated work surface)
A different selection of writing implements
Regular breaks
Additional time to complete writing-intensive tasks
A different means of writing (such as dictation or typing in lieu of writing longhand)
A different blend or proportion of writing and non-writing tasks.
An ergonomic evaluation from an expert who can offer suggestions about your work space and work habits

,;
,,,,