 Physical attraction is important in a relationship, but that does not mean that you have to look perfect. Men are more attracted to women who show that they take care of themselves and try to look their best. To show that you take good care of yourself, make sure that you:shower every day
style your hair
brush your teeth twice daily
wear clothes that fit you well and make you feel attractive
exercise at least a few times per week
keep your nails clean and trimmed
wear a little makeup now and then (only if you like to wear makeup)

, Physical attraction is important, but men are even more attracted to women who have positive personality traits.Make sure that you show your boyfriend what great personality you have by demonstrating your traits.


You can show off your personality just by being yourself, but you can also try to highlight some of the traits that your boyfriend finds attractive. For example, you can show that you are kind by being polite to the waiter when you are out to dinner. Or, show that you are an optimist by pointing out the bright side of things as much as possible.
 Gazing into your boyfriend’s eyes for two minutes can increase his feelings of attraction for you and vice versa.Make sure that eye contact is a regular part of your time spent together so that he will be more likely to remember those romantic feelings when you are apart.


Try catching his eye when he is walking by you in the hall and hold the gaze for a minute. Or, during a discussion over coffee make sure that you hold his gaze for a little longer than usual.
 The color red seems to attract men to women more than other colors.To take advantage of this, try wearing red more often when your boyfriend will see you.


For example, you could wear a red sweater when you drop off something to him at work or keep a red scarf handy and pop it on before your boyfriend comes over.
 Scents can draw out memories, so make sure that you wear a specific perfume or body spray whenever you are with your boyfriend.Over time, he should start to associate that scent with positive feelings about you and smelling the scent may make him miss you.


If you sleep over at your boyfriend’s house, then you can spray a bit of your perfume on his pillow before you leave. Later when he goes to bed alone, he will smell your perfume and he may start to miss you.
Try wearing one of your boyfriend’s favorite sweatshirts for a few hours (with permission of course). Make sure that you are wearing your perfume so that a bit of it will get on the sweatshirt. Return the sweatshirt to him with your scent on it.
 Rather than always being available to your boyfriend, it is important that you maintain your relationships with friends and family. Being independent and not always having to spend time around your boyfriend will make your boyfriend value the time you spend together even more.


Go out with your friends on your own, or spend time with family without your boyfriend. Encourage your boyfriend to do the same. When you see him again after having your separate social activities, be pleasant and make sure he knows that you want him to have fun when he is not with you as well.Avoid texting him too much when you are apart. Instead, send a message to make sure that he is having a good time and then don’t text him any more for the day or night.
Do not drop your plans to spend time with him. Your relationship will be much healthier and more fulfilling if you both have a certain level of independence and do not spend every moment together.

