 If you still have the email address you originally signed up with, search for "Neopets" in your inbox or archived mail. The original signup email will at least tell you the name and email address associated with your account. It may give you other info as well, depending on when you signed up.;
, Visit the home page of the Neopets site. Find the search bar on the left side of the page, and type in the name of your Neopet. If you get the name right, click your Neopet to visit its statistics page.
 Look for the "Owner" information on your pet's statistics page and write it down. The first part is the name you used to sign up. The second part (linked and inside parentheses) is your account name. Use your account name when you try to log in.
 If your log in fails because you can't remember your account info, enter your email under the "Forgot your password?" or "Forgot Your Username?" section. If you can log in to that email, you should see a password reset email arrive within fifteen minutes.


Very old accounts did not require email accounts to sign up. Skip this step if you didn't have an email address back when you joined Neopets.
 If you haven't logged in for several months, Neopets will ask you for your birthdate.Try your real one first. You only get 3 guesses, so don't guess randomly yet.
 If you friended someone on Neopets who still has access to his account, ask him to log in. He can view your account's profile and look for the Age entry, which is based on the birthday you entered.Use this to figure out the year of your birthday. You're down to 365 guesses (plus one if it was a leap year), but if you're lucky you used your real birthday month and day. Try that first.


For example, you view your profile on September 1, 2015, and it says you are 20 years old. Your birthday must be between September 1, 1994 and October 31, 1995.
Only friends can see your age. You cannot make a new account and try to friend your original one, since your original account needs to accept the invitation.
 Many people didn't enter their real birthdate, either to avoid spreading personal information or to avoid asking parents for permission. You only have 3 birthday guesses per day, so make them count:


Try January 1, 1900. (An obvious fake option if you were pretending to be over 18.)
Try the birthdays of friends and family members.
 Visit Neopets help and click "Create a ticket." You will need to log in to Neopets, but you can easily create a new account and use it to contact customer support. Include the following information, or as much of it as you can remember:


User name of the account you can't access
Summary of your problem: how long it's been since you accessed your account
Email addresses that might be linked to the account. State which ones you have access to and which ones you do not.
Your real birthday
Whether or not you've purchased Neocash (spent real money)
(if remembered) names of your Neofriends, items in your closet or equipped to your pet

, You'll usually get an email within a few days, but it can take a month or longer if you're unlucky. Sending a new ticket will not speed up the response. Once they respond, here are the most common next steps:


If they ask for information about the account, answer their questions as thoroughly as you can. They might ask for the names of items in your safety deposit box, what you spend Neocash on, major trades/auctions, or any warnings you received.These are all designed to verify that you are really the account owner. If they're satisfied, they will send you the correct birthday and password.
If your old account was frozen, follow their instructions to fill out a new ticket requesting that the account be reactivated. You will need to include as much info about your account as possible.
If your account has been inactive for many years, it may have been deleted (even if the profile page is still visible). There's nothing you can do if this happened.