 Laughter generally sparks more laughter. It can relieve stress and tension in even the most serious individuals. If you’re having a hard time finding laughs at home or in your office, spend time with people who make you laugh. Their frivolity can spread to you and generate oodles of laughter., Positive people in your life can help you not take yourself too seriously. Having these people, who are often quick to laugh, around you can get the wheel of laughter rolling. Actively seek out individuals and groups who make you laugh whenever you can.Spend less time with friends who are “Debbie Downers.” These types of people find the negative in anything and can bring you down, too. You don’t have to end a friendship like this, but find a balance of spending time with the individual and those who make you laugh and are happy., Doing things you enjoy can invoke laughs. This is especially true if you’re participating with others who also find the funny in what they’re doing. Taking time every week do participate in fun activities, such as laughter yoga, with others can ensure you get more laughter in your life.Some ways to have fun with others include:


Seeing a funny movie and getting dinner with friends
Spending a day at an amusement park with your kids
Playing with your pets
People watching with a friend in a park or restaurant
Trying something new, such as belly dancing, with a group of friends
Try laughter yoga

Visit a laughter club

, Sharing laughs with others is a great way to strengthen your relationship to them and garner more laughter. Text or email funny anecdotes, articles, or videos to your friends whenever you can. If it’s something that made you laugh, it will likely make them laugh. In turn, this can create more laughter and may be a fun inside joke that you can always draw on to relieve any tension.Find a website that has comedy skits, cartoons, or even sweet pictures of animals doing funny things. Some sites that can provide endless laughter include YouTube and FunnyorDie.Funny news stories are also a great way to get and garner laughs. Share articles from sites such as The Onion if you or your friends need a laugh.This can be really useful if you know a friend is having a stressful or bad day.
Send funny photos of yourself, such as baby photos or one of you sticking your tongue out “at” the person.

