 Search in your immediate wilderness area for land features that could act as shelter. These will be the fastest forms of shelter you can make.


Caves or rock outcroppings that hang over your head are simple natural shelters. Build a fire in the entrance to a rock dwelling, to both smoke out any critters living in it and to warm rocks in the fire that you can then put around your body for warmth while sleeping.Look for large fallen trees, which can offer shelter if there is space between the trunk and the ground. Prop branches against either side of the trunk like a tent for more protection. Cover the branches with leaves and brush for more warmth.;
, Build a classic lean-to shelter by first finding two trees that are growing close together, about the height of your own body or slightly longer. Then put a long branch between the trees, or a rope if you have one.


Look for a tree with low “forks” where the trunk or larger boughs branch off from one another. The ideal situation is a tree that forms a “Y” shape with its trunk and branches, where you can simply rest your branch, called a “ridgepole,” into them.
If you cannot find two close trees, you can rest one end of the ridgepole on the ground and the other in or against a tree.
Lay branches at a 45° angle onto the ridgepole on one side. Then cover crosswise with more branches, brush, leaves, snow, etc. until the wall is several inches or even feet thick., Find a tree with a low crook, a sturdy boulder, or a stump to create a small shelter just large enough for your body. Rest one end of a large branch onto the tree, rock, or stump, with the other end on the ground.


Make sure your main branch (ridgepole) is long enough that it will create a space large enough for you to lay down once it is leaned against the tree or rock.
Lay branches at an angle against the ridgepole on both sides. Then cover with smaller branches, leaves, and other brush, laid crosswise on the first branches so they don’t fall through. The thicker the walls the better. Keep a pile of brush outside the entrance that you can use to partially cover the opening once you’re inside.As a fast last-resort shelter, you can also create a debris hut by simply piling debris from the forest floor, then creating a hole in it that’s large enough for your body. Partially cover the entrance once you’re inside to create warmth.