 The best food for a fledgling pigeon is a commercial baby bird formula. These can easily be obtained from a pet food supply store.You can also feed a fledgling pigeon chick crumbles that can be crushed into smaller pieces and mixed with water. These can be purchased at a pet store.
In emergency situations, you can feed a fledgling pigeon dog biscuits that have been crushed and softened by mixing with warm water.
Do not feed a fledgling milk or bread crumbs.;
, Follow the instructions provided on the package in order to prepare the formula for feeding. In most cases you will need to mix the formula with warm water. For young birds you will mix 1 part formula with 6 parts water. As the pigeon ages you will decrease the water content.Do not heat the water or formula in the microwave because this can create hot pockets that will burn the fledgling.
 Most fledgling pigeons receive their food from their parents. In order to mimic this type of feeding, use a syringe to feed to pigeon. Fill a syringe with the formula.A fledgling pigeon should eat approximately 24 ccs of formula, twice a day., Pigeons don’t open their mouths when they want to be fed. As a result, you will need to push the sides of the beak in order to open the mouth. Have someone hold the body of the pigeon while you use your hands to open the mouth and insert the syringe. Gently squeeze out the formula.Stop feeding the pigeon once the crop is full.
The crop is a pocket that hangs on the inside of the chest. When full the chest should feel squishy, like a balloon filled with water., You can feed a fledgling by hand by placing seeds and chick crumble into the bird's mouth. For very young or distressed birds a syringe is easiest, but as the bird ages it will be able to take food from your hand., You should also help encourage a fledgling to begin eating food on its own. Place a few pigeon seeds in the bottom of the cage for the bird to eat. This will help the bird learn to pick up seeds on its own using its beak.Once the fledgling is eating seeds on its own, you can stop feeding it formula with a syringe.

