 Go through your county recorder to find your local Parish Clerk of Court. Either you, your fiance, or both of you need to apply for the marriage license in person before the marriage. Realize that once you get your marriage license, it's valid in any Louisiana parish for 30 days after it was issued. To apply for your license, you'll need to:Be at least 18 years old (if under, you must show parental consent)
Show certified copies of birth certificates
Give proof of social security information (show Social Security Card, W2, military I.D., or driver's license with social security number on it)
Pay $25, though some parishes charge over $32 and only accept cash
Show certified copies of divorce decrees or death certificates, if you were married before
Give the address for you and your fiance
Give the fathers' full names and mothers' full maiden names for you and your fiance, as well as the state in which each parent was born
Give the highest level of education you and your spouse have completed
Wait 3 business days after applying before receiving your license (this can be waived by a district judge or justice of the peace in the county where it was issued);
, Once you've gotten your marriage license and are married, make sure the license is signed by an officially registered minister. You, your spouse, and witnesses will all also need to sign the license. This is the first legal document you'll need to get in order to change your name, so keep any copies you're given after you initially submit your marriage license.


In most parishes, the minister will need to officially file the license with the parish within 10 days following the marriage.At this point, you'll usually be given copies of the completed license.
 If you need a replacement certified copy, go to the clerk of court in the parish where you picked up your marriage licence application and request a copy of the marriage license after your marriage.If you were married in Orleans parish, you can get a copy of your certified license in person, by mail, by fax, by telephone, or online., From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show the certified copy of your marriage license, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your marriage, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name and proof of U.S. citizenship or lawful presence, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply for a new card and you should get it in the mail within 10 business days., Once you've gotten your new Social Security Card, you can change the name on your driver's license. You'll need to go in person to apply, pay the fee, and show the necessary documents. Realize that when you get your new license, it will still have the same expiration date as the old one. To update your license, you'll need:To show an original or certified document that proves your name change (like your marriage license)
Your current LA driver’s license
Proof of your car insurance, if you own a car
$13 payment for the duplicate license fee (You might also have to pay an extra local fee that's no more than $4, depending on where you're applying.)

, After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

