 Curling your eye lashes will make your eyes look bigger and your lashes larger and thicker, without leaving any conspicuous signs that you have done anything to your eyes.In order, to curl your lashes you will need to purchase or borrow a curler.


Pick up the curler as you would a pair of scissors. Open up the curler and bring it to the base of your eyelashes with the curve of the curler facing up and away from your face.
Once the curler is around the base of your eye lash, close it lightly and pulse the grip in and out. Gently twist the curler upward to create the curl in your eye lashes. Hold it there for several seconds, before slowly pull the curler up the length of your lash, gently squeezing in a pulsing action;
, Although many men are shy about doing anything to their eyebrows, it is often important to be proactive with them, especially if they are too large and unruly. Try to find a groomer who has experience working with men—don’t assume that they will be able to handle you, just because they do a good job with your significant other.


Generally you should groom your lashes with tweezers instead of a waxing. Wax will make the lines look too abrupt, sharp, and artificial., Simply taking an eyebrow brush and brushing them upward and outward toward your temples can do a lot.Without using makeup, brushing can still make your lashes look fuller and give them a streamlined appearance., There are a number of popular treatments that require you to place a household edible on top of your eyes for about 10 minutes. Thinly sliced cucumbers or Granny Smith apples will help reduce puffiness around your eyes.Similarly, slices of potato can be used to eliminate dark circles around your eyes.


To ensure that your skin tone around your eyes remains even, do the potato treatment twice a week., Eye drops, which are available at most convenient stores, can be used to eliminate redness from fatigue, allergies, or drugs.


Refrain from using alcohol and drugs, because they can create redness in eyes.
 Eye creams are applied to the skin around the eye. They have many of the same anti-aging qualities that other moisturizers have, but also contain ingredients that rectify conditions specific to the skin around your eyes. They will, for example, help prevent puffiness, while keeping the skin smooth and bright. Like other moisturizers, they will also help suppress the appearance of wrinkles., Eyes often get puffy, sore, or dull because of insufficient sleep. Eight hours is generally a good standard for how much sleep you should aim to get at night, but requirements vary somewhat with age., Vitamins C, E, A, and Zinc all contribute to eye health. For more of these vitamins eat oranges, mangoes, strawberries, carrots, peaches, nuts, seeds, papaya, and spinach. For zinc, eat turkey, chicken, yogurt, and fortified cereals., Water keeps your skin hydrated, healthy, and young looking.Conversely, refrain from drinking too much alcohol. Alcohol will dehydrate you.Hydrating cream can also keep the skin around your eyes looking young, for much the same reason.
 Look after the delicate skin under your eye; don't use drying soap or rub abrasively. Use clean cotton balls and a non-abrasive cleanser to maintain your eyes., To maintain circulation, occasionally massage the skin around your eyes. Do small circles around the inner edge of your eye. Work your way out toward your temples, then down the side of your face to your jaw. Repeat for full effect., Quick-moving eyes can make you seem like you're trying to steal furtive glances. You will appear more confident if you slowly move your eyes in the other person's direction. Furthermore, s/he is likely to notice your eyes moving in that direction, increasing the likelihood that s/he will return your glance.


It is best if s/he has time to respond and look at you before you look at him/her. The other person's investment in you will be greater if s/he believes s/he has initiated contact., Looking people directly in their eyes is one of the most intimate things you can do. Two minutes of looking even a stranger in the eyes has been shown to inspire a feeling of passionate love. However, you should start off slow with someone you don’t know. Look at him/her for three to five seconds before breaking eye contact.Avoid glancing furtively from one eye to the other. Instead look directly center.Focus on people's faces and not their other features.
 As you look the person in the eyes, smile. This is an almost universal sign of flirting and it conveys positive intentions. Try to mean it; a genuine smile activates different muscles in your face than a fake smile, and a genuine smile is generally considered more attractive.Think positive and pleasant thoughts. Your eyes and smile reflect the way you feel.
To convey more emotion with your eyes, try an eyebrow raise while you smile., If s/he doesn’t look back at your or smile, there is a good likelihood that s/he is not interested in you. If s/he does, s/he probably is. After looking away for a bit, return eye contact and see how s/he responds. Go up and say “hello.”

, Maintain eye contact about 80% of the time as you talk. Be sure to look at the other person when s/he talks, so that you seem legitimately interested. Glance away when you make a joke or say something that could be perceived as bragging. Holding contact too closely during this point in the conversation could make it seem as if you are desperate for a reaction and thus not confident.


To keep things interesting while maintaining eye contact, move your head slightly from time to time. Move your chin up and down. Turn your head to the side and glance at him/her out of the corner of your eyes.