 iTunes should start automatically if it's installed, If it's not installed, you will need to download and install the latest version, which can be obtained for free from Apple.
 This window will appear the first time that iTunes detects your new iPod. You will need to accept the terms and conditions, sign in with your Apple ID, and register the iPod. During the registration, uncheck the boxes if you don't want to receive email updates from Apple.
 In the last screen of the Welcome window, you will be able to name your iPod. This name will appear when you plug your iPod in, and is especially useful if you have multiple devices. You will also be able to choose your basic sync settings. You can skip this part if you have specific content that you want synced, as these options will sync your entire library.


Automatically sync songs and videos - Syncs all of your music and video to your iPod. If there is more music than space on your iPod, random songs will be synced until there is no more room.
Automatically add photos - Photos stored on your hard drive will be added to your iPod.
Automatically sync applications - Syncs your apps across all of your devices.
 If you don't want to sync your entire library, you can choose from your albums and playlists to create a more custom sync. Click the "Music" tab and select the "Selected playlists, artists, albums, and genres" option. This will allow you to select what you want synced from the lists below. You can choose playlists that you've created in iTunes, artists, albums, or entire genres.
 If you'd rather only sync certain songs to your iPod, you can override all the sync settings and only sync songs that you select. To do this, click the "Summary" tab and scroll down to the "Options" section. Check the "Sync only checked songs and videos".


Return to your music library by clicking the drop-down menu in the top-left corner. You can then go through your library and uncheck each song you don't want. By default, all of your music is checked, so you will need to uncheck what you don't want to synch.
You can see the remaining space on your iPod at the bottom of the iTunes window.
 After you've set what you want on your iPod, it's time to sync. Click the Sync button in the bottom-right corner to load your iPod up with your newly-configured sync list. Anything that's not on the list will be removed from the iPod.


You can monitor the process of the sync from the bar at the top of the iTunes window.
Once your sync is complete, you can unplug the iPod from the computer.

