 Make sure you soap your hands and forearms well, and rub them together for at least 20 seconds. This is approximately the length of time it takes to sing the familiar song, "Happy Birthday to You" two times. Follow by rinsing well.You'll follow the same routine of washing when you finish removing the catheter.
Dry your hands well with a paper towel, and throw the towel away. This is a good opportunity to make sure that there's a trashcan nearby. You'll need the trashcan for disposing of your catheter.;
, Your bag may have a drain spout that you remove from its sleeve, a clamp that you open to the side, or an opening that you twist. Drain any urine in the bag into a toilet bowl. You may also use a measuring container if your medical provider is keeping track of your output.


When the bag is empty, close the clamp or twist the cap on the bag. This will prevent dripping.
If your urine is cloudy, foul-smelling, or if you notice any sign of red, contact your health care provider.
 You'll need to be uncovered from the waist down. The best position to be in when removing a catheter is to lie on your back with your legs spread and your knees bent, feet flat on the floor.


You can also lay in a butterfly position. Lie down and spread your knees apart while keep your feet together.
Lying on your back will also relax your urethra and bladder, making it easier to remove the catheter.
 It is important to wear gloves so that you lower your risk of getting any infection. Once the gloves are on, use an alcohol wipe to clean the connection spot where the drainage tube connects to the catheter. You should also clean around the catheter.If you are a man, use a saline (saltwater) solution to clean the urethral opening on the penis.
If you are a woman, use a saline solution to clean around the labia and urethral opening. Clean by starting at the urethra and then moving outward to avoid any spread of bacteria.
 The tubing of the catheter will have two ports. One port empties urine into the urinary bag. The other allows you to drain the small water-filled balloon that holds the catheter inside your bladder.


The balloon valve should have a colored valve on the end.
You may also see numbers printed on the balloon valve.
 The small balloon inside your bladder will need to be drained, or deflated, in order to remove the catheter. Your medical provider should have provided you with a small (10 ml) syringe. This syringe should fit precisely into the balloon port. Insert with a firm push-and-twist motion.


Slowly and carefully, pull the syringe away from the port. The vacuum effect will pull water from the balloon in the bladder.
Continue until the syringe is full. This should indicate that the balloon is empty, and ready for removal.
Do not pump any air or liquid back into the balloon as it could burst and injure your bladder.
Always make sure the amount of fluid withdrawn from the balloon port matches the amount of fluid infused prior to attempting removal. If you are unable to withdraw the appropriate amount of fluid seek professional assistance.
 If possible, clamp the catheter tube with artery forceps or a rubber band to keep any urine from flowing out of the catheter while you remove it. Then, gently pull the catheter out of the urethra. It should come out easily.If you feel any resistance, it means that there is most likely still water in the balloon. If this is the case, you will need to put a syringe back into the balloon port and take out any extra water like you did in the previous step.
Men may feel a stinging sensation as the balloon travels down the urethra. This is a normal experience, and not a cause for concern.
 If it seems to have broken or cracked, there may be pieces left inside. If this is the case, contact your medical provider immediately.If this is the case, do not throw the catheter away. Keep it for your medical provider to examine.
These syringes are not considered to be contaminated with biological waste because no bodily fluids are present in this line unless the balloon has burst. These syringes can be disposed of through normal means in a secure, hard plastic container with a lid.
 Once you have removed the catheter, place it into a plastic bag. Seal the bag, then put the sealed bag with your other household trash.Clean up the area where the catheter had been inserted with a saline solution. If there is any sign of pus or blood, contact your health care provider immediately.
Remove your gloves and wash your hands once you are done.
For a pain-relieving effect, you can apply some lidocaine jelly to the area around your urethra.

