 Before you can start washing the window screen, you'll need to remove it from the window. Removing the screen will allow you to completely and easily wash it. Make sure any screen you plan on washing has been removed from the window before you being cleaning it.The exact method you use to remove the screen will depend on the type of window screen you have.
Many window screens will have small tabs that are pulled out, releasing the screen from the window frame.
Make sure you carefully remove the screen as many window screens can be ripped or torn easily.;
, Once you've removed the screen from the window frame, it's time to take it to a good workspace. You'll want to find an area that you will be able to safely spray water in. You'll also want to make sure you have a hose that can reach the area you plan on working in. Once you find a good area to work in, it's time to take the screens there and get ready to clean them.You'll want to make sure you've got plenty of room to work in.
The area you choose should allow you to spray and drain water easily.
You can try laying down a tarp to protect the screen from sharp sticks or stones.
 A good screen cleaning will require you to have a bucket of household ammonia and water ready. Cleaning the screen with this mixture will allow you to break up and remove dirt, dust or any other substance that has come in contact with the screen. Mixing up some ammonia and water will be the last thing you need to do before you start washing the window screen.Mix one part ammonia with three parts water.
If you don't have ammonia handy, you can also use warm water mixed with mild soap.
Make sure you wear rubber gloves when mixing or cleaning with this mixture.
Once you've mixed the ammonia and water together, stir the mixture to evenly distribute both parts.
You could also use mild dish detergent if you don't have ammonia handy.
 To begin cleaning the window screen, you'll want to rinse the screen by spraying it with a garden hose. Spraying the screen will remove most of the surface dirt and dust. Make sure you spray the entire screen before scrubbing it down with the cleaning solution.Start at the top of the screen and work your way down, covering the entire screen with water.
Set your hose to the most gentle setting it has to avoid damaging the screen.
Flip the screen over to make sure you've sprayed both sides.
 After the screen has been rinsed, you can start washing it with the cleaning solution. You'll want to use a soft bristle brush to gently scrub the screen with the cleaning solution, allowing you to break up and remove any troublesome areas of grime or dirt. Scrub the entire screen to make sure you've removed as much dirt as possible.Try to use small, circular scrubbing motions.
Scrub the screen gently. Being too forceful can tear the screen.
Rinse the brush off while you are a cleaning to avoid reapplying dirt to the screen.
Wash both sides of the window screen.
 Scrubbing the screen with a brush and cleaning solution will have broken most of the dirt loose. You can remove leftover dirt and grime by wiping the screen down with a sponge. The sponge will help soak up most of the dirt and excess cleaning solution, leaving the window screen clean and grime free.


Don't forget to wipe down the screen's frame.
Now is a good time to check for any areas that you may have missed.
Wipe down both sides of the screen.
 If you are confident that the screen is as clean as it can be, you can apply the final rinse. Use the hose once more to gently spray the remaining cleaning solution or dirt off of the screen. Make sure you've totally rinsed the screen off before letting it dry and reinstalling it.Do not use a high pressure or high power setting on the hose.
Make sure you have sprayed the entire screen down.
It can be a good idea to rinse the screen on both sides.
 If you are happy with the way the screen looks, you'll want to give it plenty of time to fully dry before installing it again. Try using some of these tips to help you dry the window screens quickly and completely:Wipe the screens down with a dry cloth or towel.
Try gently shaking the screen off to remove some of the extra water.
Lean the screen up against a wall to allow the water to a way to run off.
Try leaving the screen somewhere in direct sunlight to help speed up the drying process.
 Once the screen is dry and you're happy with the way it looks, it's time to put it back in the window frame. Replacing the screen can be done by reversing the steps you took to remove it. Make sure the screen is securely in place to complete your window screen cleaning project., To help your screens continue looking great, you'll want to keep dust and dirt from building up. Giving your window screens a light dusting once a week can cut down on the amount of heavy cleaning you'll need to do. Use these basic steps to keep up with your weekly screen dusting schedule:Grab a vacuum cleaner and a dusting brush attachment.
Use the vacuum cleaner to gently suck up any dirt on the screen.
If you are able to do so, vacuum both sides of the screen.
It's best to work top to bottom when cleaning the screen.
 You won't always need to remove the entire screen from the window to clean it. If you notice a specific spot or area that is dirty, you can mix up some soap and water to clean your screen. Keep some of these tips in mind to spot clean the screen while it's still in the window:Mix some mild soap and warm water in a bucket.
Dip a small sponge into the bucket.
Use the sponge to gently wash the stained area.
If you have to scrub the area, do so gently. Using too much force can easily tear the screen.
Finish by drying the screen with a towel.
 The more often you clean your window screens, the less often you'll need to remove them and do a full cleaning. Try to include window screens in your usual house cleaning routine to help keep them looking like new.