 Whether you call it an introduction, elevator pitch, or speech, it is important to be prepared to talk about yourself in a concise and professional way. This speech must be kept short, no longer than 30 seconds, and highlight the following:


Who you are. For example, “Hi, I’m Jane Doe, Marketing Manager for Company X and recent NYU MBA graduate”.
Explain your experience and value. For example, “I have a passion for marketing and a track record of increasing brand awareness to increase sales by over 40%”.
Tell them why you are there. For example, “I am here today to make some connections and seek new job opportunities”.;
, Whether it is a formal business card from your current employer or a personal business card you have created, it is important to hand a card to everyone you speak to during the event. Leaving your business card helps them remember you and provides them with your contact information in case a job opening is available for you.


If you must create your own business card, keep it professional looking by basing it on company business cards.
Include your name, title or area of expertise, email, and phone number.
 The more people you talk to, the greater the chance you have to find someone that can help you land a job. Networking events are filled with numerous individuals from different backgrounds, companies and industries.


If you speak to only two individuals you are limited to what only those two have to offer.
This leaves you with a slim chance of finding a job that day.
Since you plan to attend an event, plan to make the most of it and talk to as many people as possible.
Once you get out there and start chatting, you will be surprised at how much ground you can cover.
 When entering a networking event, it is important to leave your worries and shyness at the door and step out of your shell. To make a good impression and find good job leads, you must be confident and talk to people!


If you stand in the corner and wait for someone to speak to you, you are wasting your time and may as well go home.
When approaching others don’t forget to do the following:

Make eye contact.
Give firm handshakes.
Say your prepared elevator pitch to let people know who you are and what you can do.
If speaking to a group of people, look at each person periodically while you are talking.
 It is important to walk into the room wearing a smile. Smiling will make you seem more approachable to others.


Smiling will do nothing but help you make a good first impression and sell yourself.
Once you have had a few good conversations it may be easier to smile because you will come to realize that networking can be exciting and interesting.
 If you believe the networking event will be helpful to you, you will stay positive. Even if your connections cannot help you find a job right now, you never know if they can help you in the future.


It is also important to speak positively about your situation.
This means don't talk about how down and out you are and how you are in desperate need for a job.
Stay clear of bad mouthing your current or past employer.
If you draw any negative attention to yourself, your contact will associate you with a negative memory and form a lasting bad impression.
On the other hand, if you were laid off because of a major downsize or company closing it is OK to mention this, but bring it back to a positive situation of you “looking for new opportunities”.
 People love talking about themselves and by asking questions you can learn how they may be able to help you find a job.


For example, by learning about someone’s background you might find out who their previous employer was.
If this employer has a job opening you want to apply to, you may have just found a good connection.
This person may be willing to reach out to a former co-worker and refer your name to give you a greater chance for an interview.
 Listen to each person's elevator pitch and answers to your questions. While listening, make mental notes of how that person may be able to help you in the future.


For example, in speaking to someone you have learned that they plan to expand their company within the next year.
They might not have anything for you now, but if you make a note of this you can contact them in 6 to 9 months to remind them of your conversation and to see if there is an opening for you.
 After speaking to someone, be sure to exchange business cards. This provides each of you with necessary contact information if you choose to use it in the future.


It can also help each of you remember your conversation which can be helpful when new job positions open up.
Without a business card exchange, you may never connect with that person again.
 Speaking in small groups can be a good way to get to know a few people at once. It also allows you to cover more ground during the time you are given to network.


Speaking to a small group follows the same guidelines as speaking to an individual.
However, when speaking to a small group you must be sure to make each individual feel like a part of the conversation by doing the following:

Introduce yourself to each person and offer a firm handshake.
Give a smile to everyone.
Address your elevator pitch to the group.
Make eye contact with each person periodically while you are speaking.
Give other group members time to speak (don’t dominate the conversation).
Listen when other group members are talking.
Ask individual follow-up questions based on their elevator pitches.
Ask questions directed towards the entire group based on the ongoing conversation.
Exchange your business card with each individual.
 As mentioned previously, you must view a networking event as a numbers game and talk to as many people as possible. It is not advised to cut people short, but everyone there does have the same objective.


Once you both feel the conversation is exhausted, be ready to move on.

