 Why did you stop being friends? Did you get into a fight about money, business, or relationships, or did constant bickering drive you apart? Think not only about the fight, but about your place in it. What have you learned since then, and how have you changed? If you don't take the time to at least think about the problems in your friendship, you will not be able to get over them.
 Ask to meet your friend in a public place so that there is no pressure to get personal right off the bat. A cup of coffee, a walk in the park, or drinks after work are all nice, low-key ways to meet someone and test the waters for rekindling a friendship.


Your first meeting should be a chance to talk and catch up, so give yourself time and space to chat.
At this stage you are trying to feel out their emotions and see if you can still be friends. Don't come into the meeting with expectations or an agenda.
 Don't feel like you need to dive into the bad blood between you right off the bat. If they've agreed to meet you, then they want to move on just like you do. Take some time to remember why you were friends in the first place by catching up about work, life, spouses, or hobbies.
 This is often the best way to approach the subject, but it doesn't have to be a bent-knee confession. You can begin with something as simple as "I'm sorry for how I acted last time we hung out." This starts the process of moving past your conflicts and rebuilding your friendship.
 Even if you think your fight was their fault, blaming your friend will only make reconciliation more difficult. Many things may have changed since you last saw each other, and it is unfair to meet with someone just to accuse them. Have a conversation, not an inquisition.
 If there are still hard feelings, don't be afraid to address them. You were friends for a reason, and given the right amount of maturity, there should be no reason why you can't be friends again. Use "I" statements, like: "I felt (this) when (this happened)" or "Looking back, I feel like (this) because of (this)." When you use this method, you're able to express your feelings without accusation, and you let your friend know your true feelings.
 Make a point towards the end of the meeting to set up another time to hang out. While you don't have to have a set date in mind, saying, "it's been great to catch up, I'd love to meet again soon," tells someone that you are serious about rekindling your friendship.
 You do not have to become best friends again the minute you see one another. Work on your issues together, and keep meeting once every few weeks until you feel that your concerns have been addressed. If you feel that you've been wronged, and that your friend is ignoring the conflict or refusing to change, then you may be headed toward another falling-out.


That said: if you feel like you've both moved on and feel comfortable, then don't avoid each other. Congratulate yourself on successfully mending your relationship, and enjoy your rediscovered bond.

