 Pour 1 cup (237 ml) of distilled water into a clean container. If using refrigerated water, allow it to sit out at room temperature until it becomes lukewarm.


You must use purified water. Distilled water is ideal, but if you only have tap water, you should boil it first to remove any potentially harmful bacteria or other additives. Allow boiled water to cool to lukewarm temperatures before use.;
, Add 1/2 tsp (2.5 g) natural salt and 1/2 tsp (2.5 g) baking soda to the purified water. Shake or stir well to combine completely.Only use natural salt, like sea salt, pickling salt, or canning salt. Do not use table salt since it has too many additives that could irritate your sinus passages.
The baking soda is technically optional, and you can exclude it while making the solution if desired. Baking soda enhances the solution's ability to thin mucus, however, making it more effective.
 Use a soft rubber bulb syringe to spray some of the prepared solution directly into your nose.Fill the syringe with your prepared saline solution, then insert the tip of the syringe into your right nostril.
Tilt your head downward over a sink and rotate it to the left. Carefully squeeze the bulb to flush your nostril with the solution, aiming for the back of the head and not the top.
Breathe normally through your mouth. If done correctly, the solution should come out of your left nostril or mouth after several seconds.
Repeat the procedure for the left nostril. When finished, you may gently blow your nose to remove any excess solution.
 Under most circumstances, you should be able to repeat this procedure several times each day until your symptoms subside.


Start by using the solution twice a day, and increase the amount to four times a day if needed. Stop use after seven days to prevent your nasal passages from becoming too dry.
Clean the bulb syringe thoroughly after each use.
You can store homemade saline solution in a covered container kept at room temperature for up to three days.

