 It might sound basic, but you should only apply for a country’s passport if you qualify for one. Confirm that you satisfy the requirements for a passport by visiting your nearest consulate or embassy, where you can ask the staff about the requirements.


Avoid relying on government officials who say they have a “friend” or “contact” who can get you a passport even if you don’t qualify.These scams typically involve bribing a government official, which is illegal. Although the passport may be legitimate, the methods used to obtain it are not.
These type of “grey market” passports are very popular in Bulgaria, Cambodia, Mexico, and Paraguay.;
, A common fraud is to use the identity of a dead person to obtain a passport. You should never accept a passport that doesn’t contain your name and correct personal information.


Also avoid applying for a passport where you are encouraged to provide fake documents, such as a fake birth certificate., It is a major red flag if a government official tells you something that contradicts the laws of the nation.This person is lying to you and probably trying to scam you.


Common scams involve economic citizenship programs. In many countries, you can become a citizen if you invest a certain amount of money to start a business in the country. However, these programs should be public knowledge. Avoid someone who hypes an economic citizenship program you can’t find any information about.
The cheapest economic citizenship programs run about $100,000 per person and have five-figure fees. It also takes several months to be accepted by the program. If someone promises lower fees or faster processing, then recognize you are being scammed.
You can ask about economic citizenship programs—and all other immigration laws—by visiting your nearest embassy or consulate.
 Most countries have a rigorous application process for becoming a naturalized citizen. You typically must spend a certain amount of time in the country and undergo a background check. If the application process seems easy, then it may be a scam.When in doubt, talk to an immigration attorney who can confirm that the application process is legitimate.
In the United States, you can obtain a referral to an immigration attorney by contacting your nearest bar association, which you can find here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
In other countries, you can find a qualified attorney by visiting your country’s consulate or embassy. For example, a U.K. citizen in Thailand should find the U.K. embassy.
 You should renew a passport through the government office that issued your passport. Only work through them. Another common scam is for third parties to advertise that they can expedite the renewal process in as little as 24 hours.Many of these scammers advertise through Google Adwords, so you’ll probably see their names at the top of the results page.
As part of the scam, they usually have you fill out detailed forms that ask for personal information. Scammers then use this information.
These scam websites typically do not list a physical address and have 800 telephone numbers which no one picks up.
 Only a few countries recognize a world passport. To obtain this passport, you fill out an application and pay a fee.The U.S. does not recognize the world passport, so don’t buy one expecting to gain admission into the U.S.
At various points in time, only a few countries have recognized the world passport. These countries have included Tanzania, Burkina Faso, and Zambia. It’s not clear these countries would accept the world passport today.
Avoid the world passport at all costs. Instead, seek a legitimate passport from a country where you are a legally-recognized citizen.
 A common scam is for someone claiming to be a government official to stop you and ask for your passport. They then try to extort money from you before giving it back. Some thieves will dress up in uniforms that resemble the police or other officials. Don’t assume that because someone looks official that they are.


You should confirm that they are an actual government official before handing your passport over.Avoid handing your passport over, if possible. Pretend not to understand what the person is saying.
Fake confusion. Say, “huh?” and raise your hands. Scammers will move on to easier targets if you pretend not to know what they are saying.
 You only need to hand over your passport in a few situations—crossing the border, boarding an international flight, etc. However, in other situations, someone will want to see your passport to confirm personal information, such as your name. You should make a copy of the personal details page of your passport for these situations.


Make the copy about the size of a credit card and laminate it. The lamination will protect the copy from water or other damage.Carry the photocopy with you. It works just as well at hotels and other places. If you lose the photocopy, then you can make another.
 Avoid handing over your passport in secluded areas. Instead, have the police officer or other government official take you to their office or the police station. Turn over your passport there.A police officer should have no problem taking you to the station if they have a legitimate reason for needing to see your passport.
Instead of showing your real passport, show your laminated photocopy. If they insist on seeing the original, insist on being taken to the police station.
 Find a safe, dry place to store your passport when you are home.For example, store it in a home safe or safety deposit box where it will be safe from fire or water damage—and thieves.


When travelling, store your passport in the safe at your hotel room.If your hotel room doesn’t have a safe, ask the concierge if they can lock it in the hotel safe. Alternately, you could lock it in your luggage and then lock the luggage to an immovable piece of furniture like the bed., Avoid carrying the passport in your back pocket or leaving it otherwise exposed in your backpack. It will be a tempting target for thieves.Instead, carry the passport in in your money belt.


You can also carry it in any place that is zipped up and out of sight. For example, zip it in an inner jacket pocket.
If you want to carry your passport in a purse, then wear the purse across your body, which makes the purse harder to steal.Don’t simply sling it over your shoulder, where a thief can pull it off.
Every adult should carry their own passport. This makes it harder to steal them all at once.
 If you ever do lose your passport, you’ll want to retrieve a digital copy to prove your identity. Scan the passport and store it online.For example, you can email the digital copy as an attachment to an online-based email account, like Yahoo or Gmail, which you can access from anywhere.


While scanning your passport, you should also scan other critical travel documents, such as a long-term visa.
You can also send a scanned version to a friend or family member, who can retrieve it if necessary.
 If you are travelling, then contact local law enforcement if someone posing as an official tries to steal your passport. Have a ready description of what the person looked like and other identifying information, such as the name they used.
 The State Department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security investigates the fraudulent acquisition, issuance, and use of U.S. passports.If someone tries to sell you a fake U.S. passport, then report them. Use the Consular Affairs “Contact Us” webpage, available here: https://register.state.gov/contactus/contactusform.


If the scam involved the Internet, then report to the Federal Bureau of Investigations at http://www.ic3.gov.
If the scammer used a certain website, then contact that website’s administrator.
 The Identity and Passport Service will investigate passport application fraud. You can reach them at 0300 222 0000 Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 8:00 pm.Report anyone selling fraudulent U.K. passports.


On weekends and holidays, the hours of operation are 9:00 am to 5:30 pm.
 If your passport is stolen in Canada, then contact your local police and the Passport Canada office. You can call the Passport Canada Office toll free at 1-800-567-6868.If you were outside Canada when the theft occurred, then contact your nearest Canadian government office abroad.You can find your nearest office abroad by visiting https://travel.gc.ca/assistance/embassies-consulates. Click on the country where you are located.
 You should report suspected fraud to the Australian Passport Office. They can be reached in the following ways:Call the Australian Passport Information Service on 131 232.
Email the office at passports.fraud@dfat.gov.au.
If overseas, contact an Australian diplomatic mission or consulate. View a complete listing at http://dfat.gov.au/about-us/our-locations/missions/pages/our-embassies-and-consulates-overseas.aspx.

