 Chain link-fence will be the easiest and most convenient to use. You can select the height and length of fence you’d like to purchase—buy enough to match the size dimensions that you’ve decided on for the crate. You should be able to purchase readymade wall and door sections at your local hardware or home-center store; this will be easier to assemble than fencing material from a spool.Plan for the fencing to be at least 4 feet high, so that your dog will not leap out of the crate. You can also purchase a readymade top to affix to the top of the crate—this should guarantee that the dog will not escape.
 Assuming that this dog crate will be installed outside, flagstone and pea gravel are popular options.Choose which you would like to use, and purchase the material at a hardware or gardening supply store.

If you decide to bring a chain-link dog crate inside, you could affix the bottom of the fencing material to a large piece of plywood that has been cut to the dimensions of the crate.
 Depending on the type and amount of fencing material you purchased, you’ll need to assemble the premade wall and door segments as directed by the manufacturer. Locate the crate in your backyard or other outdoor area near to your house. If you choose to locate the crate inside your house, set it on a surface—such as concrete or cement—that will not be damaged by the steel wires.

Chain-link crates are typically installed outside. Consequently, in order to prevent dogs from digging out under the chain link, you may need to dig down and bury the bottom edge of the crate fence about a foot deep., If the dog is going to be spending substantial amounts of time in its crate outside—especially if you live in a region with extreme high or low temperatures—you may want to install some material to protect your dog from the sun or inclement weather.Even setting plywood up against the edges of the crate will keep wind from coming in, and placing a couple sheets of plywood on the top of the crate will prevent sun and rain from hitting the dog.

