 You can also make planned gifts to EFF as part of your estate plan. However, you should work closely with an estate attorney to understand the consequences of making the gift. Only a qualified attorney can provide personalized legal advice.


You can find an estate attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral. You can find your nearest bar association here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
Also see Select an Estate Planning Attorney for more information.
 With a trust, you sign over title to assets to a legal entity (the trust), which is run by a trustee. There are many trusts you could create to benefit EFF. You should talk about the following with your estate attorney:Charitable lead trust. You can donate assets to a trust, which then pays income from the assets to EFF. When the trust period ends, you or your beneficiaries retain the assets.
Charitable remainder annuity trust. You can donate assets to the trust and receive annual income of at least 5% of the amount donated. You should donate at least $250,000. At your death, the assets pass to EFF.
Charitable remainder unitrust. This trust pays a fixed percentage based on the fair market value of the assets in the trust, which can fluctuate depending on market conditions. You should donate at least $250,000. At your death, the assets pass to EFF.
 You can give cash, real estate, securities, and business interests through your will to EFF. In your will, you will want to use the following language:“I bequeath to the Electronic Frontier Foundation, 815 Eddy Street, San Francisco, California 94109, the sum of dollars for its general purposes.”

, You can donate a life insurance policy to EFF or name them as a beneficiary under your policy. If you give the life insurance policy outright, you receive a tax deduction in return., You can select EFF to be a beneficiary of your 401(k), 403(b), IRA, Qualified Pension Plan, or Qualified Profit-Sharing Plan. Contact your plan administrator to complete a form., If you name EFF as a beneficiary on your financial accounts, your estate will receive a charitable deduction upon your death. You can name EFF as a beneficiary to the following accounts:bank account
brokerage account
mutual fund account
certificate of deposit

