 The guidelines might be extensive or just a few lines. In either case, universities expect students to follow instructions carefully and comply with the requests for information.


Pay attention to the required word count, character limits and line spacing instructions. Some public health programs sort through large numbers of applications. Make a good first impression by complying with the length and formatting requirements.;
, Avoid simply repeating the details of your resume in list format. The statement must be an accurate reflection of how you communicate and organize your thoughts.
 Many universities expect you to explain why you have chosen their public health program and how well the topics offered align with your future goals in the field. Identify and address the specific public health issues and populations that are of interest to you.
 If your prior degree(s) focused on public health, then mentioning this fact and why you chose the major is an automatic indication of your strong interest in the field. In the case of an undergraduate degree in another field, explain at what point your interest in public health became apparent. A public health concern, an inspiring book or an encounter with someone influential in the field may have been possible catalysts.
 This is a summary of the types of work you have done in the field and in what ways the work has inspired you to further your academic pursuits. Elaborate on how the coupling of your past professional experiences and graduate program courses will help you to contribute effectively to the field.
 Some public health programs want to know about your personal characteristics. They might ask you to address your strengths and weaknesses as they pertain to the field of public health. A person who is compassionate, diligent and/or reliable might explain how these strengths will serve others. Weaknesses or disadvantages also can be addressed, if necessary, explaining relevant life lessons or how a particular failure has led to greater motivation to solve difficult problems or help others.
 The field of public health requires a concern for the health of others. An effective letter demonstrates intellectual curiosity, public health knowledge and a consideration for humanity.

