 One of the easiest ways to change the font in a PDF is to use Acrobat XI. This program is not available for free, but it is the most powerful PDF editor available.


You cannot edit PDFs with the free Reader program.;
, This can be toggled by clicking the Tools button in the upper-right corner of the editing window. This will open a frame on the right side of the window. Select the Content category, and then select Edit Document Text.


In Acrobat 9 and earlier, you need to click the Tools menu, then select Advanced Editing. From the new menu, select TouchUp Text Tool.
 Use your mouse to highlight the text that you want to edit. A box will appear around the section of text that you are highlighting.


If the box does not appear around the text, open the Recognize Text category in the Tools menu and then select In This File.
 Select properties from the right-click menu. This will open the TouchUp Properties window.
 Use the dropdown menu at the top of the Properties window to choose a new font. You’ll be able to see the change to your selected text immediately.You’ll need to change the font in order to edit text with a font that isn’t installed on your system.
 Once you’ve changed the font, you may notice that it doesn’t quite look or fit right. You can use the dropdown menus to adjust various aspects of the font to get it set correctly.


Font Size – This will change the size of the font, much like any word processor.
Character Spacing – This is the amount of space between each character in a word. If your words are too squished and hard to read, increase the character spacing.
Word Spacing – This is the amount of space between words. If your sentences seem to be made of one long word, increase the word spacing to add more space between each word.
Horizontal Scaling – To stretch or shrink the selected text horizontally, select a scaling value from the Horizontal Scaling drop-down list.
Fill – To change the font color of the selected text, select a fill color from the Fill drop-down menu.
Stroke – To give the selected text a paintbrush effect, select a stroke color from the Stroke dropdown menu, and select a stroke width from the Stroke Width dropdown list.
 Select the Embed check box. Embedding the font within the PDF file prevents font substitution on a user's computer, if the user does not have the font installed. Not all fonts can be embedded in a PDF file and the status of a selected font can be viewed in the Permissions section.


To reduce the file size of an embedded file, select the Subset check box to embed only those characters of the font that are used in the document.
 Once you are satisfied with your changes, you can save the file. If you don’t want to overwrite the original, select Save As.

