 The best thing you can do for your back and legs is to get up and walk around every hour or so when you're on a long flight. This will improve your circulation and keep you from getting stiff sitting in the same position.Even with the best posture, sitting for long periods of time puts a lot of stress on the spine. Look over the cabin and see if there's room where you can pace or do some quick stretches periodically. Otherwise you can just walk up and down the aisle.
If you're at higher risk for deep vein thrombosis, you want to get up and walk around the cabin every 15 or 20 minutes on flights lasting three hours or more.People who have had DVTs in the past are at an even higher risk of getting one again.
 Particularly on long flights, airplane seats can put significant stress on your back and neck if you're not sitting correctly. Bring along travel pillows to support your back and neck, especially if you plan to spend part of the flight sleeping.You can buy an inexpensive travel pillow before you leave at most discount or department stores. If you wait until you get to the airport, you'll pay significantly more for it.
When sitting in your seat, your knees should be at right angles when your feet are flat on the floor. This alleviates some of the pressure on your spine. If yours are not, see if you can get a pillow or a blanket to put under your knees to correct the angle.
 A simple seated twist can relax your spine on long flights, helping to prevent back pain and stiffness. You may not have room to do this on particularly crowded flights, unless you take advantage of a moment when someone in your row has gotten up.To perform the seated twist, simply grab the seat's armrest with both hands and gently twist your torso to the side toward your hands.
As you twist, keep your hips and lower body facing forward, twisting only your back. Your back should be flat and neutral.
Hold the twist, breathing deeply, then slowly release and repeat the motion on the other side. Don't twist any further than is comfortable, and don't try to force your body to twist more deeply than is natural.
 The malasana pose is another yoga pose that works well to stretch your hips and legs, as well as ease the tension in your lower back following a long flight. This also is a good grounding pose if you need to calm yourself after the anxiety of travel.You can do this pose anywhere, just make sure you're out of the way where people won't trip over you.
Stand with your feet about hip-width apart, your toes turned out slightly. Lower your hips into a squat, then go further, bending your legs so that your knees are pointed toward the ceiling and your calves touch the backs of your thighs.
You can brace your upper arms on the insides of your knees and bring your palms together in front of your chest, remaining upright, and breathe deeply.
You also can take this pose further by leaning all the way forward with a flat back. Rest your hands against your feet and breathe deeply, feeling the stretch in your hips and back.

