 For example, say or think, "I invite the light" or be more specific as relates to your beliefs. "I invite the light of the Holy Spirit" or the "Divine Mother". Allowing this begins the transformation/forgiveness.;
, Do this as often as that feeling occurs throughout the day. Notice any small changes. Go about your usual activities. Eventually these darker feelings will be reformed into feelings of joy, happiness, compassion and exhilaration. Just be easy and allow the change. Most importantly, recognize your hand in this change. This recognition grows confidence and a faith in this practice based on your actual, personal experience. It is experiential faith. You may call the light and send the light to others, to future events, and even to the memory of past events. Past/Present/Future is a continuum. Sending light to past events may transform your feelings and relationships in present time. Sending light to future events may create a more harmonious time. When sending light to a past or future event, be somewhat specific and name the date or event.
 We may send light daily to those we love, by name, and even our pets. Reminder: spiritual light is available 24/7.
 When in a relaxed moment or at bedtime make some notes on a small disposable notepad (not a journal). Write down anything that concerns the mind or needs to be eased, transformed or enhanced. This may be seemingly little or silly stuff as well as your dreams and visions. Remember, if it is important to you...it is important! Keep each one short and have the intention of sending light to each idea or concern. The next day review these jottings and note any progress (even the slightest progress...is progress.) Then discard the note or at least file it away and express thanks. This process helps you to see changes that you initiated without continually going over the problems as you might with a journal. It keeps you more in the present. It is powerful and practical.
 Meditation is a vehicle for light. Otherwise, when simply enjoying some silence, send light throughout your physical being. Sit back or lie down and imagine the light flowing through every limb of your body, one by one clearing away all negative feelings and blockages, and replacing it with a spiritual intensity. This not only aids with removing negative sensations, but also can aid in healing and health promotion.

