 Both state and federal laws determine the minimum hourly rate employees must be paid. These laws are known as “minimum wage” laws. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), the hourly minimum wage for an employee is $7.25. Many states, however, have higher minimum wages that take precedence. For a complete listing of state minimum- wage laws, click here.


Federal and state laws also regulate how overtime pay is calculated. If you live in a state where federal and state laws differ, the higher standard applies. Under the FLSA, eligible employees must be paid overtime for hours worked in excess of 40 in any given work week. The overtime pay, known as “premium pay,” must be at least 1.5 times your regular rate of pay. For example, if your regular rate of pay is $9.00 an hour, then your premium pay must be at least $13.50 an hour.
In many states, you can earn premium pay if you work more than eight hours in a day. You can also earn double pay if you work more than 12 hours in a day. Furthermore, some states (like California) award premium pay if you work seven straight days. On the seventh day the employee receives premium pay for the first eight hours worked on this day and then receives double their rate of pay for hours in excess of eight on the seventh day. , Both state and federal laws exempt certain employees from minimum-wage and overtime pay requirements. For example, employees at seasonal amusement or recreation establishments are exempt from both minimum-wage and overtime laws. People who work in executive, administrative, or professional positions are also exempt. To view a list of exempt employees, check here.
Contrary to popular opinion, you are not exempt from overtime rules simply because you are paid a salary. Salaried employees are exempted from overtime laws only if they are paid a salary of at least $455 a week and perform the duties of an exempt employee. , Once you understand your state’s laws, you can calculate your premium pay. For example, if you live in a state that follows the FLSA, you will receive 1.5 times your regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess of 40 in a work week. For example, if you work 44 hours in a work week, 40 of those hours are paid at your regular rate ($7.25 x 40 = $290.00). The additional four hours are paid at a rate of 1.5 times your regular rate of pay, so multiply those hours (four) by your regular rate ($7.25) and again by 1.5. In this example you earned an additional $43.50 in overtime.


If your state mandates overtime pay for hours in excess of eight a day, you can calculate the overtime. For example, you may work four eight-hour days and two ten-hour days in a week. You will earn premium pay for those extra hours. Accordingly, calculate your regular rate of pay for the 32 regular hours you worked: $9.00 x 32 = $288.00. Then, calculate your premium pay for the additional four hours: $9.00 x 4 x 1.5 = $54.00.
 If your employer does not pay you at least a minimum wage or the required overtime wages, you can file a complaint with your state’s labor office. To view a listing, click here.


Your state office may have complaint forms online. To view Missouri’s, click here.
If you live in a state that does not have its own labor agency, you may file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage-and-Hour Division. You can file a complaint by visiting your local office or by calling the toll-free helpline at 1-866-487-9243. , You will need the following information to help you file a complaint with the Department of Labor: your name, address, and phone number
the name of the company you work for
the location of the company (this may be different from the location where you work)
the company’s phone number
the name of the manager or owner
the type of work you do
how and when you are paid (copies of pay stubs would be helpful)

