 Lozenges that contain Lactobacillus reuteri Prodentis a "friendly" bacteria that lives in the intestines, are being touted as an effective treatment for gingivitis because of their ability to help restore the natural balance of the mouth after you use oral antiseptics and mouthwashes and gels that contain anti-bacterials.
 Co-enzyme Q10(also known as ubiquinone) is a vitamin-like substance that helps the body convert sugars and fat into energy. According to the Mayo Clinic, early studies suggest CoQ10 taken by mouth or placed on the skin or gums may aid in the treatment of periodontitis., With the exception of prescription mouthwash, the Listerine formula has been shown to be one of the most effective mouthwash formulas for reducing plaque and gingivitis. It's recommended that you use it for 30 seconds twice a day, but always dilute it 50/50 with plain water.
While the essential oils that make up this solution can cause a burning sensation in the mouth, people often adjust to it after a few days of regular use.
 Try incorporating the use of a spray containing chlorhexidine (CHX), a powerful anti-bacterial with plaque-inhibiting properties, in your dental care routine. One study on elderly patients, a group at risk for periodontal disease, found that a once-daily application of a 0.2% CHX spray reduced plaque accumulation and inflammation caused by gingivitis., This product contains hyaluronic acid, a natural substance found in the connective tissues of the body. Research has shown that hyaluronate has anti-inflammatory, antiedematous and anti-bacterial properties that are effective in the treatment of gingivitis and periodontitis.When Gengigel is applied to gums, it stimulates the production of healthy new tissue. In trials at the University of Rostock, Germany, scientists found it can boost tissue healing by up to a half, increase blood supply, and reduce inflammation., Tea tree oil kills bacteria. Dental plaque is a bacteria. Thus, tea tree oil toothpaste can help get rid plaque and ease gum pain.


You can also add a drop of tea tree oil to your regular toothpaste every time you brush. If you use a tea tree oil extract, be sure not to swallow it, as it can cause stomach irritations, including diarrhea.