 EMTs work in hospitals, police or fire departments, or for private emergency care providers. They are dispatched to the scene of emergency situations by 911 operators. Upon arrival at the scene, EMTs have the following responsibilities:


Assess the situation. EMTs evaluate and make a clear record of the patient's physical state.
Determine whether the patient has pre-existing conditions. This is an important step that EMTs must take before treating the patient.
Administer CPR and First Aid, when necessary. EMTs are trained to know how to respond appropriately to a huge range of medical emergencies, from premature labor to poisonings to burns.
Transport the patient to the hospital. Using a stretcher and other emergency equipment, EMTs safely transport the patient from the scene of the emergency to the hospital. EMTs typically work in teams of two, with one EMT driving the ambulance and the other monitoring the patient's vital signs.
Transfer the patient to the hospital's care. At the hospital, the EMT assists with transferring the patient to the emergency room. The EMT provides a detailed report of the patient's condition to the hospital staff.
If necessary, provide additional medical treatment.
 There's no predicting when an emergency will occur, and EMTs provide service twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. EMTs are usually "on call" for a total of 40 - 50 hours a week.


In addition to being willing to work nights, EMTs also must be flexible enough to take on weekend and holiday hours.
EMTs often have to perform heavy lifting and other physically challenging tasks.
EMTs must be comfortable working in a range of settings, both inside and outside, and in all types of weather.
EMTs have to be ready to encounter dangerous situations, such as responding to an accident on an icy road.
 EMTs are usually the first professionals to interact with patients at emergency scenes. In addition to administering life-saving medical care, they must interact with family members and witnesses who may be very emotional. Know your capacity for handling extreme stress and holding up under pressure before pursuing a career as an EMT.

