 If you intend to create a wireless network using your computer's wireless adapter, you'll need to be connected to the network via Ethernet. You can't use the same wireless connection to both connect to your network and create a new hotspot.If you are using a computer without an Ethernet port, such as some laptops, you may need to use a USB Ethernet adapter.
 If you're using a laptop, you're pretty much guaranteed to have one. If you're using a desktop, you may need to install a wireless card or use a wireless USB adapter.


Press ⊞ Win, type ncpa.cpl, and then press ↵ Enter. This will open the Network Connections window. If you have a connection labeled "Wireless Network Connection" or "Wi-Fi," you have a wireless adapter installed.
 This is a free, open-source program that allows you to easily configure your wireless adapter to become a wireless hotspot. You can download it for free from virtualrouter.codeplex.com.


Double-click the downloaded file in your Downloads folder to start the installer. Follow the prompts to install Virtual Router. You can leave the installation settings at their default.
Do not download a program called "Virtual Router Plus." This program will install adware during the installation process that you cannot disable. Only download Virtual Router from virtualrouter.codeplex.com.
 You can find Virtual Router Manager in your Start menu or screen in the All Apps/All Programs section.


If everything in Virtual Router is grayed out, you may need to update your network card drivers. Press ⊞ Win and type devmgmt.msc to open the Device Manager. Expand the "Network adapters" section, then right-click on your wireless adapter. Select "Update Driver Software" and then click "Search automatically for updated driver software." Follow the prompts to install any available updates.
 This name will be broadcast, and will appear on your mobile device's list of available networks. Make sure it doesn't include any personal information.
 A password is required in order to create the hotspot. You'll be prompted for this password when you attempt to connect to the new hotspot.
 If you're connected to your network via Ethernet, this will say either "Ethernet" or "Local Area Connection."

, This will begin broadcasting your new wireless hotspot, which will share internet from your computer's Ethernet connection.
 You'll be able to find your new wireless network in the list of available wireless networks on your mobile device. Connect to it just like you would any other wireless network.


Android - Open the Settings and and select "Wi-Fi." Tap your new connection and then enter the password.
iOS - Tap the Settings app on your Home screen. Tap "Wi-Fi" and then select the new network. Enter the password when prompted.

