 Again, it’s always best to consult instructions for a particular instrument rather than instructions that If it did, study the chart to see which holes you have to cover to produce a specific note.
 Just like with a four-hole ocarina, the only way you’ll find any success playing this instrument is by memorizing how to produce a specific note. You need a labeling system — but this time, for six holes.









Put the ocarina’s mouthpiece in your mouth as though you were going to play it and look at the positioning of the holes on the top of the instrument from this perspective.
In your mind, label the top left hole “1,” the top right “2,” the bottom left “3,” and the bottom right “4.”
Then imagine the holes on the bottom of the instrument, which can be covered with your thumbs. Label the one on the left “5” and the one on the right “6.”
Drill those hole positions into your head so that you can easily read these instructions for how to play scales.
An “x” will be used to symbolize an open hole, meaning you should not cover that hole with your finger.
 Even though the six-hole ocarina has two extra holes on the back, it uses the same basic system as the four-hole ocarina. The significant difference is that to produce the notes from the four-hole instrument, you must cover the two holes on the bottom while following the same pattern in the top four holes. Memorize this scale progression, beginning slowly again and focusing on familiarizing yourself with the notes. Use the following finger patterns to work through the scales:









Middle C: 1 2 3 4 5 6
D: 1 X 3 4 5 6
E: 1 2 3 X 5 6
F: 1 X 3 X 5 6
F# (Gb): X 2 3 4 5 6
G: X X 3 4 5 6
G# (Ab): X 2 3 X 5 6
A: X X 3 X 5 6
A# (Bb): X X X 4 5 6
B: X 2 X X 5 6
C: XXXX 5 6

, These holes raise the basic notes from the previous step by one step (a semitone) or by two steps (a tone). To raise a note by one step, begin with the fingering for the lower note as on a four-hole instrument, but cover hole 5 covered and leave 6 open. To raise a note by two steps, start again with the fingering for the lower note on a four-hole instrument, with hole 5 open and 6 covered.









A semitone raises a note to the next one up in the chromatic scale, eg: C→C#, Ab→A, E→F.
A tone raises it up two steps in the same scale, eg: C→D, Ab→Bb, E→F#.
For example, to play a C#, you would position holes 1-4 for a C (XXXX), then move up one step by covering hole 5: X X X X 5 X.
To easily move from a C to a D without having to move all of your fingers around, you would begin with a C (XXXX56) then move up two steps by covering hole 6: X X X X X 6.
This is a much easier transition for your fingers than XXXX56 to 1X3456.
 The best thing you can do to become a proficient ocarina player is to be able to move up and down your scales. There are two things you want to focus on during this practice: 1) memorizing the notes produced by your finger patterns and 2) speed. The better you get at those two things, the more you’ll be able to enjoy the actual music you’re playing.









A scale of C progresses thusly: C-D-E-F-G-A-B-C.
Practice it going up (ascending) and down (descending). This is the basis for many pieces you will play.
 Everyone knows what musical notes look like, but being able to decode them into an actual song might be beyond your grasp. Although many people take lessons with professional teachers to learn musical notations, you can find many places online where you can learn how to read music for free. Once you can read music, you’ll be able to play along with the melodies to your favorite songs with your ocarina.









You can find sheet music for your favorite songs either by purchasing books or by searching online.

