 You may be unknowingly exposing yourself to geopathic stress. There may be a disturbance underneath your bed, your dining room table, your bathtub, or your your favorite chair. If you have identified a potential trouble spot, rearrange your furniture to avoid spending too much time over or near the point.


It may be that the disturbance covers a large area. If you can’t re-position your bed or other furniture away from the stress lines, you will have to consider other options, like tools to neutralize the disturbance or to enhance your own energy field.
 The traditional Chinese art of Feng Shui studies the interaction of humans with their environment. Taken further, Feng Shui can allow you to influence these interacting energies to improve your life. Find out more about its principles and apply them to your living space.


While the idea lacks a basis in science,some people think that Feng Shui can specifically address geopathic stress. This is because they see the Earth’s resonance as the unifying force between Heaven’s chi (virtual) and Earth’s chi (actual). The Schumann Resonance, they think, allows feng shui remedies to work better.
 A popular and simple method is to place metal rods at strategic points in your home or anywhere you suspect a geopathic disturbance in order to block or neutralize the distorted flow of energy. These points should be verified by dowsing. To make the method work, you’ll also have to know the flow of the earth lines.The rods can be copper, brass, or steel. Some people also feel that they can use other objects to redirect the flow of the Earth’s energy, and resolve disturbances. Called “earth acupuncture,” this method involves placing things like leaves, crystals, flowers, or shells at strategic points., Some people think that oak trees mysteriously developed a natural resistance to geopathic stress. In particular, the bark of the cork oak is believed to be effective as a barrier. Try placing cork tiles under your affected bed, for example, to absorb the geopathic chaos.You should be able to do this on your own.


Be aware that a cork barrier is not a permanent solution. You have only made a barrier. The basic energy disturbance is still there and will have to be resolved.
 Buy a new crystal to shield yourself. Some people feel strongly about the healing and protective qualities of crystals, which they say protect you from geopathic stresses but also, through energy resonances in your own body and negative ions, can stimulate your immune system and change toxic energies into beneficial ones.Quartz or shungite crystals work great. Amethyst, zeolite, and tourmaline are great at generating negative ions from moisture in the air. Make sure to wear your crystal at all times.
 The world is filled with sources of electromagnetic pollution that can magnify geopathic stress. High tension power lines, satellite towers, electric poles, or circuit breakers all send out high and low frequency energy that may increase geopathic stress, as can everyday items like microwaves, cell phones, and wireless routers. Minimize your exposure to such devices.For instance, get rid of unneeded appliances. If you can’t, keep them unplugged when not in use.

