 You may be forgetting to brush your teeth because you have an aversion to it. If brushing your teeth hurts or gums or overwhelms your senses, you may let yourself "forget" more than otherwise. Do everything you can to make brushing a comfortable act. Get a toothbrush that you like.If you are frustrated with the time brushing takes, try setting a timer or playing a song of a certain length while you brush.
If your gums are sensitive, try an electronic toothbrush, or a soft toothbrush. However, also make sure you visit a dentist or a periodontist to teach you the proper brushing technique.
Get a kind of toothpaste that smells and tastes good to you. Pick a flavor you like, or choose an unscented, neutral toothpaste.
Create a pleasant tooth cleaning environment. Listen to music while you brush your teeth. Wear slippers if your feet are cold.
Ask yourself "do I like being in the bathroom?" If you share your bathroom, if it's dirty, or if you don't like looking at yourself in the mirror, you may be avoiding it. Find another place to brush your teeth, or make improvements to your bathroom.
 If you tend to do a lot of activities in bed before you fall asleep, you may fall asleep where you are. Brush your teeth before you get into bed. You may not be a morning person, and may wake up too groggy to remember to brush. Set a reminder, or brush every day after breakfast or lunch.


If you work or hang out until late and come home exhausted, either set a reminder or bring a toothbrush and toothpaste with you and brush as soon as you are done with food and drink. Even if you are in a hurry for work after breakfast, never brush your teeth in a rush because it can do a lot of harm to your gums and teeth. Take the toothbrush and the toothpaste with you and brush before entering your office.
If your routine is making it impossible for you to complete basic acts of self-care, consider making larger changes.
 It may be hard to remember to care for yourself when you are feeling depressed, anxious, or demoralized. Remind yourself that anything you can do to take care of yourself will help your mood, albeit slightly. Take care of all parts of your body: brush your teeth, eat three solid meals a day, move around, and get a full night's sleep. Spend time with people you love, and get counseling if you are feeling stuck.Frame your acts of self-care as self-love. Say "I deserve clean teeth," or "everything I do for myself is worth doing."

