 If you'd like, you can sprinkle caster or superfine sugar inside the baking dish when you are done.;
, Cut the crusts off of the bread first, then spread the softened butter over one side of each slice. Cut each slice twice of bread to make four triangles.
 Do not overlap or squish the bread slices together. You will have lots of bread left over, which you will be using for other layers.
 If you do not like sultanas, or can't find any, you can use another type of dried fruit, such as raisins.
 Make sure that you are always putting the bread down with the buttered side facing up. You last layer should be only bread—no sultanas or cinnamon.
 Pour the milk and cream into a small saucepan, then stir them together to combine them. Place the saucepan on the stove, and turn the heat up to low. Do not let the milk and cream come to a boil. While the milk and cream are heating, you can prepare your egg mixture.
 Crack the two eggs into a bowl, then add part of the sugar; save the rest of the sugar for later. Beat the eggs and sugar together with a whisk until they turn pale. The yolks and whites should be completely blended together.
 Do not pour it too quickly, or you will risk cooking the eggs. Stir everything together with a whisk while you pour. This is now your custard base.
 The strainer will catch any cooked bits of egg. Discard anything caught in the strainer.
 Make sure that you pour the custard base evenly over the bread, so that everything gets soaked. You can use as much or as little nutmeg as you'd like.
 This gives the bread enough time to soak up the custard, and for the different flavors to blend together.
 Preheat your oven to 355°F (180°C) first. Then, place the pudding into the oven, and let it bake for 30 to 40 minutes. The pudding is ready when the custard thickens and the top turns a golden-brown color., Once the pudding is done, use potholders to take the baking dish out of the oven. Set the dish down on a heat-safe surface, and wait a few minutes for the pudding to cool.

