 This might be a personal interest, or it might be related to a professional reference. Topics to comment on include comments on topics that the person has recently posted about, predictions he's made, or opinions you share.Talking about his interests is a good way to show him you have things in common, and encourages him to write back.
Avoid engaging him on provocative, controversial or intimate interests, even if you can see them on his profile. Start by bringing up more neutral interests, particularly if you know something about them.
 If you notice someone online that you want to chat with, spend some time finding out information about the person before you try to start a conversation with him. Do an online search for any publicly available information, check out what college he went to, see what companies he's worked for. Even if you don't know him, you can learn something about him before starting a conversation.

If this is a professional contact, be attentive to any work they've done. If they have a book, a blog, a podcast, etc., find out what these have to say. People like to feel that their work is of interest to others, and will be flattered by your attention.
Share your reflections on the information you find. For example, "I've been listening to your podcast, and I like the way you...."

, Your first message to the person should be short and concise, but it doesn't have to be dull. Using opening phrases like "How's it going?" or "What's up?" are more interesting than simple "Hi."

Include a brief reference to the awkwardness of starting a conversation with someone you don't know. Open with a phrase like, "I know this might be an odd question, but..." or "I'm kinda shy about asking this, but..."
Don't be so original that you're annoying. The worst kind of social overtures might seem original, but they're off-putting and make other people feel awkward. Remember that the other person doesn't yet know your wacky sense of humor, and give them time to get to know you before sharing that side of yourself.
 People's profiles pictures can say a great deal about their personality. If his profile picture is a serious one, keep your comment sincere and direct. If his profile picture is a picture of a talking fish, it's okay to make a joke about it.Keep it positive. You want to give the person a reason to want to respond.
Compliments are great! When you compliment, try to be thoughtful. Notice specific things about the person's profile.
 If you're chatting online, chances are you can see the person's favorite movies, bands, places he's lived, etc. This a a great opportunity to ask him questions about any of these places, and start a conversation.Questions such as "What did you think about...?" are better than stating your ideas of a movie or band. If you have different opinions about something, you won't get your conversation off to a good start.
Asking specific questions is a good conversation starter. For example, pick one of his bands and ask "Did you see (band name) when they played downtown last month?" Whether his answer is yes or no, he'll be impressed that you knew about it.

