 Make paper tags that you can hang as ornaments or put onto gifts as to/from tags. For this project, you will need:Construction paper or cardstock in a variety of colors
Washi tape in different colors or patterns
Craft glue or glue stick
Scissors
Ribbon
Die cut punch in any shape (optional)
Puffs, sequins, glitter, or any other additional decoration (optional)

, This project is done easily by using two die cut punches: one in the shape of the tag you want and the other in the shape of the cut-out you want. However, it can be done without those by creating patterns. You will need two: one for the tag and one for the tag cut-out.Create a pattern for the tag in any shape that you want. These could be oval, square, rectangular with clipped edges, or anything else. Trace the pattern onto a sturdy paper or cardboard and carefully cut it out with scissors.
Create a pattern for the cut-out. It can be any shape, though hearts, stars, and trees may be easiest, but it needs to be small enough to fit inside your tag and leave room for edges on each side. Trace the pattern onto a sturdy paper and cut it out using scissors.
 Take a piece of cardstock or construction paper and lay strips of washi tape along the length of the paper. Get the tape strips side-by-side or have them overlap slightly, but try to leave no paper showing.Once you have all your washi tape down, use the die cut punch or trace your tag pattern across the page, creating as many tags as you want. Then, cut out the tags.
 Using your die cut punch or tag pattern, create tops for your tags. These are where you will place your cut-outs, so that you can see through to the washi tape. The tag tops do not need to be taped, but should be a color of paper you want to display.


Cut out as many tag tops as you have tag bottoms.
Have fun by making tops in multiple colors.
 Take your cut-out pattern and center it on your tag top. Then, using either scissors or your die cut punch, cut out a window in the shape of your cut-out from the top of the tag. Save the tag top, and dispose of our recycle the cut-out piece.Use a ruler and pencil to make sure your cut-out is centered and in the same place on every tag.
Create variety by making multiple shapes of cut-outs.
 Place a thin, even layer of glue across the back side of the top of your tag. Line up your tag base and your tag top, and glue the two together with the washi tape side of the base facing the tag top.


The end result should be a tag where the cut out in the tag top shows through to the pattern of the washi tape.
 Once your tag is assembled, decorate it as you see fit. You can use pens, sequins, glitter, paint, pom poms, or anything else you want. Then, punch a hole in the top of the tag and run ribbon through to be able to hang your tag.You don’t have to add additional decoration to the tag if you like the way the cut out and the tape look. The choice is up to you.
Use twine instead of ribbon to give your tag ornament a more package-oriented motif.

