 These sorts of painkillers can be purchase over-the-counter at your local pharmacy. In general, doctors recommend ibuprofen or paracetamol. These medications work by blocking the production of prostaglandin, which is a chemical that is responsible for the sensation of pain.


For children, the dosage of a simple painkiller is generally 10 to 15 mg per kg of body weight, taken every four to six hours.Never give a child below the age of 18 Aspirin. Aspirin can cause children to develop Reye’s syndrome, a crippling condition that could potentially lead to death.;
, If your child’s pain is not controlled by the simple painkillers listed in the previous step, set up a meeting with your child’s doctor to get a prescription for stronger painkiller. The most commonly prescribed strong painkiller for this condition are codeine and tramadol.


The child’s dosage of oral tramadol is generally 1 to 2 mg per kg of weight, taken every four to six hours. This dosage is meant for children who are 4 to 16 years of age.The dosage for codeine is generally 0.5 mg per kg of weight, taken every 4 to 6 hours., Splints help to stabilize the affected area, in this case the heel, by giving the area support. Splints generally use a hard, flat object that you press up against the heel to achieve this. This hard, flat object is then secured with elastic bandages.


Your doctor will most likely apply the splint the first time, and will teach you how to apply it to your child’s heel in the future.
 Casts are generally made from a special cement called plaster of Paris, which helps to stabilize your child’s heel and leg. A cast can be left on for months, depending on the severity of your child’s condition.


Casts are generally used to avoid further injury and to correct any bone deformities caused by the disease.
 If all non-invasive measures fail, your child can undergo surgery to correct the deformity or damage done to the structure of her feet. Before the procedure, your doctor will explain to you how the procedure will be done. Your child will be put under general anesthesia. During the procedure, the surgeon will make an incision in the damaged area, and will repair the damaged area. Your child will most likely be given a cast or compression bandage to wear in order to stabilize her foot. On the day of the surgery:


Explain to your child that the doctor will need her to go to sleep for a little while, and that the surgery will be over when she wakes up.
Be honest with your child and explain that she might feel a little bit of pain after the procedure.
Bring your child’s favorite toys or blanket to the surgeon’s office.

