 Take a look inward to determine if you are happy with your weight and feel healthy. Your appearance and size is no one else’s business but your own, and it’s not your job to fit other people’s expectations of you, realistic or unrealistic. Focus on how you feel about yourself without considering the comments of others.


If you do not agree that you are overweight, brush off the comment as a meaningless jab by a bully.
Even if you would like to lose a few pounds, it is still inappropriate for anyone else to comment on your size. Ignore the comment, and focus instead on how to best take care of yourself and what makes you happy.
If you are eating more than you should, or making mainly unhealthy food choices, it may be a symptom of stress or anxiety.Find the reason for your eating habits and deal with that stress directly.
 You don’t ‘feel’ fat or ‘thin,’ you think it. Think about how you make judgments about your body. Are they based on physical health (meaning you are healthy and can do everything you want to do), society’s expectations of beauty, your family’s unique perspectives, what your friends talk about when you’re around, etc?
Often our self-esteem is based on family dynamics and therefore comes from older views about beauty and women’s roles. If this is true for you, educate your parents and relatives about how body image is treated in 2016., Trying to change your life to make others happy is not something you want to get into the habit of doing. The only person who will get hurt is you!


DON’T start following random diets, or the new crazy diet celebrities are using, to lose weight. In addition to possibly causing serious health problems in the future, constantly dieting causes permanent mental harm. , Eating healthily makes you feel better physically and mentally. You don’t have to cut out everything you love as long as you are getting all the things you need., Not everyone is capable of going to a gym everyday or running every morning. That’s ok! Do something active that you enjoy to make your lifestyle more complete and challenge yourself in new ways.


Get a Wii and play a dance game.
Join a swim club or softball team.
Get a group of friends or younger kids together and have a field day with relay games.
Take horseback riding lessons.
Start a yoga practice.
Everybody enjoys something active, so find your activity and do it often.
 It’s hard to be positive about anything if you are run-down and exhausted. Make sure you are getting enough sleep and relaxation time.