 Working out can be tiring, and if you’re working out for a longer period of time, you’re likely to feel some degree of healthy exhaustion. But if you’re working out and feel totally fatigued or suddenly drained of energy, and cannot recover even after sitting down for a brief time, this could indicate a health problem, including heart disease. See your doctor for an evaluation as soon as possible., Fainting — also known as syncope or blackouts — is a condition characterized by a temporary and unwanted loss of consciousness. If you’re working out one minute then suddenly wake up on the ground the next, you’ve fainted. Contact emergency services for immediate evaluation.Several other conditions could produce fainting spells, so don't immediately assume you are on the verge of cardiac arrest.For instance, if you are diabetic or have arrhythmia, you might experience fainting. Even standing up too quickly can, in some cases, induce fainting. Whatever the reason, fainting warrants a visit to your doctor.
You might feel short of breath just before you faint.
 Dizziness is the feeling that you are spinning or unstable. Some people describe dizziness as the feeling that their head is spinning. This can be another warning sign of cardiac arrest, though it can indicate many other underlying health issues as well. See your doctor as soon as possible.Dizziness might also be a product of your workout. Working out too hard, or working out in the sun, could produce dizziness.
Sit down for five to 10 minutes and drink some water if you feel dizzy while working out. Ease back into your workout slowly or call it quits for the day.
Milder forms of dizziness like feeling lightheaded or woozy are also potential precursors to cardiac arrest.
 Pain in the chest — especially pain over the left side of the chest where the heart is located — is a warning sign that there may be a problem with your heart. Rest if you feel any chest pain not associated with whatever exercise you’re engaged in and see your doctor for evaluation., Nausea and vomiting sometimes precede cardiac arrest. If you feel queasy or actually throw up when working out, this is another sign that you need to see your doctor. Nausea and vomiting could be a sign of many different conditions, but it can sometimes occur before cardiac arrest. 