 The best known symptom of a mumps infection is also often the last to present itself. The mumps virus affects the salivary glands in the mouth, which makes them swell and creates the appearance of swollen cheeks.The mumps virus will cause the cheeks to look swollen or puffy and feel warm to the touch.
Mumps is actually named as such because “mumps” was the term used to describe the puffy lumps or bumps in the cheeks.;
, The mumps virus might seem like a the common cold or a mild case of the flu when you first start to experience symptoms. In this early stage of infection, the only way you may be able to determine that your symptoms indicate the mumps is if you know you have been exposed to the virus recently. Common symptoms include:Fever and headache
Weakness, muscle aches and fatigue
Pain in the throat while chewing or swallowing and a loss of appetite
Swollen, painful testicles in adolescent boys, or swollen ovaries in adolescent girls, which can cause abdominal pain., The mumps virus can be nearly impossible to diagnose until symptoms present themselves. Unfortunately, symptoms of the mumps virus can take weeks to become apparent, and tend to be rather minor early on.Symptoms of the mumps virus usually do not present themselves until two to three weeks after exposure to the virus.
Symptoms may seem rather mild and are often misidentified as the flu or even just the common cold.
 Schedule a doctor's appointment immediately if you exhibit these symptoms or if you have reason to believe someone you interacted with had the mumps. Most people get vaccinated to prevent the mumps, but if you are unsure if you you received the vaccine as a child, see a doctor to be sure.There are other illnesses such as inflamed tonsils, another viral or bacterial infection, or blockage of the salivary glands that could produce similar symptoms. See a doctor if you have any reason to suspect that you have the mumps.
Let your doctor know about your concerns before you arrive at the doctor’s office to avoid long waits where you could possibly infect others.

