 If you aren't confident then you will not make as good photos.


When you send your photos you usually do it by email, because that's what judges prefer, but you can also send them off Flickr, too. TIP: Make sure you send your photos in on time or there is a big chance you will be eliminated and send the photo in before the due date so the judge has time to prepare the video.;
, You want to make sure you can easily see the doll and not have the background overpower the model.


The judges want creativity in each photo so that means you should make a dress or draw a background. Also, take risks. Add a theme to your theme. For example, if the theme was colors and you got the color blue, maybe you can be a BLUE mermaid in a BLUE ocean, or pool.
 Most judges will notice the crazy hair. Make sure no hair is in your face unless if its supposed to be like that like a crazy monster but no matter what, you always have to be able to see your dolls eyes and most of her face like nose and mouth, besides those things, you can cover any other part of the models face.
, You cannot put too much makeup or you will look funny, mad or just simply different. Jewelry has to mach with the outfit mostly white, black, silver or gold jewelry will work with any outfits you choose. Clothes have to match your theme like if your theme was animals and you got a parrot do not wear a blue dress. Either make a feathery dress or tape feathers onto your doll.
 If you do, don't do too much or the photo will look stupid. Maybe just do editing on makeup, words and lighting. That's all the editing you should do. A great editing program is Movie Maker Magic.


Some rules in BNTM's are do not change your doll. So if you lose your doll tell the judge and replace it with a similar or the same doll. Another rule is be committed.
,, Take two photos of each camera angle like 2 from up view, 2 from down view, 2 from left view, 2 from middle shot and 2 from right view. That's so you make sure you know which angles make the picture look best and if one turns out blurry. Then you choose your two favorites and send both to your judge and let your judge choose your favorite photo. That gives you a better chance of top photo.
 If you don't have fun, then why did you sign up? To win? There is no reason to sign up to win. You sign up for just the fun and experience of it. Also make sure you become friends with your opponents.

