 Attach a card explaining your condition to your car’s sun visor. If you are pulled over, swing your visor to face the window and then open the window all the way. Using a visor card is the quickest and safest way to let the police know you can’t hear them.It’s a good idea to attach a card to both of your visors, in case the police officer comes to the passenger side of your car. If you’re pulled over, deploy both visors at once before the officer approaches you.
Don’t put your card someplace highly visible like your back window. People may target you if they know you are deaf or hard of hearing.
You may also want to keep a card in your wallet at all times, in case you are stopped when you’re not in your vehicle.;
, If you are pulled over at night, stop under a streetlight if possible. Turn on your dome light as well., If you are pulled over, place both your hands on the steering wheel. Don’t hide your hands or make any sudden movements., Until the police officer understands that you’re deaf or hard of hearing, avoid fidgeting, signing, or gesturing, except to point to your ear. If you need to reach for something in your car, communicate this to the officer ahead of time, either verbally or by pointing.For instance, if you need to get your registration out, point to your glove compartment so the officer understands why you’re opening it.
 When the police officer speaks to you, point to your ear and shake your head. Most people understand that this means “I am deaf.”, The police are required to communicate with you in a way you understand. Gesture or write a note to tell them whether you prefer to lip-read, write, or use sign language.If you make your own visor card, you can include information about your preferred method of communication on it.
If you need to write a note, request pen and paper by making a writing gesture. Don’t reach for your own writing materials (or anything else in your car), since the police may think you are reaching for a weapon.
If you don’t understand something, make it clear by saying or writing “I don’t understand.”

, You might be in the habit of nodding your head to show people that you’re paying attention to them. However, the police may interpret a nod as agreement or assent. Do not nod unless you understand and agree with what the police are saying., If you do not use your voice, you may be accustomed to getting people’s attention by tapping them on the shoulder. However, the police may take any kind of touch as a threat. Wave to get their attention instead., After the police talk to you, say or write, “Am I free to leave?” They cannot legally force you to stay unless you are under arrest. If they tell you that you are free to go, walk or drive away calmly.