


Do you want the wall inside or outside?
What shapes, features and size do you want your wall to be?
You will also want to begin drawing out the type of wall you want.;
, You must use a structural method of building your wall to support the weight of a climber, and if it is outdoors, to resist wind loads in severe weather.


Post and beam construction. This is the most structurally sound building method. Set 8 inch (20.3 cm) diameter treated poles in the ground about 48 inches (121.9 cm) deep. Fill the holes with ready mixed concrete, or bags of premixed concrete mixed in a wheelbarrow. Bolt 4X6 inch beams horizontally across the posts with 5⁄8 to 3⁄4 inch (1.6 to 1.9 cm) galvanized bolts. Nail or screw 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) plywood sheathing over the beams, and finish with paint or textured paint.
Wood framed, wood covered. This consists of lumber framing members, attached to a "mud sill" or framed up from a concrete base. 2X6 inch (nominal) lumber at 16 inch (40.6 cm) centers is suggested, with a 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) exterior plywood sheathing attached with 2 inch (5.1 cm) number 8 wood screws 8 inches (20.3 cm) on center. You will need to attach diagonal bracing solidly anchored to the back of the wall and the earth behind the structure to keep it upright.
Wood framed, stucco covered. Frame the wall the same as the above, then attach wire plaster lath with 1 1⁄4 inch (3.2 cm) roofing nails, 8 inches (20.3 cm) on center. Bed the lath with 1/2 inch (5.1 cm) of masonry cement plaster, scoring this "coat" (the scratch coat), so that the finish coat will bond. Apply a masonry cement or synthetic plaster finish coat after the scratchcoat has dried thoroughly.
Concrete block (CMU). Place a concrete footing, a minimum of 8 inches (20.3 cm) thick, 24 inches (61.0 cm) wide, with reinforcing rods, 2 or 3 feet (0.6 or 0.9 m) below grade (ground level). Stick number 5 rebar dowels 16 inches (40.6 cm) on center into the concrete, with 48 inches (121.9 cm) projecting upwards for block cell reinforcement. Lay up your block (8X8X16 inch, typical), filling each cell that has a reinforcing rod with mortar as you go. Add rebar with a 32 inch (81.3 cm) lap so that the rebar is continuous to the top of the wall. Backfill the lower part of the wall, to the normal ground level, and compact. This earth fill at the base will help support your wall from high winds and tipping over.
 Begin to figure your specific cut angles, your framework, joints and other important features of your wall.Decide what kind of effects the elements will have on your wall if it is outside. Will your wall suffer from being rained or snowed on? One way to sustain the life of your wall is to use marine board. This is more expensive but if you live in a rainy area, you will find the board to be well worth it.
 If you enjoy building, this will be the best part. The reality of your wall will slowly come to life through this process.
, Are you going to have padding such as mattresses or gym pads?

, If the wall is outside, be prepared for your bolts to rust over. If you don’t plan on rearranging holds very often, you will typically not have much to worry about. If you do want to move holds around, it may be difficult unscrew them once they have become rusted. You can also find holds pretty cheap if you hit your local climbing gyms. Many times they replace their old holds and will give you or sell you their old holds at a pretty low price. You may also be able to find holds from manufacturers that are clearing out old styles. Once you get your wall up, you will be excited and can climb whenever you want. There will come a time when you get used to the wall and it’s not as thrilling as it was once before. Keep yourself motivated by adding to the wall and developing new routes. The more challenges you can give yourself, the more apt you are to continue training on your wall.

