 Cleansing oils are an excellent way to treat oily skin. When applied to the skin they bind to impurities and pull out dirt without clogging the pores. Cleansing oils are considered superior to oil-free cleansers by many dermatologists because these often strip the skin of natural oils leaving it unbalanced. As a result the body will produce an excess of oils making the skin even oilier.Homemade cleansers typically contain a combination of botanical oils (olive, sunflower, grape seed, sesame, almond), extracts (green tea or jasmine), and vitamins (E or C).
Try this recipe: Mix together a 1/4 of liquid organic soap, 1/4 cup chamomile tea brewed and cooled, 3/4 of a teaspoon of olive oil, 8 drops of essential oil (lavender or peppermint recommended for oily skin), and several drops of vitamin E. Store in a squirt bottle.;
, These herbs also have astringent properties and can be used to create a homemade skin toner. This will help improve the feel and look of oily skin. Simply put a tablespoon of one of these herbs in a cup, then fill to the top with boiling water. Let the mixture steep for 30 minutes, then strain the mixture and allow it to cool before dabbing on your face. You can keep the leftovers in a squeeze bottle and continue to use for up to 5 days, if stored in the refrigerator., Another toner to consider is made from green tea. Packed with antioxidants, green tea it is good for any skin type. It can help tone, tighten pores, and remove toxins from the surface of the skin. Simply spray the toner directly onto recently washed skin or dab your face and neck using a cotton pad. Once dry, apply a moisturizer to your skin. Use this method daily for optimal results. Here are the directions for making your own green tea and aloe toner:In order to make this toner, you will need two tea bags of green tea, 1 tablespoon of aloe vera gel, and 1 cup of water.
Steep the tea in 1 cup of hot water for 5 minutes, let cool, and then remove the tea bags.
Add a tablespoon of aloe vera gel to the green tea. Stir thoroughly until there are no visible clumps of aloe vera.
Pour the mixture into a glass jar or spray bottle.
 Witch hazel, an ingredient many people have around the house, contains tannins, which have the effect of an astringent. As a result, it can be used after cleansing your face to tighten pores as they dry. In order to use witch hazel as a toner for your skin, soak a cotton pad in distilled witch hazel. Then dab it all over your face twice a day for 2-3 weeks. After 3 weeks you can reduce the frequency to once per week.You can also add witch hazel to a homemade toner to help constrict your pores and help treat oily skin.

