 Flex the muscles in your thighs for 30 seconds or more. This will draw the blood into your thighs and get rid of your erection. If it doesn't work immediately, keep flexing and use it alongside another method to get rid of it., The cold water from a shower will reduce your erection. If you aren't at home and can't take a shower, try pressing something cold against your crotch, like a cold can of soda.Cooling is used in hospitals to remove an unwanted erection that lasts longer than 4 hours.
 Sometimes a full bladder will cause you to have an erection. This is especially common in the morning when you first wake up. Urinating may help you get rid of your erection. If you're having trouble peeing, a warm shower or bath can sometimes help you urinate.A full bladder presses against the sacral nerve, which is why you get an erection.
 Light exercise like a job or bike ride may draw blood away from your erection and cause it to subside. If you're too embarrassed to go outside because of your erection, you can do jumping jacks or squats in your house., Over time, your erection will just naturally go away. If you have the choice, excuse yourself to a secluded place until it finally goes down. If you're in a public place, you can excuse yourself to the bathroom until it goes away., Concentrating on a math equation or a sport will take your mind off sexual thoughts and can help you get rid of your erection. Focus as hard as you can on an assignment or a game that you have coming up to take your mind off of sexual thoughts. You can also think of something that you find disgusting or gross, like someone throwing up, to stop your sexual thoughts., Pinching yourself may take your concentration off your erection and into the pain that you feel. Pick a spot on your arm and pinch it until your erection begins to go down., If you're at home, masturbating will get rid of your erection. Excuse yourself to a private place and make sure you have a towel or napkin to clean up after you're done. Rub your penis until you achieve an orgasm. After masturbating, your erection should subside.Do not masturbate in public.

