 Solid, adult food is a new experience for your toddler. Of course a child is going to like the taste of desserts or certain snacks. Your child can also learn to like the taste of healthy foods, like vegetables. At dinner, tell your child to taste each food you serve. It may take a few tries before your toddler becomes used to the taste of these new foods.Explain to your toddler that tasting food is part of the process. Tell your child that tasting helps the tongue learn new flavors.
Often, tasting a food over and over will help your toddler get used to the taste of a new food.
 For a toddler, eating new food is a learning experience. New, solid food is something your child hasn’t had exposure to yet. Let your child play with the food. This encourages your child discover the food.


This may include picking it up and feeling it. Your child may also sniff it, lick it, or nibble on it.
This can also be a fun for everyone to be more mindful of the food they are about to eat. You can encourage the whole family to describe the new food — look, color, texture, smell, touch, flavor, etc.
 When toddlers start eating solid food, they gain a new independence. Let them explore this independence. When you are at the grocery store, let your child help you choose the vegetables or meat. At home, make your toddler part of the meal preparation and menu planning.Present your child with choices for dinner and get them to choose. For example, ask your child if they would like to eat broccoli, kale, or carrots.
Try presenting your child with foods in different colors and textures. This might help them choose something they prefer.
 For each meal, provide different foods for your child to choose from. This helps your child feel independent while getting nutritious food. Mix it up with each meal. If your child doesn’t choose a particular food one day, try it again with different foods.For example, you can offer two vegetable choices, a whole grain, a fruit, and a meat for your child. Let your child choose which of these foods to eat.

