 Will it be a small meal with immediate family or a huge feast with your second cousins? If only five people will be there, then you can skip the huge turkey and go for a smaller one. If you have yet to hear from people you've invited, buy a little extra.;
, Many families have a traditional casserole or pie of some sort that goes untouched every year. Or maybe your children have an aversion to yams. Take into account what people like and don't like, then skip the unpopular foods. This will save you both money and time.
 If your local grocery store has a sale on stuffing a few weeks before Thanksgiving, buy it! In the case of canned goods with a long shelf life, you might want to try buying them after Thanksgiving, when holiday food is on sale, to save for next year.
 A single store probably won't have the best prices in everything. If you get circulars in the mail, check them all to see who has the best prices on the groceries you need. If not, check online, or do your weekly shopping at different places to do some searching around.
 If you can get your hands on some coupons for beans, corn, or fresh bread, be sure to use them. If you don't have any, check online for printable ones.
 Sometimes generic foods taste as good, if not better, than brand name goods. If you want to be sure, it might be best to get a can of vegetables to try ahead of time and decide from there.
 Berries are delicious, but by November they're out of season and very expensive. Seasonal fruits and vegetables will be far less expensive. (Note that availability and pricing can vary depending on where you live.) Foods in season around Thanksgiving include:


Apples
Broccoli
Sweet potatoes
Persimmons
Radishes
Peas
Olives
Pears
Mushrooms
Onions

, Many times, food cooked at home can be cheaper overall than the storebought variety. If you're fairly good at cooking or willing to try it, check prices of ingredients versus pre-prepared foods. If making it yourself would be less expensive, go for it.
 Having Thanksgiving dinner the weekend after Thanksgiving means you have access to all the items that go on sale once the holiday is past. Alternatively, have different guests each bring a dish to the meal.

