 Geocaching is a fun activity where strangers hide treasures and then list the GPS location for other people to find. This is a great way to celebrate an anniversary in an unconventional way: you’ll get a rush of excitement and have fun doing something new together.


Note: When you find a geocache, you’re supposed to replace the treasures that you find and take home.
 A fun game where you put on armor and shoot each other will little bullets made of paint, paintball is exciting and a great way to break out of your daily routine. You can put together a few teams and play with friends or you can team up with your spouse to go against strangers. There are many places where you can go to play paintball and they usually have equipment rentals.
 Well, okay, not a tape. This isn’t 1988. But you can make each other a playlist or a CD which includes songs that make you think about each other or your relationship. Try to make a playlist which tells a story about your feelings as you met your partner, dated, fell in love, got married, and how you feel about them now. You and your partner can listen to the playlist made for you whenever you’re having a hard time or have to spend time away from each other.
 Rent the first movie that you went to see together. If you don’t remember what the first movie was, you can watch one that you know you saw early on in your relationship. Make a date of it by having dinner, popcorn, soda, and candy. You can do this just the two of you or you can invite along your family to celebrate as well.


If you can, rent out a local theater to show this special movie.
 Sometimes, life gets awfully hard. Not everyone has a great spouse like you do to help them through life. Inspire these lonely people by writing encouraging notes and then hiding them for strangers to find, under tables in restaurants or inside of books at the library. Write the notes together and share them with each other and then hide them together.


You can write messages like “Someday you’ll meet someone who loves you as much as I love her” or “Don’t worry. He’s out there. You’ll find him.” or “I didn’t think I’d find love either. I was wrong.” or “I’m so happy now. You will be too. Just wait.”

