 If you want to look sweet, it's important that you dress the part. Typically, a sweet look is achieved with modest clothing and youthful silhouettes, whereas wearing tight, revealing clothing will give you a more mature look. Keep a fun and youthful image in mind when you're getting dressed to achieve a sweet look.


You can still dress cute while wearing modest clothing. For example, pair skirts and shorts with sweaters or crew neck t-shirts. Or instead of wearing a dress with heels, throw on some cute flats or sneakers. Combining cute skirts and dresses with modest and youthful pieces like sneakers and sweaters will create a sweet look.
Instead of wearing tight fitting clothing, wear clothes that create a more youthful silhouette. Instead of a curve hugging dress, throw on an A-line dress (fitted on top, with full skirt bottom) or a baby doll dress (short, straight cut, and not fitted to the body). Tighter fitting clothes will give you a sexy, mature look, which isn't exactly the sweet look you're going for. Stick to youthful silhouettes that aren't too revealing.;
, Lighter colors look much sweeter than darker colors, so make them a bigger part of your wardrobe. Swap out your dark colored clothing for light pastels, bright colors, and neutrals. Dressing in this lighter color palette automatically creates a sweeter, fun, and youthful look.If you choose to wear patterns, go with girly, cute patterns such as polka dots or floral prints. Avoid bold, crazy patterns.
Keep it simple. A sweet look is a simple, classic look. Don't over-accesorize or go crazy with patterns.
 The sweet look isn't achieved with heavy contouring or intense eyeliner. Instead, go with a more natural look. Looking sweet is often associated with youth and innocence, so light makeup will give you the best results.


Go with lighter colored lipsticks and lip glosses as opposed to deep colors.
Use a small amount of foundation to even out your skin instead of caking foundation on to cover your skin. Applying heavy makeup looks much more mature, and less sweet.This will give your face a natural, radiant glow.Use shimmers or highlighters to highlight your cheekbones instead of contouring. This will give your face a natural, radiant glow.
Use blush to give yourself sweet, rosy cheeks.If you love experimenting with makeup, play with bright lipsticks and eyeshadows. These lighter, brighter colors will give you the sweet look you're going for without the dramatics of a heavy eyeliner or dark lip.
 The perfect hairstyle makes or breaks any look. If you want to look sweet, it's best to avoid extreme hairstyles like mohawks, bright blue streaks, or a half shaved head. Go for a simple, more traditional hairstyle instead.


Stick with natural hair colors – blondes, brunettes, blacks, and natural reds – instead of bright crazy hair dye colors like red, blue, pink, etc.
Get a classic haircut. Whether you go with shoulder length with bangs, a short bob, a cute pixie cut, or long flowy waves, your hair should have a classic, simple cut. This will give you the sweet look you're going for. Avoid any wild or asymmetrical haircuts.
Stick with simple hairstyles. Leave your hair down and tuck it behind your ears, try a nice bun, go with a simple ponytail, or wear your hair in youthful pigtail braids. Whatever style you go with, keep it simple and classic., Smiling does wonders for your outward appearance and your inner happiness. When you smile, you are automatically seen as a kinder, sweeter, happier individual. Smiling often leads to laughter and results in you actually feeling better. When you project this kind of positivity, people are naturally drawn to you., In addition to smiling, keep your face soft and sweet. Keeping a pleasant, relaxed look on your face will result in you looking sweeter. Your forehead and eyes should be relaxed, and your jaw should remain unclenched. This will help your face to look more relaxed.
 Sweet people come off as kind and approachable. Keep your body language calm and relaxed so that you appear to be more approachable. Although you should avoid carrying tension in your body, you should still hold your head high and maintain good posture.


Don't close yourself off from people. To do this, avoid any type of body language that closes you off from others, such as crossing your arms.
 Being nice is the most important quality of a sweet person. When you're kind to others, people enjoy being around you more. If you desire to be viewed as a sweet person, it's important that you act like a sweet person.


Being kind will also make you and those around you happier. The happier you are, the sweeter you become., Nobody enjoys being around people who are constantly complaining or being mean. We tend to be attracted to positive people because they make us happier. When you project a positive attitude, people are more likely to view you as a kind, sweet person. Being positive creates a better environment for everyone around you.