 Many people finish all the food on their plates despite their best efforts. One way to control your appetite is to control your portions by eating from smaller plates and bowls. While you'll mentally feel satisfied that you're eating a full portion, you're more likely to consume less.Try switching from a 12-inch plate (the average plate size in the US) to a 10-inch plate (the average plate size in France).
Research shows that using small plates and bowls for unhealthy foods may help decrease our servings and increase our satisfaction. Using large plates or bowls is a good idea for foods we need more of, such as vegetables/salad.;
, Researchers have found a strong correlation between portion size and visual contrast. High contrast between food and plate was found, in one research study, to result in 22% smaller serving sizes than low contrast food and plates.If you're trying to eat more greens, try eating from green plates. This will increase your average serving size of green foods, and decrease the serving sizes of non-green foods such as pasta, meats or casseroles.
Serving pasta on a white plate or bowl is more likely to result in larger portion sizes.
 If you're used to eating in front of the television, you'll be more likely to lose control of your appetite. Instead, pay attention to each bite of your food. Notice the texture, aroma, and appearance of your food, and enjoy its flavor. Focus on how much you like, or don't like, what you're eating.Chewing each bite well before swallowing will also help prevent overeating, and aid digestion.



Using a fork and knife when you're eating will also help you practice mindfulness while you're eating. Try to set down the utensils between bites to help you slow down.
 Research shows that people are more likely to overeat when provided with more food options. Even believing that there are more food choices than there are has been shown to affect the amount of food a person eats.If you're faced with an "all you can eat" buffet, create strict rules for yourself to limit the amount of options you may choose from. For instance: the first plate is only salad and/or other fruit and vegetables; no more than two plates; dessert on a small plate only.
Creating guidelines for yourself, instead of completely restricting foods, can help prevent you from feeling that you're being punished by not getting your fair share, a frequent cause for overeating.
 If you're feeling hungry even though you've had plenty to eat, disrupt your focus by taking a brisk walk. A 15-minute walk can lift your spirits, satisfy your emotional desire for snacking, and distract you from any thoughts of eating.Studies have shown that brief walking is an effective way to reduce sugar cravings.
Walking outside is best. Beware of walking in an area where you're likely to encounter food temptations, such as the mall or in a downtown shopping area.
 Eating within an hour of waking up and then every three to four hours after can be very effective in helping control your appetite.Either plan five to six small meals each day or plan three meals with small snacks between so that you never get too hungry.
 Writing down a list of everything you eat during the day will help you stay clear on the amount of food you're consuming. Studies show that dieters who write down what they eat are likely to lose more weight than those who don't.Make sure your diary is easy to use. There are many convenient food journaling apps that you can set on your phone or tablet. These may include calorie counts as well. Of course, pencil and paper are always an option as well.
Be sure to be consistent and honest in your diary, or it won't work. Make sure you're including condiments (sauces and dressings, too) and beverages!

