 Examples include Imp Catcher, Merlin's Crystal etc. These can rank you up without actually having to do much besides complete quests, doing all of the quests available, you should be able to enchant sapphire.
 At level 7 you can enchant sapphire rings into rings of recoil, which are wanted by Player Killers. You are going to need quite a few cosmic runes, and a water staff are recommended. Sell the rings on the G.E for a little money back. Do thing until level 27.
 By using the same process, enchanting emerald rings into rings of Duelling can make you a lot of exp, along with quite a chunk of change, do this until level 33, or 55 if you really need the money.
 This is located northwest of Falador and due west of Taverly. These wines cost several thousand due to their use in Super Ranging potions, however this place is often overrun bots, so it can be hard to find an empty. Do this until level 43.

Alternatively, you can telegrab items below Varrock Bank for some money back, however that ruby ring will be forever out of reach.
 At level 43 you can cast superheat on ores that you could smith at furnaces to turn them into bars.

Steel and gold are good choices if you have a low smithing level, however if you have above 65 smithing, you can actually make money doing adamantite ore or runite, making large profits. Do this until level 55.
 Things like Yew Longbows will almost always net you profit when you alchemy them. You will need a lot of nature runes and a fire staff to do this. Continue this until level 58, or until level 99, as this is one of the few methods that will always net a profit, and it is relatively AFK.
 This spell requires the Watchtower quest to be completed. It takes 2 law runes and 2 earth runes, so having a mystic earth staff can help cut down on costs. You can continuously cast this for about 100k experience an hour.

Alternatively you can make these on tablets to save some money, however this is slower and the tablets are hard to sell. Do this until level 68.
 This is a lunar spell, so you have to complete Lunar Diplomacy to use this. With the use of hotkeys, it is possible to empty and refill a fishbowl in very rapid succession, resulting in huge exp gains, as each casts nets 65 experience. Using a mystic steam staff can help cut down on costs depending on how much it costs. Do this until level 71.

You can also do this to empty vials to make some money back, however you won't break even.
 This is again using Lunar Magicks. Using hotkeys it is possible to do 4 casts in a single animation, filling the inventory quite quickly. If you need the money, you can then open the hunter kits and sell the box traps for a few hundred each. Do this until level 80, Starting at level 77 you can cast this spell. Have 13 buckets of sand and 13 seaweed in your inventory, and then using this Lunar Magic spell. This gives 40k experience an hour, but you can make quite a bit of money as people need this for glassblowing., At level 80, you can use this Lunar Magic spell to make unstrung amulets into strung. This takes quite a bit of time to stock up on unstrung amulets, so you may want to start buying them. This offers both crafting and magic experience, up to 130k an hour total. Do this until level 86., The most cost-effective way to do this is with teak logs, as it offers the lowest Gp/xp. You can combo this with construction, or sell the planks back to get some of your money back. You can continue doing this until 99 Magic!