 An Irish pub serving traditional favorites like shepherd's pie or Boxy lends a certain level of authenticity and consistency that new customers will appreciate and a regular clientele will often demand. Consumers seeking a Mexican-style "Cantina" are likely to be disappointed with a menu consisting of Italian food, sushi or curried dishes. Design a menu that offers the kind of menu items your customers are expecting, based on the theme of your bar.;
, While there's virtually no limit to what can be served at a bar, it is the customer base that should ultimately define the parameters of the menu. For example, the regulars at a local, neighborhood tavern may not appreciate arugula salads and sesame-beef sates as much as those who frequent an upscale lounge or wine bar. Knowing who you are cooking for is a crucial component to the popularity and success of a new menu.


Identify the target demographic. Become familiar with the tendencies and preferences of your target demographic when developing a menu for a new venue. When creating a new bar menu for an established venue, test potential new menu items out by running them as specials to determine the preferences of your regular clientele.
 Bars are often ill-equipped for hosting a full-service menu. Limitations like kitchen size, table size and counter space can make hosting a restaurant-style menu challenging. Instead, choose items like finger foods or appetizers. Additionally, make the portions small enough to fit on small, appetizer-size plates. Menu items that traditionally served as entrees can be portioned as appetizers, instead of full-size entrees.
 The expense associated with staffing a kitchen can significantly cut into the cost of doing business. The wages paid out to kitchen staff typically exceed those of servers and bartenders by several dollars per hour, as the bar staff typically makes the bulk of their wages in tips. Limiting the amount of staff required to execute a menu can significantly offset the related costs. Additionally, as kitchen space is often limited in bars, designing a menu that can be effectively executed by a staff of 1 or 2 in a small space will significantly increase your menu's chance of success.

