 You should never hide sadness indefinitely, and it can actually be dangerous to mask certain feelings. If you're feeling suicidal or thinking of harming yourself, do not hide it. Seek help right away.If you're feeling suicidal, you can call 1-800-273-TALK in the United States to get help. If you're outside the U.S, you can visit Suicide.org to find a similar service in your country. If you're thinking of hurting yourself, or if you have, call 9-1-1 or emergency services in your area.
You should never keep suicidal feelings to yourself. Do not worry about burdening others with such thoughts. If you're feeling suicidal, remember your friends and family members care about you. They will want to help you feel better.
 Clinical depression is a type of sadness that should not be ignored. If you want to keep your depression private from co-workers and casual acquaintances, that's okay. However, close friends and family members should be alerted if you're feeling depressed. Reach out to others if you notice any of the following symptoms:Lack of energy
Loss of pleasure in everyday activities
Sleep problems
Changes in weight
Feeling hopeless
Irritability or anger
Self-loathing

, If you are depressed, let loved ones know. While support from friends and family cannot cure depression, a solid support network can help you work your way through it. Friends and family members may also be able to help you find a therapist and encourage you throughout your treatment.Never be ashamed to admit you have a mental illness. Many people suffer from depression and it is nothing to be ashamed or embarrassed by.
It can be nerve-racking to ask for support, but keep it simple and just ask. Say something like, "I've been going through a pretty serious bout of depression lately. If I need to talk, is it okay if I give you a call?"

, Ask your regular doctor for a referral or talk to your insurance company. You may also be entitled to free counseling through your university if you're a student. If you have clinical depression, professional support is necessary.Depression can be treated in a variety of different ways. Therapy on its own can help, but in some cases a therapist may recommend medication.

