 Shelties have a history as working dogs, so they enjoy having responsibilities.Try to find ways to involve your sheltie in your chores and other activities.


For example, you might have your sheltie wear a light backpack when you go on walks so that he can carry your keys and water bottle. Or, you might train your sheltie to retrieve times for you when you are doing yard work.
 Shelties are social dogs that often “talk” to their owners.If your sheltie barks at you, talk back and try to get to the bottom of what she is trying to ask or tell you. She may need to go out, need to be fed, or just want some attention.


Never punish your sheltie for barking. If you are bothered by your sheltie’s barking, then consider using positive reinforcement to get her to stop barking so much.
 Shelties are smart dogs, so they will need plenty of mental stimulation. Make sure that your sheltie always has some fun toys to keep her entertained. Some good toys to give your sheltie include:


puzzle toys
chew toys
squeaky toys
rope toys

, Shelties enjoy running around for exercise, so make sure that your sheltie has opportunities to patrol the yard or your neighborhood. Try taking your sheltie for a couple of short walks around the neighborhood with you every day.


Always keep your sheltie on a leash or inside of a closed yard when she is outside. It is also a good idea to supervise your sheltie when she is outside so that you know that she is safe.
 Crate training your sheltie can help to teach her that certain items are off limits and it is also a good way to house train your sheltie. If you decide to crate train your sheltie, keep in mind that her crate should be large enough for her to stand up, lay down, and turn around in. It should not be any larger than this.


Make your sheltie’s crate appealing by placing some comfortable bedding and a toy inside of it.
Leave your sheltie’s crate open for the first week or two after you get it. The goal is for your sheltie to want to go into her crate and feel safe when she does so.
Never shut a sheltie puppy in a crate for more than a couple of hours. Puppies cannot hold their bladders for long and they will end up soiling the crate.
Never use a crate as a way to punish your sheltie. Your sheltie should like to go into her crate, not fear it., Teaching basic commands to your sheltie will help to ensure that she is a well-behaved member of your family. Some good commands to teach your sheltie include sit, stay, lay down, heel, and shake. Some good things to remember about training your sheltie include:



Use positive reinforcement. Never hit or yell at your sheltie if she disobeys. Instead, give your sheltie treats, praise, and petting when she does a good job. This positive reinforcement will motivate your dog much more than fear-based training methods.Keep training sessions short and regular. Dogs can’t pay attention for too long, so stick to daily 10 minute (or less) sessions.
 A well socialized dog is less likely to develop problems with aggression and anxiety, so take the time to socialize your sheltie while she is a puppy (between eight and 20 weeks old). Take your sheltie out with you and invite people over often so that your sheltie puppy encounters all sorts of things such as:


children and babies
men and women
loud noises
crowds
cars and bikes
other dogs
cats
odd clothing and accessories

