 You'll get the best results inserting a video if you have the latest updates installed for Office. Office updates are installed through the Windows Update service. See Update Windows for details.

This process will work for PowerPoint 2016, 2013, and 2010.;
, You can embed the video on any slide in your presentation., This will display the various Insert options., A small menu will appear., This will open the file browser.

If you're using a Mac, select "Movie from File."

, Use the file explorer to browse for the video file that you want to add. There are a few things to keep in mind when looking for your video file:

Different versions of PowerPoint support different sets of video formats. 2016 supports the most types of files, including MP4 and MKV, while 2010 supports the least (just MPG, WMV, ASF, and AVI).Consider avoiding the AVI format, as these often require additional codecs that make playback difficult. You can use the free program Adapter to convert these AVI files into the more compatible MP4 format. See Convert AVI to MP4 for detailed instructions.
 The time this takes will vary depending on the size of the video. The progress will be displayed at the bottom of the screen., This will allow you to adjust playback settings for the video that you've added. If you don't see the tab, make sure the video has been selected., By default, the video will need be clicked in order for the video to start playing. If you select "Automatically," the video will start as soon as the slide opens.

You can have the video loop or rewind automatically by checking the appropriate boxes.
 You can make the video different sizes by dragging the corners. You can click and drag the video to reposition it on the slide., Your video is embedded in the presentation, which includes the video inside of the PowerPoint file. You won't need to worry about sending the video along with the presentation, since it's packed into the presentation itself. This means that your presentation file size will increase to include the full video file.

You don't need to do anything special to save the presentation with the embedded file. Just select "Save" from the File tab and save your presentation like you normally would.

