 Learn about the foundation of your country, the key moments leading to its creation, and its reputation since the time it became a nation. Embrace the positive changes your country has made since historical errors of the past.


Read about where your country stood during various wars near and afar. Who were their allies and nemeses? Did they always align with the righteous side of history, or have they historically been considered the villain in large confrontations?Research the politics of your nation. Was it always in its current form? Or did a great war or uprising change the system from something like a monarchy to a republic?Look up the great milestones during your country’s history. Check the timeline from inception until today, analyzing and interpreting the major events., Showing your patriotism through the National Anthem is important because most contain words that vividly describe a historical event in the country’s past. Additionally, many National Anthems have gone through several amendments, which modify the potential meaning of an ever-changing nation, and may not have been adopted as the National Anthem initially.


The Canadian National Anthem was written in Quebec city by Sir Adolphe-Basile Routhier and was initially titled “Chant national.” It represents the combined feelings, particularly after WWI, of a united French and English-speaking Canada.During the French Revolution, a French Army captain named Claude-Joseph Rouget de Lisle composed “La Marseillaise” – named so because troops from Marseilles sang it when approaching Paris – as an act of defiance against the combined invading forces of Austria and Prussia. It’s meant as a rallying cry for citizens fighting for their rights and liberty.Written by Francis Scott Key in September of 1812, the U.S. National Anthem – also known as The Star-Spangled Banner – started as a poem celebrating the perseverance of U.S. Fort McHenry during British attack. The lyrics were written on a British ship the morning after a pre-battle, prisoner release negotiating. That following morning he was let off the ship and the lyrics are his recollection Fort McHenry’s triumph., Most legends and tall-tales possess at least a shred of reality. The creativity and imagination required to concoct some of the stories is amazing. A few of the following tales perfectly illustrate how one could be proud of their nation's creative past.


The Chinese held the secret to silk production for over 3000 years. It was said they held the secret to their lucrative export so dearly that anyone revealing the production secrets was sentenced to death.One Egyptian legend says King Surid had a dream where the flat earth flipped upside down, and because of that, he inserted riches inside the pyramids and sealed them.Since some of the pyramids are yet undiscovered, this may yet be true.
The American Indian legends related to “Devil’s Tower” say a great god pushed rock and earth upward and upward to save young boys from a great bear, one who scratched and clawed to get them.Given that “Devil’s Tower” was formed by a geological process called intrusion, the legend is actually somewhat correct.
 Learn about what your country is currently doing that brings great honor upon your nation. See if they are the leader in a specific industry, export, or sport. Examine how much they help others in need, or align with organizations attempting to make the world a better place.


On May 23, 2016, India became just the third nation in the world to launch a space shuttle, potentially cutting other nations' costs by ten-fold.The Syrian refugee crisis of 2016 has affected numerous countries. The experience has been debated far and wide, but learning about why your country has or hasn’t helped is a potentially debatable moral issue of our time.