 Your regular needle might be okay for sewing organza, but it is best to check it first. You will need a size 8 to 11 (60 to 75) universal needle for working with organza fabric.You could also try using a small size sharp point needle. These are usually best for sewing with delicate fabrics.Make sure you have changed your needle recently. You should replace your needle after every project or at least after every four hours of sewing with the same needle.;
, You don’t need to get a specialty thread to work with organza. Just use a regular weight cotton thread to sew your project.Opt for a color that is close to the color of your fabric to help the stitches blend in. Otherwise, they may stand out and this may look unappealing. For example, if you are using a pale pink organza fabric, then opt for a pale pink thread to match.
 When sewing with organza, your best bet is to use the straight stitch setting. This is the most basic stitch you can use and it will result in a straight, clean line. Avoid using fancy stitches for organza fabric.After you have your straight stitch seam, you may want to add a zigzag seam next to it towards the outer edge. This can help to reinforce the seam and the seam won’t be visible because it will be on the outer edge., It is important to avoid backstitching with organza fabric because this can damage the fabric. Only sew across your fabric one time and in one direction. Make sure that all of your settings are correct before you begin.Also, keep in mind that you cannot use a seam ripper for organza fabrics. Tearing out stitches will damage the fabric. If you make a mistake, then you might need to just get new fabric and start over.
 To avoid puckering, it is important to place even pressure on both sides of the organza as you sew. Keep one hand behind the presser foot and the other hand in front of it to hold the organza. Keep the fabric taut, but don’t stretch it or apply too much pressure or it may tear or affect the stitching., Before you start sewing your organza, try testing your stitches on a scrap piece of organza fabric first. This will help to ensure that the stitch you are using will not damage your fabric and give you a chance to adjust your settings before you work on the actual project.