 Before you get too eager to shop for new pieces, scan the room you’re planning on decorating. Take note of its size, layout, flooring, walkways, doors, windows, cabinets and other features. The rustic furnishings you pick out should be appropriate for the specific look of each room so that the new atmosphere feels like a natural extension.Some pieces will look better in certain places than others. Whenever you’re picking out your decor, trust your instincts when deciding where in your home or room it should go.
If you could use a fresh set of eyes, seek out the professional opinion of an interior designer.;
, Rustic chic decor is by definition muted and minimal. Forget about bright colors, elaborate patterns or gleaming burnished fixtures. Instead, focus on monochromatic pieces in complementary hues and materials. This basic setting will act as a blank canvas so that you can add personality later by using smaller decorations.Appliances and fixtures in dark, plain shades will go with a wider range of items.
Vary your tones between rooms. The sun room will benefit from light shades like pine and cream, while the bedroom or study can be done in dark grays, browns and blacks with splashes of color., Simplistic items are wonderful on their own, but too many of them can easily start to look busy. Resist the urge to incorporate more and more into a room. Get a few essential pieces, like a maple coffee table or a rich brown leather loveseat, and let them speak for themselves.Limiting the number of pieces in a given room also helps maximize your space.
A room full of items in all the same style or shade can quickly become monotonous.
 If you’re having trouble planning an updated layout for the room or deciding on the perfect spot for new decorations, one good place to start would be getting furniture and accessories that you don’t want anymore. Dull, uninteresting items can be sold, donated or discarded to make room for fresh finds. Assuming you’re not ready to part with a particular piece just yet, you could also have it reupholstered and appreciate it from a new perspective.Sometimes even small changes can make a big difference. You might not have to totally overhaul your living space in order to breathe new life into it.
Give your old furniture a new home in another room, or store it until you find another use for it.

