 Is your skin dry or oily? Do you get acne breakouts? Finding the problem is always the first step.;
, There are many creams out there so it will take a while to find the one right for you.


Get several brands. One brand of moisturizer for oily skin may work differently than another.
 apply it on your face and wash off the remaining. Do not go in sunlight after doing this. Try doing this treatment at night.
Take powdered aspirin and mix it with water to make a paste. Leave it on for ten minutes and wash it off. Your skin should be very soft and it should also take care of acne.






If you have acne, put a dab of honey on all of your zits and place bandages on top of the honey dabs. Leave it on overnight and all your zits should be gone.
 It helps get rid of dark circles!

, Potatoes also help. You can place potato slices on your face, or make a paste out of them and apply it around your eyelids. This also helps to get rid of dark circles.
 Brush it every day before going to bed. You can keep it in a bun or ponytail while you sleep so it will be easier to brush in the morning.
 Believe it or not, shampooing your hair every day is actually bad for your hair.
 There are many ways to do this:


Buy a volumizing conditioner.
After showering, try hanging your head below your shoulders, then blow drying your hair.
Mix mayonnaise with avocado and work the paste into your hair. Massage it into your scalp, put on a shower cap and leave it there or 20 minutes or so, then wash it out. You can add eggs to the blend if you want.
If you're in a hurry, or your event is minutes away, use a styling gel or mousse that gives your hair volume.
, Brush your tongue, too, so you'll have fresh breath!

, These are easy to use and often give you quick results!

, Brush it on your teeth, leave for two or three minutes, then rinse it off. Make sure to brush with real toothpaste after the treatment, to protect your tooth enamel.
, Make sure you match everything try on the whole outfit. Sometimes things you like just won't go together.
 Head bands, hair clips, fashion scarves and hats will all finish your look and give it a boost.


Look in clothing catalogs or fashion magazines for inspiration.
, Don't worry about what others think!

