 If you have an older toddler that's around 2 1/2 to 3 years old, they may be ready to learn how to dress themselves. Start with simple clothes that aren't hard to put on and that don't have buttons or zippers. Using buttons or zippers requires complex motor functions which may have not yet developed. Talk to your toddler and choose an outfit the night before. Set expectations and show them the basics of how to get dressed. This will cut out a significant amount of time out of your morning ritual.An example of something you may have to teach your toddler is holding their waistband when putting on their pants.;
, By 13 to 15 months your toddler should be able to feed themselves and should have the motor functionality to use utensils. Work with your child and teach them how to eat using utensils. Make sure that your child doesn't have any difficulty chewing or swallowing, as this may be a sign of delayed development. If this is the case, wait until they are older before encouraging self-feeding., The more that you force your toddler to rush, the more they are likely to resist you. Instead of getting angry and frustrated, make getting ready a game that you can both enjoy. One way to do this is to make leaving the house into a game of "Simon Says." Another way is to play your toddler's favorite song and challenge them to get ready and outside before it's over.You can say something like, "Simon says find your shoes. Simon says to put on your shirt. Simon says eat your pop-tart!"

, Your child is ready for potty training when they verbalize the need to go to the bathroom. They may also show other signs that they are aware of their bodies and have to use the restroom. If they look uncomfortable or tell you that they need to use the potty, they are ready to start potty training. Keep a potty chair in the bathroom and show your children how to properly clean themselves after they go to the bathroom. Schedule regular bathroom breaks throughout the day to get your toddler on a schedule.18 months old is the average age most toddlers learn to potty train but it differs among children.Instead of getting caught up on the average age for potty training, pay attention to your child's specific needs and development.
 The more that you reward your child's autonomy, the more likely they will do things themselves and save you precious time getting ready. You can give your child a verbal reward for doing well, or give them a physical reward, like a sticker.You can say something like, "Great job Tim, you rocked at getting ready this morning!"

