 Maybe they ignore you, or make fun of you, but when they need to get a “B” on the final to avoid failing the class, they’ll be willing to pay for your nerdy expertise. You may be able to work through official channels at your school, or spread the word with postings (paper or digital).If you’re not necessarily interested in tutoring classmates, you can also look into working for one of the many large tutoring companies. If you can prove yourself an expert on an academic subject, someone out there will pay you for that knowledge.;
, This kind of work is similar to tutoring, but focuses on helping others complete specific academic or other projects. If your nerd talents involve physics or short film editing, to name a couple of examples, you can probably find someone willing to pay for your assistance.Act as guide, advisor, or sounding board — never do the project for the person, or help them substantially in completing it without prior approval from the project’s evaluator. Be up front from the start regarding what kind of assistance you can and will provide, and don’t risk your own standing for a few extra bucks.
 Babysitters, especially of young children, are lucky to get a few calm moments while working. Petsitters may or may not luck out and get some quiet time while “on the clock.” Housesitters generally get paid to sit, which means you can engage in your nerdy passions while making money for hanging around someone else’s house.Your nerdiness may play to your advantage in this instance, as people seeking housesitters may see you as less likely to have wild parties in their absence. Don’t prove them wrong.
 Researchers at universities and medical centers regularly seek out members of the public for various clinical trials. If you let them pick your brain (or perhaps prick your arm, depending on the type of trial), you will likely be compensated for your participation. Such trials usually don’t require all that much time or effort on your part, either.Your nerd status may serve you well here also. Some trials may be looking specifically for high-achieving types, or those who excel in a particular intellectual pursuit.

