 The breath of fire is a rhythmic breathing exercise that you can do anywhere, either sitting or standing. If you're self-conscious, you may want to go somewhere where you have privacy.Sit or stand in a comfortable position and close your eyes. Take a few deep, cleansing breaths, then shorten and sharpen your breath, breathing deeply but rapidly. Each breath should be approximately the same length.
As you breathe, pump your navel in and out. It can help to also make a "ha" sound in the back of your throat as you're breathing. Do this exercise for about a minute, then follow with a few slower deep, cleansing breaths.
 The sun breath allows you to breathe more deeply by opening your chest. Sun breath can be helpful if you find yourself contracting protectively in response to anxiety or stress.Press your sitting bones into your chair and reach up from the crown of your head to lengthen your spine. Open your palms upward in front of you. As you inhale slowly, extend your arms out to your sides and lift them over your head, connecting your palms at the top of the circle.
As you exhale, lower your palms together behind your neck. Focus on lifting your elbows as high as you can toward the ceiling.
Bring your palms back over your head on an inhale, then separate your palms and lower your arms back to your side as you exhale. Do as many repetitions of this exercise as feels comfortable.
 This alternating stretch helps squeeze out tension in your core to deepen your exhale, easing tension and improving your focus and concentration.Press into the seat of the chair, reaching up through the crown of your head to lengthen your spine. On an exhale, round your back and tilt your pelvis backward as you lift your right knee toward your forehead, tucking your chin to your chest.
Lower your right leg back to the floor on an exhale and return to a stable seat. On your next exhale, repeat the movement with your left leg.
Do eight repetitions of this stretch, or four on each side.
 While not necessarily a yoga pose, these exercises are inspired by the practice of yoga. They can be done at any time during the day that you feel tension in your neck, such as if you've been hunched over a computer or cradling a phone between your shoulder and your ear.Simply place your hands palm-down at the crown of your head, fingers interlaced. Breathe deeply for several breath cycles, in through your nose and out through your mouth.
As you breathe, push the crown of your head up into your hands. At the same time, press down gently with your hands. Hold these opposing motions for a few breaths, then release for a few breaths, then repeat once.
Make sure when you do this that you are sitting straight with your feet flat on the ground, back neutral, shoulders rolled back.
 Particularly if you have an office job that requires you to sit at a desk for most of your day, take periodic breaks to stretch your shoulders. This prevents tension from building up in your neck and shoulders.Start by getting into a strong seat with your feet firmly on the floor and your back straight. Breathe deeply, and on an inhale lace the fingers of both hands together in front of you, arms extended. As you exhale, raise your hands overhead, palms facing the ceiling, and stretch your armpits. Keep your shoulders relaxed, your shoulder blades melting down your back.
Take your hands in the same position and extend them in front of you, tucking your tailbone under and rounding your back. Breathe deeply and stretch to open up space between your shoulder blades.
Lift your arms overhead and then exhale and drop them behind your back. You can either rest your knuckles on your sacrum or straighten your arms behind you as you lift your chest to lean slightly backward, stretching the front of your shoulders and your chest.
Finally, take your interlaced fingers first to one side then to the other, leaning your head in the same direction as your fingers. This stretches the tops of your shoulders.

