 Caffeine is not just found in caffeinated beverages like teas and coffees. Certain foods, like chocolate, as well as many over-the-counter and prescription medications, may contain caffeine.You can also find caffeine in energy drinks, such as Monster Energy Drink and Five Hour Energy Shot, workout supplements, weight loss supplements, and over-the-counter stimulants, such as NoDoz and Vivarine. If you regularly consume caffeinated beverages, make a habit of reading the ingredients list on medications and foods. This way, you can make sure you're not getting too much caffeine.Chocolates may not list caffeine as an ingredient on labels. Try to monitor your caffeine from other sources and, if you've had a lot of caffeine on a particular day, avoid chocolate.
 Write down how much caffeine you consume each day. This can help you make sure you're not getting too much caffeine. Most healthy adults should have no more than 400 milligrams of caffeine a day, which is about how much is found in four cups of coffee. However, some types of coffee may have more or less caffeine than others, so shoot for a little less than four cups if you're a coffee drinker just to be safe.Keep in mind that some people are more sensitive to the effects of caffeine and adolescents should have no more than 100mg caffeine per day., If you find you need to cut back on caffeine, do so gradually. Caffeine is a stimulant to the central nervous system, so regular consumption can cause mild physical dependence. If you stop intake abruptly, you may experience mild withdrawal symptoms for a few days. Cutting back gradually can increase your likelihood of successfully and comfortably cutting back on caffeine.Start small. For example, strive to drink one less cup of coffee each day for a week. The next week, cut back by another cup. Eventually, you'll be at a healthy level of caffeine consumption. Remember, this is around 400 milligrams a day., If you love the taste of coffee, soda, or other caffeinated beverages, switch to decaf. You can still enjoy the taste you love but you won't run the risk of a caffeine overdose.You can order decaf coffee at your favorite coffee shop. You can also get decaffeinated soda at the supermarket, or see if they have it while you're eating out at a local restaurant.
If you like tea, most herbal teas do not contain caffeine.

