 The first step in curbing tardiness is deciding when to go to bed at night and when to get up in the morning (at least 15 minutes early is a good rule of thumb) – and then sticking with it everyday. It's usually best to go to sleep at a reasonable time so you can be well-rested and ready to respond to your alarm clock in the morning.If you've become used to oversleeping during summer or winter break, try easing back into the swing of things with a gradual approach. Instead of attempting to get up at the crack of dawn on your first day back at school, at least a few days beforehand, try setting your alarm slightly earlier each day until you're better able to get up at the proper time.Every time you get up on time or early, give yourself a reward, whether it's watching TV before leaving the house or taking a walk around the block.;
, Rummaging in drawers and closets is a time waster if you do it right before you're supposed to be out the door. That's why it's better to choose your shirt, pants, socks and shoes at night, putting them where you can find them easily in the morning., Just in case you get up late in the morning, make sure you've taken a shower the night before. That way, all you have to do is brush your hair and teeth and wash your face and hands before getting dressed., The night before school, fix whatever you intend to eat for lunch the next day and pack it in the fridge.If your family eats breakfast together, set the table at night and make sure all foods or ingredients are easily accessible. This will save time.
 Make sure to go through your things in the evening and remind yourself if a permission slip needs to be signed or if you're scheduled to do something special the next day, such as going on a field trip or attending a school function. These types of things could require special clothing or bringing extra money with you.
 Make sure all your homework is finished at night so you don't have to rush to complete it in the morning – or, worse, get in trouble for not handing it in at all. This means you should get everything done before you go outside to find your friends in the afternoon or sit down to watch TV or play video games. If you need to, have a snack first, but the longer you delay doing your work, the more likely you'll be not to complete it.The same is true for group projects, sports or extracurricular activities such as band or drama club. Except for projects assigned by your teachers, participation in these other activities is voluntary, so homework still has to get done.
 It's one thing to finish all your homework and gather any permission slips or parents' signatures you might need the night before, but none of that matters if you forget to bring it with you to school. Part of your nightly routine should be making sure everything you'll need is packed in your bag and ready to be used once you get there., Before you eat breakfast in the morning, make sure you're completely dressed and washed. This will save time as you prepare to head out the door because you won't have to backtrack to your room or the bathroom. You'll be ready to leave the moment you've finished eating., Ask your parents to help you put together a system of sharing tasks to save time in the morning. If you have brothers and sisters, your mom or dad can make sure each of you has specific tasks to complete before leaving, so a single person isn't responsible for everything you have to do before the day begins. That would take too long.


For example, you wash the dishes, your sister can gather everyone's backpacks and another sibling can take the dog out for a walk – all at the same time. All of you will be finished with these chores in minutes if you work together.
 Have a central spot – or launch pad – where all school-related items (bags, papers, pencil boxes) are kept. That way everyone can grab what they need quickly and no one will be searching for missing items while the bus is waiting outside., Unless you've prepared it the night before, an elaborate meal could take too much time to cook and clean up in the morning. Make sure you eat things such as cereal and toast that can be finished in minutes.