 Depending on where you place the container, your plants may get full sun, partial sun, or full shad. Different types of plants will do better in different types of conditions, so you should choose accordingly. Plants that do well in containers include:African daisies and begonias
Ferns, ivy, and grasses
Impatiens
Marigolds and zinnias
Pansies and petunias

, The planter should be large enough to hold several flowers. Keep in mind, however, that the larger the planter is, the more difficult it will be to move around.


Avoid terracotta planters if you live in a hot, dry climate. It will soak up too much water and dry out too fast. If you must have a terracotta planter, make sure it is sealed on the inside.
 This will prevent the soil from falling out while allowing the water to drain through.You will also need a dish to place under your planter to catch excess water and protect your floor or patio.


If the drain hole is smaller than ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), then you do not need to line it., Carefully take the plants out of the pots that they came in, and arrange them in the planter until you are satisfied with the design. You can arrange them however you like, but here are some ideas to get you started:


Mix different colors of the same plant variety. Pansies and impatiens come in a variety of colors, which can make your garden look more interesting.Combine different textures. This is a great idea for plants that will be growing in the shade. Pay attention to the different leaf shapes and colors, and mix them up.If you have a large planter: place a tall, upright plant in the middle, and add one or two broad, mid-height plants. Fill the gaps and outer edges with one or two trailing plants., Choose a potting soil that is lightweight and rich in nutrients. You can also get soil that has fertilizer mixed into it, but you will need to add more fertilizer as the year goes on., The soil will compress a little. When that happens, you will need to add more soil and water again. If you live in a hot, dry climate, consider adding some mulching on top of the soil to help seal the moisture in. If you live in a humid climate, consider adding some white pebbles on top of the soil instead. They will dry faster and prevent rot and mold.
 Water your flowers every 2 to 3 days. If the summers are hot and dry, you'll need to water them every day. For bigger, healthier blooms, feed your flowers with an all-purpose plant food every few weeds. Lastly, remember to pick off any dead or wilted flowers and leaves. This will encourage blooming.