 The internet age gives you endless opportunity to market and publish your own work that should not be discounted. In many ways, shorter internet comics have replaced physical comics books as ways to build towards the inevitable graphic novel, which is usually all of the strips collected in one book. Even better, use your web comic to expand on the stories or characters in the book, enticing viewers to buy the "real thing."


Getting up on social media every day, even if only for 20 minutes, is essential to build some traction online and get potential readers.
If you can point to a large follower list, on any platform, publishers are more likely to see and like your work. Having followers tells them there are people already who want to buy the book.
 Look up the authors and publishers of your favorite comics, leaning towards ones with a similar tone or subject as your comic. Be sure to branch out, too -- this list cannot be too big! Remember that, while working for Marvel or DC would be a blast, it is very rare for first-timers to get picked up by the big guys. Independent and smaller presses are a much better bet.


Get contact information, including email, website, and address, for every company.
If applying for graphic novels, be sure to check if the publishing house has a specific division for graphic work, or if they take all submissions the same way.
 Head online and see if the house accepts "unsolicited submissions," meaning you send them the work even if they don't ask. Read all the rules and guidelines, then send in your absolute best work. You won't hear back from everyone -- but that is why you keep the list as big as possible.


Any cover letters or emails should be short and professional. You want them reading about the story, not about you!
Make sure artistic samples are included with the story.
 It's a daunting proposition, but it is very doable. While printing in full-color is expensive, you can always stick with black and white. Furthermore, you get creative control over the entire book, allowing you to make sure your vision gets onto the page unfiltered.To self-publish a comic book, simply create a PDF from the pages using Amazon Self Publish or a similar site.
 There are so many manuscripts that hit the desks of publishers that many are thrown out without being read. This isn't to discourage you -- many amazing books get through, too! -- but rather to prepare you for the hard work ahead. Having a book you love and feel proud will make the slog of publishing much, much more bearable.


Don't forget that even the most famous authors were rejected 100's of time before success. It may hurt now, but working through it separates published comics from unpublished.

