 Open your browser of choice and type in www.elance.com on the search bar.;
, Enter your email address and password into the text fields to the right, and click on “Sign In” to access your account and to get to your main Elance page.
 After you have logged in, you will land on your job screen. To get to your profile page, click on the down arrow on your username, which is on the top-right portion of the screen. From the drop-down menu that appears, scroll down the options and select “Profile.”

, Once your profile page is displayed on the screen, scroll down a bit until you see a subsection called “Skills.” Click on the blue “Edit” button beside it to open the Edit Skills section of your profile.
 Once the Edit Skills page loads, click on the first green button that will say “Add Skill(s).” Add as many skills as you want. You will notice that once you start typing a skill, a list of popular skills will be displayed, and you can select your skills by clicking on them when you see them.


Try to sound as professional as you possibly can when assigning skills to yourself, e.g., “Creative Writing” instead of “I write poetry on my spare time.”

, Simply click on the “Add skills” button on the box to post the skills to your page.
 You will see items to the right of each skill, such as “Tested,” and there will either be a check mark, a blank, or an N/A next to it to signify whether or not you took the specified test for a particular skill.
 Beside each skill is a check box. If you uncheck it, the skill will not show up on your profile. To uncheck skills, simply click on them.
 It’s optional, but you can take the test for a particular skill you listed down if you haven’t yet, and if there is a test available for it. You will know because there will be a gray box beside the display box that will say “Take Test.” Click on it to start the test for that skill set.


The results of your test will be saved automatically, and you will have successfully added skills to your Elance profile.

