 This might include your personal beliefs, your worldview, and your experiences that directly inform your manifesto. By introducing yourself, your readers will have a better sense of your life course.Make sure that you share life details related to your ideas.
Relate important experiences from work, school, or life that help readers see you as an authority.
Mentioning your degree in art might be useful in an artist's manifesto, just as civil service would be worth mentioning in a political manifesto.
 There should be some unifying point to your manifesto. This is delivered in your introduction. It will be a compelling argument, connecting all your ideas together. Make sure you take time to craft a well-written thesis statement.
 A precept is an actionable ideal, an instruction meant to regulate behavior or thought. Tell your readers a little about what ideals they're going to read about, before they go into it. You don't want to say everything, just a little bit, so that readers can engage with your manifesto's larger picture. Give yourself at least one sentence to mention the main points of your manifesto.


You can use bullet points to list your precepts.
Follow a precept up with a sentence explanation if you need clarity, but save most of your explaining for the body paragraphs. If it isn't merely presenting the precept, don't put it in the introduction.
 Don't just provide your ideas. Offer a direction for change. Manifestos are revolutionary by nature.Though not all revolutions are equal in scale, all share in this desire for change.


Focus on verbs to evoke a sense of action. Avoid verbs like "am/is/are", "have/has" and other passive constructions. For example: "Every artist manifests Art itself," instead of "Every artist is Art itself."
Use concrete details. Avoid words like "thing" and "something", as these are not specific. For example: "Something in our political system disturbs me" becomes "Negligence in our political system disturbs me."
Take a current problem and re-imagine it changed through your ideology.
 Even for a short manifesto, you will want to make sure you devote a section to each of your main points. This will make your points more concrete for readers. It will also help to make sure you address any questions your readers might have.


Give each precept its own paragraph.
For longer sections, use a subheading.
 A well written manifesto is crisp and sharp. The focus is clear and there is exactness in the intention. Its meaning and purpose are unmistakable. By keeping your manifesto concise, you avoid getting off-topic.
 This way you can remind your readers about what they've read and the main point of your manifesto. The conclusion will help give readers a sense of closure. Make sure to restate your thesis at some point during your conclusion.

