 A lot of students think that they are only eligible for funding when they initially apply for admission. This is a mistake! There are often new scholarship opportunities for upperclassmen, though they aren't always widely advertised. You may also be able to apply for external scholarships or grants, which are offered from groups outside of your school.


Begin by scoping out bulletin boards on campus and paying careful attention to email announcements.
You can also search online for new funding opportunities, and there are apps that you can download for free (or for very little, such as the app Scholly, available for just $.99) that can help you tailor your search.;
, One of the best ways to learn a subject is to teach it. By becoming a tutor, you can hone your own knowledge of your field of study, perform a valuable service to others, and earn some needed cash—it's a win-win scenario for everyone involved!


You can often get paid through your school to tutor other students in classes you have completed and done well in, or you can advertise your own services to your fellow classmates.
To find tutoring opportunities, meet with your advisor or your professors, or go to the campus tutoring center.
 You are hopefully already taking careful, thorough notes in your classes for your own benefit. Why not make your efforts pay out double?


It's fairly common for students who need special arrangements because of learning disabilities to be assigned a (usually anonymous) note-taker for their classes.
These positions are usually compensated—you can often make up to $10 an hour for every hour of class.You'll take careful notes, type them up, and email or drop them off at disability services, where they will be passed on to the students who need them.
 Once a fellow students' needs are documented, disability services will contact the professors and ask for volunteers in the class to take notes, and your professor will in turn email the class.


Respond quickly before your fellow cash-strapped students snag the job away from you!

, You can also contact disability services directly to see if they have a need for note-takers in the courses you are taking, or you can advertise your services yourself to your fellow classmates.


If you advertise yourself, make sure that you aren't violating class or university policy.
 If you excel at writing and editing, you can hone your skills and get paid for it at the same time by offering to proofread your classmates' papers for a reasonable fee.


Spread the word among your friends and roommates, and consider posting fliers which advertise your services.
 If you do get work proofreading, be careful about how you offer feedback and make suggestions for revision. You should be very familiar with your school's honor code and rules regarding plagiarism.


Double-check the particular professor's policy about sharing written work with others, too. Some professors assign take-home essays that are more like exams, and they forbid students from talking to one another during the writing process.
If you rewrite, instead of proofread, someone else's paper, you both could be brought up on academic fraud charges, and you could face serious consequences, to include being expelled.
 If you are a fast and accurate typist, if you are great at creating interesting presentations with sophisticated graphics, or if you excel at creating tables and graphs to represent data, you may be able to get paid to teach and help other students with their assignments and hone your own skills at the same time.
 Most campuses have a Career Services office which counsels students on job market possibilities, and which helps prepare them for applying and interviewing as they near graduation. Don't think, however, that you should only use this resource as a senior.


You can often find advertisements for paid internships and part-time work in your field of study at the Career Services office.
Finding these opportunities early in your studies will not only help you excel in your field and build up your resume, but can add some much needed cash to your wallet while you learn.
 You can pretty regularly find advertisements for essay contests and scholarly competitions (such as science or engineering competitions) which offer cash prizes for the top performers.


Be on the lookout for these opportunities by regularly checking the bulletin boards around campus (begin by looking in academic departments and the library), going through your email carefully, and by going directly to your advisor and/or professors to see if they know of any such competitions for which you may be a good fit.
Even if you don't win, you'll get experience in your field, make connections, and build up your portfolio or work.

