 Whenever you plan on exercising or doing any heavy physical activity, you will want to properly warm up. Warming up can help prepare your body and ankles for more strenuous work, reducing the likelihood of injuring the area.Light stretching is a good way to warm up.
Slowly jogging can safely bring up your heart rate and engage your ankles before exercising.
Don't force any stretch. Keep your motions slow and stop if you feel discomfort.
 If you plan on starting new exercises, activities, or increasing the intensity of things you're already doing, you will need to work into them slowly. Jumping into a new movement or intensity too hard, too quickly will greatly increase the chances of you sustaining an ankle injury.Gradually build up to new exercise programs over the course of a few weeks.
You can also use cross-training methods to build strength and keep you protected from injury.
For example, try running only one mile if you are new to running. If you felt comfortable running that much, add a bit more distance next time. Once you get used to that new distance, you can add more and continue building up your run length in this way.
 The simplest way to avoid injury to your ankle is to listen to what your body is saying. If you notice any pain at all during exercise or activity, stop immediately or change the motion. Pushing through any kind of joint pain will only further agitate the area and may result in a worse injury. Always listen to your body when exercising for signs of impending injury or pain. Don't train while injured. Allow the area to fully heal before continuing any exercise program.
 If you have an old ankle injury, you also have a greater chance of injuring it again. To cut down on recurrent injuries to your ankle you may want to apply a bandage or tape. The ankle bandage or tape will help reinforce the area and will help keep it from moving in a way that could result in another injury. Use this technique to properly tape your ankle:Apply one strip of tape around the lower shin to create an anchor.
Place another anchor strip around the middle of the foot.
Create a stirrup by placing one end of the tape at your first shin anchor, bringing it under the foot, and back up to the other side of your shin anchor.
Create a “figure 8” shape. Start a piece of tape at the top of your stirrup, either side will do. Bring the tape down, across the shin, under the foot, back up the leg and connect to it the opposite side of your stirrup.
Add another stirrup on the foot itself. Start on one side of the foot anchor tape, bring the tape under the back of the heel and end the tape on the opposite side of the foot you started from.
Repeat each strip once again. However, this time place the strips of tape with just a bit of overlap between them to cover more of the ankle and provide more support.

