 The SHPO of the state in which the cemetery is located has information on how you can apply to have the cemetery listed on both state and national historic registries.You can visit the SHPO office in person and speak with staff there, or visit the SHPO's website, which typically includes information about nominating a site as well as research materials and forms to complete the process.
State historic societies often have additional information and guidelines regarding the preservation and restoration of historic cemeteries.
Keep in mind that registering the cemetery does not confer any physical protection, funding, or restoration. Having the cemetery listed in a historic registry is merely a commemorative honor.;
, The National Park Service and state historic preservation offices have particular criteria that must be met for a cemetery to be designated a historic landmark. These criteria differ from the criteria other landmarks must meet for designation.Generally, a cemetery qualifies for registration as a historic landmark if people are buried there who have transcendental historic importance, or if the cemetery itself is historically significant due to its age, design features, or association with historic events.
For example, a slave cemetery located on the grounds of a former plantation potentially would qualify for registration as a historic landmark.
To qualify on the basis of age, that age must be important in the context of the development of that particular geographic area. For example, a cemetery from the community's original settlement in the 1700's would qualify.
Keep in mind that if you nominate a cemetery based on design values, your ability to restore old grave markers may be limited. Cemeteries cannot qualify for registration based on design if the grave markers have been replaced.
 To register a cemetery as a historic landmark, you must fill out the forms identifying the cemetery and the reasons it qualifies to be registered and preserved.As part of your nomination forms, you generally must present and establish reasons for the cemetery's historic significance. Photos of markers of historically important or influential people can be included to support your reasons.
You also might want to include documents related to the founding of the cemetery, or archeological data from excavations that tie the site to a historically significant time period or group of people.
Looking at the nomination forms of historic cemeteries that have been listed in a state or national cemetery can give you some ideas on the type of information needed to prove your case.
 Whether you intend to nominate the cemetery for designation as a state or national historic landmark, you must submit your nomination to the SHPO of the state in which the cemetery is located.After your nomination is received, the SHPO will solicit public comment. In some cases, there may be a public hearing at which people can come and testify as to why the cemetery should be designated a historic landmark, or why they oppose such a designation.
If you nominated the cemetery for national registration, your application also will be reviewed by your state's National Register Review Board.
 After your nomination is received and evaluated, you may have to attend public hearings or answer questions from SHPO staff before your nomination will be approved.Whether you are seeking state or national recognition, your application should be processed within four to six months.
You will need to keep in touch with the SHPO to find out what you need to do as the process continues. The SHPO will notify you if your application is accepted.
Once the cemetery is designated a historic landmark, the state or federal government will issue plaques to commemorate the site and notify the public of its status.
 If the cemetery's location isn't recorded in the county deed records, you should have its boundaries recorded so the site can be preserved.Many states such as Texas provide for county deed records to be updated to reflect the existence and location of the cemetery through the state historic cemetery designation process.
Boundaries of the cemetery should be marked using deed records so you can take other steps to secure the property if necessary.
Creating a notice of existence within the county's deed records that establishes the location and boundaries of the historic cemetery often is one of the most valuable legal protections for a cemetery if you want to preserve it for future generations.
 Unless the cemetery is located on your private property, you will have to get permission from the owner of the land or from the government before you take steps to preserve it.Many historic cemeteries are on land controlled by state or local governments. You must obtain written permission from the government with jurisdiction over the area before you can begin your efforts to protect and preserve the historic cemetery.
In some states and localities, cemeteries are governed by cemetery associations. Not only must you get permission from the association, but you also should become familiar with the association's rules and regulations so you don't run afoul of any restrictions while attempting to preserve the site.
If the cemetery is only accessible through private land, you'll have to negotiate access with the landowner before going any further.
 Protect your investment of time and money by making sure the location is physically secure against destruction or vandalism before you commit extensive resources to preservation efforts.Securing the area may require building a fence around the cemetery, or repairing any existing fences or gates.
If the fence and gate structure are themselves historic, you may want to talk to a preservation expert before you begin any repairs.
If the cemetery is surrounded by private lands, consult the landowners for ideas on how to keep the site secure and enlist their assistance.
You also may want to consult the local police department and let them know that you're beginning an effort to restore the cemetery and would like them to patrol the area regularly.
Get a sense of the area so you have a better understanding of the level of security that will be necessary. For example, if the cemetery is the frequent target of vandals, you may want to consider hiring a private security guard.
 Because your preservation efforts may have significant cultural and archaeological implications, you should consult people with training and experience in preservation to devise a plan to preserve a historic cemetery.The types of people you need to involve in your planning depend on the type of cemetery you're restoring and its historic significance.
Archaeologists can be of assistance if the cemetery contains a number of unmarked graves. You also may want to consult a historian to identify historically significant individuals buried in the cemetery.
If the grave markers and other features have architectural or sculptural significance, you may want to enlist the assistance of an architect.
Many of these professionals may be willing to donate their time and expertise to preserve and protect a historic landmark. Talk to staff in your SHPO to get the names and contact information of professionals who have volunteered on other preservation efforts in the past.
 To plan your preservation strategy, you will need a detailed map of the entire cemetery, including graves and the locations of various landscape features such as trees or bushes.Your map should note the orientation of all marked graves, as well as those that are unmarked if the location is known. Include the size and type of any markers, including headstones and footstones.
Each physical feature should have a control number on your map. As you and historians or anthropologists research the cemetery and the people buried in it, you can tie information to the numbers and create a guide to the cemetery.
You also should photograph all the physical features, and note the control number of that feature on each photograph so the photos can be organized using the map. Note the condition of each feature and the work that must be done to repair or restore it.
Once your map is complete, you can divide the cemetery into zones and plan your preservation efforts accordingly. The map allows you to effectively assign projects to particular professionals or volunteers and keep track of their progress.
Keep in mind that the general layout of the cemetery, including landscape features such as trees and bushes, may be of cultural significance to the historic community that created the cemetery. Respect these features and don't move them or destroy them if at all possible.
 Concerned citizens often can do much of the work required to maintain a historic cemetery, including basic cleaning and restoration of grave markers and clearing of the grounds.Talk to people in the community surrounding the cemetery to gauge interest in volunteering to assist in the clean-up and preservation process.
You also may be able to find volunteers by presenting your plans to historic or genealogical societies and local heritage groups.
For cemeteries with particular historic or archaeological significance, you may want to speak with university professors about getting groups of students together to work on cemetery preservation. Some professors may even be willing to offer student-volunteers extra credit for participation.
Publicity in local newspapers or on local news also can attract volunteers interested in assisting the preservation effort.
 To avoid disturbing graves or damaging markers, the bulk of the brush on the grounds of a historic cemetery should be cleared without the use of motorized clippers or mowers.Keep in mind that much of the work involved in cleaning up a historic cemetery is pain-staking and labor intensive. Rotate volunteers frequently among tasks to prevent burn-out and carelessness.
Protect the safety of your volunteers by establishing rules of conduct and keeping a first aid kit on hand at all times if anyone is injured while working at the cemetery.
Take note of any toxic plants such as poison oak on the grounds, and make sure anyone with responsibility for clearing brush in those areas wears protective clothing.
Where possible, have professionals train volunteers so everyone working has an understanding of what constitutes brush or debris that should be removed and what stones or other material is a part of the natural order of the cemetery's design and shouldn't be disturbed.
 After the brush is cleared, the bulk of the grass in a cemetery can be mowed using a hand mower, although care should be taken to first flag the markers and not mow over them.If you hire a landscape company or other contractors to complete mowing, make sure they understand the delicate nature of the site and are willing to take precautions to avoid upsetting historic markers or destroying landscape features.
Any agreements with landscapers or outside contracts should be in writing, so everyone understands the nature of the project.
Use push mowers rather than riding mowers. If possible, non-motorized mowers are preferable as they create the least disturbance and lower the risk of damaging historic artifacts and grave markers.
 Chemicals can upset the balance of delicate cemetery soils and cause further erosion of old markers, particularly if they are made of porous stones such as limestone.If toxic plants need to be cleared, consult a plant or landscape professional on methods to remove unwanted plants without harming other vegetation.
Keep in mind that some plants and vegetation may have cultural significance. The basic makeup of the historic cemetery's landscape should be kept intact as much as possible.
 Before you begin the process of cleaning markers, you should first determine what material the markers are and whether that material is intact enough to be cleaned without doing further damage.Many historic grave markers are made of relatively soft stone that was easy to carve. As a result of their softness, these grave markers also are more easily eroded and worn down by years of exposure to the elements.
If a stone grave marker has a grainy or crumbling surface, or large cracks, you shouldn't undertake any efforts on your own to clean or repair it.
Make note of unsound grave markers on your map so a professional can look at them and determine what steps must be taken to restore them.
 Provided the stone is sound, many grave markers can be cleaned gently by hand without need for any training in specialized techniques.Don't sandblast the gravestones or use excessive water pressure to clean them. Many markers can be cleaned by brushing it off with a soft-bristled brush, then wetting it with warm water and brushing some more.
You can use a mixture of one part ammonia and four parts water to clean the stones, but don't use any other cleaners or abrasive materials, as they can further weaken and damage the stone.
If a particular marker doesn't respond well to gentle cleaning, cease efforts and consult a professional. Potential delays to the project are better than causing additional damage.
 If a marker has deteriorated to the point that attempts to clean it could result in its destruction, you should seek assistance from a stone conservator or preservation specialist to restore the marker.As you continue your preservation plan, historic photos of the cemetery can help you understand how it looked when it was originally constructed, giving you a better idea of how to focus your restoration efforts.
Make sure any agreements with professionals are in writing, even if the person is volunteering his or her time. Written agreements ensure everyone understands the goals of the project and your expectations for the professional.
When a professional volunteers their time, it can be tempting to simply take anyone willing. However, protect the integrity of the cemetery and your restoration project by conducting a thorough background check of any professionals to ensure they have the requisite qualifications and that any certifications or licenses are valid and up to date.

