 Indecisiveness when making choices is a prominent characteristic of the highly sensitive person. HSPs need ample time to reflect and weigh the potential results of their decisions before moving forward.


HSPs are more in tune with the minute details involved in making a choice—so considering all the options takes longer. If you contemplate restaurant menu items as if it were a life or death choice, this may describe you.;
, Because highly sensitive people are intuitive and introspective, their work is significant to providing satisfaction. However, whereas some people may enjoy their jobs simply because it exposes them to diverse people or deposits an impressive check into their bank accounts, HSPs are more likely to choose careers that align with their values.


Many HSPs change careers several times over a lifespan because the jobs are unfulfilling or compromise their values., Being moved by a song, poem, or other work of art is common for the HSP. You may feel very deeply, so you may pick up on the expressive qualities of art that others do not. Being drawn to aesthetic beauty and creative expression may also explain why many HSPs are artists., HSPs can listen to a song or read a book and evoke a clear picture of the characters and settings in their minds. You may be a valued member of teams at work or school because you consider the many possible options of a problem. Your intense imagination assists you in creative pursuits, as well.Having a vibrant imagination can serve HSPs well. However, your imagination may also lead you to making negative assumptions or developing fears and anxiety.Daydreaming is also common for HSPs, and it can be easy for an HSP to get caught up in their thoughts.
 While your friends and family may want your company nonstop, many HSPs find pleasure in solo downtime. You may use your solitude for creative pursuits, for quiet introspection, or to rest after extended social interaction.You may notice that this trait of the HSP is very similar to the downtime required by introverts. In fact, research shows that more than 70% of HSPs are introverts.
HSPs can easily become overstimulated, so they may prefer lower stimulating people, places, and activities.

