 Take small steps if your sleep schedule is changing. Make sure you don’t suddenly change your sleep patterns since that can be disruptive and potentially dangerous.


Try changing your sleep patterns a little at a time. Go to bed and wake up closer to the time you will need to.
Stay up late before your schedule changes. This will make you tired and able to sleep the entire next day. You can try to sleep a lot before your schedule changes to help you adjust. Set sleeping goals. Try to sleep at least eight hours a night. This way you’ll wake up refreshed. Take it easy the next day. After your sleep schedule changes, try to not make the following day too taxing on your body.  , It takes time to adjust to a new sleep schedule. Controlling when you fall asleep can be difficult, so be patient with yourself as you adapt.


Be prepared for sleepless nights. Sometimes, you'll have difficulty controlling when you fall asleep. Know that it may happen no matter how well prepared you are.
Don't get frustrated. Being frustrated will make it harder to go to sleep. Do something to take your mind off it.
Enjoy the small successes. If you are able to fall asleep quicker than normal, that's a good thing. Don't be annoyed that you can't fall asleep as soon as you get into bed.
 It may be out of your control, but try to have a consistent sleep schedule. Being up early one day and then getting up late the next will disrupt your body's natural rhythms. Get into bed at the same time every night. Give yourself time to fall asleep before your schedule bedtime.
Follow the same routine every night. Do things that encourage you to fall asleep and trigger your mind to get ready for bed.
If you cannot be consistent, try to get as close to a sleep schedule as possible. Erratic sleep schedules can cause major health problems. , If a sleep schedule isn't working for you, think about changing it. You should feel more rested by controlling your sleep.


Know how much sleep you usually need. Eight hours per night is recommended, but everyone's different.
Adjust your bedtime. You may be going to bed too early for your body. Find the best time to go to bed that feels natural for your body.
Feel how rested you are. Understand your body and know if you're still feeling tired. Don't follow a sleep schedule that makes you feel worse.

