 Verrucas are simply warts on the bottom of your feet. All verrucas will go away over time, but this may take up to two years. If they are painful or bothering you, however, you should consider cryotherapy, which is freezing off the wart. Freezing hardens and kills skin cells rapidly. Once they warm up the skin cracks off, removing the verruca.


No treatment option, unfortunately, is 100% effective. However, freezing is considered the most successful option and is usually be repeated 2-3 times to fully destroy the verruca.
Freezing at home is best for smaller warts, under 1 centimeter in size. Still, you will likely need to repeat the process several times.
Freezing is somewhat painful, so it may not be the best option for young children.If you are worried about the procedure or have large verrucas that seem resistant to treatment, you can get professional cryotherapy at your doctor or dermatologist's office.;
, Found in most over-the-counter wart removers, salicylic acid is the best way to painlessly remove a verruca. Buy some at your local pharmacy and use according to the directions on the box.


Your treatment make take several weeks, depending on the verruca.
Remove the bandage and wash the verruca with soap and water once a day.
You often get faster results if you grind down the wart with a pumice stone before applying.
 All verrucas will go away on their own with time. But if the wart is getting in the way of your daily life, a doctor can help expedite the process through a variety of treatments. Seeing the doctor is rarely medically necessary, but it will help you get treatment faster., Verrucas are caused by a virus found in moist, warm environments. It enters your skin through any small cuts or openings in your foot, and thus the verruca is born. By protecting your feet in warm, wet, communal environments you can be sure to avoid most verrucas.


The virus often lives in your body for at least 2 years, meaning that a verruca might reappear occasionally until your immune system handles it.