 Simply apply the patch to the skin on your arms, thighs, or stomach. The best time to apply patches is before bed. The patch will replace your body’s testosterone with newer, more effective testosterone.


Do not apply the patches to an open sore or wound, an area that is hairy or oily, or an area above a bone (such as your shoulder or hip).
 If you choose to use injections, your doctor will write you a prescription for appropriate tools (needles, pellets, or syringes).


Injections come either as pellets that are inserted beneath the skin, or as a liquid shot.
You may need to buy a special container to dispose of your used needles.
You may choose to switch from injections to another, slower-release method after you have been on testosterone for a few months and have begun to see significant changes.
If you chose to use injections, your doctor will likely schedule you for a follow-up appointment. You will need to bring your vial of testosterone, needles, and syringes to the appointment. They will teach you or a caregiver how to do the injections.
You might also choose to return to the doctor’s office to have them do your injections for you, often for the cost of your insurance plan’s co-payment.
 Simply place the small dispenser bottle into your nostril and squeeze the pump. Repeat on the opposite nostril. Squeeze your nostrils together gently and massage them gently for a few seconds.


Do not blow your nose or sniff deeply for the hour following your testosterone treatment.
Wash your hands if the spray gets on your skin.
 Except for slow-release implants, the delivery methods for testosterone can be taken at home. After you receive your prescription from the pharmacy, follow the instructions on the packaging to administer the first dose. Do not take more than the prescribed dose.


Patches, injections, and nasal gels are not recommended for correcting age-related testosterone level decline.Over-medicating can cause serious side effects, and it can decrease the effectiveness of the drug because your body converts excess testosterone into estrogen.

