 Skins characters are always dressed with their personalities in mind, so think of what kind of person you are. Are you sweet and childish, or are you more grungy and dark? Perhaps you're outgoing or maybe you're shy? All of these things, and more, can contribute to your outfits.;
,, If you're very scatter-brained, you might want to add a lot of clashing colours, such as a polka-dot dress with floral tights, whereas if you're angsty or dark, you might want to wear a lot more dark clothing like t-shirts with wolves on it or fishnet tights.
 They're all original.) For boys, Tony is preppy, Sid just wears random clothing (along with his essential beanie), Chris likes to clash colors and patterns for his typical wild party boy look, Anwar is more hip-hop inspired, Maxxie is very dance inspired, etc.


For the girls, Cassie wears lots of vintage inspired things and clashes colors, but in a pretty, sweet way. Wear your hair curly, and also wear long skirts and high socks. Kurt Cobain type of glasses, hats, sparkly 20's style dresses and gold oxfords. Michelle always just wants to look "shaggable", so wear tight pants, cleavage showing off shirts, lots of metallics, and strappy shoes. Jal layers a lot of clothing and sticks to yellows, greens, and browns. Katie likes to wear tight clothes, animal print skirts, and she likes to show off her cleavage. She tries to be very sexy. Emily, on the other hand, is more girly and wears vintage inspired clothes, bows, shorts and tights, and bright colors. Pandora is very childish and this shows through her clothes. She completely mismatches. Wear a bright yellow striped shirt with a floral dress. Basically, she looks like a 3 year old on acid. Naomi likes to clash a little more, but in a way where it still looks good. She'll wear 2 patterns, but they'll share a colour so it doesn't look like an eyesore. Lastly is Effy. Effy is very dark and this shows in her clothes. In the first season, she wears kind of an emo style with clothing that show off her body and striped red and black stripes (But this is only a night/not at school, for parties and such). Later, she develops more of a punk/grungy look, long black t-shirts, biker boots, lots of black and studded bracelets, big blue blazers, and lots of gold necklaces.
 Cassie-long, blonde, wavy, or crimped, with colorful make up (light green eye-shadow, red lips). Michelle-medium length very curly hair, simple, but sexy eyeliner and lip gloss. Jal is very minimal, perhaps just foundation and mascara, and she has her hair in a ponytail. Katie uses liquid eyeliner, and she styles her hair as smooth red hair that flips at the end with bangs. Emily is similar to Katie; liquid eyeliner, red hair with bangs that are a bit asymmetrical, and pale skin. They both have a beauty mark on their cheek. Naomi has short blond bob, sometimes with a braid on the side of her face. Effy has medium length brown hair, usually straight, tousled, wavy, or teased for parties. Her make up is either a natural (just put on foundation if you're wary of wearing none), light, smokey eye consisting of silver and black eyeliner, or very dark and heavy make up. Always wear light lip gloss, sometimes red if you want to. She has dark nails as well.

