 If your child has made a mistake, no matter how inconsequential it may seem, he or she needs to learn to admit that he did something wrong, and to apologize for it, as early as possible. Don't let your child get away with doing whatever he wants until he's four or five years old because it's easier than reasoning with him; start letting your child know that he's done something wrong as soon as he's old enough to feel shame.


Don't let your child blame his bad behavior on other children, on the weather, on an imaginary friend, or whatever it may be -- get your child into the habit of admitting that he did something wrong and that he has no one to blame but himself.
Teaching your child accountability for his bad actions will make him more likely to recognize when he or she has done something wrong as an adult.
Remember to be loving and accepting when your child admits he has made a mistake. Teaching accountability doesn't mean that you have to make the kid feel terrible.
 You don't have to physically hurt your child to show him that there are consequences for his bad behavior; in fact, you shouldn't. Form a system of punishments for your child's bad behavior, from making him standing in the corner to taking away his favorite toy, and make sure to complement it with a system of rewards for good behavior so that your child knows that his good deeds get recognized too.


Be consistent. Dole out the same sort of reward and punishment every time. You don't want your child to think that he can get away with bad behavior just because Mommy is tired; you also don't want him to think that being a good boy doesn't always matter, either.
Don't underestimate the power of telling your child that he's a good boy; this will help develop your child's self-worth and will help him recognize the value in others in the future.






Making your child see that there are consequences for bad behavior will make him less likely to contribute to a corrupt society, where bad behavior goes unchecked.
 Don't offer your child a reward or monetary incentive for doing the dishes, cleaning up his toys, or wiping up his spilled milk. Your child should understand that, as a member of your family, it is his duty to take on certain tasks. Tell him you're proud of him for contributing, but make this seem like a given, not like he's doing you a favor.


This will help develop his sense of innate responsibility, which will transfer into his sense that he will have to contribute positively to society, whether he will be rewarded for his contributions or not.
Show your child that you complete many household tasks, too. For a household to run smoothly, everyone has to help out; the same goes for a just society.
 If your child is the oldest in the family or the oldest kid on the block, teach him to be accountable for his younger friends or siblings, and to take an active roll in protecting them, teaching them the difference between right and wrong, and steering them out of trouble. Teach him that he is older, wiser, and more powerful, and that he should use his powers wisely, to teach younger people how to properly behave, instead of being a bully or taking advantage of their weakness.


Teaching your child to be responsible for younger people will make him a more conscientious adult, who will look out for the less fortunate or weaker members of society.
 Good citizenship is a must in any flourishing society. If you want your child to change a corrupt society, then he has to learn that he isn't just responsible for his own little plot of land; he has to look past his own property to help contribute to positive change. Teach your child not to litter, to clean up after himself in a public place, to smile at people on the street, and to be respectful of the needs of others.


Take your child to a local volunteering event for cleaning up your community. Having your child help his fellow citizens clean up a local park can make him appreciate the town where he lives.

