 Tighten the thumbscrew. Place the mouthpiece in the remaining tube end on the slide. Twist the mouthpiece gently into the lead-pipe. Don't force or push the mouthpiece in because it can cause the mouthpiece to become stuck. It makes a cool noise when you pop it with the palm of your hand, however, the mouthpiece will become stuck and require a special tool to unstick it.







;
, Make sure the slide is "locked". If you aren't playing the horn, it should locked otherwise the slide can fall off with a damaging and embarrassing clatter. This is very important because the slide is everything on a 'slide trombone'. One small dint in the slide can cause it to become stuck and unmovable.
 If you are right-handed, you need to make a gun with your left hand and have your index finger touching the mouthpiece and your thumb around the bar right by it. Your other three fingers should not be in the same space as your index but one over. To hold the slide all you are doing is gently pinioning the slide with the tips of your index and middle fingers and your thumb.
 This allows for a less restricted chest and stomach, allowing your diaphragm fill up with more air then when you are slouched and allow for a faster intake of breath. If you are sitting, against what a lot of non brass oriented music teachers will tell you, trombonists need to sit as far back in the chair as possible, making sure you sit up against the back of the chair and are not slouched. By sitting on the edge of your seat (like most music teachers tell you) you will be restricting the air flow from your lunges. Your feet should be planted firmly on the ground, still remaining centered.
 Before you can make a decent sound through the instrument, it is best to practice making the 'buzz' sound without the mouthpiece. To do that, you need to keep your lips tight and blow fast, even air, as if blowing a raspberry on your own arm. Remember, this will be instantly easier with the mouthpiece. Note: Do NOT puff your cheeks out when playing, you will become short of breath quickly, and your note will effectively be rough and spluttered.
 In order to do that, pull back the corners of your mouth engaging them and making them more firm as you play higher. Also make sure that you stay relaxed when playing higher and blow faster air through the instrument, don't make any weird faces that would cause tension in the sound.
 Your air still needs to remain somewhat fast and definitely steady, but there needs to be a lot more, to maintain a good quality sound. Trombones, especially bass trombones or tenor trombones with trigger attachments, need a lot more air to play a well supported note because of all the extra tubing. When you first start playing the lower register, it may be very challenging. To do well, increasing your lung capacity is the key.
 To play louder, blow harder and more "openly." (Note: It will feel natural to press against the mouthpiece for higher notes. Resist this temptation, as it will lead to problems later.) Playing 'openly' does not mean loosening your lips. It means dropping your jaw and somewhat parting your lips to achieve a rounder, brassier sound.











First position, the slide is almost all the way in. (Make sure when returning to first position you do not slam the slide in).
Third position is slightly after the bell, but will vary depending on the register in which the note is played.
Second position is a little more than halfway between 1st and 3rd. Again, this position will vary. The higher the note, the higher the slide tends to need to be.
Fourth is just past the bell.
Sixth is "almost" all of the way out. Fifth is between fourth and sixth.
Seventh is all of the way out. On most trombones, there is a 'lip' or marking where seventh position is, due to the end of the trombone being slightly after, this is to allow for players with long arms.
The positions may vary slightly for the instrument you play for there are five different types of trombones. Soprano and Alto Trombones are smaller then the regular, so the slide positions won't be far apart. Bass and Contrabass Trombones are much larger. The bass trombone used to be quite a deal longer than the tenor or 'normal' Trombone. Now days, most have a double trigger system attached to them. It is rare to find an old fashioned Bass Trombone. Contrabass trombones are much the same except a deal larger.
 Improve how long you can hold your breath by practicing long notes. Scales are an important exercise to do regularly, increasing from one octave upwards. Remember, trombone technique workbooks are available from most music stores. if you are serious about learning to play the Trombone, it is recommended to check them out.
 To do this there are different techniques or activities you can do. Get in shape. Run. Bicycle. Swim. Any cardiovascular activity will benefit your playing. Not only that, but breathing exercises help as well. If you can't breathe properly, you won't be able to get a well supported note out of the instrument for long periods of time. There are many exercises you can check out on the internet and in workbooks. Have a browse.








