 The average worker spends about 7.7 hours asleep each day.When you spend that much time laying down, you want to make sure you are supporting your back to minimize back pain. Your bed should support your back. Ways you can sleep are:


Sleep on your side — Sleep on your side with your legs slightly curled upwards toward your chest. Place a pillow between your knees; this will help support your legs and back while you sleep.Sleep on your back — Place a pillow under your knees, while lying on your back, to help maintain the natural curvature of your back and spine. This may help alleviate minor back pain.Sleep on your stomach — This position may be hard on your back. However, if you cannot sleep any other way, help support your back by placing a pillow under your pelvis or hips.;
, The Cleveland Clinic suggests that you should sit as little as possible to reduce stress on your back.However, if you have a job that you are required to sit all day, this might not be possible. Even so, you should get up and walk around for a few minutes every hour. In addition, there are a few actions you can take to help you sit in a more supportive way.


Use a rolled up towel and put it between your lower back and the chair. This will help support your lower back and force your back into a more natural position while you sit.
Sit with your legs and feet at a right angle (perpendicular to the floor). Try to avoid crossing your legs or feet. This can put stress on your back and lower your blood flow in your lower extremities.
If your chair is too high, use a footrest to help you achieve the perpendicular position of your legs.
 There are some ways you can use the tools around you to support your back. Think about how you might adjust your surroundings to help support your back during your daily routine.


Adjust your computer chair so that your monitor is at eye level when you are sitting in a healthy posture (no back rounding or slouching).
Remove items from your pockets when sitting down. Sitting on your wallet or keys is not comfortable for your back.
Adjust your car seat so that your elbows are 90% parallel to the floor when your hands are placed on the steering wheel., You can use exercise to teach your body how to create its own "back brace," performing core exercises that stabilize the spine.There are several exercises you can perform that will help keep you core strong and your back braced for lifting.


Try cat curls. Start on your hands and knees. Round your spine, tightening your abdominal muscles and allowing your head to drop. Hold for five seconds, then return to neutral. Then arch your back slightly, lifting your head (but not throwing it back). Hold for five seconds, then return to neutral.To do a bridge, lie on your back with your knees bent, feet shoulder-width apart. Your arms should be at your side, you back in a neutral position. Tighten your abs and push yourself up from the floor, lifting your hips and butt until your knees, hips, and shoulders are all in line. Hold for five seconds, then slowly release.