 When your child has a panic attack, his or her behavior will change suddenly. Your child may become withdrawn or distant without any notice. Your child may also zone out or stop paying attention to what is going on., When a child suffers from panic attacks, she or he may start to withdraw from social situations. This is mostly due to fear of others witnessing the panic attack.


This may manifest by your child not wanting to go to school, asking not to go to social activities, or being isolated from his or her peers., There are places that your child may not want to go for fear of having a panic attack. These places where it would be hard to escape or handle a panic attack. The most common places your child may fear are:


Crowded areas, such as shopping malls
Public places, such as restaurants or stores
Enclosed spaces, such as cars, elevators, or trains, Your child may become depressed if he or she gets panic attacks. This may manifest angry outbursts, loss of interest or pleasure in every day activities, feelings of sadness or hopelessness, lack of energy, or changes in appetite.Your child may also become suicidal or expressing feelings of not wanting to be alive., As a way to cope with the stress of a panic disorder, your child may turn to alcohol or drugs. This is more common with adolescents, but can happen at any age. Keep a watch if you have alcohol in the house or make sure you know what outside influences may come into contact with your child,


Abuse of substances may actually make your child's panic disorder worse, so make sure you keep a watch on them., When your child has a panic disorder, it may manifest itself differently when he or she is at school. Your child may get continual reports of a difficulty to concentrate. This lack of attention is likely due to the having panic attacks at school or to the fear of having one while at school.


Your child may also have additional anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder, or learning disabilities, such as ADHD. These conditions can go hand in hand and feed into each other.