 Fill a straw cup with water, plug your ears with your fingers and gulp down the water. No one really knows why this works, but it's kind of like you are 'swallowing down' your hiccup. This method tends to work best (meaning it only takes a few gulps to work) on young people and children, while adults may have to try it a few times.;
, Get a glass of water and two straws. Put one straw inside the glass as usual and the other straw pressed up against the side of the glass on the outside. Put both straws in your mouth at once, drink the water like you would normally, taking as big of gulps as possible.
 Put a cup of water on a chair, and sit on another chair in front of it. Bend down and drink as much of it as possible without using your hands to touch, hold, or tilt the glass.
 Fill a regular glass or plastic cup with water halfway full. Then, either lie upside down (over the side of your bed or couch, for example) or bend at the waist. Take a gulp or two of water (don't spill) and straighten out. If they're not gone, drink a bit more (also upside down). Like a charm!

, Overloading the nerve endings in the mouth with a sweet sensation may do the trick. Have a teaspoonful of sugar, the sugar overload will pack the most punch.  This has not been proven to be the best method though so think about trying it as a last resort if you are desperate.
 Bite into the wedge, sucking in the juice. Sugar may be added to the lemon to ease the taste.


The taste elicits a similar reaction as to someone scaring you. It's your body's way of going oh my goodness when it tastes the lemon.
Place 4 or 5 drops of Angostura Bitters on a lemon wedge, if you want to play bartender. This helps the taste and some people think it works more effectively.
 Drink about a half a teaspoon of either every 7-10 seconds until your hiccups stop. Don't like pickle juice or vinegar? Well, hey, that's even more motivation!

, Not only does it make the medicine go down, but it could get rid of your hiccups too. Take a spoon and fill it with brown sugar (or honey), holding the spoon in your mouth for five seconds. Swallow and take a sip of water.


If this doesn't work straight away, it's not advisable to ingest spoonful after spoonful of sugar. Switch methods if you need.
 Get a big tablespoon of peanut butter and put it in your mouth and hold it for 5-10 seconds. Then, swallow the peanut butter without chewing. The saliva should've broken down the peanut butter a bit, making it easier to swallow.


Alternatively you can use Almond Butter or Nutella. Anything with a sticky gooey consistency similar to peanut butter will do.
 Swallow 1 teaspoon (5 g) of salt, followed by a small sip of water. Make sure to follow it up with slow breaths, staying relaxed.
 Make sure you are not drinking other beverages than water because it doesn't work as effectively as water.  This may not always work.