 One of the best things you can do to help stop pollution is to stop using your car for short trips. If the weather is nice and you don’t have too far to go, consider walking or riding your bike. You will help reduce air pollution and you will get some exercise and fresh air in the process., Riding the bus, train, or subway is another great way to avoid using your personal vehicle and reduce carbon emissions. If you have access to good public transportation where you live, take advantage of it. Since you won’t have to worry about keeping your eyes on the road, you can take advantage of the time to read, catch up on news, or just relax.
 Making lots of little trips over the course of a few days contributes more pollution to the environment every time you hop in your car. Instead of running your errands over the course of a few days, try to consolidate them into one round trip. Consolidating your trips into one long trip will also save you money since starting your car when the engine is cold consumes 20% more fuel than driving your car., Long commutes to school or work are just part of life for many people. If walking and public transportation are not good options for you, consider joining a carpool to your school or place of work. By taking turns driving and riding with others, you will reduce carbon emission and you will also save on gas money each week.Carpooling is also a great way to develop friendships with your coworkers and reduce the stress of your commute., In addition to finding ways to use your car less, keeping your car in good condition can also help reduce carbon emissions. As an added bonus, keeping your car in good condition will also help avoid more major problems with your vehicle. Get regular maintenance on your car to keep it running well.Get an oil change every three months or 3,000 miles.
Keep tires inflated according to your vehicle’s recommendations.
Get your air, oil, and fuel filters changed according to your vehicle’s recommendations.
 Unsafe driving habits also contribute to pollution, so by becoming a safer driver you can help reduce air pollution. Safe driving habits can also save you money by reducing the amount of fuel that your car wastes. When you are behind the wheel, remember to be safe by:Applying gentle pressure to gas and accelerating slowly
Driving at or below the speed limit
Keeping your speed steady (Try using cruise control, if you have it.)
Giving yourself plenty of time to stop

, Electric cars run on electricity alone, so they are zero emission vehicles. Hybrid cars use a combination of electricity and fuel to run. While electric cars are the least polluting, both options will help stop pollution. Although they still use some gas to run, hybrid cars have much better fuel economy than regular cars and emit fewer greenhouse gases than traditional cars.Keep in mind that the purchase price of electric and hybrid cars is higher than most conventional cars.

