 To help manage your baby’s attachment to their comfort object, you may try only pulling out the comfort object when your baby appear anxious or upset. This may be when your baby is crying or getting fussy or, in older kids, what looks more like anger – whining, clinging, or acting out. You may also let your baby have their comfort object when they are ill or feeling sick.Try to keep the comfort object nearby or close to you whenever you are with your baby. That way, you can easily pull it out and present it to your baby when they are anxious or distressed.;
, Many parents recommend letting your baby sleep with their comfort object, as it can help them feel safe and calm enough to go to sleep. You may position the comfort object in your baby’s crib or sleeping area so they can hold it and see it.This is especially helpful in getting your child used to sleeping at specific times, as over time it signals to their brains that it's time to get sleepy.
If you want to try to get your baby to rely less on their comfort object to sleep, you may try only letting your baby have access to the comfort object when they sleep at night. Remove the comfort object from their sleeping area for naps during the day and see if they notice.
If your baby starts to get fussy or is unable to sleep during naps because their comfort object is not close by, it is okay to give your baby their comfort object.
 You can manage your baby’s attachment to their comfort object by trying to get out of the habit of depending on the object during tense situations with your baby. You may try other tactics for calming your baby when they are upset or fussy, such as using comforting words, carrying them in your arms, or rocking them in a rocking chair. Older children may respond better to distraction techniques, such as using other toys to get them to calm down.You may try viewing the comfort object as the last resort to getting your baby to calm down. If your baby has other caretakers, such as family or friends, instruct them to only give your baby their comfort object once they have tried other ways of calming them down.

