 This gives her the ease of movements, and grace, and also shows off her well fit and toned body.;
, It was true '80s bop time and she bopped with the best of them from the word go. Try her early music videos such as Holiday, Like a Virgin, and Material Girl. There are some great moves that deserve reviving!
Madonna Mainstreams: Cutesy, still bopping but with her own dance rhythm. Try Into the Groove and Crazy for You.
Madonna Gets Edgy: Whoa, suddenly Madonna 's dancing gets feisty and grooves. See, for example, Like a Prayer and Express Yourself for bold, erotically-charged movements with great energy and enthusiasm.
Back in Time: Try Vogue for a Madonna take on the retro-30s style; chic.
Soulful & Romantic Madonna: View Take a Bow, Bedtime Story and You'll See.
Introspective and Thoughtful Madonna: Dancing with mysticism and soul, gazing at the heavens, this music shows yet again more dance diversity with Madonna. Watch Ray of Light and Beautiful Stranger.
Rock & Re-invention: Watch her re-invention tour! Rock your body to American Life and other songs from her tour and album American Life.
Dance Fever: Back to the disco, modernized style. Watch Sorry, Hung Up and others from her album Confessions on a Dance Floor. Pick up a copy of her Confessions Tour, that's a lot for you to watch!

, Study her mannerisms, the way she dances. Does she arch her back, kick up her heels, sway her arms? Watch the different ways she uses her body to move, to make the rhythm come alive. These moves will be different depending on which Madonna era you choose but you'll also glean similarities that Madonna has stuck with as moves that work - see if you can spot these and use them.
 Pause the music and copy. Repeat the steps until you feel comfortable doing them and they are down pat. Rehearse in front of supportive friends; they may have move ideas to suggest and they may even join in.
 If you like the fashion she is wearing in a certain video, don't hesitate to mimic it. Dress it up to suit your own style and get out there and dance.
 Dancing is about release of inhibitions, letting your body melt into the rhythm and feel its own way around the dance floor. Let go of all your thoughts and worries and just be there for the music - your body will do a lot of the work for you if you let go of self-consciousness.

