 A stark white wedding cake with all-white accents can make a beautiful wintry impression. White frosting can create a stunning snowy effect and there are countless ways to feature this look. For example, you could have a several-tier cake with white buttercream frosting to mimic snow. Scatter edible snowflakes made out of fondant icing on top of the tiers.


Dust the cake with sparkling sugar to create the effect of glittering snow.For a unique look, consider accenting with icicles made out frosting.;
, This is a particularly great choice if you are already incorporating blue into your overall wedding theme. Tint the frosting or fondant with a very light blue color. The frosting should have a smooth texture so the tiers look like snowy ice blankets. To continue the natural theme, decorate with pinecones.


For a snowy effect, speckle the pinecones with white royal icing and dust them with sparkling sugar.Create more natural texture by accenting with chocolate “pine needles.”

, If you’d prefer not to have a mostly white cake, you still have plenty of options. Have a chocolate cake, or alternate cream and chocolate tiers for an earthy vibe. Rich reds are also very seasonal and red accents look great on a chocolate cake.For example, you could place sprigs of red berries on the tiers.


To enhance the Christmas vibe, put sprigs of holly around the red berries.
For a less rustic look, line the tiers with red rosettes made of royal frosting or create a red stripe with a velvet ribbon.
 If you want to keep it simple, consider using gold icing on the cake. Use metallic elements to accent, such as gold or iridescent colored rosettes made of icing. Gold icing can be hand painted onto your cake for a very elegant look. If you prefer silver, start with a white cake and create all of the accents in silver.Make one of the tiers silver or go all out and gild your entire cake.


Consider the color theme of your wedding. If you are using warm colors like deep red, chocolate brown and cream, accent with gold. If you’re using cool colors like ice blue and bright white, accent with silver.

