 Where to go on a first date can be a tough decision to make. Try scouting around to find a nice local bar you like and then invite your guest. Just going for drinks will give you the chance to get comfortable with each other in a relaxed environment. Plus, there's also the option to move the date to another venue if the chemistry is flowing.;
, Going out with your partner during the day can be great for further conversation. A nice afternoon out may consist of coffee and cake in an independent cafe, a walk through your local park or, if your town/city has a water source nearby, a stroll alongside a river can sooth the vibe and add to the romance. Other ideas include:


Galleries
Museums
Market Stalls
Local Shops (Charity, Designer or Novelty)

, Indoor sports can be great during winter and if its summer you can take advantage of the sun and play outside. This is a great way to get to know each other on a competitive level. Activities could include:


Frisbee
Swimming
Table Games (Snooker or Ping Pong)
Racket Games (Squash, Tennis or Badminton)
Ball Games (Football or Basketball)

, Having automatic date plans is useful for spawning date ideas on the fly. Include fun activities into your lifestyle by asking around for interesting hobbies. Search your local library, cafe notice board or pub for flyers, business cards and leaflets which give you places to attend. Now you have a chance to say: "I'm going to my comedy class on Thursday, do you fancy coming along?". Other options include:


Open Mic Nights
Martial Art Classes
Yoga/Meditation Classes
Art Shows
Pub Quizzes
Live Music Venues

, There are probably some fantastic events going on in your area which you are currently missing out on. Search online to find out where tourists go in your area or stroll down to your tourist information centre for information. Take advantage of your local setting by attending:


Festivals, Parades or Fairs
Castles and Monuments
Independent Venues
Tours and Shows
Local Nature

, Keep your eyes and ears pealed at all times. Your friends may know of exciting venues you'd never have considered. Perhaps the person you talk to at the bus stop mentions an interesting event and any other people you meet through your day could have some brilliant date ideas too. Just ask!

, You never know when they will mention something they are interested in. Store this information for a date where you can use your creativity to personalise an experience. Some examples include:


Buying tickets to entertainment they enjoy.
Going shopping for something they are passionate about.
Visiting a place they have shown interest in.
 If you and your partner feel comfortable together a trip away from your local town can create new sparks. There are many interesting areas all over the world, so there's bound to be somewhere nearby you both haven't seen. Search on a travel website and then take a train, bus, or drive to a new area you can explore together. If you don't have a car you could hire one. Plus, booking a hotel is a guaranteed way to spice up your trip.
 Holidays take dating to the next level. When you and your lover reach a certain level of comfort, you can pull out the travel guides, get recommendations from friends and then book a plane to an exotic location. When you arrive you can use all the previous advice above to spice your holiday up with date after date. This is a fantastic way for you two to bond and develop memories together. For some romantic places try:


Barcelona
Brussels
Zurich
Rome
Paris
Etc....

