 You should always avoid self-pity. When you are preparing for PCAT, you should have that self-confidence of achieving what you want to do in life. Learn your strengths and qualities as you prepare for the test. Suppose you are studying PCAT Chemistry and you come across certain problems, you should not feel bad about it. Instead,  make sure that you ask an expert and get your doubts cleared. At the end of the day, you should aim to understand all that you study, so that you do not face any problems while answering a question.;
, Life will try to put several obstacles on your way, but you have to be strong enough to handle all that you face. If you are able to change the way you think, you can change a lot of things that come in your way.


You should have a positive attitude to change all your negative thoughts into positive ones.
Get rid of all your negative thoughts and deal with the entire situation accordingly.
Think rationally and then find out a solution to your problems. Inculcate some realistic thoughts and ways to deal with difficult situations and then interpret events accordingly. Your confidence will increase definitely if you find out that you are able to change the way you think.
 They say practice makes perfect. When you are preparing for the  PCAT examination, you should know about the type of questions that you are going to face in the examination. Hence, make sure that you solve as many practice papers as you can.


The more you practice; you will be able to get acquainted with the test taking techniques and strategies of the examination. Moreover, these practice papers will give you an insight of the pattern of questions that you are going to face in the examination.
On the other hand, solving the test papers will give you control over time. Try to solve practice test papers within the given time limit and, if possible, sit with a stopwatch. With regular practice, you will become confident enough to face the atrocities of time and overcome the challenges that such an examination throws on your way.
 Revision is necessary to know your chapters by heart. In simple words,  if you do not revise, you will not be able to remember all that you have studied.


Whenever you read something, after sometime, close your eyes and then try to reminisce what you have studied. Review and revision is essential to retain all that you have studied in your memory. Once you know that you are well prepared, then you will surely be confident about your capabilities and can get rid of exam pressure as well.
 Do not think about your previous failures. Remembering previous defeat will surely knock you down. Crush all your fears within and rise up. Tell yourself that though you cannot control the situations in your life, but you can surely control your decisions and your life. Remind yourself about all the good deeds that you have done in life. If you keep on reminding yourself about the mistakes in your life, then your confidence will be shattered to pieces. All you can do is learn from your mistakes and move on in life.
 You need to make yourself believe that you can handle and overcome crisis situations. The researchers are of the opinion that faking  confidence will actually lead you to have faith in yourself and generate confidence in you. A positive attitude is something that you need to overcome all the oddities in life. If you have really prepared well for your examination, then nothing can stop you from achieving what you want in life. Visualize success in front of you and put your best foot forward to achieve what you want from life. Motivate yourself to perform better each day and make sure that you do not procrastinate. Finishing a practice paper when you have time in hand will surely make you all the  more enthusiastic and confident. Be aware of your hidden talents and skills and make use of them. At the end of the day, you will see that you are able to handle any situation of your life. Your confidence will also increase by leaps and bounds and you will be ready to face your PCAT exam.

