 These are released by Microsoft for people who are enthusiastic about Windows and its products and are thereby ready to test it; they're shared with people in the Windows Insider program. If you want to roll back to 8.1, you need to prevent these releases from being downloaded on your phone.

Insider/preview builds are not for the general public. If you are a person who want to use your Windows Phone normally, Insider Builds are not for you. Insider Builds are for people who develop applications or for enthusiasts who check out the OS and share their suggestions.
While you are a Windows Insider, no matter how many times you reset your phone, preview builds shall be downloaded to your device. Hence to avoid getting further preview builds, you have to leave the Insider program. Note that uninstalling the Windows Insider app will not stop your device from receiving preview builds.
;
, Once you have decided to stop your device from updating itself to the Technical Preview Builds, you will have to leave the program as follows:


Launch the Windows Insider app on your device. If you have uninstalled the app, reinstall it using the Windows Store.
Tap the three dots at the bottom which brings up the context menu.
Select the Leave Programme option.
When you get a message similar to "Sorry to see you leave" makes sure that you have left the program.
 While reverting the OS, personal data might be removed and might turn difficult to retrieve it later., Data in SD Card will not be removed during the roll back process., Having a backup of your phone in a computer is always recommended.
 Content such as contacts will automatically be synced with OneDrive if you set so., Once the tool is downloaded, install it on your computer.


You computer must be running Windows 7 or higher.
, As soon as your device is recognized by the PC, make sure that your device is shown in the Recovery Tool (refer the picture). Click on your device to continue.


If your device is not recognized by the Tool, try plugging it out and back in again. If your device is still not recognized, try replacing the USB data cable.
 Once you've clicked on your device, the Recovery Tool will search Microsoft Servers for the recent public update released for your device. Ensure that your internet connectivity is good. If not, you may get a message telling you to try later., To begin the rollback process click on the Reinstall Software button.
 Ensure that your PC does not switch off or turn off during the process. The downloading time depends on your network speed and the package size will approximately be more than 1 GB.
 Once the package is downloaded, it will automatically be installed on your device. The device with vibrate and restart automatically. Do not unplug the device from the PC as it may result in the OS being corrupted. The installation progress will be displayed on the device screen as well.
 Two spinning gears icon will be displayed on the device screen. The installation is still not over so do not unplug the device from the PC, until Operation Successfully Completed message is displayed on the screen. Click on the Finish button to close the app. You can now unplug the device from the PC.
 After the software installation on your device, you will be going through the Out-of-Box-Experience, like on any version of Windows. Then, you'll need to sign-in with your Microsoft account, select to restore your phone from backup (if this is something you prefer), and after a few additional questions, you'll be back to Windows Phone 8.1.