 Before you begin bleaching make sure you aren't wearing any 'good' clothes.


Wear something you do not mind getting dirty and destroyed, (bleach will lighten your clothing also) and also have an old towel on hand to wipe up any spills or to wipe around your skin if you get any bleach on your hands, neck or face.



Bleach has ammonia in it and ammonia is known for its very, very strong scent. Some people are allergic to ammonia and this can cause the eyes to water and puff up and further reactions can happen. If any reaction happens wash off immediately and call a doctor, this is a very serious reaction.

Have your hair sectioned in 4 quadrants before you begin.
Part the hair in the middle and separate the back from the front *ear to ear* then you should have 2 equal quadrants in the front going as far as the ear then one section in the back, separate the back into 2 equal quadrants also and clip each of them loosely *Don't bother winding them into buns, you need ease of take-down and need to work as fast as possible, just loosely clip them!

, Take one quadrant and unclip it and starting from the nape of your neck take half an inch sections straight and apply bleach as quickly as possible to the length and ends NOT applying bleach to the roots!

, Do not apply bleach to the roots because the bleach will process much quicker at the root area because your scalp produces heat and the roots will be lighter than the ends if you apply it to the root area first.
 Leave an inch at the root area. Once all of the bleach is applied to the length and ends of the hair, let it process 3 levels then apply the bleach starting again at the nape of the neck to the root area working as quickly as possible to apply to the entire mass of hair.
 This will guarantee even results if you've applied it correctly. Allow the bleach to process for the time needed. Most professional bleaches have a process time of up to 45-60 minutes. Wash off as soon as it is the desired level of blonde. If it isn't the desired level of blonde after the maximum processing time rinse the bleach off of your head, dry and bleach again if the hair is in condition. If not, allow a week or two for the hair to rest then bleach again for the required time.


If hair is the correct shade of blonde *inside of a banana/pale butter* then you are ready to tone.

