 A vinyasa, or yoga flow, involves moving between two poses in time with your breath. The cat-cow vinyasa is a spinal stretch that normally is done on all fours, but you can also do a modification of this yoga flow while sitting in a chair.Keep your spine long, and rest your palms flat on the tops of your thighs or your knees. Focus on your breath, inhaling slowly and deeply through your nose and exhaling out your mouth.
As you inhale, arch your back, drawing your navel forward. Roll your shoulders down your back so that your chest is open and your shoulder blades are in line with your spine. You are in cow pose.
As you exhale, pull your tail bone forward and your chin towards your chest. Roll your shoulders forward and curve your spine outward so your back is round. You are in cat pose.
Return to cow pose on your next inhale. Continue this movement for 5 to 10 breath cycles.
 Seated spinal twists give a good stretch to your lower back, as well as invigorating and strengthening your core. These simple yoga exercises can be done at any time during the day if your back is feeling tight.Start by sitting tall and breathing deeply. On an exhale, twist to your right, grabbing the back of your chair with both hands. Take a few deep breaths in and out, and then exhale back to center.
Repeat the twist on your left side, holding it for a few deep breaths before exhaling back to center.
 This deep, twisted forward fold will lengthen your spine and help alleviate lower back pain. It also gives a good stretch to your sides and core. Take care to maintain deep breathing throughout, and only go as far as you comfortably can.Fold your upper body from your hips so that your chest is resting on your thighs (or as low as you can comfortably go). Make sure your back is flat and neutral, your shoulders rolled down and back, away from your ears.
Place the fingertips of your left hand on the floor just to the side of your left foot. On an inhale, twist to the right and reach your right arm up towards the ceiling. Your gaze should follow your right fingertips. Take care not to crunch your neck.
Hold the position for two or three breaths, then untwist on an exhale and repeat the pose with your right hand on the floor.
There are many variations of this pose. If you find your fingertips can't reach the floor, you can use a block or a book. If you want a deeper, more challenging twist, place your fingertips to the side of the opposite foot.
You also can do a vinyasa with this pose. Twist on each inhale and return to center with each exhale. Do 5 to 10 repetitions with a breath for each movement.
 Much like the shoulder stretches, this pose helps open the space between your shoulder blades. It also tones and strengthens the muscles in your upper back to improve your posture so you will be less prone to back pain.Hold your arms in front of you and wrap one under the other so that your palms are touching. If you're tight, you may not be able to reach your hand all the way around, but go as far as is comfortable.
On an exhale, lift your elbows to about shoulder height. Twist by moving your elbows from left to right, as though you are drawing a horizontal line in the air with them. Breathe slowly and deeply. Do this for 4 or 5 breaths, then release on an exhale and do it again with the other arm on top.
 If you've been sitting for a long time and your lower back is starting to feel tight or sore, you might want to try a seated figure four. Since this is a forward fold pose, make sure you've pushed your chair away from a desk or table.Move forward so that you're sitting on just the edge of your chair. Bend your right leg so that your right ankle is resting on your left knee.
On an exhale, hinge forward from your hips, focusing on stretching and elongating your spine. Keep your shoulders neutral with your shoulder blades tucked along your spine.
Breathe deeply for several breath cycles, then slowly rise on an inhale. Drop your right leg to the floor and repeat with your left leg bent over your right.
 If you've been sitting in a chair for awhile, your hip flexors may tighten up. This modification also works well if you have a condition, injury, or disability that prevents you from doing a high lunge while standing.Move to the right front corner of your chair and turn your whole body to face the right side of the room. Bend your right knee so that it's directly over your ankle and your shin is roughly perpendicular to the floor. You can rest your hands on your right thigh.
Slide your left leg back and extend it behind you, keeping your hips and torso squared toward the right side of the room. Your left leg should be straight with your left toes pointed to the right as you rest either your toes or the ball of your left foot on the floor.
Breathe deeply into the stretch for 10 breath cycles, then bring your left leg back in line with your right and switch sides.

