 You may find high school boring, frustrating, or even a waste of time, but how you do in high school can shape the rest of your life. If you are planning on going to college, you must do well in high school and earn high grades. Even if you're not planning on going to college, high school can teach you about responsibility, time management, and the importance of hard work - all lessons that apply to adult life outside of school.


Motivation is one of the biggest factors in school success rates, and the self-motivation you learn in high school will be important as you enter the adult world.
Think of high school as your job. If your parents stopped going to work or didn't do what their bosses expected, they would not be able to keep that job for very long - and if you don't learn motivation and discipline, you may struggle with employment as well.
Build yourself a schedule and stick to that schedule. Make time for homework, studying, and reviewing your notes from class every day before you watch TV or go out with friends.
Study without distractions. Turn off the TV, music, and cell phone so you can concentrate without interference.
Use flash cards and mnemonic devices to help you memorize names, dates, terms, and definitions.
Take short breaks when you're studying and reward yourself when you've finished your work for the night.
Make sure you get enough sleep each night, especially the night before a test., Working a part-time job while you're in school can help teach you a lot about responsibility and time management. It can also give you some extra cash, whether you're saving up for college, saving for a car, or just want greater independence. However, it's important to balance your school and work lives so that your grades do not suffer.


Remember to wear appropriate clothing to your interview and your place of business (once you're hired). Follow the dress code, if there is one, and if not make sure you do not wear ripped clothing or shirts with inappropriate messages/images.Consider getting a job or internship in something you're interested in. It may not be as easy to get as a fast food job, but you'll learn a lot about yourself and have the chance to pursue something you're passionate about.Try to get hands-on training in a technical field, such as cosmetology, automotive technology, and even health care.Find internships and part-time jobs by searching online, or talk to career counselors and guidance counselors at your school.
 Whether the money you earn comes from doing chores for your parents or working a part-time job, it's important to learn responsible spending/saving habits early on in life. Spending responsibly and starting a savings account in your teenage years can help prepare you for a more stable and secure adulthood.


Be a smart shopper by comparing prices and waiting for items to go on sale.
Try not to buy needless junk. If you can't justify why you want something other than "it would be cool to have," you can probably go without it.
Ask your parents about how to spend money more wisely, and talk to a parent or a financial institution (like a bank or credit union) about starting your own checking or savings account., Many teenagers graduate high school and enter the workforce. It makes sense to some because of the potential to start making money right away. However, in the long run, you'll be able to make more money and work a job you feel passionate about if you get some type of college education.


The benefits of a college education outweigh the costs. You may need to take out a loan, but you will earn more after college and have access to jobs you wouldn't get without a degree.College graduates tend to be significantly more satisfied with their jobs. They also tend to find and keep jobs more easily than their peers who never graduated from college.Ultimately, your parents cannot decide whether or not you will go to college. But when they tell you how important a college education is, they are probably speaking from experience.

