 The best way to keep your child safe in the kitchen is to monitor them. The kitchen holds many potential dangers, such as sharp knives, raw meat, and hot surfaces. It takes only a moment for a child to grab a knife or touch a hot pan. Always watch your child closely when you are letting them help in the kitchen.You may consider having another adult in the kitchen with you when your toddler is helping. This gives an extra set of eyes to watch the kid.
 Your toddler is learning about cooking through you. This means they don’t necessarily know that stoves are hot, pots that have been on the stove can burn, that knives are sharp, or that they shouldn’t put their fingers in their mouth after touching raw meat. You need to remind your toddler of these things as you continue to cook together.Before you start cooking together, you should do a basic kitchen safety lesson with your child. Outline what can be dangerous, what they can and can’t do, and what they should do with the help of a grown up.
Make a list of things they can do and things only adults can do. Be sure to explain the reasons so they understand why they can or cannot do certain things.
Make rules, like always washing their hands and not touching the stove.
 Since your toddler is helping you cook, they may be around hot stoves or pans full of hot food. This presents a danger to your child. To help prevent your child from getting hurt, you should take extra precautions with hot items to ensure your child’s safety.For example, don’t place hot bowls or pans near the edges of counters or in places where your child can reach.
Consider using the back burners of the stove so your child won’t accidentally touch them.
Move handles of pots and pans towards the back of the stove so your child can’t grab them.
 Some nights, you may be rushing around trying to get dinner fixed for your family. You may not have the time to watch your child closely, help them with difficult or more dangerous tasks, and talk them through the process of cooking. If you are in a hurry, don’t let your toddler help you cook.If your toddler is really interested in cooking, or you want to include them in the kitchen, choose a few nights a week when you have time to let them help you in the kitchen.
Choose a time when your toddler feels good and is not fussy or grumpy.
 Planning the meals or dishes you want your toddler to help you cook ahead of time can help keep the time stress-free and help keep your child safe. Involve them in easy recipes with few ingredients or difficult tasks so they can help instead of watching you tackle hard cooking techniques or dangerous steps.For example, you may want your child to help you make a salad, homemade pizza, or an easy cake.
 Your toddler is probably too short to reach the counter. To help them be able to reach the counter and help you while you cook, get a sturdy step stool for them to stand on. Make sure it is safe and that your child won’t be able to fall.Watch your child closely while they are on a step stool.

