 You can do the following steps to decide if the parts are worn enough to need replacing.
 Leaking CV joint boots, bent parts, or oil leaks are indicators of problems., You may have someone walk beside you in an empty parking lot while you drive slowly and steer the vehicle hard to the left and right., The wheels should be tight so that you are not able to shake them to the left and right or up and down. Use jack stands to be safe during this check., They should rotate without noticeable sound or vibrations., These may make a knocking or clicking sound if there is slack in them. They may also grind if severely worn parts are present., His advice may help you prevent unneeded repairs, and he may also be able to point out other parts that need attention., Since some parts may not be available off the shelf at your local auto parts supplier, checking availability before starting will save time, or at least prevent having an undriveable truck in the driveway for an extended period., Having the truck's information will help your auto parts supplier find the right parts for the job. The example here is a Dodge Dakota Sport, 2001 model, with a 4.7 liter (1.2 US gal) V-8 and 5 speed manual transmission. It also has four wheel antilock brakes, which does make a difference in the front wheel bearing hub assembly. You may be able to find all the information for your vehicle by the VIN number if your parts supplier has access to that database., For severe use, using premium quality parts will be worthwhile, but if you are shopping for economy, selecting a store brand can save over 50%. Make sure the parts are built to OEM specifications, however, so they are safe to use and fit properly.,, You may want to loosen the lug nuts before jacking the truck if you don't have an impact wrench for the lug nuts., Next, loosen the axle nut a half turn so it can be removed later. You may need a helper to hold the front brake while loosening the axle nut., There are two studs behind the caliper, these can be removed with an Allen wrench, either 3⁄16 or 1⁄4 inch (0.5 or 0.6 cm). Back the studs out, and remove the tension spring from the front of the caliper, then pry the pads back slightly from the brake rotor. Now the caliper can be slid off and tied back out of the way., Make sure you do not get grease or oil on its friction surfaces., Most are a 1 1⁄4 inch (3.2 cm) nut, and a socket is needed to remove it. If the nut will not turn without spinning the axle, use a long pry bar between two lug studs to keep it stationary., There are three bolts that secure it to the knuckle, they can be removed with a 14 mm (9/16 inch) wrench, but they are very tight, so a cheater pipe may be needed to break them loose. If the hub has an anti lock brake sensor, either disconnect the plug and remove the clips that secure the cable, or if you are replacing the hub, just cut the wire for the time being. If the hub is stuck tight, bump it and pry it out with a large screwdriver or pry bar., This will allow the knuckle to be dropped out of the way for removal of the CV axle. Be aware the three bolts that secure the ball joint to the upper control arm have self locking nuts so the threads may be damaged if they are removed. Since these ball joints are critical to the safety of the vehicle, you should seriously consider replacing them, especially considering the relatively low cost of these parts., The axle should slide off easily if the splines are not damaged, if it doesn't, you may have to use a slide hammer to persuade it. If a slide hammer is needed, be sure to carefully inspect the side shaft at the differential and replace it if needed., You can use a seal removal tool, or a flat blade screwdriver to pry it out., Put a dab of gasket adhesive around the outer ring of the seal, and a small dab of grease or gear oil on the inner ring to prevent damage and leaks., A little bit of gear oil on the splines will allow it to slide on easily., You may want to wrap the splines with a rag or paper towel to protect them from damage while positioning it., You will need to carefully center the CV axle splines through the hub assembly. Reinstall the three bolts that secure the assembly to the knuckle. These bolts must be torqued to the correct specifications, usually 150 foot (45.7 m) pounds. Do not use an impact wrench to install these bolts., If you reinstall the original upper ball joint, check the bolts to make sure there is no damage to the threads, if there is, you will need to use new bolts the same size and strength, with locking nuts. You may find you need a helper to position the upper control arm so the bolts in the ball joint line up. Tighten these bolts securely., Make sure you check the surfaces to be sure they are not warped, pitted, or damaged in any way. They should be smooth and shiny, with not discoloration that would indicate heat damage., Be sure the mounting studs are threaded correctly, as they have very fine threads that can be cross threaded if care is not taken. Install the brake spring on the outside of the caliper being sure it is centered so it will not run the rotor.,, You can check the vehicle's specifications for this nut, but at least make sure it is tightened securely. Replace the cotter pin in the end of the axle when the nut is tight., Remove the jack stands and lower the vehicle to the ground. You can now retighten any bolts or lug nuts that turned while the wheel was off the ground.,, If you bought new parts, there may not be a core charge applied, so the old parts can be recycled or discarded.