 Avoid baggy clothes, since these tend to look frumpy and may make you look unnecessarily heavy. Also avoid clingy clothes, since these tend to hug your body in the wrong places and may accentuate extra weight.
 Once you know your body shape, you can focus on finding pieces that flatter your figure best. The five general body shapes are hourglass, pear, inverted triangle, apple, and rectangle.


Hourglass figures have a narrow waist and equally large hips and bust.
Pear figures have a flat chest and stomach but large hips and thighs.
Inverted triangle shapes have a large bust and shoulders with a flat midsection and narrow hips.
Apple shapes have a large midsection and may have a moderate to large bust, but they generally have smaller hips and thighs.
Rectangle figures have relatively equal, flat proportions all throughout their body.
 If you have a large midsection, hide it beneath a free-flowing tunic shirt. If you have wide hips, balance them out with an A-line skirt that flares out at the knee. Look for pieces that draw the eye away from your wider portions.
 You may think that a small bust or narrow hips make you look childish and not womanly, but these attributes allow you a little more freedom than women who are better endowed in these areas. Dress up flat portions of your body with ruffles and embellishments. Play with deep necklines or high hemlines, depending on where your flatness lies.
 Show off slender legs with a short skirt or a narrow waist with a thick fashion belt. By drawing the eye to portions of your body that please you, you can keep the eye off any problem areas.
 Women of petite or average height may want to make themselves taller by wearing high heels and vertical details, but tall women who are self-conscious about their height should avoid styles that create the illusion of extra height. Generally, any detail that draws the eye up and down, rather than side to side, will add height.
 Your skin tone has the biggest impact on your coloring. Women with pink or blue undertones usually have "cool" coloring, while women with yellow undertones usually have "warm" coloring.


If you have cool coloring, look for silver, white, black, grays, blues, deep violets, blue-greens, and pinks.
If you have warm coloring, look for gold, cream, tan, browns, reds, magenta purples, yellow-greens, and oranges.
Note that eye color and hair color also have some impact on your coloring. You may have a warm skin tone, but if you have black hair and ice blue eyes, you may have cool coloring overall. Play with color when you go out shopping to determine which hues liven up your appearance best.
 A few patterns and embellishments can turn an outfit from “blah” to “fantastic,” but too much will look mismatched. Stick with one pattern or heavily embellished piece at a time, and pair it with basic neutrals.
 These elements draw the eye to them, highlighting the part of your body they cover. As such, if you feel self-conscious about a portion of your body, such as your hips, you should keep patterns and detailing off this portion.

