 Try to work out a designated driver before all drinking starts, if possible. By accepting responsibility in advance, you do your friend a huge favor and, in turn, your friend can take on the burden another time.
 Hiding your friends keys may be a solid route to take if you are unable to convince him not to drive by talking it out. This can be done a few different ways. You can try to make an excuse to your friend directly, by saying that you need to get something from the car or use it to run a quick errand. Consider the following tricks, too:


Tell your friend that you need their car to go to the liquor store. Depending on how drunk your friend is, he will likely forget soon after. Even if you tell your friend that you changed your mind and won't go, avoid bringing up the keys that are now in your possession.
Or, simply be patient until your friend is distracted talking to someone else and find his keys. Hide them, but don't forget to keep track of where they are!
If you do get the keys, consider moving the car to a spot that is not easily visible. This way, even if you cannot convince your friend not to drive, he will get frustrated from not being able to find the car and hopefully give up his search until the next morning.
 If it doesn't seem like a good option to keep your friend around or keep matters in your own hands, it may be in everybody's best interest to call a cab. Always pay for the cab in advance to avoid further complication, and make sure that the driver has explicit directions.


It's even better if you have the time to accompany your friend home to make sure they get back okay. Promising to accompany him before he leaves may even make him give in and accept the ride more easily.
Remember that even thought paying for cab fare may be expensive, it will always be cheaper than the cost of getting a DUI or dealing with the fallout of a car wreck., If you know that your friend's house is accessible by public transportation, map the route there. Avoid routes with lots of walking, as it may be difficult to keep your friend moving. The more help you have, the better, so bring other willing friends on the journey to take your drunk friend home. If enough people come, he may even have fun along the way and any tension about not driving will dissipate quickly.
 In many cases, the easiest thing to do is simply to entice your friend into staying the night at the house. If you're the host, this is no problem, but if you're elsewhere always make sure to get the necessary approval. Alternatively, you can invite your friend to come crash at your place when you leave instead of driving back home. For either possibility, use a good incentive like homemade breakfast burritos in the morning or the guarantee of a warm bed.


If there is a comfortable place to sleep, show your friend where it is. He may become totally convinced not to drive when faced with the reality of diving into that sweet, soft sleep spot.
 If you drove to the party as well, get a sober friend to follow you in your car. This way you can return safely to the party. Your drunk friend gets to sleep in his own bed, with the car parked conveniently outside of his home. As a bonus, you'll spare him the potential embarrassment of having to show up at the scene of last night's party to retrieve his car.


If worse comes to worst, you can always call your parents, or even law enforcement, for a ride.While you may get flack from other party-goers for doing this, it is still better if the party is remembered for getting broken up rather than for a tragic drunk driving incident.

