 Face it: you don’t need those snowman shaped salad servers. In fact, there’s a good chance you could fill a box with kitchen stuff you haven’t used in months. Go through everything in your kitchen and ask yourself, “Do I actually need this?” You may be surprised by your answers.If you’re hesitant, conduct an experiment. Place all but your most used kitchen items - especially the as-seen-on-TV equipment, in a box, and place it in a closet near the kitchen or in the garage.
As you need items from the box, find somewhere to store them more permanently in the kitchen. After a month or two, assess the items still in the box. Are they still worth holding onto?;
, You’re thinking to yourself, “But I’ll definitely use those bachelorette party cookie cutters again.” Well, maybe you will. That said, they don’t need to be clogging up your cutlery drawer and offending your more sensible utensils in the meantime. Relegate party-specific and holiday-only items to somewhere they won’t be in your way during your day-to-day life.Use the space above your cabinets for long-term storage too. If your cabinets don’t go all the way to the ceiling, you can still use the space above them to store seldom-used kitchen equipment., There’s simply no need to two dozen cans of corn to be in your kitchen at all times. If you tend to stock up heavily on certain items, designate a space in another room for kitchen storage. For instance, keep a box of canned goods in your washing room., This is especially important if you have limited counter surface area. If you have a toaster on the counter currently, consider relegating it to a cupboard, unless you use it at least a couple times a week. Not only will you literally wind up with more space by clearing your counters - your kitchen will also feel much more useable., In especially small spaces, appliances can take up way too much of your kitchen. For instance, if you have a full size-blender, opt for an immersion blender instead. These are also easier wash - which is especially advantageous if your kitchen lacks a dishwasher.Consider getting an all-in-one kitchen machine. Some, for instance, even come with attachments that will allow you to make pasta and ice cream, and juice whatever fruits and veggies you can cram into it. While these attachment are only necessary if you intend to use them, they’ll take up much less space than a handful of separate appliances.

