 During some World Series matches, a standing-room only ticket can go for $650 on the secondary market. This means that seats in the arcade can be sold for several thousand dollars.;
, The MLB has its own Sweepstakes that can be entered by online form during August. Look for many local contests to increase your chances of winning by drawing.
 The season ticket holders for the year's championship teams usually get the right to buy tickets to the game at face value. In 2011, the Cardinals allowed those who bought season tickets for the next year to buy a current world series ticket at face value.
 Although season ticket holders get the chance to purchase at face value, this may also be possible if you purchase the tickets online, by phone or at the stadium box office before or right after the team qualifies.


Allotted team tickets sell out very quickly after the team qualifies. One year they sold out within 18 minutes of going on sale.
 StubHub is an affiliate of eBay and a partner of Major League Baseball and most of the American and National league teams. The following are good tips for buying baseball tickets on this secondary market:


StubHub has the advantage of guaranteeing your tickets, unlike some other websites. They have agreed to a process of reselling series tickets for the MLB. Once you buy a seat from an existing ticket, they deactivate the old ticket bar code and they create a new bar code for them. They will send you the tickets by email in Portable Document Format (PDF).
Go to the "World Series" section on StubHub.com site. It will tell you how many tickets are available and the lowest price you can find. Click on "See Tickets." You can choose based on price, number of tickets, seating and more. Buy a ticket with a credit card as soon as you find the tickets. They are not likely to be available at the same price for long.
Search for tickets during the playoff games. Buying tickets before the teams are set allows you the option of a refund. StubHub knows that even if you ask for a refund, they can always resell it to an eager fan. As soon as the game is decided, ticket prices will go up by $100 to $1,000.
Set a "Price Alert." You can name a price that you are willing to pay and you will receive word if there is a ticket available. This is a good way to stay within a budget.
Tickets are sold up to 2 hours before the game. Prices may go down as the game nears, because the seller will not benefit from having an empty seat.
 Sometimes tickets become available if there are open seats. If there is an agreement between the team and StubHub, you may be redirected to their website to purchase the tickets.
 Tickets occasionally become available and are sold at the gate up to 2 hours before the game. This is rare, but others may assume that there are no tickets.


Buy tickets at the bigger stadium, if you have an option between the 2. Because there are more seats available, they are also likely to be less expensive.

