 For cases of cirrhosis, most mild to moderate cases are handled on an outpatient basis, with some exceptions. If the patient has major gastrointestinal bleeding, severe infection or sepsis, kidney failure, or altered mental status, treatment in the hospital is required.The doctor will likely ask you to abstain from alcohol, drugs, and medications if you have liver toxicity. The doctor will evaluate this on an individual basis. Additionally, certain herbs like kava and mistletoe can cause further damage to your liver.Discuss all herbal/alternative treatments you are currently taking with you doctor.
Your doctor will immunize you against pneumococcal disease, influenza, and hepatitis A and hepatitis B.
Your doctor will also establish the NASH protocol for you, in which you will be put on a plan for weight reduction, exercise, and optimal control of lipids and glucose (fats and sugars/carbohydrates)., As discussed in previous sections, there are many underlying causes that lead to cirrhosis. The medication your doctor prescribes will be very customized and specific to your precise case. These drugs will treat underlying causes (Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, biliary cirrhosis, etc.) as well as the symptoms that result from cirrhosis and subsequent liver failure.
 Doctors don't always suggest surgery, but may recommend it if certain conditions arise from the cirrhosis. These conditions include:


Varices, or dilated blood vessels and can be treated with ligation (surgically tying off the vessel).
Ascites, an abdominal fluid buildup that's treated with paracentesis, a draining procedure.
Fulminant hepatic failure, a rapid onset of encephalopathy (alteration of brain structure/function within 8 weeks of diagnosed liver cirrhosis). This condition calls for a liver transplant.Hepatocellular carcinoma is the development of liver cancer. Attempts at treatment include radiofrequency ablation, resection (surgical removal of the carcinoma), and liver transplant., After a diagnosis of cirrhosis, people can usually expect 5-20 years of life with the disease with little or no symptoms.Once severe symptoms and complications arise from cirrhosis, death within 5 years without transplant is common.Hepatorenal syndrome is one severe complication that may occur due to cirrhosis. This refers to the development of renal failure in patients with liver disease, requiring treatment for kidney failure. Hepatopulmonary syndrome, another serious complication, is caused by the broadening of the arteries in the lungs of patients with liver disease. It leads to shortness of breath and hypoxemia (low oxygen levels in the blood). The treatment for this is a liver transplant.