 You can “unlock” your dreadlocks without cutting them, but the process will take a long time. Short locks that have only been around for a year or less might come undone within four to eight hours. Longer locks that you've had for multiple years may take 15 to 48 hours., Before removing individual locks and small knots, look for any locks that have joined together and any large matted sections at the root. Gently pull these areas apart using your hands.


Work as close to the scalp as possible while doing this.
If you cannot remove these tangles without severely breaking your hair, it's best to wait until you work on the smaller locks before removing these large knots.
 Fill a sink or basin with warm water and lean back, submerging your locks completely. Let your locks soak for a full 10 minutes.
 Work small amounts of detangling or degreasing shampoo into each section of each lock. Wash each lock with hot water, as well.


The water should be as hot as you can make it without burning yourself.
The hot water and shampoo should help melt any wax and grease that has built up.
Thoroughly rinse the shampoo out of your locks before continuing.
 Apply small amounts of conditioner to each section of each lock. Rub the conditioner into each lock using your fingers.


Do not rinse the conditioner out of your locks at this point.
If necessary, you can wrap your hair in a towel to keep it out of your face until you are ready to continue.
 Use a metal comb to pierce the bottom of the lock and work apart the knots there. Gradually work your way up the entire length of the lock in the same manner.A tail comb is easiest to use. You can use the tip of the tail to pierce the bottom of your lock.
If you're using a regular comb, you will need to work the teeth of the comb into the bottom of the lock.
After inserting the comb into the lock, gently pull it apart using the comb and your fingers. Don't be afraid to apply a significant amount of pressure.
If the locks are too tough to unravel, work more conditioner and warm water into the hair before trying again.
 After you pull apart 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so, comb through the top of the loosened section down to the very bottom.


Repeat this step for every 1 inch (2.5 cm) you unravel.
Removing the tangles and shed hair throughout the unraveling process will lead to fewer problems than waiting until the very end.
 After you unravel one lock, repeat the same process with the remaining locks. Work on each lock one by one until all of them have come undone.


If you have difficulty working the locks apart with a comb, you might find it easier to do so with a metal knitting needle or long sewing needle. When using a needle, slip the point into a loop near the edge of the dread and carefully pull the loop out. Repeat as needed along the length of the lock.
 Apply more conditioner to your hair after unlocking it all. Let the conditioner sit on your hair for five minutes before rinsing it out.


This round of conditioner should help repair some of the damage caused by the picking process.
 Your hair will probably look unhealthy immediately after the removal of your locks, but if you wash and condition it regularly, its condition should improve quickly.


Use a leave-in conditioner each time you wash your hair for the first week or so.
When drying your hair, use a low temperature setting.
Straighten your hair with a flat iron to manage any waves or frizz.

