 After buying a bunch of potatoes or gathering them from your garden, take a few moments to sift through them. Look for any potatoes with broken skins, bruises, or any other visible damage. These shouldn't be stored — they will rot faster than normal and may spread the rot to undamaged potatoes. Instead, choose one of the following options:


Use the damaged potatoes within a day or two, cutting out any damaged or unattractive parts before use.
"Cure" the potatoes to reverse damage and extend their storage life (see curing step below).
Throw badly-damaged or rotting potatoes out.;
, Once you've separated the damaged potatoes from the undamaged ones, put the latter in a spot that's not exposed to light or moisture. These things can cause greening and/or rotting. Good examples include basements, cellars, and out-of-the-way kitchen cabinets.


Additionally, you'll want your potatoes to stay well-ventilated. Most potatoes are sold in mesh bags that allow air to pass through — these are fine. Don't transfer the potatoes to an airtight container.
If you picked the potatoes yourself, try layering them in wicker baskets or ventilated boxes. Add a page of newspaper between each layer. Cover the top layer with newspaper as well.
 Potatoes keep best at temperatures less than 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius).For maximum storage length, potatoes should remain between 35-40 degrees Fahrenheit (about 2-4 degrees Celsius). A cool, dark room like a basement or root cellar usually works well.


Note that refrigerators are too cold for potatoes and can ruin their taste. See the section below for more information., Stored using the method above, most potatoes will last a few months without problems. However, every few weeks it is wise to check your potatoes briefly for "problem" signs. One rotten potato can infect the others around it, so getting rid of bad potatoes before they have a chance to spread is vital. Symptoms to look for include:



Greening: The potato gains a subtle green color. Over time, the flesh will soften and appear slightly withered. Often caused by exposure to light. If there is only slight greening, cut away the green portions of the skin before cooking.Sprouting: Small bud-like "sprouts" start to grow out of the potato. Usually accompanied by greening/softening. Cut the sprouts away before cooking if the potato isn't too soft or green.

Rot: The potato appears to be visibly decaying — it may smell bad, have a soft texture, and/or be covered with mold. Throw out rotting potatoes and replace any paper that was touching them.
 If you want your potatoes to last even longer, try the technique described below. This is also a good choice for potatoes with minor damage that would otherwise be vulnerable to rot — "cured" potatoes will usually have minor cuts and bruises heal up. To cure your potatoes:


Lay your potatoes on a bed of newspaper in a cool, dark place.
Raise the temperature to 50-60 degrees Fahrenheit (10-15 degrees Celsius), slightly higher than normal for storage.
Let the potatoes sit this way undisturbed. After about two weeks, the potato skins will be thickened and dry. Brush off any large clumps of dirt from the surface of the potato and store them according to the directions above (this will require you to lower the temperature slightly).

