 One of the most effective homemade fly traps is made using a simple plastic water bottle.


Unscrew and remove the cap, then use scissors to pierce the plastic and cut off the top quarter of the bottle.
Fill the bottom part of the bottle with a quarter cup (60 mL) of sugar, a quarter cup (60 mL) of water, and a couple of drops of blue food colouring. The blue colour helps to attract flies, but most colours or no colours will attract flies as long as it isn't yellow. Yellow is found to be the only repellent colour for flies. . Alternatively, a little water mixed with dish soap and a few drops of apple cider vinegar will also attract flies.
Take the top quarter of the bottle, turn it upside down and rest it on top of the other part of the bottle to form a funnel. The flies will be able to crawl into the bottle, but will find it much harder to find their way out.
Place the fly trap in a sunny spot that is frequented by flies and wait for them to collect inside the bottle.;
, If you don't have any plastic bottles lying around, you can make another homemade fly trap using a simple glass jar (or even a drinking glass) and some plastic wrap.


Take your glass jar and fill it almost to the top with sugar water or a solution of sugar dissolved in apple cider vinegar with a squirt of dish soap.
Take a square of plastic wrap and use it to cover the opening of the glass jar. Use a rubber band to secure it if it feels loose.
Use a pen or scissors to poke a small hole into the center of the plastic wrap. This will allow the fly to enter the jar, but once it gets inside, it will drown in the liquid.Place your trap in a sunny spot, outside, or a place where you have seen many flies.
 Flypaper is a type of sticky paper which you can hang around your home to catch flies with minimal effort.


The paper is coated in a sweet, sticky (and sometimes toxic) substance which attracts flies and causes them to stick. Flypaper may look unsightly in the home, but it is a very effective method of catching flies.
 Although you can buy your own flypaper at most home supple stores, you can make your own non-toxic version using a brown bag, maple syrup and sugar:


Cut the brown paper bag into one-inch wide strips.
Use a pen to poke a hole at the top of each strip and thread a little string or twine through to form a loop.
In a wide pan or bowl, mix half a cup (120 mL) of maple syrup, 2 tablespoons (30 mL) white sugar, and 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of brown sugar.
Place the strips of paper into the mixture (dangling the string over the edge) and leave them to soak for several hours or overnight.
Remove the strips from the mixture and hold them above a sink until they stop dripping. Then hang them indoors or outdoors, or wherever you have a problem with flies.