 Before attending a funeral, explain what a funeral is to your child. Explain that funerals are a time for friends and family to come together to say thank you, goodbye, and I love you to the person who has died. Tell them that it is a time to remember and to pay their last respects to the person that died. It is also a time to celebrate that person’s life, and to receive comfort and support from people who care., It is very important to explain to them what they will see. Explain to your child that they will see people expressing a variety of feelings. They will see people laughing, crying, hugging, and offering each other support.


If the funeral will have an open casket, explain to them what it is and what they will see. You can say, “A casket is a special box that holds the whole body. It will be made of wood and the inside of it will look like a bed with a little pillow. Your grandma's body will be dressed up in a pretty outfit, and will be lying in the special box. There will be flowers and pictures around the box.”, To prepare your child, you can arrange a visit to the funeral home beforehand. You can show them the room where the casket will be, and where the bathroom and the playground is.
 Also explain to your child what happens after the funeral. Tell them that everyone will drive to the cemetery where the casket will be buried. Explain to them that everyone will gather around the grave, a special hole that is a dug in the ground, to say prayers and to place flowers on the casket.
 Children may be curious and concerned about the body if it has become ashes. Be sure to reassure your child that this process is not painful; try not to use the word "burn" since that word suggests pain. You might discuss cremation as a beautiful process that helps the body turn back into ashes in order for it to become a part of the earth.


For example, “There is a special place called the crematorium. The crematorium has a special room, not like any room in our house, with a special fire. The fire is very, very hot, and will turn your grandma’s body into ashes. She will not feel any heat or pain. Her ashes will be put in a pretty container, called an urn. The urn will be at the funeral.”