 There are a variety of websites for making printable paper models. These range from plain block letters to intricate sculptures. Pick the type that both fits your project and matches your skill level., After downloading your template, you may choose to customize it with image editing software of your choice. This can be adding pictures, patterns, or colors to each letter. Be careful not to erase any solid or dotted lines from the original template, as you will need these for proper assembly.


As an alternative, you may always print out plain white letters and decorate them by hand before folding. However, using an image editor will guarantee uniformity between your letters and make them look more professional.
 Use your home printer to transfer your templates onto paper. You may use normal printer paper. However, sculptures made from cardstock are much sturdier. Check to see if your printer can accept cardstock into its feed.
 You can use scissors or hobby knife. For most papercraft templates, the lines you must cut will be solid and black. The unfolded printout will likely not resemble your letter, yet.


When using a hobby knife, be sure to work on a protective mat to keep from ruining your table.
 For most papercraft templates, dotted lines represent those that need to be scored. Use a bone folder to carefully score along these lines without ripping the paper.If you don't have a bone folder handy, you can also use the bottom edge of a ballpoint pen instead.
 Decide which side of the paper will be visible and place your paper with that side facing down. Fold the lines you scored inward. Once you've made these folds, your letter should be easily recognizable.
 Your template will likely indicate where glue should be placed to hold together the final sculpture. If not, simple papercraft tends to be intuitive. Your template's glue tabs will likely be plain white strips around the perimeter of the cutout. Apply a light dab of paste or go over each tab with a glue stick before placing it under the visible portion of your model.

