 It's a good idea to wash your hair before attempting a quiff hairstyle. This gets rid of any oiliness and makes your hair easier to backcomb.


Use a volumizing shampoo and conditioner in the shower — this will help to give your hair more texture and volume once dry.
Blot your hair dry with a towel. Work a little volumizing mousse through the lengths, and blow dry your hair as straight as possible.
 Use a comb or your fingers to section off the front part of your hair for the quiff.


Think of this section of hair like an upside-down triangle, with the two bottom points at your forehead and the top point at the top of your head.
If you plan on leaving the rest of your hair down, you can continue to Step 4. If you plan on putting the rest of your hair in a ponytail, twist the front section of hair around itself and temporarily secure with a bobby pin.
 Once the front section of your hair is separated and secured, use a soft brush to smooth the rest of your hair back into a low ponytail (around the occipital bone) and tie tightly with an elastic.


At this point your can decide whether you want the ponytail to look sleek or wispy. If you want the wispy look, pull out some feathery pieces of hair from around your ears and temples.
If you want a sleeker effect, use some firm-hold hairspray to slick back the hair at the sides of your head and beneath the ponytail. Don't spray the top of your head just yet.
 Unpin the front section of hair and comb it out to remove any tangles. Spritz the entire section of hair with a light layer of firm-hold hairspray.


Working from the back to the front, take small sections of hair and start backcombing, using a fine-toothed comb. This is the most important step in achieving a perfect quiff.
To backcomb the hair, hold a section of hair at the ends and lift it straight into the air, above your head. Place the comb at the halfway point between your head and your hand and tease the hair downwards, towards the scalp.Once you have finished with one section of hair, move onto the next and repeat the backcombing process. Keep going until you reach the hair at your forehead.
 Once you have backcombed the entire front section of hair, you are ready to form your quiff. Don't worry if your hair looks like a bird's nest at this point — this is how it's supposed to look!


Take a soft-bristled brush and lightly brush the hair back towards the ponytail. Try to get the hair on the outside of the quiff nice and smooth, but leave the backcombed hair underneath as undisturbed as possible — you don't want to undo all of your hard work!
Gather the ends of the backcombed hair at the crown of your head and twist them once. To get more height in your quiff, push this twisted piece of hair forwards. Use your hands to ensure that the quiff looks even at the front.
If you left the rest of your hair down, secure the twisted end of the quiff with a couple of bobby pins. If you put your hair in a ponytail, secure the twisted end to the existing ponytail using a second hair tie.
 Exposed bobby pins or hair ties can look untidy, so finish the look by hiding them beneath your hair.


If your hair is down, take a small section of hair from the right of the bobby pins and cross it over the pins towards the left. Secure this section of hair with a small pin on the underside of the hair. Now take another section of hair from the left of the bobby pins and cross it over to the right.If your hair is in a ponytail, take a small section of hair from the underside of the ponytail and wrap it around the hair ties until they are no longer visible. Secure the end of the hair with a bobby pin, underneath the ponytail.
Take your strong-hold hairspray and give the quiff a good spritz. Use your hand to smooth back any flyaway hairs from around the hairline. Finish with a little shine spray, and your quiff is good to go!

