 If you've only just found out what a bounce rate is, then you probably haven't got a clue about finding it. Open a Google Analytics account to find out the facts and figures behind your website's bounce rate.;
, You might be getting readers visiting for all the wrong reasons and who are quickly disappointed when they see what your site does contain. This can happen where you haven't described things well, where you have mislead people (not necessarily intentionally) into thinking that your site offers something other than what it does. Things to keep in mind include:


Having apt and relevant titles to your site materials, articles, information, etc.
Using keywords that are relevant to your site rather than very general and "could-be-any-site" type.
 Get a friend to have a look at it and give you constructive feedback. Does your opening page:


Feel inviting?
Appear engaging?
Offer all the necessary tools at once, such as joining information, search information, good introductory information?

, Is it able to keep a reader? Be very honest about this aspect. If your site is full of rehashed, repetitive information that teaches a reader nothing new, or fails to provide interesting insights that engage the reader fully, you won't keep your readers interested.


If you are selling things, are your descriptions of the product or services complete, adequate, and engaging?
If you are offering reading matter, are you adding new and interesting angles that the reader hasn't yet being exposed to?
If you are offering things to do, such as games, etc., are these good quality, interesting, and better than those offered by competing websites?

, Can your readers get around your site with ease or is it like finding a needle-in-a-haystack to get any useful content out? Some things to consider include:


Weave in lots of links to make sure that readers move smoothly through your site.
Provide easy menus or lists for readers to find information quickly.
Avoid creating a sense of "those-in-the-know-know-where-to-go". Ask yourself would you bother finding things out if you felt that about a website's attitude to navigating around it?
Fix up shoddy internal search engines.
Decent font sizes. Not everyone on the internet is under the age of 25. Don't hide what matters. Equally, don't make it hard to find - what you feel is intuitively obvious should be tested on a wider research group than your intuition.

