 Talking too loudly is a time-tested way of annoying people in public almost anywhere you go. You can talk loudly on the bus, on a plane, or especially in a coffee shop while people are trying to get work done. It's especially annoying if you talk loudly on the phone, acting like no one else is around. If you reveal personal information, or just make really obnoxious comments, then you are guaranteed to annoy the people around you.


If someone asks you to be quiet, you should nod vigorously and apologize, and continue like before.;
, Ah, the phone. Probably the most annoying device you have in your possession. If you're at work or school, or even just having lunch at a cafe, leave it on, preferably with a very annoying song that comes on whenever it rings. Think something like, "Taking Care of Business" or "Who Let the Dogs Out?" so that when your phone rings, everyone is utterly distracted. You can even make this sound your alarm, so it sounds like someone is calling when no one is. Bonus points if it takes you forever to find your phone so everyone gets to hear the entirety of the annoying sound or ring tone.


It's also pretty annoying to put your phone on vibrate. You may think that this is almost the same as putting your phone on silent, when in fact, everyone can hear your phone vibrate and can get annoyed by it, especially if you're in a particularly quiet place. This is perfect when you're having a long textual exchange with a friend, so that your phone will go off every few seconds.
 Though you should avoid approaching someone who may lash out at you or get very angry, if you really want to be annoying, then you can try to strike up a convo with someone who is obviously very busy, whether that person is studying for a test, working on his novel on his computer, or just reading with intense concentration. Act like you're completely oblivious and are just looking to chat someone up. When the person answers in one-word answers, ignore this and try to keep the conversation going.


You can say, "What are you reading? I heard that book was pretty lame," or make other offensive comments about what the person is doing as an opener.
Talk on and on about yourself, making eye contact so the other person would feel bad about turning you away.
 This is another way to be pretty irritating in public. Repeatedly drop your books, spill your coffee, or just generally act like a mess who can't keep track of his or her stuff. The more you spill, the merrier. You can also bring shaving cream and when someone gets up to go to the bathroom you can poor the shaving cream all over the persons seat and this will really drive the person nuts and spill it all over the persons laptop. Make as much racket as you can so people feel forced to look up and maybe even to help you out. If you spill or drop your stuff in a way that crowd's someone else's personal space, then that will be even more annoying.


It'll be even more annoying if you don't apologize when this happens! Or, if you apologize way more than necessary so people feel sorry for you.
 Staring at people is another solid plan for irritating them. Just pick a stranger and stare at him or her for a prolonged period of time. You can even leave your mouth gaping open as you do this. When the person stares at you, scratch your head and continue to stare. Act like you're trying to win a staring contest and try to avoid blinking for as long as possible. Just be careful — try to stare at someone who seems nice and who wouldn't get too angry about this. Remember that your goal is to irritate the person, not infuriate him or her.
 Being nosy around strangers is another great way to irritate people. Let's say you're in line getting coffee and you hear two women talking in hushed tones about one of their divorces or another personal subject. Butt in and say, "I couldn't help but overhear..." and then offer an annoying opinion on something you know nothing about. If you really want to be annoying, you can even try to argue with the people about the topic.


Act like you're not being nosy and that butting in is your right. This is guaranteed to be irritating.
You can also be nosy and irritating by asking a stranger a person question. You can say something like, "Do you know a good gynecologist around here?" or "I was just wondering, where do you get shoes that look so ratty like that?"

, Act like you've just been blasted out of the past. Wander around and act amazed at every little bit of technology you see. If you see someone using a phone, you can say something like, "Oh my God, is that a telephone? Like, you can actually talk to someone through that thing? Jeez." If you see someone on his or her laptop, you can walk up to it and say, "You can communicate with the future on that thing! How absolutely fascinating!"


The important thing is not to break character. If the people see you smiling, then they'll get really mad. Otherwise, they are liable to think you're a little crazy and won't know what to do with you.
 This is the perfect way to irritate your friends. If you want them to get tired of you, fast, then you should try to copy and mimic everything your friend says and does. You can either be totally obvious about it, and just repeat everything your friend says, word for word, or you can be a bit more subtle, and copy your friend's gestures and movements instead. The obvious route will be more annoying, but your friend will tire of you faster. If you mimic everything your friend does, then it'll take longer for your friend to catch on.


Act like a mirror. Do everything your friend does but in reverse. If your friend asks you why you are mimicking him or her, act like you have no idea what your friend is talking about.
 Another great way to annoy your friends is to complain as much as you can. Everyone hates a whiner or a person who complains just for the sake of it. It's even better if you complain about completely pointless things, like the weather or something you saw on TV, so your problems don't sound all that serious. If you repeat the same complaint over and over, that is also likely to be pretty darn irritating.


It's best if you whine with an annoying look on your face and an annoying whiny sound to your voice. Make your own company as unpleasant as possible.
 People who are narcissistic or just plain obsessed with themselves are extremely irritating. When you're with your friends, make sure you use the word "I" as much as you can and to talk about your own problems and what you have going on as much as possible. When your friends try to talk about themselves, change the subject or say you suddenly have to go. This will irritate absolutely everyone.


This act will be difficult to keep up for long. Your friends will run far and away!
It's most effective if you tell long, boring stories about yourself without letting anyone interrupt you. If your friends have heard the story before, then all the better!

, Another perfect way to irritate your friends is to promise that you'll be somewhere and then completely flake on them. It's best if you act totally sincere, like you are absolutely set on going to the movies or giving your friend a ride to a party. Then, at the last possible second, make up a lame excuse for why you can't go, so you leave your friend hanging.


If you're really determined to be completely irritating, then you should not get back to your friend until hours later, so your friend is left wondering where the heck you are. Then, give some dumb excuse like, "Sorry! I got sucked in to a Buffy marathon!"

, Another way to be extremely irritating is to invite yourself over to hang out with your friends when they obviously want some time away from you. If you hear your two friends talking about how much they want to catch up, then ask what time you can be there. If your friend was just talking about how much she needs alone time, ask if you can crash at her place for a bit. Act completely oblivious about not being wanted.


If you see your friends talking in hushed tones about something that is obviously serious, just walk right over and say, "What's up, guys?"

, This is another extremely irritating habit that you can adopt. Ask your friend if you can borrow her favorite sweater, her favorite book, or a piece of jewelry that you think will be perfect for your new outfit. Then, keep promising to give the thing back without actually doing it. This is guaranteed to irritate your friends, and even to help you lose the item.


If your friend's things have sentimental value, then losing them will be extra irritating.
 One of the most irritating things you can do is to spill your friend's secrets. If your friend tells you something that is meant to be private, then you can try to let other people know. Obviously, use your discretion — if it's something truly personal, then it's best to back off, but if it's just something a bit embarrassing or silly, then you can "accidentally" mention it in front of your other friends or even on your Facebook.


If you want to be really irritating, act totally oblivious when your friend calls you out for doing what you did. Say something like, "I thought everyone knew!" Or, "I didn't know it was such a big deal. Jeez!"

, This is one guaranteed way of irritating your sibling. If you have an older sister, help yourself to her clothes and jewelry. It's extra irritating for you to show up to school wearing her things without her realizing it. You can also use your brother's video games or sports equipment, and even bring them over to a friend's house. When your sibling gets mad at you, you can act like you didn't know you did anything wrong. Say something like, "Ooops, sorry, I thought that was mine!"


If you want to be really irritating, then when your sibling brings home his or her favorite treat, try to eat as much of it as you can.
When you shower, try to use up your brother or sister's favorite shampoo.
Use your brother or sister's hairbrush, trying to leave as many strands of your hair in there as you can.
 There's nothing a sibling hates more than being bothered by another sibling when his or her friends are over. So, if your sibling is having a sleepover or just having a few friends over, you should try to be around as much as possible, bug your sibling, make ridiculous comments, or just ask if you can play, too. If your sibling keeps telling you to go away, find excuses to be around, like pretending you're looking for something in the room where your sibling is, humming to yourself loudly as you do this.


You can also embarrass your sibling by bringing up embarrassing stories or saying things like, "Hey, where did you put your retainer?" Or, "It's so nice that you finally found some friends."

, Another classic way to irritate your sibling is to tell your parents every wrong thing he or she does. It can be really minor, like not washing the dishes when he or she said she would. Do it was often as possible and make your sibling feel like he is constantly being watched by you. If you keep this up, you are likely to irritate your parents, too!


It's even better if you convince your sibling to do something bad or even do it along with him and then tattle on him, saying, "It was all his idea!"

, Siblings hate living with messy brothers or sisters, especially if they share a room. If you're lucky enough to share a room with your favorite brother or sister, then you should leave your clothes all over the place and make sure to be so messy that it makes it hard for your sibling to find his own stuff. You can also squirt some toothpaste into the sink, leave your food all over the place, or just do whatever you can to create chaos in your sibling's orbit.


Of course, this may not last for long because your parents will ask you to clean up, but it will be very irritating for as long as you can pull it off!

, Nothing is more annoying than whining and acting like a big baby until you get what you want. If you want to really drive your sibling crazy, then the next time you want something, whether it's to have a bite of your brother's pizza or to use your sister's computer, you should whine, complain, or even cry until you're so irritating that you just have to get your way.


There is no age limit to this one. Crying and whining when you're 16 can be even more irritating because your sibling will feel embarrassed for you!

, This is another great way to completely not respect your sibling's privacy and to cause as much embarrassment as possible. The next time you know your brother will have his girlfriend over, you should try to be around as much as possible, being loud and annoying, and making comments like, "I'm so glad you finally found a date. Remember when you were crying about how no one would go out with you?"


You can even sing the K-I-S-S-I-N-G song or just keep asking your sibling and his or her special someone when they're going to kiss each other. This will be especially irritating if they haven't done it yet!

, There are times when nothing can be more annoying to a teacher than rolling in to class a minute or two late. This is most annoying if you apologize with a dumb smirk on your face, or just walk in looking cool and collected, like you couldn't care less about how your teacher is actually feeling, or like the class is your absolute last priority.


It can also be pretty irritating if you show up just as the bell is ringing so the teacher can't actually say anything.
If you shuffle through your things and take a long time to get settled after you show up late, that will be even more irritating!

, Another way to really irritate your teacher is to ask questions that are so obvious that they make it clear that you haven't been paying attention at all. If you're in an Algebra class, ask something like, "What does X mean again?" Or another question that makes the teacher have to go back to the beginning, or just to get annoyed that you haven't been paying attention.


You can also wait until you go over something in depth, acting like you're not paying attention. When the lesson is almost over, ask a question that shows you haven't been paying attention at all. You can even say something like, "Sorry, I must have totally zoned out!"
You can also ask really silly or irrelevant questions like, "What color was Ben Franklin's hair?"

, Some teachers get the most irritated by students who act like know-it-alls. Let's face it. It's pretty likely that your teacher knows more about the subject material than you, and if you act like your teacher is wrong, ask her to prove what she said, or even try to look up some facts from class on Wikipedia to show how wrong they are, then you are guaranteed to irritate your teacher.


It's also annoying if you try to quote a different teacher or your parents to show that your teacher is wrong.
 Teachers absolutely hate it when their students sleep in class. If you want to be very irritating, then you should try to do this as much as you can. Bonus points if you can snore or make the other students giggle. Sleeping in class won't help your grade any, but it will definitely irritate your teachers. It'll be extra irritating if you wake up out of sleep just long enough to ask an obvious question.
 It's bad enough if you're determined to be annoying on your own, but if you bring other students into the equation, that will be even more irritating for your teachers. Pass notes to the other students, crack stupid jokes, or just get them involved in conversation. Be so funny and goofy that other students can't help but pay more attention to you than the teacher. This is bound to be exceptionally irritating, especially if you get students who are normally well-behaved to start acting out!


Show other students a hilarious YouTube video. This is bound to be irritating for at least a few seconds before your phone gets taken away.
 Another way to irritate your teachers is to finish your test way too early so you make the other students nervous. Wait a reasonable amount of time so that it could possibly seem like you might have breezed through the questions, but not so long that other people may be almost done. Once you "finish," say "Done!" or even, "That was easy!" Turn in your test with swagger, slam down your pencil, and maybe even kick your feet up. Do whatever you can to be distracting and irritating and to make the other students nervous.


This is bound to drive your teacher crazy, especially if she spent a lot of time preparing students for the exam!

