 Most agencies use payment history, types of credit, and a ratio of debt to credit in order to calculate a credit score. If you want to get a perfect credit score, it's important to understand the specifics of how your score is calculated. Use this information to monitor your behavior and help you reach your goal.


Each agency computes your credit score in a slightly different way. However, the most important components measured are your payment history (which is an assessment of how consistent you've been in making your payments) and your indebtedness level (which measures how much credit you are using versus how much you qualify for).
Together, these two parts made up about two-thirds of your credit score.For more on how FICO scores (the most commonly-used credit score) are calculated, see how to understand your FICO credit score.;
, Go to annualcreditreport.com to get your free credit reports. This can be done for free once per year and provides you with credit reports from the three major credit agencies, which are Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.Many Web sites claim to offer a free credit report. These sites usually force you to join a credit monitoring service that charges a monthly fee. AnnualCreditReport.com is the only government-authorized site to get a free credit report.
 Mistakes happen and this could cost you your perfect score. Get a copy of your credit report and verify that the information pertaining to your accounts is correct. If you find an inaccuracy, make sure that you contact both the creditor and the credit bureau to have it removed from your account. Simply fixing inaccuracies can increase your credit score.


Inaccuracies may be misstated personal information, closed accounts still showing as open accounts, and falsely-reported payment conditions (like late or missed payments that didn't happen)., Most lenders have tiered lending levels that provide different interest rates to different credit score ranges. However, there are no special packages available for those with perfect credit, which is usually stated as a credit score of 850. In many cases, lenders extend their best offers to borrowers with a credit score of over about 760 or 780. So, at a practical level, having a perfect credit score is no more useful than have an "excellent" credit score., On-time payments are usually the most important part of your credit score. A late payment will decrease your credit score and will affect it for up to seven years. If possible, set up an automatic payment system with your creditors, allowing them to take their payment out of your account every month. This prevents late payments., Credit bureaus look at the ratio of your available credit limits to the amount of debt you have in order to determine your score. It's best to have a high amount of available credit with a low debt.


Try to use credit only for emergency expenses and pay of the balance as quickly as possible. This ensures a low debt to credit ratio.
If possible, keep your debt below 35 percent of your total available credit. When your debt surpasses this limit, it begins to reflect negatively on your score., There are two types of accounts that may be listed on your credit report. It's best to have a mixture of these two. If you only have one of the account types, your score may be lower.


Revolving accounts, such as credit cards, have a variable monthly payment based on how much credit you use.
Installment accounts, such as a mortgages and student loans, are loans for large amounts of money with a fixed payment each month.It's best to have one or two installment accounts and no more than four revolving accounts., Applying for new credit accounts frequently can have a negative impact on your credit score. This includes applying for loans, credit cards, and other forms of credit. However, it does not include requesting your credit reports on your own.Try to keep your new credit applications down in the range of one to three new applications in a six month period., Making it to a perfect credit requires planning and consistency. You'll have to follow the recommendations for improving your credit for decades to achieve truly perfect credit. Try to make responsible credit use a habit that you don't even think about. Pay your bills on the same days every month and track your expenditures and income carefully. Only by establishing a system will you be able to keep your credit together for the required amount of time., Lenders typically look at your debt to income ratio to determine your eligibility for a loan. In many cases, they look for debt payments under 25 percent of your after-tax income. For most people, this number represents fiscal responsibility. However, to have perfect credit, your percentage spent on debt will have to much lower, around 15 percent. Living more cheaply will also make paying your bills on time and in full easier., Having perfect credit means having a flawless credit history on your credit report. If you accidentally make a late payment, but you have a good payment history otherwise, consider calling your creditor to ask them not to report the late payment. In many cases, they will do this as a gesture of good faith.


Late payments will disappear from your credit report after seven years.
You will not be able to get a perfect score, or even a good one, if you have negative events like a bankruptcy or collections account on your credit report. These flaws can stay on your credit report for ten years, and may stay on it forever., Time is a necessary part of the equation to get a perfect credit score. You will need at least 10 years of positive credit before you can achieve the highest score. Part of your credit score calculation actually takes into consideration the age of your oldest credit account. For this reason, avoid switching accounts or closing old ones.