 Obviously, if you know you're going out dancing, wear shoes that you already know work for you when you dance. Don't wear new shoes unless they're broken in, shoes that are too high, or shoes that feel uncomfortable when simply walking.


For dance classes: break your dance shoes in! Whether it's ballet, flamenco, tango, or jazz, your shoes need to be broken in before you take too many lessons or dance the night away with your newly learned skills.
For a formal event: If you even suspect that there might be dancing at the event you're going to, try to take along a pair of shoes that you know you can dance in. You can alternate between the more formal shoes and dance shoes as needed; use a shoe bag to keep the spare pair in.;
, When you have no alternative but to keep wearing your uncomfortable shoes for dancing, see if you can spot a surface on, or near, the dance floor that is softer. For example, the dance floor might be rimmed with carpet. If you're able to remain on the softer surface, this will remove some of the impact of a harder floor on your feet.



If you already have blisters, corns, warts, etc., be sure to treat them appropriately before heading off to dance. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for advice if you're not sure what to do.
Moleskin can stick better than Band-Aids for longer lasting "dance relief". Apply the sticking side to your foot.
There are also commercial products targeted at blocking friction in uncomfortable shoes; look for them at your drugstore.
 Rather than trying to dance every dance or do your usual Can-Can kicks, tone it down and dance less than you would do normally. You can still enjoy some dances, and for the other dances, engage non-dancers in conversation, or simply soak up the atmosphere of those enjoying the dancing.
 Sometimes you might believe it's worth pushing yourself past the pain because the purpose of those once-in-a-lifetime shoes is because it's your once-in-a-lifetime wedding or stage performance. For many people, however, the pain obliterates all ability to enjoy the dancing and event, so this option won't be open to everyone and depends on your pain tolerance threshold and the strength of the reason for pushing you on in those uncomfortable shoes!

, The time-honored tradition is to remove your shoes and dance without them. Provided it's the right thing to do, this can be a liberating and acceptable action. However, consider the following:


Some of your fellow dancers or onlookers might perceive it as unseemly or even unhygienic.
If others don't remove their shoes, you risk having your bare feet trodden on or even stamped upon.
If you leave your pantyhose or socks on, you risk slipping over.
There may be foot odor issues involved that could embarrass you.
Judge the suitability of doing this by observing what other people are doing and your knowledge of the people present. If you have any doubts, consider either missing a few dances, or dancing gently.
Wash feet well before going to bed.

