 Make a list of all the things you're going to have to do before school, like buying school supplies, getting your hair trimmed, and buying new clothes.;
, Purchase separate binders for each subject. Purchase other school supplies that you need, too.
 For school supplies, color-code your books according to subject. Make sure that all of your supplies are in good condition and organized for a perfect first day.
 Buying clothes in basic colors makes for a mix and match closet. Personalize that white tee with an accessory, like a belt or necklace. Get rid of old, small, or droopy clothes. Color coordinate your closet for easy outfit pickings. Make sure all the clothes you wear are school appropriate & your style (not someone else's).



Brush your lips with Vaseline. This tip will make your lips soft and inviting for that special him or her. Put some Vaseline (petroleum jelly) on the side of an old toothbrush; if you use the top it will hurt. Do this every night so that your lips will be smooth for school. For all you girls out there, it also removes the dead skin and adds a burst of color to your lips.






Buy a clarifying shampoo and use it once on the day before school so that the product build-up and chlorine will be washed out of your hair. Do not use it more than once every 1 1/2 weeks or it will dry out your hair!






Use a mouthwash to keep your breath fresh. If you start wearing cologne or perfume in middle school, ask your mom or dad if you're overdoing it.
 It's a good start to the school year. You won't have to sift through piles of junk on your first day of school; you already have too much on your mind.
 During middle school, you may experience many blows to your self esteem. Give yourself that "new you" look if you're re-doing yourself. On the first day, smile and tell yourself that you look nice!

, Morning and night, make sure that you wake up an hour before school. After that, you'll know how long it will take to get ready so that you can decrease or lengthen that time.
 Do so before all camp, vacation plans, trips, etc., so you will not be rushing to finish your work near the first day of school.
 Set out your outfit and make sure it doesn't have any stains and run it by your friends. Pack your backpack and make sure you have everything ready for the morning. Pack your lunch and tuck some money in your bag. There may be long lunch lines on the first day. Read over your schedule and routes to class before bed, tuck in with a good book. Practice opening a lock before school.
 Don't come home after school without making an effort to reach out to at least one other person.
 You can be popular by not following the crowd. If you're not 'popular', remember that the real popular kids aren't popular; they're just (well most of them) fakes.
 If you get to pick your seat, then choose it wisely. If you are distracted by friends, then it would be better to sit with smart people who seem nice.
 What to have in your locker:


Locker shelves, locker organizer (hang-able or magnetic), mirror (magnetic), mini calendar (magnetic), no more than five dollars, just-in-case kit consisting of: pads (girls), four quarters for payphone, band aids, hairbands, and breath mints.
 If you get sick during school ask a friend to pick up homework and give it to you at home. Do the exact same for this person when they are unwell.

