 Before jumping in and getting dirty, you and your children will need the proper clothes for their fun entertainment. Shovel on some snow pants beneath your jeans to protect you from the cold. Wear a thick coat or a raincoat that is zipped or buttoned tightly. If needed, wear a rain hat to protect your hair from getting wet or dirty.


Make sure you and your child have an outfit underneath their rain clothes. Choose washable "play clothes". A plain shirt and jeans will do.
Sometimes it may be too hot to wear the right rain gear. If it is a hot, summer day then have your child wear a regular summer outfit. They will get soaked, but just be prepared to change them afterwards.
If you do not have a rain hat, then use the hood on the back of your child's coat.;
, Rubber boots (also called rain boots, Wellington Boots and Gum Boots) are safe to run and splash in the mud in. They are easy to wipe clean of dirt, simply use a moist napkin or cloth or boots can be hosed off later. Not only that, but they are comfortable for kids to use and jump in. Water will be splashing in their toes so it is important to be prepared with dry socks later.
 Some children really enjoy umbrellas. Rain will be everywhere and having something protect you from the cold rain will help from getting mostly dirty. Even if it is not raining, the muddy water will hopefully land on the umbrella rather than the child.


An umbrella may not be needed if the puddles do not contain much water.
Children may use an umbrella by scooping water out of the puddle into an overturned umbrella. It is up to you whether this is acceptable play with the umbrella or not.

Young children tend to be unsafe and careless with umbrellas, especially in groups. If you have several children running about, or your child is not particularly careful with umbrellas, consider forgoing the umbrellas altogether.
 Another approach is to forgo all protective clothing. Perhaps even let them go play naked, if possible. There are several good reasons:

Laundry. If a child plays in mud, you will create extra laundry. So just accept this as a given. It is virtually impossible to keep a child perfectly clean dry under these play conditions. So wear just as much clothing as the child requires, and no more. Why give yourself more laundry than needed?

Raincoats, rain pants,snow pants and rain boots are not designed to keep out mud from mud puddle play. These items are designed to keep a child dry while walking out in the rain, not a child determined to play down in the mud.
In mud play, raincoats get filthy. Sometimes the mud comes off easily, other times it does not. And raincoats are typically not machine-washable. So the pretty ladybug patterned raincoat may end up permanently dull and soiled if taken out to the mud puddle.
If the weather is really too cold to have your child play in puddles, do not allow your children near the mud. Snowpants can help children keep warm, but snow and mud are quite different substances. A pair of snowpants soaked in mud will be cold and uncomfortable.
Playing in mud puddles teach valuable "if-then" lessons. Young children often have a hard time linking action and effect. A four year old may enthusiastically jump in a puddle and then be surprised that she gets wet. The lesson that links her action to the consequence (good or bad) is very educational.
You are only young once! At some point, it is not generally acceptable to play in a mud puddle naked. But it is if you are a toddler. Let kids be kids, and enjoy the simple (if messy) pleasures in life.
 Rings, necklaces, bracelets, earrings, and other types of jewelry should be taken off. Some types jewelry tends to get rusty from dirt, even if you wash it. Plus, you wouldn't want your expensive, gold ring to get all covered in mud.
 If it was raining the night before, the ground and soil should be muddy. If it hasn't, you can make your own mud. Spray your hose into the soil and have it soften.
 Children playing in mud may not realize hazards obvious to you. Point these out before letting loose. These include:

Road safety - no playing in the road, for instance.
Contaminated water, such as puddles with engine oil floating on it.
Very deep puddles. Children usually fall into these anyway, however!

, There are times when they might slip and/or get hurt.
 No one is ever too old to jump in a muddy puddle! Laugh and jump with your child, getting muddy and dirty. Try not to worry about the mess--you will clean everything up at the end.
 Try making up pretend games to play while jumping. You can ask your child for help since they like thinking up of new games. Some examples can be playing "Ring a Ring o' Roses" in the mud, playing Leap Frog in the mud, and so on., Yes, this is messy play but it makes children happy and healthy. Let alone the fear of the mess and just enjoy the time you get with your kids. Take photographs of the play.
 If possible, a quick hosing off can greatly simplify cleaning later.
 Mud can trickle in the house without removing your clothes off first. If you think that people can see, go in a private area like a garage, shed, or near a fence. Remove all dirty clothing off yourself and your kids and place it in a large, plastic bag, laundry basket, or other container.
 Even with clothes removed, there is likely mud that can be tracked in everywhere. A quick toweling off before proceeding forward can prevent a lot of mopping or vacuuming later. Remember hands, especially!

, Clean you and child up as they will be dirty, cold, and hopefully tired. If your child is old enough to take a bath, have them do so. Do not forget to shampoo your child well and and rinse with warm water.
 If possible, very muddy clothes should be rinsed before washing. Immediately place clothes in the laundry machine to launder later.
 If any toys, outdoor chairs, or other outdoor items got dirty it might be time to start washing them. Use your hose to give them a good cleaning. Have them dry in a safe, cool area.

