 When you eat small meals throughout the day, your stomach has to produce less acid to digest the food. Less acid means your stomach is less likely to become irritated, so you are less likely to feel nauseous.Eating a large meal can also distend your abdomen, which can actually trigger feelings of nausea that could lead to vomiting.;
, You should generally avoid strong-smelling foods if you are concerned about hyperemesis gravidarum. Cold foods generally have less of an aroma than hot foods, so stick to cold dishes. While this might be frustrating, it is most likely worth it if you want to avoid becoming nauseous., Spicy food and oily foods can make your gastrointestinal system produce more acid. This is because the spices and oils from the food agitate the walls of the stomach, causing your stomach and pancreas to secrete more bile. Due to the excess production of these digestive acids, the vomiting center in the brain gets activated and can cause hyperemesis gravidarum.
 Fatty foods take a longer time to digest, which means that they slow down your digestive system and can increase the amount of acid your stomach is producing.More acid can mean that you will begin to feel more nauseous. Fatty foods include:


Fried foods, animal products like lard, commercially-baked cakes and pastries, vegetable shortening, and margarine., Some foods have stronger smells than others. Everyone is different, so you will have to keep track of the foods that smell a little too strongly for your taste., Nausea can be triggered by thirst and hunger, so it is important to stay hydrated if you are concerned about becoming nauseous. Drink your beverage of choice in small sips as chugging a bunch of water can also make you feel nauseous.If you are bored with water, you can add a small amount of fruit juice to the water to give it some flavor.
You can also pour a glass of water ( approx 300ml) and add pinch of salt, lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of sugar for a tart, yet sweet, drink.
 Ginger helps to combat Hyperemesis gravidarum. It increases the movement of the gastrointestinal symptom and stops the signals to the brain that are responsible for making you feel like vomiting., This drink provides you with nutrients to keep you healthy. The recipe can be altered if some aspect of the flavor or texture is not to your liking. In a blender, combine:


One cup of fresh apple juice, 1 frozen banana, 1 teaspoon of blackstrap molasses, 1 glass of yoghurt, 2 teaspoonfuls of nutritional yeast, 1 tablespoon of protein powder, 1-2 tablespoons of honey, 1 glass of low fat milk, 1 teaspoon of kelp that contains a mixture of minerals, and 3 tablespoons of nuts., You can take vitamin B6 supplements to potentially decrease your chances of vomiting.Again, it is always best to talk to your doctor before taking any supplements.The normal recommended dose is 50 mg a day.
 Talking to a doctor or specialist is always recommended before trying a new herb or making drastic changes to your diet. Wild yam root is thought to affect your estrogen levels and decrease the likelihood that you will feel nauseous. The root contains steroidal saponins that can affect your hormones.The dried herb generally comes in 2 to 4 gram capsules that can be taken daily with one cup of water.

