 Being a relatively common affliction, there are plenty of over-the-counter anti-fungal treatments available. Head to your local pharmacy or drugstore, and grab sprays or creams that focus on killing the fungus responsible for your discomfort. Apply daily for 3-6 weeks, even after visible symptoms dissipate to ensure the total elimination of the fungus from your system.;
, Using betadine to soak your feet will kill of the fungus causing your itching and burning. Grab a bottle of this over-the-counter medication, and add two capfuls with a quart of warm water. Soak your feet in the solution for 20 minutes on a daily basis, continuing until your symptoms disappear.
 So you’re not into using chemicals and don’t want to take a trip to the pharmacy - no worries! You can create an all natural foot soak using regular vinegar at home. Add one cup of regular or apple cider vinegar to two quarts of water, and let your feet absorb its healing goodness. Do this for 20-30 minutes on a daily basis.
 Tannic acid is one of the great bonuses black tea has to offer; its soothing qualities help to fight off fungi and heal your feet. Add 6 teabags of any black tea to a quart of warm water, and allow the mixture to brew. Soak your feet in the tea bath or dab it on several times a day with a cotton ball.
 Whether you want to make your house smell like fall in addition to killing fungus, or you just don’t have the ingredients for the aforementioned foot soaks, making a soak of cinnamon sticks is another all-natural method of killing the fungi. Soak 4-5 stick of cinnamon in a gallon of hot water to create a tea. Then, let your feet relax as the cinnamon naturally kicks the fungus out from between your toes.
 Although not as comfortable as a cinnamon bath or tea/toe steeping, soaking your feet in salt water might do the trick to kill your athlete's foot. Mix 1 teaspoon of regular table salt per every 1 cup of warm water. Allow the salt to dissolve, and soak your feet in the solution for 10-15 minutes.
 This fine powder works wonders at absorbing moisture. Sprinkle cornstarch onto your feet and between your toes to soak up excess moisture that the fungus is feeding off of. This process can be continued even after your athlete's foot disappears to maintain healthy, dry, fungi-free feet.
 Although strong in scent and taste, the antibacterial and antifungal properties of garlic make it a great choice for ridding your feet of irritating athlete's foot. Mince 1-2 cloves of garlic and mix with a teaspoon of olive oil to form a paste (you can add more garlic or less olive oil if your paste is not thick enough). Apply the paste to the affected area of your feet and along the edges of your toenails for 15-20 minutes. When finished, rinse the paste off with warm water and dry your feet completely.
 Not only will the acid in the lemon kill the bacteria and fungus on your feet, its sweet citrus scent will have your toes smelling fresh and clean. Mix the juice of one lemon with two ounces of water. Dab this solution onto the affected area of your feet with a cotton ball several times daily.
 The live cultures in yogurt are beneficial not only for your digestion, but also for treating athlete's foot! Look for yogurt advertising live cultures, specifically the bacteria acidophilus. Eat any flavor of this bacteria-filled yogurt at least once a day for the best results.