 It should be very spacious and allow your rabbit to hop around. The rabbit's ears should not touch the top of the cage and the rabbit should be able to turn around, flip, and explore very easily. The cage should never have wire flooring, but a solid plastic bottom.


This is describing a house rabbit's cage, not a hutch.;
, The bedding should be specifically for rabbits, or at least the package should say it is safe for rabbits. The best bedding to purchase is recycled, dust-free bedding, as wood shavings can harm rabbits. Make sure you have enough bedding for at least a month or two. A good type of hay is Timothy Hay, which is edible and can keep your rabbits warm during cold nights if your rabbit is outside. Pregnant and baby rabbits should have Alfalfa hay.
 Lay down at least two inches of bedding throughout the whole bottom, including each corner of the cage. Consider lining extra bedding at the bottom such as newspaper or puppy pads to reduce leakage.
 Wash the metal/plastic tube with water and a rag. Soap could get in the metal tube and make your bunny sick, so be careful to rinse it out completely if you use soap.
 Place it somewhere in the corner of the cage or distanced away from the water station to ensure the food won't get spoiled from any water leaks. Additionally, you can purchase two food dishes - one for their pellets and another for their vegetables and fruit.
 Some bunnies like to flip their bowl, so a dish that hangs on the cage wire or has a heavy and stable bottom works great! You should purchase a high-quality rabbit feed instead of a cheaper brand.
 Salt blocks have various reviews. Some say it is completely unnecessary and shouldn't be used whilst others agree that it makes a great treat for your rabbit. Buy a salt block that hangs on a wire loop to attach the wire of the cage.
 Very tough plastic toys work amazingly. Some pet stores offer kebabs or wood blocks. Wood blocks are necessary for the rabbit to trim down his/her teeth. If the rabbit's teeth get too long, the rabbit will be uncomfortable and may not be able to eat its food.


Rabbits shouldn't be given toys that are made of wood that is notorious to splinter, and neither should they have exercise wheels or balls. The toy should be pet-safe and not consisting of parts that are choking hazards.
 Watch him/her for a half hour or more. This can help you spot hazards in the cage or, if you've forgotten something, you can add a little extra to the cage if necessary. Then, you're done preparing the cage!

