


You must be a US citizen or a resident who intends to become a citizen. It is not necessary to be a resident of Alaska.
You must have a high school diploma or GED certificate.
You have to be 21 or older when you enter the Academy.
You have to have a valid driver's license issued in the US, although it does not have to be an Alaska driver's license.
You must have met several conditions related to conduct including dishonest conduct, prior convictions and illegal controlled substance use, transport, and purchase.
You do not have to have prior police experience to become an Alaska State Trooper recruit.;
,


You may submit an application to become an Alaska State Trooper Recruit or an Alaska State Trooper Lateral hire. A recruit does not have prior law enforcement experience. A lateral hire has already completed an acceptable basic law enforcement training program, possess an active police certification at the time of application, and has at least one year of experience working as a police officer.
This application is available online when the Alaska Department of Public Safety is accepting applications.
From the time of application, the recruitment process usually takes 6 to 11 months.
You can sign up for email notifications that will tell you when the Alaska Department of Public Safety is accepting applications if they are not doing so when you first check.



Recruitment Unit Personnel will contact you to schedule the interview. This can take several weeks.



You will need to demonstrate that you can do at least 25 push-ups.
You will need to demonstrate that you can do at least 27 sit-ups in 1 minute.
You will need to demonstrate that you can run 1.5 miles (2.4 km) in 15 minutes, 12 seconds or less.



The amount of time one spends at the Public Safety Training Academy depends on prior experience. Alaska State Trooper Recruits can expect to spend a greater amount of time than Alaska State Trooper Laterals.
Tuition to the academy is paid and you are paid as an Alaska State Trooper while you are in attendance.
You must stay in the academy dorm and your family may not stay with you.
You must pay for your own travel and relocation to the Public Safety Training Academy. After your successful graduation from the academy, subsequent costs will be paid.



When you have completed training at the academy, you will be considered an Alaska State Trooper and given your first assignment. You do not get to choose where this assignment will be.

