 First and foremost, you should learn that your AP course is not simply a more difficult version of a high school course. Instead, it is a college course that has been re-worked to fit into a high school environment. Just because you have breezed through your high school classes doesn’t mean you will be able to do so in your AP courses. AP courses are made to show you what college is like, and to show colleges that you can manage the workload. Be prepared for this reality.


This is not meant to scare you, but rather to prepare you for the course. It is not at all impossible to do well in an AP course, but you may have to spend some time adjusting your typical approach to school. You will need to spend more time studying and understanding the material, and you will need to keep track of your assignments and exams. Don’t expect the teacher to do it for you or to remind you about a test or an assignment that is due.;
, In your first meeting with the teacher, they may spend some time talking about what you should expect in the course. They might also discuss any special rules they have or expectations that you need to know about. Be sure to have pen and paper so that you can take note of these expectations.For example, some teachers have somewhat unusual guidelines about how they want an assignment to look. They might ask that you always print your name in the top right-hand corner along with your student ID number. It may not seem like a big deal to you, but some teachers will simply throw an assignment away if it doesn’t fit the guidelines they have specified.
Don’t assume that the first day will be a blow off day. While the teacher may (or may not) spend quite a bit of time talking about expectations, they might also get straight to business and start lecturing. Come prepared with all of the materials you plan to use for note-taking (e.g. notebook and pen/pencil or voice recorder).
 The syllabus will hopefully contain all of the important information you need to know in addition to anything your teacher has said. Read through the entire thing carefully, and write down any important dates that are scheduled.


For example, your instructor may already have the due dates for every assignment put in the syllabus. The examination dates might also already be scheduled. Find a way to keep track of these dates as it is unlikely that they will remind you of them.
If there is something in the syllabus that you don’t understand, or if you have additional questions after you’ve read it, be sure to ask the teacher.
 If this is your first AP course, you might not be sure what you should do differently in order to really stand out. If you are putting in your best effort, but not getting the grade you want, talk to your teacher about what you can do to improve. They may be able to point out areas that you can work on, or show you specific instances that are bringing down your grade.Remember that college-level courses are not meant to work in the same way as high school classes. Often, the content of an AP course is cumulative. This means that something you read about early in the year will remain important throughout the course. If you missed something or didn’t understand, it will only make it more difficult as the year progresses.
You may also need to practice your critical thinking skills in an AP course. For example, in a high school history course, you may only be asked to remember the names and dates of a specific event. In an AP course, you may be asked to think deeper about this event. You may need to be able to discuss the implications of this historical event, or what other events led up to this historical event.
 Many AP courses will require that you complete some “pre-work” that you will need to turn in before the semester officially begins. If you aren’t sure what or if any pre-work has been assigned, be sure to get in touch with the teacher to find out.


If you aren’t sure who the teacher is yet, you can also try contacting someone in administration to be sure. For example, try asking the school secretary or even the principal if they can help you find out.
Pre-work can give you a good idea about what to expect in the course, so don’t assume that it isn’t important. Take advantage of the fact that you aren’t busy with your normal classes and do your best on these assignments.
 If you haven’t developed your own method of keeping your assignments organized yet, you’ll want to do so before your AP courses begin. The amount of work, reading, and studying will be much greater in your AP courses. As a busy high school student, you’ll want to have a method for keeping track of your academic work, your extracurricular activities, and any social events that are important to you.


You can keep your calendar on the computer using a program such as iCal (for mac) or Google calendar. Many people enjoy keeping a physical calendar where they can write down details and anything that pops up without needing access to a computer or smartphone.
When you get your syllabi for each of your classes, be sure to write down all the important dates that are already clear. For example, many teachers will schedule every test at the beginning of the year. Write down each test, what subject it is in, and any other useful information (such as what chapters the test will cover) in your calendar.
For your AP courses, you could use a system that will help make the AP course stand out in your calendar. For example, choose a highlighter color for each AP course you are taking and highlight anything you write in your calendar with the chosen color. This will help it stand out when you check your schedule.
 Although it is not a substitute for studying regularly, spending any spare time you have before class to review the previous lesson’s notes will refresh your memory, and also help you prepare for what’s to come in the next lesson.


It will also remind you of anything that you are confused about or that you wanted to ask a question about. If you have a question, and your teacher is OK with it, you can approach them before class to discuss the topic.
You may think that you don’t need to review your notes until right before the test, but if you take time each day to review your notes, and develop a disciplined study routine, you won’t need to spend a stressful all-night cramming before the test., When you have a lot going on, it can be easy to put off something that doesn’t seem too important at the moment. With AP courses, though, if you start procrastinating, you’ll be surprised at how quickly the work builds up.


For example, you may have a lot of additional reading to do outside of class. Don’t put this off until the night before class. You will probably realize that it is more than you can read in one night. Instead, review the syllabus for the course and see how you can split the reading up into more manageable chunks.
 The material in an AP course will probably be more challenging than what you are used to. Don’t get discouraged if you are struggling, it doesn’t mean you aren’t smart enough or that you can’t do well. If it is a specific part of the material that you are struggling with, talk to your teacher. Ask them if they can spend some time helping you with it, or if they can point you in the direction of helpful resources (e.g. websites or tutors).


Very few teachers will be annoyed by a student who is genuinely asking for help. Most teachers will be impressed that you are taking the initiative and asking for help rather than complaining when you get a bad grade.
 This may seem obvious, but you’ll need to study hard to do well. Be flexible about your study methods if you haven’t quite found what works for you yet, or if you are struggling to remember what you’ve learned. How much time you need to study depends on you and the specific course, but if you have a big AP exam at the end of the year, it is recommended that you begin studying regularly for the exam no later than halfway through the year.For example, if you are used to studying by yourself, but find that you aren’t grasping the material as easily as usual, try studying with a group. Your peers can help explain things in a different way, and you can help them out with things they are struggling to understand.
Though the AP exam at the end of the year may be the big focus of everyone in the course, don’t forget that you will probably need to study for smaller (but still important) exams during the year. Additionally, there will likely be assignments that you need to complete.
 While reviewing your notes before class is a good idea, it doesn’t constitute a good strategy for comprehending what you have learned. One potential method for making the most of your study time is to use a method known as SQ3R.This method involves being systematic about your reading instead of just jumping in without any goal in mind.


SQ3R involves surveying the chapter. This means seeing what the chapter is called, reading the sub-headings, and looking to see what any tables, charts, and graphics contain. You should also read the questions included in the chapter, and any questions your teacher has given to you before you begin reading.
While you are surveying, ask yourself questions. For example, “what do I already know about this topic?” or “what did the teacher tell me about this topic?”
While you are reading the chapter, try to answer the questions that are in the chapter and those given to you by the teacher. Answer any questions that came into your head while you were surveying the chapter.
Re-read sections that you find difficult to understand.
 You shouldn’t view note taking as a passive activity where all you have to do is write down what’s on the board or what the teacher is saying. Instead, try to develop your note taking skills so that you have to think about what you are learning.


One of the most common methods for note taking is known as the Cornell Method. This method involves splitting your paper into three sections. In one section, you will write down the notes. When you are going over your notes, you will use the other two sections to develop questions based on what you have written and then summarize what you have learned from that lecture., In an AP course, you will probably be required to write at least one essay (and many more if it is an AP English course!). This is a good opportunity to practice your writing skills while adding a top score to your grade.


One of the best things you can do is begin by outlining your essay. Think of the outline as the skeleton of your essay. Here you can make note of any special instructions to remember (e.g. font size, due date, sources to use, etc.), and also make a note of the important topics you want to cover along with any ideas that come into your head.When writing your essay, try to show the teacher that you are actually thinking about what you are writing. Don’t just regurgitate the information. For example, if you are writing an essay in an AP History course, talk about how you think the events and conflicts that led up to a certain war, and how that impacted the outcome of the war instead of just writing about facts. You can back up your ideas by citing credible sources of information.
 During your high school years, there is a lot going on. Not only do you need to do well in school, but you might also be involved in lots of other activities, such as sports, clubs, or volunteering activities. You probably also want to spend time with friends, girlfriends, and boyfriends, too. With all this going on, it’s important to remember to be realistic about what you can handle. Just because your high school offers 5 or 6 AP courses doesn’t mean you need to take them all.Instead, evaluate the courses that you think will be most useful for you. If you want to become a biologist, then an AP biology course will be a great idea. If you’re not sure what you want to major in try looking for AP courses that might be able to cover some of your core college classes such as English literature or history.
Many students take AP courses during their final high school years, which also happens to be the time when many begin thinking about and applying for college. Don’t forget that visiting and applying to colleges can be a time-consuming activity as well.
 Think about the types of colleges you want to apply to. If you’re planning to apply to prestigious or ivy-league schools, they’ll probably want to see that you’ve taken the hardest classes available to you. In this case, you should try to take as many AP courses as possible (without overloading yourself). Try to get your core curriculum out of the way, but also explore lots of interests. For example, try some hard sciences such as biology or physics, but also look for other areas such as psychology or economics.On the other hand, if you think you will be happiest at a less selective college or state school, the number of AP courses you take won’t matter as much during the admissions process. Even if you do plan to attend a less selective college, AP courses may be able to help you earn scholarships or college credit.
Remember there is no magic number of courses that you need to take. In all likelihood, a university will be more impressed if you do extremely well in all of your classes (AP or not) rather than squeaking by in a bunch of AP courses.
 If you go to a large high-school with lots of money to put into AP courses, you might be able to fill your schedule full of AP courses (not that you necessarily want to or should); however, if you go to a smaller, more rural school you may only have access to one or two AP courses. This means that you will still need to choose from the standard high school classes that are offered. Don’t forget to make the most of these as well. Choose the more difficult courses, if you think you can manage. Use your best judgment, and choose classes that you think you will be able to do well in while also managing your AP courses.


AP courses are not the end-all of getting into college, though they are obviously helpful. Colleges will notice if you managed to get great grades in your AP courses but barely passed your regular classes.

