 More often than not, your guy will want to reconnect or connect more often after a few days of space. He might even behave like there was no space at all. Though you might be eager to reconnect, exert a bit of caution. You do not want to teach your guy that he can ask for space from you whenever he wants and return like nothing happened.You should not ignore his attempts at communication, but maybe give it a few days before you see him again in person.
Don’t forget your own needs. Keep any reconnection on your terms, too, and make it clear that you’ll contact him when you’re ready.
If a guy asks for space very often, realize that perhaps this relationship is not right for either of you.
 If you still want the relationship, you will need to reconnect on a more consistent basis.. If he is a good guy in general, don’t punish him for needing some time to himself. Accept his offers to go out or come over if you want to and enjoy each other’s company. Being aloof, cold or mean will likely make him want even more space, so be kind to him., After you have spent some time chatting and hanging out, you should have a substantive conversation on your needs for space in the future. See if he had any moments of clarity or reflection during this time that he would like to share. Tell him any thoughts that you had, as well. Clarify to him that you respect his need for space, but that you can’t commit to giving him long breaks from you very often.Find a solution that works for the two of you. For instance, perhaps he wants to talk to you every day, but not all day long because it affects his productivity at work or school. Offer to connect a few times during the day and then have one phone call per night to talk for longer.
 After giving him whatever amount of space he needed or whatever amount you were able to handle, you might find that the relationship is best left alone. Perhaps you felt happier when you two were not longer communicating as frequently and maybe he wants this space to be a bit more permanent. No matter the source, know that it is okay to let the relationship go and move forward with your life.