 Before adding it to your chili, you need to peel and cut your pumpkin. To make the process easier, cut the pumpkin in half and then remove the seeds. From there, place each slice in a small dish of water and microwave for 5 minutes. You can then easily peel off the skin.Once the pumpkin is peeled, cut the pumpkin halves into small cubes for your chili.;
, Use a vegetable peeler to gently peel off the skins from the turnips. Then, slice the turnips into roughly 1-inch cubes., Select a pot that will hold at least 6 quarts. Place the butter and olive oil in the pot. Turn the burner to medium heat and heat up the butter and olive oil for a few minutes. Wait until the butter is melted before proceeding., Pour your cornmeal into the pot. Use a wire whisk to beat the cornmeal until it forms a smooth, even texture., Add the garlic, onion, bell pepper, chopped pumpkin, and turnip. Pour in the tomato paste. Stir everything together until it's all mixed.Allow the mixture to cook over medium heat for about 10 minutes. Stir the mixture regularly as it cooks.
 Add the broth, diced tomatoes, beans, and corn. Stir in the cinnamon, chili powder, cumin, and Worcestershire sauce. Make sure to stir your chili with a spoon until all the ingredients are evenly mixed., Reduce the heat to a simmer. Allow the chili to cook for about an hour. It may take more or less time, depending on the precise heat of your stove. You should allow the chili to simmer until the pumpkins and turnips are tender. Check the pumpkins and turnips regularly as your chili is simmering.Some people prefer to let the chili simmer for a long time, as this can lead to more tender vegetables and increase the flavor. If you have time, let your chili simmer for an entire afternoon.
 Once the turnips and pumpkins are tender, you can turn off the heat. Add salt and vinegar, tasting between each shake of salt and splash of vinegar. Keep adding salt and vinegar until your chili is at your desired taste.Add small amounts of salt and vinegar at a time. You can always add more if necessary, but you can't really remove salt or vinegar from the pot once it's added.
 Place chopped green onions, cheddar cheese, and sour cream over your chili to serve it. You can also serve it plain, if you desire.