 Hip hop is a style that first originated in the late '60s and early '70s.This new style was characterized by its beat forward instrumentals and energetic, non-classical dance style.You may want to research videos online of hip hop moves that were popular in the past, like:


Popping
Locking
The dougie
The stanky leg
The Cupid shuffle;
, You might pull a song from the current top hits list, or you might have something else in mind. The primary feature of hip hop music include: high energy, dance-ability, its lyricism, and use of rapped lyrics.To achieve the best effect in your audience, you should look for these features when searching for the hip hop dance song for your routine.
 Find a peaceful place where you won't be bothered by anyone. Then, on some sort of audio playing device, like your phone or a stereo, play your song. Clear your mind of all things, and consider closing your eyes while you listen to your song. Try to:


Imagine natural movements that accompany features of the song.
Gain a sense of the deeper meaning of the song.
See the story in the music that you want to tell.
 Use how the music makes you feel to generate ideas for your hip hop routine.


Try to express the story of your music using choreography that is easily interpreted by your audience. Even if the dance has meaning for you, if the audience fails to see it, your routine will have less of an impact.
 This can help clarify the natural movements you were trying to gain a sense for while listening to your music. You should also take note, at this time, of space limitations. Precisely measure the dance area or stage you will be using before charting out your choreography.


Try to make use of the entire dance space you have available. Otherwise, it might make your dance seem lacking in fullness or incomplete., Make moves that you believe will have the greatest effect in your audience the central point of your routine.
 Professional dancers usually count out songs by eight counts to help ensure dancers sync with each other and the choreographed dance syncs with the music.Feel the pulse of the beat naturally and count from one to eight throughout the song, making a notation in the lyrics where the first, middle, and last counts fall.
 After you've imagined out your routine and gotten a feel for the music, there are likely a few dominant moves that you feel must be incorporated into your hip hop routine. Use these as a focal point. Distribute these moves throughout your song at appropriate places, and then come up with transitions that work into or out of your main moves.Use the transitions between moves to build or release tension.
Coordinate your main moves with your counts so that you clearly know where in the song your dancers are performing specific moves.
 It's a lot easier to sit down and write ideas, but at some point your dancers are probably going to need a place in the routine to catch their breath.


Insert pauses or slower parts of your routine between, before, or after high energy parts of your choreography so your dancers aren't left gasping.
 Now that you have a fairly full image of the story you're trying to tell through the motions of you choreography, the main choreographic moves you want to hit, and the transitions linking these together, you'll need to write it all down.


Be sure you include counts so that you can coordinate choreography practice and the moves being practiced more easily.
 Tight or constrictive clothing can limit your range of motion, make it difficult for you to engage your whole body while dancing, and can tear during practice. Make sure you have practice clothing that is suitably stretchy and comfortable.
 Stretching has an added bonus for dancers in that it also improves flexibility. Many advanced dance moves, and maybe even some in your choreographed routine, require some measure of flexibility, so be sure you have your dancers warm up before practice., If you have multiple groups that will be doing different things, teach each group individually to prevent confusion. Have your dancers start at an individual level; some will take longer than others to master certain moves.


Once the move is mastered, direct your talent to practice the move together to begin practicing being in sync.
 Many routines require complicated movement among dancers, sometimes at a fast pace, or even at a leap! To keep your dancers from knocking heads, make sure each knows the positions they will occupy on the floor, also known as blocking, before putting the whole routine together.
 Keep a sharp eye the first few times you watch your dancers perform the routine completely. Try to identify weak points, areas the message of your dance is unclear or inexpressive, and moves your dancers are struggling with. Also note ways you might polish the process.


You should also have a dress rehearsal before the main event. Some costumes, no matter how perfect for you routine, will not be suitable to dance in.

