 An obvious tactic is to avoid your co-worker if and when possible. Eat elsewhere if they take their lunch in the break-room. If they work in a cubicle by one restroom, use the other restroom. This method is not a cure-all, particularly for small offices. Even so, refuse to be entangled if you are forced to interact. If your co-worker asks you to do something outside of the office, politely decline. If they denigrates an office mate, excuse yourself and go back to work. They may eventually lose interest.], As said before, a narcissist will react poorly to a direct challenge and may even turn the situation against you. Learn to assert yourself without provoking a reaction. If your co-worker makes an unreasonable demand, for example, say that you will think about their suggestion and consider if you can comply – that way, you have not committed yourself. If they try to dragoon you into an extra project, tell them that you would really like to help but are working against your own tight deadlines. Repeat yourself in a calm, controlled voice, the unspoken point being that you will not be bullied or intimidated.
 Some narcissists claim disproportionate credit in the workplace or even try to steal recognition, minimizing your input. Be prepared for this sort of behavior. Protect your ideas. Record the work that you are doing and do not freely share details with your co-worker. Keep copies of all your notes and documents. Save your work online or on your computer so that it is time-stamped. Keep records of your interactions, as well, saving emails or jotting them down in a notebook – e.g. ``Monday the 1st: came late to meeting and disparaged my report.`` At the same time, communicate with your boss. Check in regularly so that they will know what you are doing and how you are specifically contributing to the workplace.Keep a look out for signs that you are being undermined, as well. Cold behavior from your boss, hostility from formerly friendly colleagues, or any sudden change in normal behavior could signal that your co-worker is quietly sabotaging you., Bringing the problem to the attention of your boss could be risky. Some bosses would rather not be bothered with interpersonal problems or will see you as difficult, “not a team player.” They may also be under the spell of the narcissist’s charm, or your co-worker might try to turn the complaint against you. Be professional, calm, and constructive if you decide on this route. If you can, frame the issue so that it is about the workplace rather than you individually and present it in positive rather than negative terms – e.g. “improving office morale” rather than “my control-freak co-worker.” Bring documentation that supports your version of events. Your boss will be more likely to believe you if you can produce proof and if they see your professional handling of the situation. Asking for a transfer to a different department is another option, if a last resort.

