 To make between 5 and 6 dozen white chocolate cookie dough truffles, you'll need ingredients to make an eggless cookie dough that's safe to eat raw. You'll need:1/2 cup (115 g) of butter, softened
3/4 cup (150 g) of packed brown sugar
1 teaspoon of vanilla extract
2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour
1 can (14 ounces or 400 g) of sweetened condensed milk
1/2 cup (85 g) of miniature semisweet chocolate chips
1 pound (450 g) of white chocolate for dipping the truffles

, Place the softened butter and brown sugar in a large mixing bowl. Beat it with a mixer until it's light and fluffy. This should take a few minutes. Beat in the vanilla extract.Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides to ensure that all the butter and sugar is being creamed.
 Turn the mixer on to low speed and slowly add about 1/3 of the flour. Pour in about half of the sweetened condensed milk while the mixer runs. Stir in another third of the flour and the remaining sweetened condensed milk. Add the last of the flour and all of the mini chocolate chips. Keep stirring the mixture until it's completely combined.You could also add chopped nuts (like walnuts or pecans) at this point. Use about 1/2 of a cup (60 g) of nuts.
 Lay a piece of waxed paper on a rimmed baking sheet. Scoop a few tablespoons of the dough using a small cookie scoop or two spoons. Roll the dough between your palms to make a 1 inch ball. Continue shaping the truffles until you have about 5 or 6 dozen. Set each truffle on the prepared baking sheet.Avoid rolling the truffles between your palms for too long or the dough will begin to warm and stick to your hands.
 Place the baking sheet of cookie dough truffles in the refrigerator for one to two hours or until they're firm. You could also freeze the truffles for about 10 minutes to harden them. Ensure that you have space in your fridge or freezer before you're ready to chill them.Consider covering the truffles if your fridge has any strong smelling food in it. This will prevent the truffles from absorbing food odors.
 Place a few inches of water in a large saucepan and heat it until the water starts to simmer (bubble gently). Set a medium-sized mixing bowl on the saucepan and put the chunked white chocolate in the bowl. Stir it as the water simmers and melts the chocolate in the mixing bowl. Let the chocolate cool slightly before you dip the truffles.You could also microwave the white chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl. Use the lowest setting and stir the chocolate every 30 seconds.
 Remove the sheet of chilled cookie dough truffles from the refrigerator or freezer. Set a truffle on the tines of a fork and lower the entire truffle into the chocolate. Lift the truffle out of the chocolate and let the excess chocolate drip through the fork and into the mixing bowl. Place the truffle back on the baking sheet and continue dipping the rest of the truffles.If you place the dipped truffle back on the sheet without letting the excess chocolate drip off, the chocolate will puddle at the base of the truffle.
 Once you've dipped all of the cookie dough truffles in the white chocolate, put the baking sheet with them in the refrigerator. Chill the dipped truffles for at least 15 minutes or until the white chocolate has hardened.Store these truffles in the refrigerator until you're ready to serve them.

