 To do this, tap on the app’s icon on your home screen or app drawer.


If you don’t have the app yet, search for it in Google Play or the App Store and download it onto your device.;
, On the login page, fill in your account’s e-mail and password in the boxes provided then press “Log In.”

, Navigate to your profile by clicking the last tab, which is a three-line symbol beside a globe symbol, then click your name.
 The link to your Photos is at the bottom of your name, beside “About” and “Friends.”

, In the Photos section of your account, you should see three tabs, which are Photos, Album, and Synced at the bottom of your screen. Tap on “Synced.”

, This will allow Facebook to sync photos from your phone.


A message will appear saying that “Each new photo you take will be available when you log in a computer.”
Each synced photos will be uploaded privately.
, There are 3 choices how your photos will be synced; the first is if you want to avoid any data charges from your mobile network provider when syncing your photos. Just check “Sync over Wi-Fi only” to select this option.
 If you want to sync all the images in your phone’s gallery, tap on this option.
 If you want to quit syncing your photos, select the “Don’t sync my photos” option.
 When you’re done, tap the “Back” button of your device.
 On your computer, open a web browser, type in https://www.facebook.com, and hit Enter.
 On the fields provided at the top-right side of the screen, type in your email address (or username) and password, then click “Sign in” to access your account.
 Facebook will start notifying you about the number of photos that has been synced from your phone. Clicking the notification will direct you to the “Synced from Phone” album.


Your notifications can be viewed under the globe icon to the top-right of your screen.
 Synced photos are private, but if you want to share them with your Facebook friends, you can. Just click all the synced photos you want to share then select the “Share” button.
 To delete a photo, click the photo that you want to remove from “Synced from Phone” album then click on “Delete” (located on the bottom left of the picture).
 You also have the option to download the picture, make the picture as your cover photo, use it as your profile picture, or rotate it by clicking the “Options” button.

