 Look for species that are categorized as non-aggressive. Tetras, Corys, and even some other types of Cichlids can coexist peacefully with Blue Rams. You will want to closely observe the interactions between various fish species to make sure that all parties are doing okay.Pay special attention to meal times as Blue Rams are leisurely eaters. Other aggressive eaters may consume all of the food, leaving only scraps for the Rams. This can cause starvation if not monitored and corrected.Male Blue Rams can become aggressive with one another if you don’t carefully control population numbers. Try to keep a ratio of one male for every three females. And, remember to up the tank size if you increase the number of fish., German Blue Ram Cichlids are omnivores, meaning that they eat both meats and vegetables. Feed them twice a day, as much food as they can eat in two minutes. Flakes and pellets work well, as do frozen options such as brine shrimp.Supplement their diet with fresh veggies, such as small pieces of spinach or romaine lettuce. These can be dropped directly in the tank and the leftovers removed with a net, if needed.Be aware that some Blue Rams will not eat well after being transferred to a new environment. Try to encourage eating by offering delicacies such as mosquito larvae., If you want your Blue Rams to breed, it is best to start with a group of 6-8 juveniles of both sexes. Keep a close eye on the water conditions and provide lots of rocky terrain and let nature take its course.Be aware that your newly mated couples might lose a batch or two. This is nothing to worry about and they will eventually figure out how to successfully breed. They may also eat some the eggs from these initial batches.After you spot the eggs, you can either leave them in their current tank or remove them to a 10-gallon aquarium. If you remove them, make sure to wait 24-hours to ensure fertilization., Blue Rams are notoriously picky about water quality. Readings that would be acceptable for most freshwater fish can cause a Blue Ram to become ill. A water testing kit will contain everything that you need to monitor the water parameters. Blue Rams require a pH of between 5.5-7.5.


If your pH reading is off, your Blue Rams’ health may gradually decline. If you find this to be the case, remove your fish, clean the tank and adjust the pH level, and add your fish back in following the standard acclimation procedures.Keep an eye on the readings of Ammonia, Nitrates, and Nitrites as well. Blue Rams require that all of the number stay less than .2 mg/L. Otherwise, a Blue Ram can essentially be poisoned by its own feces., To keep your tank up to Blue Ram standards, you need to do a 25% water change on a bi-daily or twice-weekly basis. Use this as an opportunity to clean your tank surfaces as well. You can suction out the debris from the rocks, etc.


Consider this maintenance schedule when considering move up from a 20 gallon (75.7 L) tank size.
 Blue Rams are generally quite healthy, but they can succumb to certain diseases and parasites. Ich is a parasite that can prey on Blue Rams. You will notice your fish acting listless if it is affected. Respond quickly with a tailored chemical treatment.