 Keep your skin nice and wet when you shave – shaving with dry hair is more likely to cause skin irritation and ingrown hairs.Shave in the shower to keep your skin moist the whole time. The warm water will also help soften your hair.
 Never dry-shave – your skin should be moist and lubricated when you shave. Lather up with a rich shave gel or cream to protect your skin.Use products that are fragrance-free and non-comedogenic (won’t clog pore) if you have sensitive skin.Apply the cream or gel five minutes before shaving to soften up the hair., Shaving cuts hairs short and makes them sharp – that’s why it’s easy for them to turn back in on themselves, pierce the skin, and become ingrown. Use a razor with a single blade instead of multiple blades so that the hairs aren’t quite as short or sharp.Replace your razor blades every 5-7 shaves so that they stay clean and sharp.Always rinse your razor when you’re done shaving to get soap and hairs off of it.
 Shave with, not against, the grain of your hair. This prevents hair from being cut too short and irritating your skin, and decreases the likelihood of ingrown hairs., Do not shave the same area of skin over and over again. This can irritate your skin and cut the hairs very short, possibly resulting in more ingrown hairs. Shave over an area one time only. Using a high-quality, lubricating shave gel can help make this more effective., It may seem tedious, but take the time to rinse off your blade after every stroke you make. This will keep your blade cleaner and produce a more even, less irritating shave., Don’t pull your skin taut while you shave over it. This can let the hair follicle slip back under the skin.It may take some practice, but work on shaving your neck without pulling on your skin. Lift and move your chin and jaw to different angles to get those hard-to-reach places., Electric razors do not give you as close of a shave as razor blades do. Because they don’t cut the hair as short, electric razors may be less likely to cause ingrown hairs. Consider trying one out to see if it helps.You can also use a clipper or beard trimmer. These often allow you to choose what closeness setting you want. Avoid using the shortest setting.

