 Having a baby changes individual lives and that of a couple in significant ways. By understanding and talking about the inevitable changes that will happen, you can prevent misunderstandings and potential problems in your relationship.Women are hard-wired to focus on nurturing their baby in the first few months after birth. Being aware of this along with inherent changes can help your husband prepare himself mentally.For example, most women don’t want to have sex in the initial months after giving birth—and some don’t even want to have sex during pregnancy. But men don’t experience this change. Understand that it’s hormonal and make a plan for how you’ll deal with it., There are all kinds of books and websites available to help you prepare for your child. Gather information from your doctor, friends, books, and websites to help you navigate your pregnancy as a couple.


Ask your doctor and friends for tips and resources that can be valuable during and after pregnancy.
You may want to consult sources that explain what is happening to your body at every stage so that you and your husband understand the changes you’re both experiencing.
 One of the best gifts you can give your baby is a strong partnership. Keeping your relationship strong and healthy throughout your pregnancy and beyond can help you effectively prepare and care for your baby.It’s important at this time to have discussions about all kinds of matters including expectations, family values and how you’ll raise your children. Even if you can agree completely, you can find some kind of compromise that may help to prevent undermining your relationship.Schedule ample time together to enjoy life as a couple. You can go for walks or have more formal date nights or vacations to strengthen your bond., Babies are expensive and require a lot of time and attention. Talking about your finances and how you’ll share the work of taking care of your baby can help avoid miscommunications down the road.You may want to discuss workload during your pregnancy, especially as you get into your third trimester, when it can get difficult to move. Talk about cleaning and feeding pets, and other household work you share.
Consider talking about how this will change once your baby arrives and how you will tackle household work with a newborn, which can help prevent couples from getting resentful of one another.
 Keeping your husband an active part of your preparations for baby is key to maintaining your relationship and helping him to at least preliminarily bond with the baby. Make sure to schedule doctor’s appointments so that he can attend and purchase baby gear together to help enjoy your impending arrival more fully.


You don’t necessarily need a fully designed nursery, but create your baby’s room with your husband. Buy furniture, clothing and any other accouterments together.
Make sure your husband is present for important doctor’s appointments, including sonograms or listening to the heartbeat.