 Before you agree to pet sit a dog, ask the owner about its breed and typical behavior. Any sporting breeds of dog, including retrievers and terriers, may perceive your small bird, hamster, or rabbit as a prey animal, and attempt to chase or kill your pet.If the dog displays aggressive behavior, you may need to reconsider your offer to pet sit.


Also ask the owner about the dog’s training. In instances where the dog is chasing or trying to attack your small pet, you may be able to shout “leave it!” (or a similar command), and scare the dog away from your pet.
 For any small, caged animal—such as a bird, hamster, gerbil, or rabbit—this process should be easy, and will provide minimal disruption to the routine of your small pet. Let your small pet remain in its cage, and feed and water the pet as usual. If you’re accustomed to pulling your pet out and playing with it periodically, you may need to shut yourself and a pet in a room to which the dog does not have access.Alternately, block the dog from accessing the small pet when you let it out of the cage to play with it.
During play time, avoid letting the dog see the small bird, hamster, or rabbit running. This could easily trigger the dog’s prey instinct, and send the dog chasing after your pet., If your small pet is in a cage that cannot be easily moved—for example, a large bird cage in your living room, or an elaborate hamster cage in a bedroom—you should make sure that the dog is aware of your small pet and will not try to attack or bark at the cage. Keep the dog on a leash, and slowly walk it up to your pet’s cage. Let it smell the cage and the rabbit, hamster, or bird within.


If the dog acts calmly around the pet in its cage, reward the dog with treats and praise.Once the dog learns that it will be given treats and praise for its calm behavior around the small pet, the dog will be less likely to chase or bark at the pet.
 A bored dog which has not received sufficient exercise is more likely to act out, exhibit hyperactive behavior, or try to (aggressively) play with a small pet. Take the dog for a long walk daily in order to keep it in good health and in a calm mood.The more exercise that the dog receives—including playing and running in a backyard or park—the less energy it’ll have to chase or bark at your small pet.


Check with the owner to see how and when the dog is usually exercised, and stick as closely to this schedule as possible. You may even want to lengthen the duration of typical walks, to tire out the dog and remove any anxiety: if the owner usually takes the dog for two 30-minute walks a day, try extending each of these walks to 45 minutes.

