 As hard as it may be, when you are trying to get over the intense feelings you are currently experiencing, the best thing you can do is put as much distance between you and your ex as possible. Avoid seeing him, and don't call, text, or otherwise contact your ex.This doesn't mean you can't ever be friends, but as long as you still have strong romantic feelings towards that person, spending time with your ex is going to make it harder for you to move on by bringing up powerful memories again and again. Take some time, and if later you're ready to be friends and still want that, then give it a try.
If you go to school with your ex, this can be difficult, especially if you have classes together. There's no need to be rude or pretend your ex doesn't exist, but avoid situations in which you have to interact. If necessary, ask him to do the same.
 You don't have to go through this difficult time alone. Find a trusted friend or family member to share your feelings with. It's okay to ask for help.Psychologists have found that, even though it may seem like talking about your ex brings up more feelings of sadness or rejection, people who talk about their breakups regularly get over them more quickly.Losing your virginity is a sensitive topic, so make sure to confide in someone who you can trust not to judge you or share your personal feelings with others.
 Although you probably will never forget your ex, or losing your virginity to her, you also don't want to be reminded of this all the time. Put any objects you have that remind you of her somewhere you won't see them.This includes any gifts your ex gave you, pictures of the two of you together, or anything else along those lines.
Some people decide to throw away or destroy these mementos, especially when they feel angry or rejected. Some people end up regretting that decision later. A better idea is to put them away in a box where you just won't see them. After you've gotten over your ex and are feeling less emotional, you can decide if you want to keep any of those items.
 Doing some private writing is a great way to process your emotions. Get a journal and use it to write about what you're feeling. You can use it like a diary, or write poems, stories, or songs about how you're feeling.This can be as valuable as talking to another person, and can be a place to vent feelings that you think might be too private to share with anyone.
If good things happen that make you feel better about life, write about them in your journal too. This can help you start focusing more on positive changes in your life.
 After a breakup, many people struggle with who they are. Even in a short relationship, it's easy to start thinking of your connection to the other person as a key part of your identity.Getting past this means rediscovering who you are without that person.


This is a great time in your life to think about your own goals and to try new things. Maybe you'll take up a new hobby, spend more time with friends, start working out or playing sports, or make some life change you've been wanting to make for a long time.Focusing on the present and creating new positive experiences will help you move past your feelings for your ex.