 Mediation is defined as the art of doing nothing and the techniques that provide you with rest are deeper than your deepest sleep. When you get overworked or severely tired and have no time to sleep, take time to mediate.Meditation will give you a deep rest from concentration, contemplation, and all of the sensory activities such as seeing, listening, smelling, and tasting.
Meditation is a calming effect on the mind and provides it with deep rest.
Try to meditate for at least twenty minutes a day for optimal performance.;
, With modern technology it seems we never have time to give our brain a short break. Zoning out, or mind-wandering, is a good exercise to take a short rest without sleeping during a busy day.When you need a break, walk over to a window and mindlessly watch the cars or people pass by for a few minutes until your mind doesn’t think about anything.
Find a quiet place and sit down. Close your eyes and just listen to the background noises.
Instead of taking a smoke or coffee break for fifteen minutes, try going outside, closing your eyes, and just let the sun shine all over your body while you clear your mind.
 Intentional resting can take place anywhere and at anytime. If you are really tired and need to take a short break from a busy day intentional resting can restore your energy by making a statement such as “I am resting my body because I am tired.” This method works for many people because you consciously choose to rest without trying to resist it.This exercise takes your stressed state of being to stillness and ultimately restores and enlivens you. Many people claim to feel energized after resting.
Rest does matter and surrendering the need to reenergize, even without sleeping, can provide a much needed break during a busy day.
 This is also called paradoxical intention. The purpose is to reduce worry and anxiety for people with sleeping disorders to not fall asleep in a bed. Instead, you have to try to stay awake rather than expecting to fall asleep (hence paradoxical intention).Since obsessive thoughts tend to increase when you try to suppress them, it naturally becomes more difficult to sleep when you try so hard to do it. Therefore, by taking the opposite approach of increasing the problem will, in turn, reduce it.

