 If the ball comes wide, step across and leave the ball. It might be caught by a slip fielder or wicket keeper if you attempt to play a shot. Change your position as the ball approaches to make your work easier. You can use your front foot or back foot. Never try to be fancy.


Watch the bowler's hand and seam position.
Watch the ball from the hand adjust to swing or turn.
Learn to pick the shot from seeing these things.;
, Move your front foot forward and towards the ball as the ball approaches if you decide to play a shot and the ball is full. If the ball is short then move your back foot backwards and slightly away from you. Learn different front foot and back foot drives.If the bowl is pitched in good, full length take your front foot forward and play front foot shot and if the bowl seams to be short pitched play a backfoot stroke.


Play it as late as possible for fast balls or seamers.
 You can also play cross bat shots but these have a higher risk and require more practice.


Don't hold the bat too tightly; this causes shot lengths to decline considerably.
 Full strength and no timing will result in the ball traveling no more than 10 yards (9.1 m) while a properly timed shot with little power will fetch you more.
 Don't lose your balance while playing the shots. Keep a minimum distance between the wickets and your bat. This will minimize the chances of getting out.
 This will help you to hit better.


At times, the bowler may seem to change the pace and length of where they bowl. This may be beneficial for the bowler, but to be able to time one well, you will need to know where the ball will be pitched. If it seems to be a shorter delivery, you always have the option to play a pull shot, or to duck under the ball. If the ball seems to be pitched at a fuller length, you have the option to block, or go for a straight drive.
 Hitting the ball early will make it go up in the air and you will get caught.


Aim to play shots down on the ground.
 This stops your feet from planting and putting yourself in a bad position.
 You won't become a good batsman with just a few tries, as it takes a while to perfect your skills. Be positive while practicing and don't get frustrated if you get dismissed very quickly. When batting, practice focus and taking it all in your stride.

