 Legal treatises often are multi-volume affairs, and require you to include the volume number in which the material appears that you are referencing. Regular books typically won't have this information.The volume number is not followed by any punctuation such as a period or a comma. Rather, you simply type the volume number, then a space, then begin the next part of the citation, which will be the name of the author.
 The Bluebook requires the author's entire name, written just as you would write it in text – first name, middle initial, last name – rather than with the last name written first as in some other citation style guides.If there is more than one author, connect their names with an ampersand. For more than two authors, you typically would only use the first author's name followed by the phrase "et al."
However, include the other authors' names if they are somehow significant. For example, if you are citing a book during the course of your argument that Judge John J. Jameson, Jr. wrote extensively about cupcake decency laws and their implications on freedom of speech, you would want to include his name in your citation of a book he co-authored on the subject, even if he was the third author listed.
If the author is a business or institution rather than a person, simply write the name of that entity where you would normally cite the author's name.
 After the name of the author, put a comma and a space and then write the full title of the book, either underlined or in italics.All words in a title other than articles, prepositions, and conjunctions should be capitalized.
There is no punctuation following the title of the book.
 For a regular book, you typically would would write the page number or numbers where the material you want to cite is located. Some legal treatises are organized in sections, so you should cite the section rather than the page number.Cite to sections using the symbol "§" for a single section or "§§" for multiple sections.
If you're citing to a series of pages, the page numbers should be connected by a hyphen. If the first of three or more digits are repeating, only the last two digits are needed for the last page in the series, such as in "Cupcakes and First Amendment Freedom of Expression 290-95."
If you are citing to multiple pages not in series, separate the page numbers with commas. You also can cite a series of pages and a single other page.
To cite a footnote appearing on a particular page (or in a particular section), put a comma after the page (or section) number, add a space, and type "n." followed by the footnote number.
There is no punctuation following the page number citations in Bluebook citation format.
 If there are multiple editions of the book, you must indicate the one you used. If there's just one edition of the book, all you need is the year in which it was published.The year of publication typically can be found either on the book's title page or within the book's copyright information.
A full citation of a book might look something like this example: John J. Jameson, Jr. Cupcakes and First Amendment Freedom of Expression 290-95 (2005).

