 Will you go for the sexy Barbie-doll looks of Candice Swanepoel, Adriana Lima, and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley? The striking noticable looks of Karlie Kloss and Magdalena Frackowiak? The eccentric bad-girl looks of Abbey Lee Kershaw or Joan Smalls? The blushing cutie-pie looks of Miranda Kerr and Barbara Palvin? The classic beauty of Ming Xi or Clair Westenberg? Or even the cheeky tomboy looks of Cara Delevingne and Behati Prinsloo? The list is honestly endless, and it never hurts to brush up on your knowledge of high fashion or even just some models - you know those glossy thick $9 magazines you see in bookstores? i-D, Dazed and Confused, V Magazine, Wonderland, Jalouse, Vogue, Harper's Bazaar, W Magazine... Pick one up and leaf through it! They're usually packed with editorials featuring high fashion or unknown models. It will give you a good stepping stone to work from.;
, High fashion models are typically 5'8/5'9+ (with few exceptions) and have measurements of around 33 inches (B/C cup), 24 inches, and 34 inches. They usually weight around eight stone. Your hips are generally required to be around 10 inches or so wider than your waist, and you have to have small breasts. They often have long, straight hair, or hair cut into a neat, contemporary, modern style (such as a bob, very short fringe, or even cropped!), 100% clear and smooth skin, tweezed eyebrows, and a facial or bodily trademark - high cheekbones, a strong jawline, piercing eyes, pouty lips, or even something such as a gap tooth. If you consider something a flaw, chances are it would be considered a trademark in the modelling industry.


Establish a workout program. The workout program you pick will have to fit in with your ideal look - the Victoria's Secret models favour pilates, cardio, running, spinning, or yoga, which is often a wraparound workout for all models. Find something you enjoy (for me personally, it is running, yoga, and spinning) and stick to it! If you're in school or don't have a lot of free time, try to be as active as possible (swapping the car to walk, or the elevator for stairs) and workout on the weekends. Eventually, your body will start to firm and tone, and you will be on your way!

, This cannot be stressed enough. You can really eat anything, as long as it's in moderation. For instance, you'd be no healthier eating six salads a day and one candy bar than you would be eating six candy bars and one salad! Carbs are required to grow, especially if you're a teenager, so don't be afraid of sugary foods! East Asian food is often healthy and yummy - try sushi, miso soup, or spicy tuna rolls. Most models eat a diet of:


Breakfast: Avacado on toast, yoghurt, granola, eggs, fruit, oatmeal, lean protein. Coffee, milk, and juice are good to drink, as well as green tea of fruit tea! Coconut water is a BIG favourite, as well as vitamin water.
Lunch: Green smoothies, salad topped with chicken or turkey, fish (such as tuna or salmon) and lean meat.
Dinner: Steamed vegetables (zucchini, spinach, cauliflower, broccoli, and asparagus are all favourites) with fish, chicken or turkey. You can have some fries or brown rice (the healthier option!) with your dinner. Miranda Kerr favours sweet potatoes.
Snacks/Dessert: Nuts, edamame beans, raisins, fruit, dark chocolate, or oatmeal cookies/flapjacks are all good!

, High fashion models are known as high fashion models for a reason - they KNOW how to wear clothes. It's all about finding what works for you personally. Make sure you look clean and well-presented - you can make a dumb t-shirt and baggy jeans rock if you wear them with confidence! Try wearing:


Skinny jeans or jeggings with a black or white t-shirt and some heels or boots, such as Behati Prinsloo and Candice Swanepoel (http://40.media.tumblr.com/471b21c6f3f09bb1f9fec82b2aa17969/tumblr_mgonqvWEN11s1dwk9o1_500.jpg)
A thigh-length jacket with a black dress or black shirt, black tights and black shoes, such as Abbey Lee Kershaw (https://lovethyhunter.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/abbey-lee-kershaw-street-style-8.jpg)
A white vest, black jeans and boots, a statement accessory, and dramatic eye makeup like Cara Delevigne (http://images-ff.asos-media.com/shmotterstorage/169763/large_092159eb-613e-424f-98fa-6e28986d6a89.jpeg)
Or co-ordinate colours like Jourdan Dunn (http://40.media.tumblr.com/e9dcc0193cd42bce6dd97000c6c62dbf/tumblr_msjnpyn2Cf1qai0bqo6_1280.jpg)

, For hair, simply use a shampoo and conditioner that is suitable for your hair type, and make sure to not damage it via heat styling - models have clean and healthy hair. Backcombing your hair is a popular hairstyle for the runway as it allows your face and features to be seen clearly. Don't wash your hair everyday as it will strip it of its natural oils - try investing in some coconut oil or argan oil if you have to wash your hair regularly. Most HF models have perfected the makeup/no makeup trend to a T. Apply all your makeup gently, as if your skin was made of china. Make sure your face is clean and moisturised - if you fly on planes a lot, consider bringing some rosewater spray (the moisture in the air will be lost the higher you go.) ALWAYS remove your makeup at the end of the day! Try out:


A very light liquid foundation and concealer. Contouring is done to models, but only very lightly as to make their features pop for runway or editorials. If you have prominent cheekbones, this will not be an issue.
A coat or two of black or brown mascara to make your lashes stand out if you're pale.
Tinted lipbalm or Vaseline.
A cream blusher to make you look as if you're alive!

, This is one of the most important steps. Models are human - they do get pimples and blemishes like the rest of us - but overall their skin is healthy and clear.


Use a exfoliater, cleaner, toner, and moisturiser suitable for your skin type. Visit your dermatologist or local beauty store to ask about what type is right for your skin type (you will either be oily, dry, combination, or normal.)
Use mud masks, steam facials, and pore cleansing strips to rip out any dirt! Dirt trapped in your pores can cause blackheads and other nasty pimples on your face.
Care for your whole body, too. If you have scaly or bumpy skin, use an exfoliater and body lotion. If you have body hair where you don't particularly want it, shave it off! HF models have the freedom to fit any kind of criteria they want in regards to body hair - shave stars and hearts down there if you really want to. Remember, high fashion is about making people go "wow!"
If a product isn't working for you, try a different one. Most store-brand products won't work as they cater to all skin types and are often filled with harmful chemicals, so try a brand name instead.
 This doesn't mean that you have to turn into a stuck-up prissy person who is catty and rude to everybody, but to live with confidence and a pleasant demeanour. In the words of Miranda Kerr, "I guess I'm just an open-hearted, fair, good person. I try to encourage people to be their best and look inside themselves and find out what they are passionate about and expand on that and enjoy life."

