 Of course, it doesn't have to be anything near special. Get a program on your computer (Microsoft Word works great) where you can type text. Choose a serious font like Times New Roman or Arial. Then, write "Your Name's Resume" and begin typing all of your strong points. Did you take a babysitting class when you were twelve? Write it down. Do you have three younger sisters who you have to babysit all of the time? Write it down. This will help for any of those real hard ones who want to make sure their child is in the right hands.;
, Some adults like to have people they call "adult-helpers." This is different from babysitting. When babysitting, you have to be responsible for the kid and manage all other household responsibilities. When being an "adult-helper" you have to watch the kid--but while the adult is home, like gardening or working on an important document. This a wonderful way to practice sitting--and, if something was to happen, the parent would be right there!

, If you don't love kids, it will show. Kids need care, snacks, love, happiness...and if you are a sitter (and lets face it, some of us are) who comes, plasters a fake smile on for the kids and parents, then when the parents leave plops themselves on the sofa for a nice TV marathon of The Cosby Show, you will not be asked to sit again. Kids have opinions, and the fact is: If they don't like you, the parents don't like you, therefore you will never get asked to sit again.
 If the parents bring up the money topic before you are asked to sit, start with keeping your mouth shut. See what they have to say. Do not complain or argue. Usually, the parents are very legitimate when discussing money. If the parents are cheap, consider this: They are just one family. You don't have to expect to get all of your money from them. They will trust you and be thankful you're so agreeable in the whole situation.
 These are life-saving procedures and can be very handy. Put them on your resume, and when those hard parents peer through their spectacles at your resume, they will be glad to know their child will be in safe hands.

