 The national organization has a website at sierraclub.org that provides information about the organization and the activities they conduct, as well as how to become a member.On the website, you can find information about various environmental issues, conservation hot-spots, and actions Sierra Club is taking to protect the environment.
You also can read about places Sierra Club wants to protect from further environmental degradation.
 Once you're done exploring the site, click the orange tab at the top of the page to begin the process of becoming a member of the organization. You can join from the national website or, if you prefer, you can donate by mail or phone.Clicking the tab will bring you to a page titled "Ways to Give." You can join online from the top of the page, or scroll down to explore other ways to support the organization.
If you want to donate by phone, call (415) 977-5653.
To donate by mail, print the mail-in form available on the website and send it along with your donation to Sierra Club Member Services, 2101 Webster St., Suite 1300, Oakland, CA 94612. If you join by mail, an introductory or limited income membership is $25. There are higher membership levels if you prefer., From the "Ways to Give" page, you have the option of starting a new membership, renewing a membership, or simply making a donation without joining.If you choose to join, you can either select a specific amount, or simply click the orange button, which will take you directly to the donation form where you can complete your membership application.
You must donate a minimum of $15 to become a member of Sierra Club. This can be a one-time donation. Remember that donations to Sierra Club are not tax-deductible.
If you simply click the button without choosing a specific amount, the donation page will default to a $15 donation. You can change this is you want.
 When you click the link to join Sierra Club online, you'll be taken to a donation page where you must choose the amount you want to donate and provide personal and billing information for your donation.The amount you're going to donate will be highlighted in green. You can choose "other amount" to change it, although keep in mind you must donate at least $15 to become a member of Sierra Club. You also have the option of checking the box below if you want to start a recurring monthly donation of that amount.
Enter your name and email address, as well as the street address that is associated with your credit card.
To make a donation online, you must provide credit card information for your donation amount. Sierra Club accepts Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover.
 Look over your information to make sure everything is correct. You have the option of declining the membership gift if you want your entire donation to go towards Sierra Club work.Click the "Join Now" button to complete the process. You will be taken to a confirmation screen, which you can print. You also will be sent a confirmation email.
You are automatically signed up to receive email updates and news from Sierra Club. You can cancel these emails at any time.
 Sierra Club sends a welcome package to all new members, which you should expect within a few weeks of the date you submit your contribution.This package includes a bag, unless you declined that gift when you made your contribution.
Your membership welcome package contains information about your local chapter, along with discounts on Sierra Club merchandise and products and services from third parties that are made available to Sierra Club members.
Your membership also includes a one-year subscription to the organization's magazine, which you will receive every month.

