 If you have health anxiety, you should go talk to your doctor. Your doctor will do an examination to rule out any problems. When they have figured out that there is nothing wrong, they can determine if you have depression or an anxiety disorder that may be affecting your views of your health.Your doctor can talk to you about your health and give you advice about how to let go of your health anxiety. They might be able to offer some suggestions for how to deal with hypochondria if you find yourself feeling it again.
If they think you have a deeper problem, they will send you to a psychologist.
You might say, "I am constantly worried that something is wrong with me" or "I check for symptoms of illness all the time." If you know you have hypochondria, you might say, "I know I suffer from hypochondria. Do you have any suggestions to help me overcome this?";
, Hypochondria is a condition believed to be related to anxiety and OCD (obsessive-compulsive disorder). Because of this, doctors may prescribe antidepressants or anti-anxiety medication to help treat it. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly prescribed for hypochondria.Medications may help some people, but may not be effective for others.
Side effects of these medications may include weight gain, nausea, increased nervousness, sexual problems, fatigue, drowsiness, and insomnia.Discuss your medication options and their potential side effects and risks with your doctor.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a therapeutic approach where you learn how identify negative thought patterns and change them into healthier ones. During CBT, you would work to identify the unhealthy thoughts and fears about your health and challenge them.During CBT, you will learn how to cope with symptoms you perceive as an indication of serious illness. For example, you will learn how to identify those thoughts as not true. Then, you can replace those unhealthy thoughts with healthier ones and remind yourself you are not sick.
You can also learn what makes the symptoms seem worse and how to alleviate that.
In CBT, you will also be taught how to stay active and engaged in your life despite the symptoms.
For example, you may think, “My head hurts so I must have brain cancer.” After CBT, you can change that thought to, “Although my head hurts, my doctor has said there is nothing wrong with me. People get headaches all the time. I am not sick.”

, Though many professionals use CBT to treat hypochondria, CBT doesn’t work with everyone. Your mental health professional will evaluate your particular case of health anxiety and determine the best therapy for you.For example, if you have illness-related trauma in your past, your therapist may suggest trauma-focused talk therapy. You may also undergo a particular psychotherapy to help an underlying anxiety disorder.
To find a good therapist, start by asking your doctor for a referral. You can also search for psychologists or psychiatrists in your area who specialize in hypochondria. You may also do an internet search to look for therapists in your area and check out their reviews.
 One way you may be able to deal with your hypochondria is to let yourself think the feelings instead of trying to ignore them. Thinking about the feelings while relaxing and facing them as separating them from true thoughts can help you dispel the power that the fears have over you. This can happen when you start to realize that your feelings of fear are different than your logical thoughts.When you start to have the feelings, meditate, use deep breathing exercises, or use any other stress relieving exercise to get relaxed. Imagine the feelings and fears. Try thinking about them as one of many possibilities that could happen.
Seeing the fears over and over in your mind can help lessen the intensity of the fears. Thinking about them as only one possibility can help you start to realize that whatever sickness or illness you fear is not the guaranteed outcome.
When you start to lessen the feelings of fear, your thoughts should not be as controlling because your feelings are not as intense.
 You may find that joining a support group can help you with your health anxiety. Support groups puts you with others who have similar health fears and anxieties as you. You can find understanding, support, and information about the condition through others.For example, you may ask others questions about their fears. You can learn strategies that others use to cope. You can talk about your fears and frustrations, and learn how others live with hypochondria.
In a session, you may ask, "How do you cope with your feelings of fear?" or "What strategies do you use to not feel fear about your health?" You may also say, "I get so frustrated because of my fears" or "I feel fear that I am sick every day."

