 In Minecraft, to join an online game server, you need to know its IP address, which is a numerical code that computers use to find and identify each other over the internet. Luckily, there are several sites online that list the IP addresses for popular servers. A few high-quality sites are listed below:


minecraftservers.orgminecraft-server-list.comtopg.org/Minecraft;
, Usually, on Minecraft IP list websites, you will see a list of servers with either short descriptions for the type of game being played on the server or a link to the server's website. When you find a server you want, copy the IP address to your computer's clipboard.


To do this, select the text you want to copy, then press:

Windows: Ctrl + C

Mac: Command + C

, Launch Minecraft on your computer. Click "Multiplayer" on first screen. You will see several choices: "Direct Connect", "Add Server," "Join Server," and more. For now, click "Direct Connect."

, After this, press "Join Server" and the game should load. If you get an error message like "Outdated server" or "Connection failed" and you're sure that your internet connection is working, there may be a technical issue on the server's end. It's not uncommon for servers to go down and for their information not to be reflected on the IP list sites, so don't worry — just select another server and try again.


To past text from the clipboard, press:

Windows: Ctrl + V

Mac: Command + V

, Once you find a few good servers that you want to play in frequently, it can be annoying to have to copy and paste the IP addresses every time you switch servers. To get around this, return to the multiplayer screen and click "Add Server." On the next screen, input the IP address for the server you want to save and give it a name. Click "Done" when you're finished.


Once you do this, the server you choose will be added to your list of preferred servers and you'll be able to see it in your multiplayer menu. In the future, you can join it by clicking it and hitting "Join Server."

