 If your boss is less warm, open, and friendly toward you, and/or more hostile, dismissive, and tense toward you, you can consider your relationship with your boss to be quite poor.Don’t delude yourself into thinking, “My boss has just been tense and/or busy. Our relationship will recover soon.” This might be true in the short term, but if the state of your relationship with your boss continues to be negative over the course of several months, you might get fired soon., If you notice your relationship with your boss deteriorating, consult them directly in private conversation about your relationship. Ask, “Is everything okay between us? Is there something I can do to improve my performance?” If they say there are things you should do that you haven’t been doing, take their suggestions seriously and implement them into your work routine.But if your boss says that everything between you is fine and nothing is wrong despite their cold, hostile, and/or disdainful behavior toward you, you should update your resume and reflect on the good times you’ve had at your place of employment.
 In other cases, they might be gossiping about you and/or spreading rumors., If you don’t get credit for your hard work, you might get fired. Bosses who appreciate you will say things like “Great work” or “Thank you for all that you do.” Bosses who do not appreciate you will not say these kind things.It’s an especially bad sign if your boss previously appreciated your work and now does not.
 Other odd experiences include evasive or noncommittal answers when you ask the management team why you’ve been moved or kept away from key meetings, and a refusal to reinstate you (or install you for a first time) to the high-value projects and important meetings.You might also be left out of the loop and/or not receive emails about significant projects., If you find yourself being excluded or isolated by the management team at work, you should consult one or more of them to find out if there are things you can do to adjust the situation. For instance, you might consult a member of management and ask, “Are there things I can do to gain more access to meetings and important projects? I’d like to contribute.”If the manager in question gives you specific feedback about how they need your performance to improve or adjust in some way, take their suggestions seriously and incorporate them into your workflow.
The manager you speak to might know nothing about your situation and reply that they will look into it. In this case, you might end up with a greater level of inclusion in meetings and projects.
If the manager you speak to denies there is a problem or gives a weak reply, you should look for another job.

