 Measure the length and width of your feet at a shoe store, and ask for assistance to find the most accurate size of shoe to buy.


Make sure to measure both feet. It’s common to have slightly different sized feet. You may actually need to get two different sized shoes, or make sure to get the size of the larger foot.Note that you will be a different number size in different stores and brands, so always try several sizes. Also find your European size for brands that utilize them.;
, Try on a wide variety of heels at the shoe store, and try each one in a couple of different sizes to see which one feels best.


Don’t just stand up in the heels, but walk around the store for several minutes to see what they feel like after some time.
Look out for the backs rubbing against your heels or for your toes feeling scrunched inside as an indication that the heels are too small, or your feet popping out of the backs or sliding forward when you walk as an indication they are too large.
 Choose a thicker and more stable heel like a platform, wedge, or chunky heel to provide more support and weight distribution. Shy away from pointed-toe styles if you have wide feet or toes, opting for round or almond-shaped instead. You can also buy heeled boots or heels with ankle straps to help support your ankles.Sit on a chair with bare feet and one one leg extended out in front of you, then relax your foot and ankle. Measure the distance between the end of your big toe to an imaginary line that extends straight out from your heel. This is the ideal height of heel for you, as it most closely mimics your natural shape.More important than the style of heel is where the heel is placed. Ensure that it’s positioned squarely under the heel bone rather than at the very back of the foot. If you go for a skinnier heel, look for one that curves in slightly at the top rather than forming a straight line., Choose high-quality brands or materials for a higher likelihood of comfort. Look out for genuine leather, solid rubber soles, and other sturdy textiles that appear to have well-constructed seams and joints. You can even tug a little at parts of the shoe to test their strength.

