 People who struggle with poor eyesight may want to turn to blueberries for help.


Blueberries have been shown to protect the retina of the eye from oxygen damage and unwanted sunlight.
Blueberries won’t add a lot of calories into your day as they help improve your other health functions, including the eyes. One cup of blueberries (148 grams) has only 80 calories!Blueberries are packed with nutrients, including vitamins C and K, manganese, fiber, and copper., Those concerned about heart health might also ingest blueberries. As with any health matter, though, always check with your doctor first.


Blueberries have been found to lower the risk of developing heart disease in various studies. There are many reasons to add them to your daily diet.
Blueberries are good for the heart because they both relax and regulate the vascular wall’s arterial elasticity. Blueberries also have a positive effect on blood pressure.
Blueberries also improve heart health by helping with blood flow., Blueberries are great for older adults who might be struggling with memory loss as well as people of all ages hoping to improve their memories or stave off the aging process.In one study, people with an average age of 76 ate blueberries every day for a 12-week period. The study demonstrated that the boost to memory can come fast.
The adults who ate blueberries performed better on cognitive tests at the end of the study period compared to adults who did not eat blueberries.
The anthocyanin in blueberries can also help prevent Alzheimer’s Disease or dementia by stimulating nerve growth in your brain and improving communication between the nerve cell processes in the brain, slowing aging.
 Blueberries are a good food for many diabetics or people hoping to lower their blood sugar.


Blueberries have a low glycemic index. This is a method used to determine the effect a food will have on blood sugar levels after it’s digested.
Strive for foods with a GI that is 50 or below. Blueberries fall in the range of 40-53. This is actually less than blackberries, strawberries, and raspberries.
However, blueberries are said to have a positive effect on people with type 2 diabetes. In three months time, blood sugar levels showed positive improvement in some studies. Blueberries also contain catechins that can assist with weight loss, especially around the belly., Blueberries are considered a superfood because they are believed to protect the body against cancer.The antioxidants in blueberries combat what are called free radicals in the digestive tract, and these can cause cancer.Blueberries are believed to help protect the body against certain kinds of cancers, such as colon cancer. Blueberries are believed to help protect the body from pollution, sun exposure and pesticides.
Blueberries also protect the cells against toxic heavy metal damage from heavy metals such as cadmium.

