 If you desire a headpiece, like a fancy headband, you can make this from your gold sequin fabric. Cut a length of gold sequin fabric with your scissors that is long enough to fit around your forehead. Then:


Fasten the loose ends of the gold sequin fabric into a circle by gluing them together with your hot glue., Cut an empty, clean toilet paper roll in half with your scissors. Then take sheer fabric (you may want to tulle fabric again, here) and cut it into a 2" by 5' (5 cm by 1.5 m) strip. Wind it around the cardboard of the tube so the fabric covers the cardboard completely but does not obstruct the gap in the center of the roll. Then:


Use your hot glue to fasten the ends of your fabric to the toilet paper roll. Excess fabric can be tucked underneath the wound fabric and glued.
Cut another piece of the same fabric 2' wide by 3' long ( .61 m by .91 m) and fold it roughly into a triangle so the triangle's base forms the longest side.
Hot glue a corner of the long end of your fabric on the inside of the toilet paper roll. Repeat this with the opposite corner on the inside of the roll opposite where you glued the first one.
Slide hair into the ponytail holder using a high ponytail, and drape the fabric hanging from the inside of the tube down the sides of the head so it rests on the chest., Boys may not want a headpiece or ponytail holder. In this case you can simply gather their hair into a simple ponytail, much like Genie in Aladdin.


If you really want to authentically imitate Genie from Aladdin, you could shave your head, leaving only enough hair for a ponytail behind.
 You may be able to find suitable genie accessories, like a lamp, wrist and ankle cuffs, necklaces, earrings, and so on at a thrift, second hand store, or dollar store. Add these to your costume to make it look more authentic, and enjoy your genie costume.As a substitute for a lamp, you might spray paint an old and unused teapot gold. For younger children, you may want to use a durable teapot, like one made out of plastic.