


A right handed guitar has the neck oriented to the left. The tuning pegs will be on the left and the tail of the guitar will be on the right. A left handed guitar will be the opposite. Measure and mark accordingly!
Take the box and remove the lid by cutting it along the paper seam in the back. This will help you cut the box and position the neck without having the lid in the way. Looking at the box front on, find the center of the left and right sides and mark it on the painters tape. mark 3/4" from the center. This is where you will cut the box down for the neck. Mark on the outside of the left and right side 1" down. Cut these areas out of both ends of the box. The holes on each end should be 1 1/2" x 1".;
, The scale is the distance between the nut (tuning peg or head) end of the strings and the bridge. There are no rules as to length but 24" is a good start so we will use that.


Put neck stock in the box with about 1 1/2" sticking out the side and measure 3/4 the way into the box from where the tail end meets the box. This is where the bridge will be. Mark on the neck stock in pencil where the neck meets the outside of the box on each end. Do not worry that your neck seems deeper as the hole it sits in. It should be about 1/4" deeper. Adjust as needed.
 Remove the neck stock and measure from the bridge mark out 24" along the neck. This point is where the nut will be. Remember the nut is where the strings end at the head end.
 At the head end of the neck, you are going to make a series of cuts that will thin out the head so that you can apply the tuning pegs. You will need thin the head down to 5/8" from its 3/4" thickness. From the point where you have the mark for nuts, measure about 5 1/2" out on the neck and cut there. Measure 5/8" from the bottom of the neck in the head area and mark this the length of the head area on both sides.


You will need to remove the 1/8" to 3/16" from the top of the neck. Hold or clamp the neck in a vertical position and saw down the neck along the mark in the head area. Saw until you reach about 1/2" from where the nut will be. Cut this area out from the top. Don't worry if you didn't get it straight or if the cut was even. Using hand tools is difficult and you can always make a new neck later.
 You will need to make a series of holes in the head area for the tuning pegs. Take two pegs that are for one side and one for the opposite side and arrange them on the neck so that they are not too close together (about 1/4" apart). Something like left-right-left or right-left-right. Mark where the holes should be and drill 3/8" holes in the head. Make sure the shaft of the tuning pegs are 3/8". If not, use the appropriate drill bit.
 Lay the neck in the box where you marked the outsides on the neck. Measure from the box edge to where the bridge mark is. Put the lid on and lay a piece of painters tape where the bridge should be using the same distance you just measured. Mark this point. This is where the eyebolt/bridge will be.

Remove the neck and on the tail end in the are that sticks out, drill three 1/8" holes roughly 3/8" apart. They can be closer or farther, but make sure the center one is centered to the neck. You can drill in any spot or shape you want (see example picture).
 Place the neck back in the box and replace the lid. You can glue the lid shut if you want. Use rubber bands or painters tape to hold the lid shut. You can screw the lid onto the neck if you want or you can glue it as well.
 Place the 1/4"x2" poplar strip on top of the neck so that it sits flush with the lid and mark it where the head was cut. Make sure it covers where the nut was marked. The nut will sit on top of the fingerboard.


Once cut, glue it onto the neck by spreading the glue thinly on both the neck and the fingerboard using an old credit card or cardboard. Place them together, wipe off the excess glue and clamp using rubber bands. Allow to dry.
 Once all the glue is dry, remove the tape from the lid and the rubber bands from the neck. Attach the guitar tuners using the screws provided. Glue the nut in place using a small amount of glue as well as the bridge. Use painters tape to hold them until dry.
 Once all the parts are dry, remove the tape and cut two holes in the lid for the sound holes (see picture). The holes can be about 1" to 1 1/2". Try to center them as best as possible. Try using painters tape to mark where you want the center of the holes to be.
