 Cook your rice in a steamer, pot, or rice maker as you normally would. To cook rice on the stovetop, boil 1.5 cups (354.88 ml) of water then add your 3/4 cups (140 g) of uncooked before reducing the heat to low and keeping it covered on the burner for 20-30 minutes. As an alternative to freshly made rice, you can also use leftover rice. Once your rice is cooked, set it aside for later.


One cup (200 g) of uncooked rice will make 3 cups (600 g) of cooked rice.;
, In a pan or skillet, cook your bacon over medium heat until it becomes dark and crispy. This process should take around 10 minutes. Set the bacon aside on a plate lined with paper towel to absorb the grease. When you're done cooking the bacon, leave around 2 tsp (9.8 mL) of bacon fat in the pan. You can use this fat later to cook the other ingredients.If you are a vegetarian, you can pick up tempeh bacon, which is a non-meat based product that replicates the taste of bacon as an alternative.Another non-meat based alternative to bacon is oven baked shitake mushrooms with salt.You can also replace bacon with ham or breakfast sausage.
 Take your crisp bacon or bacon substitute and place it on a cutting board once it’s cooled. Chop the bacon into small one inch (2.54cm) pieces using a sharp knife. Set the chopped bacon aside once you’re done., Heat the pan over medium-high heat for 3-4 minutes until the bacon fat is hot. Add your scallions to the fat and allow them to simmer for 2-3 minutes, then reduce your stovetop to medium heat.Your scallions should sizzle when you add them to the pan.
 Add the rice to your pan and mix it together with the scallions. Break up any larger chunks of rice and continue to stir the pan for 3-5 minutes, or until the rice has slightly browned. Once you’ve finished heating the rice, move it to one side of the pan.When steam starts coming off the rice, it should be fully heated.
 Whisk eggs in a separate bowl and then add them to the free side of your pan. Continue to mix the eggs together with a wooden spatula until they become the desired consistency.


Keep in mind that the eggs will continue to cook while you cook the rest of your ingredients and will become harder and less fluffy the more they are cooked.
 Combine 3 tsp. of soy sauce, 2 tsp. of sesame oil, and bacon bits to your pan and continue to mix all of the ingredients together until well incorporated. Once all the ingredients have been evenly distributed throughout the rice, you can remove it from the pan and serve.