 If you're a romantic guy and have brought the girl home to get your groove on, then you should set the scene a little bit. She won't be into kissing you if all she sees are dirty gym socks and empty soda cans. So, set up some candles, some flowers, and some wine (if you're into drinking wine, that is). Don't go over the top or you'll look like you're trying too hard--just do enough to get the girl in the mood to kiss you.;
, This means don't look like a slob or smell like a yeti. It doesn't really matter what you wear -- jeans and a T-shirt are fine -- but make sure you look decent. The girl should see that you've put some effort into your appearance. If you haven't put any effort into your look, then why should she put effort into kissing you?


Make sure to shower and to generally smell clean before you start kissing.
Take it easy on the cologne. Too much cologne = trying too hard.
 Good places to start include on a couch, in a car, or even under the stars at a picnic table. One thing to keep in mind is the awkwardness of people walking in on you, so make sure your parents/siblings/friends aren't in the next room. The more privacy you have, the more comfortable the girl will be.


The bed may not be the best spot to make out as some girls may feel awkward or nervous if you begin there, since she may think you want more than just kissing.
Control your temperature. Keep it a little cold so she wants your touch, but not so cold that she's shivering and uncomfortable. If it's too hot, though, that's even worse--she won't want to turn up the temperature any more, if you get the drift.
 Music is optional, but sparks fly a lot more when there is some good background music playing softly or music that you and your girl like. If you want to play some music, you should make sure you know what type of music your girl likes (ex: screamo, heavy metal, and alternative rock are probably not the best types of music to set the mood, unless you know your girl likes it).


If you plan on playing some music, you should have it queued up an ready to go, so you don't waste time scrambling to find something romantic.
 You can't just go from discussing your math homework to French kissing; there needs to be some lead up first. Moving in the direction of kissing can be a little awkward if you don't know what you're doing, but worry not. Flirting is easy; the goal of flirting is to make a girl have fun. This can be accomplished by joking around, wrestling, teasing, or dancing, but remember too much can be too much, so tread lightly.


You can pretend to dance with the girl to make her laugh, or just gently touch her elbow.
You should make some kind of physical contact before you kiss, however small. You can't just lean in and kiss the girl without touching her at all.
 During the process of flirting, you will find yourself physically closer to her and/or looking into her eyes. Stop what you're doing and gaze into the girl's eyes, smiling a little to let her know that you want to kiss her. You don't have to make creepy especially long eye contact; just look into her eyes long enough that she knows you want something more. If you're feeling extra suave, you can even reach out and move a strand of her away from her face.
 Lean your body closer to hers and gently pull her chin towards yours. Don't pucker up your lips like you're kissing your Aunt Sally, but keep your mouth in a natural position. Now bring your lips closer to hers until they are almost touching. Don't hesitate or pull back.
 Let your lips touch, and keep them there for a passionate second or two. Don't kiss her head on, but try to tilt your head slightly to one side so that your noses don't bump and so you don't get in each other's ways. The more passionately you kiss, the more dramatically your heads may tilt. You can take it slow and soft and build your way up to kissing her in more intimate ways. First, just get the lay of the land. Does she seem to like it? Is she responding well? Is she pulling you closer to her? If so, then deepen the kiss.


While you're kissing her, make sure to keep your hands on her body instead of awkwardly hanging them at your sides. They don't have to roam too much, but she should feel like you're really embracing her while you're kissing.
 Mix it up to keep things interesting. You might want to add variety to your kisses, like the French Kiss or any others you know. Keep it slow; many people like to go slow and makes it more passionate. If you and your girl feel comfortable go on the next step, experiment with yourself, touch her, let her touch you.


If you're French kissing, slowly slip your tongue into her mouth and make sure that she does the same. You can either touch the tips of your tongues or put your tongue above or below hers as you explore each other's mouths.
 Don't be afraid to talk to her a little bit; as long as you keep it romantic, it'll put her at ease. (That means don't stop to ask her what she thought of Mr. Frambowsky's chemistry test). In a passionate moment, take a little break to look her in the eyes and tell her "You look beautiful" or something nice, but only if you mean it.


You should only give really nice compliments to girls you've known for a while; telling a girl you met that night that she looks beautiful might scare her off.
 This is a very sensitive area for most girls, and if you kiss the side of the girl's neck, it'll make her go wild. Whether you're holding her from behind, lying down, or just facing the girl, leaning in to give her a few gentle, tender kisses up and down the side of her neck will get her in the mood for kissing you.
 While you're kissing, run your hands through the girl's hair. The scalp is actually a very sensitive part of a girl's body, and she will feel a sexy sensation while you comb her locks. Just do it gently at first, and see how she responds. Either run your fingers over the top of her hair or place your hand underneath her hair and gently feel her neck.
 This is another great move if you want to get even more intimate while you're kissing. Pull away for a second and run your hand over the girl's chin, or even cup her face in the middle of a passionate kiss. This will make the girl feel even more special. Don't keep your hand on her face the whole time; just run your hand over her cheek or chin from time to time.


You can also brush her hair off her forehead while you're kissing, but this is a delicate move.
 If you're sitting down, slowly move into this sexy position. Put your hands around the girl's waist so she can climb into your lap if she feels comfortable. She'll most likely sit with her legs to the side and her arms around your neck. If she's very forward, she may straddle you, but don't count on it.
 The ear is another sensitive zone for girls, and if you whisper something sexy in her ear, she'll be even more excited. Don't, you know, whisper that she smells like macaroni and cheese; tell her that she's so sexy, that she has soft lips, or that you love stroking her hair. Just the feel of your hot breath on her ear will work wonders on her body.
 If whispering in her ear went over well, then take it a step further and gently nibble on her ear. First, move toward her ear and kiss the lobe; if she responds well, take very gentle nibbles on her ear lobe and see how she reacts. Either she'll go wild or she'll push you away--prepare for either.
 Kiss her for a second, two seconds, a minute or more, and just when things are really getting hot and heavy, pull back and look into her eyes as you caress her face or hair. This is guaranteed to drive her wild as you pull away just when she wants you more than ever. This isn't meant to be cruel and you shouldn't try it all the time; you should just do it enough to be playful.
 You don't have to be French kissing, or even kissing at all, during the entire make out session. Though you don't need to pause to text your mom or start a conversation about what you're going to wear to prom, it's acceptable to take a breather, grab a glass of water, or just to look into each other's eyes for a little while. Making out is an art, and all artists take breaks in order to truly perfect their craft.
 Massage your girl's shoulders firmly but not too roughly. Move the massage closer to the neck, then around the collar bone, then change to the upper arm. Slowly work down the arm as you do it. You can do this in between make outs or even earlier, to get her in the mood.


Before you massage the girl, though, make sure she's really into kissing you. Otherwise, it'll look like a cheap trick.
 If you're both sitting down, this is another intimate move that may lead to a make out. Wrap your arms around the girl, and maybe even kiss the top of her head, and wait for her to lean into you. Breathe on her neck a little bit to make her feel more excited. Gently stroke her shoulders and move until you're facing each other and are ready to kiss.
 Get to the waist, and work your way back up to the shoulders but this time use your finger tips in a circular motion, still being firm, but be gentle too. Starting to touch her like this can make her want to kiss you more than ever.
 Start with her feet and then massage your way up her legs slowly. When you get to the thigh, massage the outer thigh then work your way towards her inner thigh down to her knees and back up again.

