 Memorize the numbers of your parents, and a reliable person such as a close and nearby relative or trusted friend so you can answer their calls, or call them.
 Say something like: " ___ (your last name) residence, ____ (your ---name) speaking." If the person asks for one of your parents, tell them: "Oh, I'm sorry, but __ (parent's name) is unavailable. Can I take a message for him/her?" (depending on who the person asked for).


Never tell the person that you are alone! Say they are unavailable.
Do not sound scared.

Never say your name.
Ask your parents if you can hang up if a telemarketer calls. If you forget to do this and your phone is ringing right now, then just hang up.
 Use the number to look up the company and use the company's contact number to call them back. Otherwise, you may get a scam artist who tells you a valid company's name, but giving you a false phone number.

Call your parents or wait before calling them back and making any decisions by yourself.

"non-profit" and "political organization" can be used to get around no-call lists. However, they must be a registered non-profit or political organization.
 Select the type of form (8871, 8872, or 990) and enter the organization's name. Leave everything else blank. If the search does not identify their organization then they are not exempt -- regardless of how much they lie by saying that they are exempt. The searches may return multiple organizations with similar (or same) names. This is where the address and phone number comes in. Click on the search results and see if the name and address matches the registered organization. If none of the records match, then they are not exempt and are probably a scam or fraudulent caller., Replies should be very specific. For example, if they are calling about your credit card, if they are legitimate, they should be able to tell you the name of the issuing bank and the last few digits on the card. Anything less specific is a scam -- just hang up., This is really an important lesson and a hard habit to break. Never give any kind of positive confirmation on the phone until you are absolutely certain who you are talking to. This includes saying "yes". Say "This is he/she", instead. The scammer can record the call, edit the recording, and use your innocent 'Yes' to authorize them for whatever they want or switch your long distance carrier., Ask the questions "Who is calling?" or "What is your address?", and see if they hang up. Tell them that you are recording the call. Regardless of whether the call is really being recorded, tell them it is being recorded. Real companies with real offers won't mind being recorded. Real surveys do not require privacy. If they hang up, then it is a scam.

Buy a small device that taps the audio from the telephone and brings it into the audio port on a computer.
 After they identify themselves, you can acknowledge yourself, gather more information about them without identifying yourself, or just hang up., Ask for their contact information: phone number and street address. Try to be near a computer and look up their address and phone number while they're still on the line. If it's a real company, they will happily give you their contact information. You can even be polite, while asking them for their phone number, extension, and what this is regarding. Then let them know that you will call them back. There's a couple of different possible outcomes from this request:

Helpful compliance. A real company will happily give you all of their contact information. Entering the phone number into Google will identify the company. Calling the company's official support phone number (which is not necessarily the number the caller gave you) will direct you back to the caller or to someone else who can help you with the same issue.
Stay on the line. A few callers will give you their contact information, but really want you to stay on the line. "There's no need to call us back. I can help you right now!" This is a clear indication of a scam. Real companies want you to call them back. Sales calls are more likely to make a sale if you call them. And banks get a thrill when customers practice real security by calling back on the bank's official support number. If the caller pressures you to stay on the line, then it is a scam.
No info. A solid 50% of cold calls that I receive won't give me their contact information. If they won't give me their contact information, then they are not legitimate. Period.
Or you can just muffle the phone or click dismiss to ignore the phone.

