 Ice is most useful for treating an acute injury and less useful for treating recurring pain (or chronic pain). This is because the purpose of cold therapy is to quickly reduce pain from inflammation and swelling, both of which are present in an acute injury and usually lacking with chronic pain.Heat is better for chronic pain.
You may add heat to an acute injury only after using just cold therapy for a few days.
This is because heat increases blood flow, which is opposite of what you want to do to reduce pain after an injury. After a few days of cold therapy, pain is greatly reduced.
 Using ice as a component of the PRICE method for injuries will reduce pain and swelling, perhaps even shorten healing time. The first step of PRICE is protection, wherein you should stop moving the injured tissue by using a crutch or splint.Protecting the injury prevents damaging your body even more.
 After limiting the mobility of the injury, it is important for the injured person to find a safe place to rest in the short term. In the long term, that means not using the injured body part very much until it is fully healed.


For instance, if you injure your wrist, you should avoid heavy lifting and activities that require wrist flexion until pressure no longer causes pain, or at least 1 to 2 days.
 You can use cold therapy (a.k.a. cryotherapy) as part of the RICE method in the form of ice cubes, or any of the cold therapy methods—ice packs, frozen vegetables, frozen water bottles, ice baths, ice massages, and so on. Leave the ice on for 15-20 minutes at a time, then remove it for the same amount of time before reapplying the ice.


You should use this 15 on/15 off method as often as possible the first 24 to 48 hours after an injury.
 Compression is useful in combination with ice to reduce swelling and inflammation. It should be employed the first one to two days after an injury. Compression narrows blood vessels to reduce swelling and excess bleeding.Compression can be achieved by wrapping an injury in an ace bandage or using a compression sleeve as found in a cryo/cuff setup.
 On top of resting, using ice, and employing compression, elevating the injury helps the healing process. Elevation allows gravity to drain fluids from the injury site, thereby reducing inflammation and swelling. Reduction in fluids can also mean reduction in pain.Keep lower limbs elevated above the hips.
Keep upper limbs elevated in a sling or on a pillow.
Elevation should be a top priority for the first 2 days after an injury.

