 The board needs to 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick and 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) wide. Cut the board in half using a saw so that you get two shelves.Each board will hold 4 pots.


Wear a pair of safety glasses. Do not take them off until you are done cutting and drilling the wood.
The best type of wood to work with is pine. It is soft, making cutting and sanding easier. Remember, you can always stain the wood a darker color.;
, The holes need to be 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) apart. The first and last holes need to be about 7 inches (17.78 centimeters) away from the sides of the board.Center the holes on the board. Make sure that there is 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of space above and below each hole.
Clamp the boards firmly to your work surface and hold tightly onto the drill., The holes need to be 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the side edges of the board. Use a 5/16-inch (7.8-millimeter) drill bit for this., Sand the narrow ends of each board as well as the inside of the circles.
 Apply the wood stain using a paintbrush, foam brush, or rag. Follow the instructions on the paint can, as each brand will be a little different. Allow it to dry, then apply another coat if necessary. Let the stain dry completely before moving on. This can take anywhere from 1 to 24 hours, depending on the type of stain you are using.Consider painting the boards instead. Make sure that the paint is of outdoor quality and can stand up to water.
 You can paint the pots using spray paint or acrylic paint. Whatever you decide to use, make sure that it is suitable for outdoors. Your pots won't be going outside, but they will be getting wet, so you want to make sure that the paint holds up.


You can paint your pots a solid color, or you can paint designs on them, such as stripes or polka dots.
Make sure that your pots have drainage holes. If they don't, your herb's roots might rot and die., Moisten the soil until it feels damp, but not soggy. Add a fertilizer suitable for herbs and vegetables. Be sure to follow the instructions on the package closely., Use the basket-type filter and not the envelope type. The filter will prevent the soil from falling out while still allowing the water to drain.This will help keep your kitchen and the surrounding are clean.


If you don't have any coffee filters, you can use a piece of broken pottery, cotton fabric, or a piece of mesh screen., Gently pat the soil down with your hand. Keep the soil level 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) below the rim of the pot. If you are planting young herbs from the nursery, leave a small hole in the center deep enough for the herb to fit into., If you are planting your herbs from seeds, plant the seeds at the depth indicated on the packet. If you are planting young herbs from the nursery, insert the plant into the hole, then pat the soil around it. You can plant whatever herbs you want, but herbs that do especially well in containers include:Basil, mint, and sage
Chives
Coriander/cilantro and parsley
Rosemary and thyme

, This will ensure that your herb will have enough water until their next watering. From now on, you should only water you herbs when the soil feels dry to the touch.


The soil level may drop a little. If it goes below the top of the young plant's root ball, add more damp soil until it is level., Get 16 feet (4.88 meters) of ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) thick rope. Cut the rope in half so that you have to 8-foot (2.44-meter) long pieces. You can use any type of rope you want.
 Thread one of the ropes through a hole on your first board. Bring the rope back up through the hole directly above it. Pull on both ends of the rope so that they are equal. Repeat this step with the second rope for the other side of the board.When you are done, you should have four ropes sticking out of your first board.
 Measure about halfway up each rope and tie a knot. Make sure that the knots are all the same distance from the board. They will be supporting your second board. If they are crooked, your shelf will be crooked as well., Push the shelf down until it sits atop the knots that you made.
 Take the two ropes on the left side of your hanging garden. Tie them together into a sturdy knot. Repeat this step with the remaining two ropes on the right side of your board., Drill two holes into your ceiling and insert two J-hooks. Slip the knotted ropes over the J-hooks.Make sure that your ceiling can support the full weight of your garden—including the potted herbs.Consider slipping the ropes over a rod instead, and then hanging the rod from curtain hooks.
 Once you have your garden the way you want it, insert the pots into the holes. Consider setting down a tray on the floor or counter below the garden to catch any dripping water.

