 Obviously, caffeine and kids don't mix. Therefore, it's best to stick to fruity, herbal teas. In addition, these teas are more suited to a kid's palate. Try a cinnamon-apple tea, for instance, or a mint tea. You could also use teas like jasmine or hibiscus.You could brew up a tea punch by boiling fruit in water, such as apples and pears. Throw in some spices, like cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and/or ginger. Near the end, add in a flavorful tea, such as hibiscus, plus sugar to taste. Let it steep until the tea is brewed, and then strain it.;
, If the kids won't likely be tea fans, hot chocolate is always an option instead. You could also add it as a non-tea choice, if you're offering several choices. Serve it with whipped cream or miniature marshmallows., Another non-tea option is lemonade. To make it extra special, serve a pink lemonade, such as strawberry or raspberry lemonade. Serve it in pretty glasses to make it elegant and fun for the kids., Cucumber sandwiches are a classic tea sandwich. Simply spread cream cheese or butter on thinly sliced bread (crusts removed). Add thin layers of cucumber. You can also add fresh dill or mint, but you may want to leave that off for kids' sandwiches. Put the sandwiches together, and then cut them into fingers, triangles, or squares., If cucumbers would make your kids cry "Eww!!," you could go with something simpler, such as classic ham and cheese. Start with a bit of mustard or mayonnaise on thin bread without crusts, then top with a thin layer of ham and American or cheddar cheese. Put the sandwiches together and then cut them into shape., For a sweet sandwich, cut off the crusts, and spread peanut butter on one slice and jelly on the other. Put the sandwich together, and then cut to shape. You could also do a single layer of a sweet cream cheese, such as cinnamon or strawberry. For more color, add a layer of strawberries.For another sweet option, try apple butter on raisin bread.
 Egg salad is another classic tea sandwich. Make an egg salad by finely dicing or grating boiled eggs, then adding mayo. You can also add other flavorful additions, such as dill, Worcestershire sauce, mustard or dry mustard, paprika, black pepper, lemon juice, and/or salt. Spread a thin layer on crustless bread, then top it with another piece of bread. If you're worried about them getting soggy, you can spread a thin layer of butter on the bread before adding the egg salad. Cut them to shape., Scones are a classic addition to any tea, and if you want your tea party to follow tradition, you should add a batch of your own. To make them kid friendly, consider options like chocolate chip scones or blueberry scones., Chocolate-covered fruit is elegant, tasty, and a bit healthier than some other treats. Trim and wash the fruit, and then let it air dry. Insert a skewer or popsicle stick in each one. Dip it in melted chocolate, than let it cool on parchment paper.You can stick it in the freezer to cool if you're in a hurry.
 Welsh rarebit is just a fancy kind of cheese toast. Make it cute for a party by creating miniature rabbits. Start by making the cheese mixture. For each rabbit, you'll need 1 egg yolk, a dash of cream (about a teaspoon), several drops of Worcestershire sauce, pepper, and 1/3 cup (79 milliliters) of grated cheddar cheese.Mix up the cheese mixture together, and spread it on a toasted English muffin. Broil the rabbits for about 3 minutes, keeping them a bit lower than you normally would when broiling. Add vegetable decorations to make "rabbits," such as a black olive for a nose, chives for whiskers, and snow peas for ears.
 Celery with filling is usually a big hit with kids. Cut celery into 2- to 3-inch pieces. For a savory snack, add fillings like pimento cheese, spray cheese, or a savory flavored cream cheese. For a sweet snack, fill with peanut butter (or other nut butter), and top with raisins., You don't necessarily need to make "special" foods for a tea party. Instead, just use miniatures of your kids' favorites, like miniature corn dogs or hot dogs and macaroni and cheese served in foil cupcake holders. You could even do foods like chicken nuggets. Alternatively, cut bacon into smaller strips, and serve them with a foil cupcake holder of scrambled eggs topped with cheddar cheese.
 One option for dessert is to make it part of the fun. Make sugar cookies in fun tea-party shapes (such as teapots, tea cups, and flowers), and then set out things to decorate with, such as colorful icing, sprinkles, and colorful candies. Have enough decorations to go around so there's no squabbling., Tiny bites are perfect for tea time, but that doesn't mean giving up on favorites. You can just make them in smaller versions. For instance, if your kids love brownies, make a regular pan but cut them into bite-sized pieces. You could also make miniature chocolate chip cookies. Another option is rice crispy treats with colorful sprinkles cut into fun shapes., In lieu of a cake, make a batch of adorable tea-themed cupcakes. For instance, you could make cupcakes with tiny teapots on the top of each one. Another option is making "flowerpot" cupcakes.To make flowerpot cupcakes, start with a chocolate cupcake with chocolate icing. Add sprinkles. Attach a candy flower to the top of a pretzel stick with icing, and poke the stick in the cupcake. You can cut leaf shapes out of jelly candies.

