 Prior history might teach you that someone has lied before, or made promises that they have then broken. Or, it might be a case where no ill intent has been involved but this person is unreliable and just never comes through. In this case, you are probably justified in not taking their word as gospel but in seeking more justification for their word. On the other hand, if you experience any of the following reasons, it might be time to stop being so wary:


You're always suspicious of other people's motivations and don't think that anybody can be trusted
You heard someone else say that this person cannot be trusted
You make assumptions about the person based on their looks, race, language, culture, etc.
This person is a man/woman and men/women are not trustworthy (generalization from prior experience)
My gut instincts are always right;
, If you have any of the above negative approaches to trust, it's time to discard your generalizations and replace these with realistic explanations. Even the much touted trust in one's own gut instincts is often an excuse to let generalizations come to the forefront. Here are some ways to be more trusting, and to be more ready to take a person's word at face value:


Avoid making assumptions about people based on their background, race, etc. Everyone is an individual and everyone brings different experiences of life with them, much of which you can learn from
Analyze situations in your life where someone has hurt you by being untrustworthy. See those for the situations they were and don't reapply them to every person in your life. It is important to learn the warning signs of untrustworthy behavior but it is equally important not to generalize these experiences to every person you meet in life
Be open to trusting people. Trust breeds trust and if you initiate it without expecting anything in return, you're already ahead. People appreciate being trusted
Do your homework. If something worries you about what a person has promised you, don't allow assumptions and guesswork to fill in the gaps; do research to find out whether or not there are real grounds for your concerns. If there are, you can rely on these facts as opposed to your feelings

, Trust involves assessing the situation and context as much as the person. Consider your own limitations and expectations when trying to accept someone's word at face value. Perhaps there will be times that you expect more than this person is able to deliver but your hopes made more out of the situation than was ever possible. In other words, be realistic about what you expect. Over time, you will gain a good sense of judgment rather than reacting to feelings when deciding on whether or not to accept a person's word at face value.

