 If you are moving your shed farther than across your property, you’ll have to place it securely in a vehicle trailer. If possible to do so safely, jack the shed up high enough that you can simply slide it onto the trailer. Otherwise, you will have to use the trailer’s ramp (or fashion your own) and employ a careful combination of pulling, pushing, and lifting to get the shed into place.Make sure the shed is centered on the trailer and secured properly with strong, snug strapping.
Cover any roof shingles with a secure tarp; high speeds can cause them to shear off. You may also want to cover any window openings with plywood, whether the windows have been removed or not.
 If you have a large yard and fairly level ground, you may want to drag the shed on a makeshift wooden sled, using the power of a pickup truck (or possibly a tractor for smaller sheds). If so, make sure you secure your pulling rope or chain around the shed, not to the sled, or the latter will simply be pulled out from underneath as the truck moves.Fashion the sled out of plywood sheets or a similarly thin, fairly smooth material. Make sure that it is larger than the base of the shed. The weight of the shed should pin the sled underneath while moving; otherwise, secure it to the shed structure with screws.
Wrap the tow line around the entire shed, about midway up the side walls. Latch, hook, or tie it on the side facing the back of the truck so that it is securely snug in place, then run the line and secure it to the vehicle’s tow hitch.
Drive slowly and steadily, avoiding lurches forward or quick stops. Have a couple of helpers keep an eye on the shed and help guide it as needed.
 If you have access to a forklift or a “mule” (a machine similar in appearance to a typical forklift), you can use one of these to relocate a secured and propped-up shed with relative ease. And, if you happen to be remodeling your home and there is a crane being used to lift roof trusses, etc., you can use it to quickly move the shed from your front yard to your back, for instance.Make sure you have been properly instructed in the safe use of such equipment before trying to move your shed with it.
Make sure the shed is properly secured to the machine with heavy-duty strapping.

