 Your priority when pregnant is caring for yourself and your unborn baby. You may want to celebrate the holidays to the fullest, but may not always feel your best. Developing a general plan on how to tackle the holidays that you can change if need be may give you some comfort and help you more easily navigate the holiday season.Write out a tentative plan based on invitations and things you’d like to do. Make sure to include meals and periods of rest.
Remember that doing what makes you feel best lets you focus on your wellbeing, even if it means disappointing someone.;
, Pregnancy is a great time to allow yourself to focus on what you need. This is especially true if it’s your first baby. After you deliver, children often become the focus of the holidays. Allow yourself to what you want, be it going to parties, staying in to cuddle, or enjoying a massage.Explain to others why you decide to take or decline offers during the holiday season. Most people understand that you may need time to yourself when you’re pregnant. For example, “Hi Diane, thanks so much for your invitation to join you on New Year’s Eve. I think I’m going to stay at home. I’ve been really tired and with my due date getting closer, I’d like to just have a quiet evening at home.”

, The holidays are a time when many people indulge on rich foods, meals, and drinks. Being pregnant makes your appetite bigger and you may be tempted to treat yourself a bit more. Stress can also cause you to eat more. Maintaining a healthy diet with a few treats can keep you and your baby healthy.Eat everything in moderation. Make sure you are getting plenty of vital nutrients at each meal and then allow yourself to have a small treat, such as a cookie or piece of pie., Many people run themselves ragged during the holidays. Take your pregnancy as an opportunity to ask for help when you need it. This can help you not only navigate the holiday season, but also truly enjoy it.Reach out whenever it’s necessary. For example, “Sander, can you please clear the table? I’m a little tired and I can’t reach across the table with my big belly.” You can also send out a message saying, “Hey guys, since we’re expecting this year, we propose having Christmas dinner at a local restaurant. It’ll be easy for everyone with no clean up and plenty of time to enjoy one another.”
Recognize that friends and loved ones want the best for you and are willing to help. Asking someone else to host a holiday meal or gathering or even something as simple as clearing the table can give you much needed “me” time.
 Women generally get dressed up for events during the holiday season. This might include tight dresses and itchy sweaters. In order to make yourself comfortable, which can make getting through the holidays easier, wear clothing that incorporates your expanding belly.Put together a couple of comfy outfits you can wear through the holidays. For example, a festive dress with an empire waist that grazes your belly while highlighting your décolleté is comfortable and beautiful. You can also put on a pair of black stretchy pants with a loose, embellished top and comfortable flats.
 Even if you ask for help, there are still some things you’ll need to do during the holidays. This may include buying and wrapping gifts, decorating, and maybe some baking. Start tackling any tasks you may have early and pace yourself each day as you do them.Focus on one or two manageable tasks at a time or even each day. This can help you do what you need without getting tired or overwhelmed.
 Many women experience fatigue when they’re pregnant. You may find that the rush of the holidays tires you out even more. Take time to sleep whenever you get tired. Getting enough rest may help you navigate and enjoy the holidays with greater ease.Let yourself sleep late, take naps, and go to bed early as you like. Even sitting down more often, such as when you’re shopping, can give you a bit of rest.
 The holidays are a time to enjoy with family and friends. Many pregnant women stay or host at their homes during the holidays. Although this can be fun, it can also tire you. Welcome who understand that you’re pregnant and are willing to help. Host them in a way that makes you comfortable.Recognize that most guests understand that you’re pregnant and need some extra help or “me” time. Feel free to offer pre-prepared meals, say you need a nap, or even not clean in your usual way.
 The holidays can be very stressful even when you’re not pregnant. You probably have friends, family members, or other people who are excited about your pregnancy. You may not want to deal with them during the holidays for reasons such as they are high maintenance or you’ve cut them off. However, declining guests during the holidays can be a very touchy and emotional situation. Focusing on yourself and finding a constructive way to refuse visitors can help you navigate the holidays.Talk to the person if you are on good terms. For example, “Dad, it would be easier if you and mom stayed at the B&B down the street. I’ve been really sick and feeling tired and having guests is just a bit much for me right now.”
Ask a partner, relative, or friend to talk to an unwanted or otherwise high maintenance guest. For example, “Dan, John and Marion want to stay with us over Chanukah. I really like them, but John is such a neat freak that it would be easier for them to stay with other friends. Can you please talk to them about this?”

, Benjamin Franklin once said, “Fish and visitors smell after three days.” Having guests is exhausting for anyone, even if it’s only a short visit one afternoon. Having visitors should be fun and easy for you. If someone visits you and stays longer than you want, tell them it’s time to go. Ways you can politely ask a guest to leave include:”It’s so nice to see you, Willow! I hate to do this, but I’ve been so sick during this pregnancy that my doctor told me I need to rest every couple of hours. I’m happy to visit with you but am going to have to lie down at 12:00.”
”It’s been nice visiting with you, mom, and the cookies are so tasty. I’m not feeling well and going to rest for a while. Why don’t I call you later about dinner tomorrow.”

, You probably have a lot of invitations for holiday parties, gatherings, and other events. You may want to go to all or some of them but are not sure how you’ll feel. Visiting people as you like allows you to come and go as you please and control the situation. It can also help you more easily navigate the holidays as you’re expecting.Excuse yourself whenever you like. You can say, “Oh, that was a burst of heartburn. I’m really sorry, but I left my medicine at home and should really get it to combat this.”
Back out of invitations as you wish. Sending a note or making a phone call to say, “We’d really like to be there tonight, Andie, but I’m feeling big and tired. Let’s schedule dinner or lunch around Christmas instead?”

, You may be in the early days of your pregnancy and not ready to announce it. You may even be showing a bit and not want to say anything because of complications or you not feeling well. Answer questions and discuss your pregnancy only as your are comfortable, even if people show enthusiasm and support.Let anyone to whom you’ve announced your pregnancy know if it is ok to say something to other people or if you prefer to tell people when you’re ready. For example, “Sara, can you please not say anything to anyone at the party about me being pregnant? It’s still so early that I just want to make sure everything is ok before I announce it to everyone.”
Prepare yourself if someone lets the cat out of the bag without your approval. Come up with a generic acknowledgement such as, “Yep, it’s true I’m pregnant. I’ve been so sick that I’m just laying low until I start to feel better.”

, Many women who are pregnant find out that everyone is an expert on pregnancy and childbearing. This can be especially true with family members. If you are around a lot of different family members during the holidays, develop ways to handle relatives with pesky questions and advice. This can help you more easily navigate and enjoy the holidays.Make a list of family who may be invasive about your pregnancy. Think about ways in which you can engage them without offending their sensibilities. For example, say to yourself, “Ok, I know Aunt Laurie is going to ask me to name the baby after my great grandfather. But I hate the name Aloysius. So I’m just going to tell her its on the list we’re considering so she leaves me alone.”
Acknowledge family members’ positions with respect. For example, you may not be married to the baby’s father and have no plans to wed. If your partner’s father makes comments, counter them with, “Sal, I understand that things are different in your culture and generation, but attitudes towards marriage and pregnancy are different in my generation.” You could also say things like, “Uncle Peter, we don’t go to church and think it’s disrespectful to those who do to baptize our baby.”

, Family members are not the only persons who can ask inappropriate and invasive questions if they know you’re pregnant. Friends, colleagues, and even people you do not know may use the festive holiday mood to inquire about intimate details about your pregnancy. Developing a plan to deal with these situations and following through on them can help you get through the holiday season more easily.Expect that people may want to touch your belly. Remember that your body is your own and it’s your choice if you want someone to touch your belly. You can say, “Please don’t touch my belly, Sandy. I understand you’re very excited but it makes me uncomfortable.”
Be diplomatic when answering pesky questions. For example, if someone asks if you plan on a natural or Cesarean birth, you can say, “I plan seeing what happens during delivery and do what’s healthiest for the baby and me.”

, Consuming alcohol is a touchy subject for many pregnant women. Some women avoid alcohol altogether, while others may allow themselves one glass of wine or beer. Drink alcohol according to your beliefs and prepare diplomatic responses to any questions you may get on your decision.Some ways to respond to questions about alcohol include:


Not divulging your pregnant and not drinking alcohol by saying, “You know, Bob, I hit the booze a little hard last night. I’m going to take some time off.”
Enjoying one drink by saying, “In my culture, it’s acceptable to allow yourself one drink. I asked my doctor and he said it is ok for me.”
Avoiding alcohol altogether by saying, “I know many people allow themselves a sip of wine during pregnancy, Sam. But I’ve decided to not have any while I’m pregnant.”

