 People are attracted to someone who makes an effort to look their best.


Dress. Wear your uniform smartly. If the school follows a uniform, then wear it neatly by ironing the uniform and polishing the shoes, etc.
Hair. Don't go overboard with the hairstyles. Opt for a simple ponytail or free hair. If you're a boy, wear neat or interesting hair.
Shoes. Wear sensible and comfortable shoes that ensure you stay on your feet without tripping.
Bag. It's just the first day so you won't be needing too many of things.Let it be new (if affordable) or clean.;
, Clean your face twice a day and exfoliate once a week. This will give you clear skin. Wear makeup if you feel like you have to but keep it natural. If not needed don't wear any makeup; natural beauty is much more admired than fake beauty.

Make sure your hair is always perfect, wash it every three days and don't forget to take it easy on the heat tools. These can damage your hair making it dry and have split ends. If you do though, use heat protection products.
Eat fruit and veg to have glowing skin and drink up to 5 glasses of water a day.
Brush your teeth twice a day with a manual toothbrush and good toothpaste. If you have bad breath, you may want to ask your dentist about what mouthwash is required. However, your bad breath may be because you haven't cleaned your tongue in a while. Scrape off the debris (white stuff) to clean your tongue.
Shower every day with a bodywash that smells good! Wash your hair once every three days.
Clean your face twice a day with ordinary moisturising soap and exfoliate once a week.
 Pumping up your look (haircut, highlights, new clothes and accessories, etc.), will help later on.
 A calm but big smile can do a lot. It makes you look more attractive, it makes you more approachable and makes you look kind! If your teeth are yellow invest in better toothpastes and keep the smile to a minimum. However, don't smile all the time; you'll look like a freak., On your first day, or any day, posture is important. If you walk into school all hunched up looking at the ground you will never be noticed and people won't speak to you. Although if you walk in shoulders back head up you'll look confident, and approachable. And you'll look as if you rule the school! So keep the shoulders back and the head up. Even if your day had a bad start!, Work hard on speaking clearly and with flair. Use clever and interesting words and phrases, to sound smarter than the rest.
 Smile at people and wave, introduce yourself and be confident. This is a great way to make friends and show people that you're not afraid to say hi to new people. Already you will look like you're the person people want to be friends with; because you are. You see it's everyone's first day, they know hardly anyone (maybe people from their old school), so what do they want to do? Make friends! They don't know what to do since it's their first day, so they want a leader. Even though you don't know anything, just wing it. So act confident when introducing yourself. Do this to everyone and you will be their leader, and be kind., Maybe you met some people at your induction day who you want to meet up with before school. Maybe you are walking/getting the bus with some people who you already know! It's better to walk in alongside friends. You're a leader, you're perfectly independent; it's just better to have friends to go with.,


Get to know this person well, along with all his/her friends.






Don't fake your friendship with the popular friend.






Never be desperate in case you want to be friends with somebody. And don't neglect your former friends. Bring them into the circle of influence too.






Once popular, you will likely have access to the popular tables everywhere.
 The first day is perfect for socializing. Meet new people and have a pleasant chat.
 Helping other will make people feel warmly toward you.


Help the new freshers. It will gain you some points from the freshers and they will support you.
 Once you win some awards, it will gain you more friends.
 This will attract more people from the A-graders group.
 Do this not to be popular, but it's fun to have a romantic alliance as a popular person.

