 Be aware that your eyes can play tricks on your stomach. Expect to feel less full when your food doesn’t completely fill the dishware that it’s served on. Expect the same when your food is served as a single piece, instead of many. Even though the actual volume of food is the same in either case, fool your eyes into thinking that you’re eating more by:


Serving single-dish meals with smaller plates, bowls, and cups so it takes up all available space.
Serving entrees and side dishes with everything on one plate if possible (soup being an obvious exception).Cutting whole foods (fruits, veggies, meat, etc) into strips or bite-size pieces before serving.
 Whenever you eat, make that your primary activity, not a secondary one. Set your work aside. Keep the TV off. If you go to a fast-food place, sit in the restaurant instead of picking at food from the drive-thru while you drive.Eating while your attention is focused on something else can lead you to eating more than you need in two ways.
Because your brain is engaged in something else, it may not register that you’re full right away, which means you will keep eating.
Then, even though you may have eaten a full meal, you may feel like you need to eat again sooner than you otherwise would, just because what you remember most is doing something else.
 Remember: you can shovel food into your mouth much quicker than your stomach can process it. Give it a chance to get a sense of how much or how little food it is receiving. Know when you’ve had enough before you eat too much, instead of only realizing it after the fact. To slow yourself down:

Chew slower or more thoroughly than normal.
Avoid large utensils so you can take smaller mouthfuls at a time.
Pause to enjoy the smell each fork- or spoonful before each bite.
Take a couple deep breaths after each swallow before continuing.
Wait a few minutes (five, ten, or even twenty) before deciding on seconds.
 Expect your brain to sometimes mix its messages, since the same part of it that alerts you when your body feels hungry is also responsible for telling you when you’re just plain thirsty. Whenever you think you feel hungry, pour yourself a glass of water before fixing yourself a snack. See if that alone does the trick.Stick to plain water. Since fruits are a great low-calorie food, fruit juices may seem just as good. However, these are concentrated and they have more calories per serving.Drinking one or two glasses of water right before eating can help fill you up before you even start.
Sipping water between each bite can also help fill you up while slowing your eating down, making you more likely to recognize when you feel full.

