 Razor cutting is a great way to add smooth layers and soft texture to straight or wavy hair.If you have thick, curly hair, you can use razor cutting to thin your hair or bring out your natural curls., If you have fine, ethnic, or frizzy hair, you may want to take a pass on razor cutting, as it will only damage your hair and lead to more frizz.If you have medium, thick, or coarse hair is that not too frizzy, however, you can consider razor cutting., Never start cutting your hair blind; have some sort of idea in mind. Do you want to cut you hair short? Or do you want to add layers? What about a face-framing cut? Do some research and print out reference pictures; look for models who have a hair texture similar to your own., A carving comb typically looks like a rat-tail comb, except that it has a razor inside the blades. You can typically get them with wide teeth on one side, and fine teeth on the other., You can wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner first, if you want to, but your hair needs to be wet while you cut it. If you cut it while it is dry, you will risk damaging it. This is important for all hair types, especially curly., Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to divide your hair in half horizontally at your temples. Gather all of the hair from the upper section, twist it out of the way, and secure it with a clip.

If you want more layers, section off the top half or two-thirds of your hair instead.
 You can use the razor-less part of your comb to do this, or a rat-tail comb. Pull it out in front of you, past your face. Give your hand a twist so that you are holding the strand vertically; this will make it easier to cut., Pinch the strand between your forefinger and middle finger. Slide your fingers down the length of the strand, stopping where you want to cut it. Keep your fingers at a slight angle., Use short, quick strokes while moving downward. Slide your fingers down the length of your hair while you cut. This will not only keep you from nicking them, but it will also help create the angle.If you have curly hair, be sure to cut with the curl rather than against it., Work your way from one side to the back, then repeat on the other. Always pull the strands of hair in front of face and measure then against the already-cut strands.Stop when you get to the crown., Once you have finished the bottom layers, unclip the hair at the top of your head. Gather everything from your crown-forward, and comb it over your forehead, so that it falls in front of your face., Work one section at a time, from left to right. Cut into the hair where you want it to end using short, downward strokes. Make the sides longer than the center so that you have a slight, upward curve., Check your hair at the front of your face, and make sure that the left side matches up with the right. Take a glance in a three-way mirror and check out the back of your hair. Use the carving comb to make any necessary adjustments.

If you don't have a three-way mirror, stand with your back to your mirror, and hold another mirror up in front of you.
 Once you are happy with the cut, comb your hair back and gently shake it to dislodge any cut strands. Apply your usual styling product, then blow dry your hair using a round brush for extra movement.