 You can do this in a few different ways. One way is to get a bowl or paper bag and cut/tear a piece of paper into small slips. On one piece of paper, write M for the murderer and leave the other slips blank. The player who gets the M will be the killer.


You can also use a deck of cards. For example, use non-face cards (i.e. anything that’s not a King, Queen, or Jack) and then mix one face card into them. Whoever pulls the face card will then be the murderer.
 Once the murderer has been chosen, you want to have everyone get into a circle and hold hands. This is necessary as the murderer will have to pass along a “squeeze” to kill his or her victims.]

Once you are ready to begin, make sure to have someone turn out the lights.
 Whoever the murderer is can wait as long as they want until they start the squeeze. However, they can only squeeze the hands of the people to the right and left of them. These are the people that will help pass it along until it reaches the victim. For example, let’s say the murderer squeezes the hand of the person on their right three times. The person on their right must then squeeze the hand of the person next to them two times, and so on until it reaches one squeeze. Whoever’s hand is squeezed one time must then “die.”, If your hand is only squeezed once, you are, unfortunately, “dead.” This means you have to stop playing and leave the circle. However, you can die as dramatically as you want. Often, a more dramatic death adds more fun to the game. For example, flinging yourself from your chair, clutching your chest, and moaning.
 This can be tricky as you don’t always know which direction the squeeze is coming from. However, as the circle gets smaller, you should be able to get a better idea of who the murderer is. Once you have an idea, ask “Sarah, are you the murderer?” If you’re correct, you win and the game is over. If you’re wrong, though, you have to leave the circle and the game continues.Keep playing until the murderer is uncovered or until all players are dead and the murderer wins.

