 Have the person whose face you’re painting sit down on a comfortable chair, stool or, other seat. The seat should be at a height that you can reach with ease. If the person has long hair, put it back in a ponytail to make sure that the hair stays out of their face., These are fairly standard. Draw two triangles on the forehead with the chosen color. Draw a smaller pink triangle inside to represent the inner ear area. Color in the inner ear triangle with the face paint, making it completely pink (or pinkish).









The color and shape may change slightly depending on the type of cat you’re painting.
 The nose is usually a simple black shape that covers the tip of the nose and the nostrils. There are, however, several options for the nose. Two of the options are: 








Option one: Draw an upside down triangle on the tip of the nose. Even up the sides after drawing it, then paint it in completely. It is usually black or pink, but the color can vary, depending on which face paints you have.
Option two: Paint around the nostrils. Paint the chosen color for the nose just above the nostrils, continuing to paint the chosen color up the bridge of the nose. Add some black just above the nostrils. Finish by drawing a straight line from the nose base that extends down to the lip.
You could also try a combination of both of these suggested options.
 Whiskers are easy to do, since they mostly consist of straight lines. For a small child's face, three whiskers on each cheek are sufficient. A larger face might be able to handle five. There is no need to do any more than five, or it may start to look overdone.








Draw three to five lines across both cheeks, from the nose towards the sides of the face. Flick them on without pressing too hard, for a more flowing look.
Add dots in front of the whiskers, nose end. These represent the growing ends of the whiskers typically seen on a cat.
 Choose any color that matches the color you have already applied. Apply it on the lips in the manner of lip gloss. Black and red are common choices. Ask the person if they are okay with having face paint on their lips before applying it.








You can outline the lips instead of fully coloring in the lips.

