 When at all possible, you should buy the natural or non-synthetic versions of supplements. There are some synthetic version of supplements, but, unless your doctor specifically tells you otherwise, buy the natural versions. This is because the natural versions are closer to what your body expects from the supplements.


For example, there are some vitamins derived from whole foods, which may have greater benefit for you.
These can often be a little more expensive, which may make these harder for you to buy., There are some supplements that may take different forms. While they are all the same mineral or supplement, they have different concentrations and some will be absorbed better than others. This means that you will have to take more of one than the other.


For example, magnesium comes as magnesium citrate and magnesium oxide. Magnesium citrate is more expensive, but it also has better absorption. This means you have to take fewer doses. On the other hand, magnesium oxide is less expensive, but you have to take more of it to get the same effect.
 Nutrition labels can be hard to understand, especially because of the small print. On the supplement label, you can determine how much of the supplement you are getting. Look for labels that tell you if the supplement is elemental or part of a composite pill. When the label says elemental, this is the exact amount of the supplement you are getting.For example, if the label reads "10 mg of elemental Magnesium," this means you are getting 10 mg of the magnesium. If it reads "10mg of Magnesium citrate," you will actually be getting less than that because the citrate in the dose takes away from the amount of magnesium.
 Supplements are produced as powders, tablets, capsules, or liquids. There are some that are better absorbed as a specific form. Ask your doctor which form is best for the supplements you are taking. There are no right or wrong forms of the supplements, so it will depend on your situation.

For example, B vitamins are often better absorbed in liquid form; however, the most common forms of B vitamins are tablets and capsules.
You may also make your decision based on what is easiest for you to swallow. If you have a hard time swallowing pills, you may want to take the liquid form.
 Your should make sure you buy your supplements from reputable manufacturers. One good way to know a reputable supplement is if they offer them up for testing. Reputable manufacturers also buy and use the best raw materials and invest in having their products tested for quality and purity. Organic supplements are typically high quality as well.Look on the label for seals of approval from reliable labs, such as Consumer Labs, Natural Products Association (NPA), LabDoor, and the United States Pharmacopeia (USP).
Just because they haven’t been tested, it doesn’t mean that the supplements are bad. You can always ask your doctor if you are unsure of certain manufacturers.
Be wary of online ads for miracle minerals or supplements. These types of supplements are likely not regulated by the FDA, which means their ingredients are not regulated. As mentioned, supplements do not cure anything, so these claims are unfounded.
You can also check out the manufacturer’s websites and call them to find out about their quality controls. The better companies should have consumer information freely available.