 Update locks on doors and windows to limit the ability of burglars to enter buildings or individual units within buildings. Updating locks has been shown to reduce burglaries in public housing between 60-90%.Research locks on the market. The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) rates door locks. Locks are rated Grade 1, 2, or 3.
Grade 1 locks are the best on the market. Knobs can withstand six door strikes and deadbolts withstand 10 door strikes.Grade 2 locks also exceed standard residential security, so they are also a good purchase.
 You can also install signs warning potential burglars that your home is protected by security. Generally, people place decals on windows and put a sign on their front yard.


You might benefit from putting up signage even if you don't have a security system. For example, it may deter some unsophisticated criminals. However, more savvy burglars can Google the company listed on the sign and check if they are a real home security company.You can also warn that your home is protected by a dog. It is harder for a burglar to check whether you really have a dog or not.
 Citizens don’t have to rely solely on police to patrol a neighborhood. Instead, they can organize their own neighborhood watches that work with the police. If you live in an apartment building, you can organize a tenant's watch. Take the following steps:Gather a small group of like-minded individuals to form a planning committee. Decide on a meeting place.
Contact your local sheriff’s department and invite them to meet with you. They often have resources they can share with you.
Pick a date for a neighborhood meeting and publicize it using neighborhood flyers and social media posts.
At your meeting, gauge interest and elect someone as the chairperson.
You will need to divide the neighborhood into blocks and assign a captain to each block. You will communicate with each other by phone, email, social media, etc.
Participants should remain alert to suspicious activity and report it to the police.
 Home security systems generally consist of sensors connected to a control panel. Sensors are placed on entry points, such as doors and windows. You may also have motion sensors, either inside or outside your home. When someone trips the system, a siren or alarm will sound.With some home security systems, the alarm monitoring company will be notified, who will then contact the police.


You turn the system on and off by entering a pass code on the control panel. Newer home security systems also use voice commands and remote controls such as key fobs.
Home security systems can also include surveillance cameras to enhance the security.
Costs will vary, so do your research. Generally, the average price is around $35 a month. They also charge equipment and activation fees.