 In order to use Lenses, you'll need to be running the latest version of the Snapchat app. Follow the instructions above for your device to install the latest updates.


You'll also need to be running Snapchat on a supported device. This means an iPhone 5 or later, or an Android device running 5.0 or later. The exception to this is if you installed a tweak on a jailbroken iPhone or a rooted Android device.
 This is usually the first screen that appears when you start Snapchat. You'll see the live capture of your device's front-facing camera.
 The Lenses feature only works when Snapchat is using the front-facing camera. Tap the Camera button in the upper-right corner to switch cameras. You should see your face when you look at your device's screen.
 Lenses works best when it can easily recognize the outline of your face and distinguish your facial features. Try to use it in a well-lit room without shadows on your face.
 After a moment, a wireframe will appear around your face, and different lens options will appear at the bottom of the screen.


If you can't get the feature to start, make sure you're in a well-lit are and your entire face is in the screen. Make sure you press and hold your finger for several seconds without moving. Older devices may not be compatible with the feature at all.
 As you select each one, you'll see it appear over your face.


Lens selection rotates on a regular basis, so a lens you liked may no longer be available.
 You'll see these commands displayed on the screen for some lenses to trigger additional effects.
 Once you've found the effect you want, you can take a Snap as you normally would:


Tap the circle (which has the lens effect logo) to take a still Snap.
Press and hold the circle to record a video snap with the lens effect.
 After taking your snap using the lens you chose, you can add text, filters, stickers, and drawings like a regular Snap. Once you're done with it, you can send it off to your friends or add it to your Story.

