 Ask your pediatrician or school system for a referral to a speech therapist.;
, Many schools have speech therapists on staff, and if your child is a preschooler, the teachers there might have recommendations.


Talk to your child's teacher and explain any discomfort your child has with speaking. This would also be a good opportunity to get an idea of how he or she speaks in class.
 The therapist will share some things you can do between appointments or classes.
 Encourage family members and friends to converse with your child. Talking to different people will increase your child's willingness to try to speak, rather than staying quiet due to a stutter.


Speak slowly to your child and maintain eye contact.
Wait a few seconds after your child finishes a sentence before you respond. Keeping the pace relaxed will help your child feel more comfortable speaking.
Use the dinner table as a good time for family conversations. Limit distractions such as television and cell phones.
 Children feel more comfortable expressing their own ideas than responding to questions.


Comment on what your child says so he or she is encouraged to continue speaking. This will inspire more confidence than a question and answer session.
 Nodding and using appropriate facial expressions will let your child know that you understand what is being said, even with the stutter.


Reinforce that the content of what your child is saying is more important to you than the way he or she is talking.
 Building confidence will often help decrease the stutter and encourage communication.


Spend a little alone time with your child every day. This one on one time will boost confidence and encourage your child to share how he or she feels about the stutter and talking in general.
Try to refrain from criticizing and interrupting when your child is playing or speaking.
 Speaking in public or with people your child does not know might be stressful. Instead of forcing your child to speak, encourage quiet activities without a lot of talking.
 Never try to talk over your child or explain to others what you think your child is saying. This can be humiliating for your child.
 Kids who stutter are often embarrassed and ashamed of the way they talk. Be supportive and patient.

