 You'll need a metal yardstick or meter stick, a thick dowel with a diameter the same as the width of your ruler, rough steel wool, sandpaper, primer, and cloth or duct tape for wrapping the grip, as well as contact cement or metal epoxy adhesive. You'll be using a saw to cut and split your dowel; a vise clamp is also recommended, but not strictly necessary.
 Use plenty of steel wool and scour the ruler as much as you can to roughen and clean the surface. If your ruler's markings are painted onto the surface, the wool might also get rid of them; feel free to scour them away, if this is the case. When you're done, wipe the ruler clean with a dry cloth.
 Measure out a length of dowel that will work well as a handgrip, and cut that piece off the end of the dowel. Measure and mark across one end at the midway point, then carefully saw the dowel into two even, semi-cylindrical halves, using a saw guide to hold the dowel steady.
 Lightly sand the flat insides of each dowel half with very fine grit sandpaper. Following the instructions for your metal epoxy or contact cement, evenly glue one half of the dowel to each flat side of the base of the ruler, and let it dry completely.


If you have a vise clamp, clamp the pieces firmly (without damaging the soft wood) and let it dry that way to improve the bond.
 Once the dowel grip is secure, sand away any excess glue from the seams, and then heft it in your hand. If the grip feels awkward, try sanding down the sides a little bit at a time, alternating evenly on each side, until the grip becomes a bit more oblong and can be held more easily. When you're satisfied, cover the grip with painter's tape and spray a coat of primer onto one side of the blade, then the other. Apply another coat to completely obscure any markings on the ruler. Let both coats dry completely.
 Remove the painter's tape from the grip and sand it with ultra-fine grit sandpaper to remove potential splinters, then wrap it in adhesive medical tape, duct tape, or leather cord to make a soft grip. Your new katana is complete! The flexibility of the ruler blade will ensure that it wobbles rather than breaks or bends when you hit things with it.


This sword may have a square tip and a flat blade, but it can still cause a lot of pain. Be very careful when you play with it. Only hit inanimate objects, like practice dummies.

