 Who do you hang around with? Are they the crazy type? While you are in Middle school / Junior High you do not want to act like somebody you're not. If you're not generally the popular type, stop trying your luck in that big group of kids. Don't bother to pretend to be something your not or you will be wasting your time completely. The popular kids are usually not the nicest, but at the same time they are still reasonable people. If you're not the sporty type, don't bother joining that sports club just because it looks cool. Find something that suits you and friends who love you for who you are.;
, It's perfectly fine to have friends and be nice with everyone but if you are ashamed of some of the things coming from their mouths maybe its time you find others that don't embarrass you to the point you could rip out all of your hair. In middle school squads are really important.
 You don't need to be trying too hard to be someone else's friend it will make you look desperate. While you're in school it's better to be yourself and have people accept you for who you are inside, even if you are loud and carefree! This might seem corny/ stupid, but I have been through middle school before. You should try to be everyone's friend and be as nice as possible (there's no point having fights just because you can) but don't try to buy the same clothes as someone thinking you're "fitting in". Really, you're just looking like a copy cat. If you have to change yourself to fit in with a certain group, change your circle of friends! Keep your secrets to yourself

, If you are mean to people others are intimidated and really want nothing to do with you and that's how it'll stay. You don't want yourself looking like the school bully and an awful person to be friends with. You want to be a really nice person and have both boy and girl friends.Never be the bad guy in a situation.
 If you notice someone if feeling sad, try to cheer them up because then you'll look like a nicer person and people will like you for it. if you help teachers you'll carry out a better reputation and then you'll be less likely to be blamed for any occurrence in the class.
 If you cuss just because you think its funny, its not. Actually cussing is highly unattractive and people won't want you to be at their houses in fear that their parents will hear you and then they'll get in trouble by their parents thinking they're in with the wrong crowd. If you don't usually swear, don't do it just to fit in. Some middle schools have drugs, but trust me STAY AWAY. Is being cool worth having an addiction?

, It's not about the most popular shoes, it's about what shoes you want. Individualism is hard to find in a middle school because people get made fun of for wearing things that others may not particularly like. This is why you'll see kids wearing name- brand clothes so that they'll fit in and look good. Yes, Wearing name brands are in style but are you wearing too much? Take a minute to examine your closet and see how many shirts have brand names like "Aeropostale" written across the front. You seem like a billboard wearing things with names written across the front as if advertising them. Try wearing things occasionally that don't have a name across it.
 No one likes a perv. So don't always pop sexual jokes out of nowhere. Don't say anything about rape or having sex with somebody, it really makes you look dumb. If you say something weird that would make someone else think you are stalking them a rumor may get spread and you may get a horrible reputation as the weirdo.
 Don't think for one minute that by having sex when you aren't ready, doing drugs, something illegal, or crude is going to make you popular because it won't. It'll really get you in serious trouble and possibly screw up your entire life. Having sex when you aren't ready(especially in school) could get you labeled as insecure or clingy and to top that off without protection you could be a mommy or daddy. And its really awful to hear a 13- 14 year- old getting pregnant, nobody would like that and it'd screw up job opportunities and other important things in life. Drugs could get you on parole and kicked out of school and really screw up your record. Try to stay clean throughout your school life, no matter how hard it can be sometimes.

