 You may not have a crock pot. You can also use a simple pot of water to make essential oils, although you'll need some extra material. To start, gather the following:Someone to help you, as this method requires two people
A cotton and linen bag, as well as string to tie it shut
Distilled water
A pot
A dark glass container
A piece of cloth

, Take your chosen plant material and place enough of it into your bag to fill the bag. Tie the bag shut securely. Be careful to make sure the bag is tied completely shut. Pull the knots tight as you tie, and hold the bag upside and shake it to make sure no plant material escapes., Remember to make sure the water you're using is distilled. You do not want contaminants from tap water ruining the purity of your essential oils. Once the bag is submerged, bring the water to a boil., It can get complicated to simmer the water, as you should never leave a stove on unattended. You will have to have someone help you. The two of you can take turns watching the pot as it simmers for the full 24 hour period.It's a good idea to do this on the weekends, as no one will have work obligations requiring them to wake up early.
If you're watching the pot late at night, make sure you're well rested. Use coffee and other caffeinated beverages to keep you alert as you watch the pot. If you fall asleep on duty, the stove could start a fire.
 After the 24 hours of simmering are over, you will see some oil has risen to the surface of the water. Use a spoon to collect the oil and transfer it into a dark container. Make sure to get mostly oil and not a lot of water.Squeeze the bag a little after collecting the initial oil. There may be a bit of essential oil still inside the bag.
 Cover the dark container with a cloth. Set it aside for 24 hours, as this will allow any extra water to evaporate. After this, your essential oil should be ready. You can place it in a sealable glass container. It should last about 12 months.Be careful where you store your container for the 24 hour period. You do not want children or pets to drink the water. Keep it in a safe place, out of reach of others.

