 Here are some to get you started: make letters or animals out of Play-Dough, color a picture, have free play with toys, play in the sensory table, look at books, join in taking care of baby dolls, do puzzles, identify and find plastic shapes, search for everything in the classroom that begins with one letter, sit and sing along to with a CD.
 Here are some more ideas: talk about the month, day and year and mark it on a calendar. Look out the window or watch a weather report to decide on the weather, dress a doll or stuffed animal in what they would need to wear depending on the weather and sing a welcome song together. Count, sing the ABC song, review shapes and colors, and introduce all of the centers. Read a story, classroom rules, or teach children an action poem.
 What will you teach in the Language Center? Will the children learn a letter and trace it, write it in the sand, do puzzles about it, or design on an Etch-A -Sketch? Learning about numbers and shapes is a good ideas. Design shapes on a pegboard. Count small objects. Measure the length of the classroom or measure a pencil with paper clips. Explore making butter for a farm week in The World Center. Type your name in the Myself Center. Play on an online learning website such as www.abcmouse.com or www.beyondthebackpack.com.
 Make sure that it covers what children need to learn for Kindergarten and that it is practical information and objects. Ask yourself: "Why do children need to learn this?" and "How will this help them in life?"

, This is a great list to stick to, though there may be other things that you find that children should learn. In Reading/Language Arts teach: the alphabet, left to right, sight words, memory, same and different, how to take care of books, and how to write. Don't worry about formal writing. Just let children draw pictures or write down something about their day. In Math teach: numbers and counting, shapes, measurement, comparing, sizes, addition, subtraction, patterns, money and telling time. In The World teach: animals and their habitats, seasons, weather, days of the week, months of the year, dates, years, plants, space, water, magnets, holidays, playground safety, animal safety, swimming and bicycle safety, and home and stranger safety, and the scientific method. In Myself teach each child's name, phone number, address, family, friends, pets, school, birthday, body parts, and emotions.

