 A goalkeeper's greatest advantage in soccer is his ability to touch, catch, and punch the ball. By making sure your hands get to the ball as soon as possible, you improve your chances of catching or punching the ball away.


A foot block might be necessary sometimes, but this is often a less controlled. A goalie should use his advantage (his hands) to his benefit whenever possible., Professional soccer players and coaches call this having "soft hands." This means that a goalie must be able to engage his arms, legs, and back muscles to cushion balls shot on net. By absorbing the force of the ball, you stand a better chance of holding onto it. You should:


Keep elbows at least slightly bent, even when reaching for the ball.
Be ready to bend back at the waist for high kicks at fast speeds.
Always move forward toward the ball, to cut down on the shooting angles of the striker., This style of catching is also called the contour catch. It gets its name from the W shape a goalkeeper's hands should take when catching, with thumbs meeting behind the center of the ball and the hands slightly off to the side.Goalkeepers who have smaller hands should bring their wrists close together and their thumbs almost parallel to protect the ball from slipping through their hands.
 You never know when a ball is going to sail through the air at the net, so anticipate the ball by bending your knees, keeping your eyes attentive, and holding your hands open and ready.When you jump to catch an high shot on the net, you should:


Jump to meet the ball at the highest point possible.
Raise your knee closest to pressuring attackers, being careful not to injure any oncoming players., Experts agree, you can prevent letting a ball past you by getting your body behind the ball. This way, if there is, for example, a lot of spin that tears the ball loose from your grasp, it will hit your body and either be stopped or ricochet away from the net.
 When offensive members of the other team are charging in for a goal, you can be jostled around enough to lose your grip of the ball, especially if you are holding it away from your body. By cradling the ball to your body with both arms and hands, you stand a better chance of maintaining possession and keeping hold of the ball., While playing a game of soccer, players are expected to follow strict rules regarding body position and throwing technique when throwing in a ball kicked out of bounds. Most serious soccer leagues use FIFA throw-in rules, which state:The ball must be thrown from the point where it left bounds.
You must throw the ball using both hands.
The ball must be thrown from behind the head.
Both feet must be touching the ground at the moment of release.
You may not come in-bounds, but may step on the field boundary line.
The thrower may not touch the ball until it has touched another player., Survey the state of the field and look for any teammates who are maneuvering into a strong position to receive the ball. Be careful not to throw the ball at a player who is offsides; this will result in a penalty.Players must be at least two meters (6.5 feet) away from the thrower before he throws.
If your team is on the attack and in position while your opponents are scrambling, a quick throw in is sometimes ideal.
You can also throw the ball back to your goalkeeper if you don't have many options for where to throw, though in this case a goalkeeper will have to play the ball with his feet., To prevent yourself from lifting your foot while throwing, or from forgetting to reach the ball fully behind your head, you may want to make your normal throw stationary. To perform this throw, you should:


Position your feet shoulder width apart.
Hold the ball with both hands on either side of the ball.
Point your elbows out to the side to increase the power of your throw.
Reach your throw behind your head.
Follow through with your arms and body.
Raise your heel to keep your balance, if necessary, without losing ground contact with both feet., Many advanced players use this tactic. By running toward the throw-in point, you can build momentum and throw the ball farther than you would normally. However, this style of throw is prone to raised feet or missteps, and can result in penalties. To take a running throw in soccer, you should:


Take several steps away from the boundary line of the field.
Hold the ball with both hands, as normal.
Reach the ball behind your head.
Run toward the throw-in location.
Plant your lead foot outside the sideline boundary to come to a stop.
Throw the ball the moment you stop.
Drag your trailing foot to prevent fouls., These kinds of throw-ins are rare due to their difficulty in executing. A handspring throw will require you to perform a forward flip while holding the soccer ball, throwing the ball the moment both your feet touch the ground.While performing this throw, it's especially important for you to stay off the field so a penalty is not called.
Avoid attempting this throw in slick conditions; rain can result in you slipping and hurting yourself or receiving a penalty.