 This means relinquish the inner resistance you have been offering to the undesirable circumstances, thoughts and other stimuli. Say an 'inner' yes to the present, doesn't matter what you say or do externally but there should be an 'inner Yes' or an inner alignment to what is. What does it mean to say 'inner Yes'?


It means say 'yes' to the thoughts and emotions that arise in your consciousness by allowing, accepting or giving them full attention, etc. However, you don't have to follow them. As thoughts create a lot of problems too. When there is an inner acceptance then you have a choice to follow a thought or refuse to follow it, externally. In the same way you would have a choice to follow circumstances or people or refuse to follow them. There will be time when you would have to say 'No', externally, but that would be a deeper 'No'. Not from ego but from deep within you. Do experiments to learn, like refuse to follow some thoughts and then see the result. However there should always be an inner yes, an inner acceptance.
 Give your full and unconditional attention to anything you are doing. Like brushing your teeth, cooking, washing your hands, walking etc. Most people are lost in thoughts while doing these chores, but these simple chores can be great opportunities to practice surrender."Everybody's life really consists of small things. Greatness is a mental abstraction and a favorite fantasy of the ego. The paradox is that the foundation for greatness is honoring the small things of the present moment instead of pursuing the idea of greatness" (Eckhart Tolle).
 On a Universal level, 'Giving' is the same as 'Receiving'. The more you give, the more you will receive. If you feel like you are lacking something in life then ask yourself, "What can I give in this situation?" Try this for a couple of weeks and see how it changes your reality: Whatever you think people are withholding from you- praise, appreciation, assistance, loving care, and so on – give it to them. You don't have it?Just act as if you had it, and it will come. Then, soon after you start giving, you will start receiving. You cannot receive what you don't give. Outflow determines inflow. Whatever you think the world is withholding from you, you already have, but unless you allow it to flow out, you won't even know that you have it. This includes abundance.
 Be aware of your breath, inner body or sense perceptions, as much as you can. Our inner body is a bridge between form and formless(Universal intelligence). So keeping some attention with in while doing anything, not only keeps you connected to present moment, but also make your actions high quality.Read Stay Rooted in Being for more depth.
 If you are aware enough you would have noticed physical reactions to your thoughts in body and vice versa.Like tautness in face or brain muscles and muscles around your heart in response to a thought.


Similarly, have you noticed emotional reactions to your fearful thoughts in body? like anxiety, fear, anger etc?
If you could single out the moment, you will observe that physical pain and emotions are simply intense pressure or uneasiness or energy you feel somewhere in the body. For the most part, that doesn't make you unhappy. Its the reactive thoughts in response to these that make you unhappy.
As mentioned before - feel this pain or negative emotions and don't let it rise up and turn into thinking.Instead go deeper into them and feel them fully.
 Mental labeling happens automatically on the basis of conditioning your mind had. Have you noticed when you see some person or experience something, there is a small pause and then mind kicks in with the automatic mental labeling?Try it now: Look away from the screen and watch your inner self with high alertness. Did you notice a pause of no thought and then the 'heavy mind machinery' started, causing a taut feeling in your body and brain muscles? Did it feel as if resisting or judging what is?


Many people are not even aware of this automatic mental labeling or painful impulse because of the mental noise or because they consider it "normal".
Similarly, we automatically judge or label people or a group of people. This is the biggest reason why it becomes easier to vilify people, because we have already vilified them in our mind by labeling or conceptualizing them. "To reduce the aliveness of another human being to a concept is already a form of violence" (Eckhart Tolle).
 'She didn't have the decency to return my call', 'He gave me a bad review, I could lose my job', 'the soup is so damn cold, I am never coming to this place again', 'I have been feeling fatigued for a while now, do I have cancer?'.

How simple life would be without these mental stories. 'She did not call', 'He gave me a poor review', 'the soup is cold', 'There's a tautness in my body'."There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so." William Shakespeare.
 When you notice yourself being taken over by mind or any egoic pattern, then smile, laugh and have fun with it.. For example make fun of yourself like 'I am in nut-mode','I have been possessed by ego' etc. Or replace mental noise with constructive content or actions. Its like channeling the reactions(negative energy) in a creative and constructive way to transmute them. It is highly recommended to read Stay Rooted in Beingfor more depth.


Thoughts and emotions is energy that arises in your consciousness. Since energy can only be transmuted, so practices like verbalizing, inner body awareness, breath meditation, etc. help transmute negative low frequency emotions to high frequency. Another reason why resistance is futile. Read Stay Rooted in Being for pragmatic practices.
Allow, remain non-reactive and smile, even if it makes you do or say things you don't want to say or do. Learn from the past but don't feel guilty about it because then it becomes psychological pain.
 Most of us don't know who we truly are. Trapped in this dream of life, seeing reality through limited view of sense perceptions and ruled by thoughts; without even knowing it's not us.That's the reality of the majority of people, i.e completely identified with mind and form. They are not even there. Feeling uncertain or thinking it's nonsense?

, Have you ever noticed that before you start running or any other challenging task, mind activity is high? For example thoughts like "this is going to be tough", "I don't wanna run", "this is a mistake" etc, will start arising in your space of consciousness. However, when you push through that initial static of thoughts and emotions by running for some time, then the thoughts from in the beginning change or disappear. If you had believed your mind in the first place, would you have run? The initial thoughts we get are what we are conditioned to think. This is why instead of fighting the conditioned thoughts, which on the contrary makes them stronger, channel reactive energy of thoughts to something constructive like replacing these thoughts with present moment anchors, making it fun and silly, constructive action, thoughts or content etc. As that's what reconditions your mind. Read Stay Rooted in Being and Become Mentally Flexible for more depth.


One of the reasons for high thought activity is because of the unreleased surplus energy in us. Cause mind acts out this surplus energy via thoughts. So some form of thorough physical workout helps a lot to release this surplus energy as physical exertion drastically reduces mind activity and forces it to surrender. So try different experiments and activities to force your mind to surrender.
 The time is always now.Feeling regret or guilty about something you did or didn't do, enter now from there.
Feeling sad because of some loss, enter now from there.
Feeling resentment, enter now from there.
Too excited or anxious, enter now from there.
Feeling unforgivable or self pity, enter now from there.Again, even if you are going through a bad situation or stuck in past or future etc., what's stopping you to become present now? You have power only in the now. Suppose you forgot to be aware of your breath or inner body, can you become aware of it now? Instead of feeling guilty about it. Just forgive yourself and enter now from there.
 Your mind might ask questions like 'So how can I allow thoughts and emotions?','What does it mean to watch your inner-self?', "What's 'enter now from there'?" etc and come up with mental answers to the questions on the basis of its conditioning. For example your mental answer could be: 'Watching means to just be silent and observe'(another concept). This might trigger another question 'So how can I observe?' and this might lead to another mental interpretation, until mind conceptualizes it with a notion that it will free you of the ego. Which is short sighted and doesn't work.


It's ok to have these concepts in the beginning(or use them from time to time) but realize that the words and concepts are no more than stepping stones to be left as quickly as possible.Finger (concept or thoughts) pointing to the moon (consciousness) is not the moon.
You know who you are? You are the awareness(subject) that sees these thoughts, concepts and reactive thoughts (voice in head or objects)that uses the words like 'I' or 'you' and pretends to be you.
“I am a hole in a flute that the Christ's breath moves through.....listen to this music”- hafiz

