 For many of us, shaving is the easiest way to deal with any unwanted hair issues, including the bikini area. It is quick and easy, but it does require more upkeep than waxing. It all comes down to your personal preference for removing unwanted hair.
 Most bikinis are cut so that you have to do a lot of depilation. For the bikini area, wax is probably the easiest way to remove the hair. You can find products in places like drug stores, salons, and big box stores that can help you clean up the area that will show when you’re wearing a bikini.Some products have wax strips already made up to attach wear you want to remove hair.
Others include wax that you heat, apply, and then attach with a fabric piece.
 If you’ve never done it before, it might be a good time to go to a professional. It’s also difficult to see some of the parts of your own body you’re trying to wax, and another person can do it more easily.
 Exfoliating just means getting rid of dead skin through either chemical or physical abrasion. One easy way to exfoliate is to use a washcloth or exfoliating glove in the shower. You can also try a body scrub that has a physical exfoliant added. Just rub it in, using circular motions, and then wash it off., Since many of us don’t regularly remove the hair in our bikini region, the skin can become sensitive or rough. If you’re waxing, chances are you'll find some oils or lotions in an at-home wax kit that you can use after you wax. Similarly, a professional will work to moisturize your skin at the salon. If you’re shaving yourself, be sure to use lotion to soothe your skin. As the hair starts to grow back in, keep using lotion to help your skin., Many people want to have tan arms and legs when they're in a bikini. If you're one of them, consider choosing an option that doesn't expose you to skin cancer. One of the best options if you're going to be in the water is an extender, also called a sunless tanner. These products work with the proteins in your skin, producing a darker layer of skin, rather than simply staining it.The best tanners of this type to use are ones with dihydroxyacetone (DHA). This additive has been given a thumbs up by the FDA.
You can apply this tanner at home yourself, or go to a salon that uses a full-body spray. The full-body spray will be more expensive, but it will give you a more even tan.
This type of tan, like the kind you get from the sun, will wear off in a few days.

