 You and your doctor should work together to create a plan that describes the use of your asthma medications, your triggers and how to avoid them, as well as what to do when your asthma is flaring.Everyone will have a different action plan as everyone experiences asthma differently.For instance, if the person suffering from asthma is a student, his action plan would include permission to take his medicine at school.The action plan should include emergency phone numbers, a list of triggers to avoid, flare-up symptoms and what to do when they appear, plus how to prepare before exercise so you don't have an attack.;
, Medication is usually the foundation of asthma treatment. Medication prescribed by your doctor can help keep the disease under control and prevent asthma attacks.There are two types of oral and inhaled asthma medication your doctor may prescribe, and most people take both at the same time:


Anti-inflammatories that reduce swelling and mucus in your airways. This can make breathing easier.
Bronchodilators that relax the muscles around your airways to improve breathing rate and the amount of oxygen in your lungs., Oral or inhaled medications that control inflammation can be the most important for a person with asthma. They reduce swelling and mucus in your airways and can help control or prevent asthma symptoms if taken daily.Your doctor might prescribe an inhaled corticosteroid such as fluticasone, budesonide, ciclesonide, or mometasone.It may take daily use over a longer period of time for these medications to have their full effect and they come with few side effects.Your doctor may prescribe leukotriene modifier such as montelukast, zafirlukast, or zileuton to help prevent and relieve symptoms for up to 24 hours.Use these drugs carefully, however, as they are linked to psychological reactions including agitation and aggression.Fortunately, these reactions are rare.
Your doctor may also give you a mast cell stabilizer such as cromolyn sodium or nedocromil sodium.For severe symptoms not controlled by other methods, your doctor may prescribe short or long courses of oral steroids. These have more possible side effects, so are only used when other treatments aren't effective or when acute symptoms are severe.
 Bronchodilators come as short- or long-term medications. Short-term bronchodilators, which are often called rescue inhalers, relieve or stop symptoms and can help during attacks.Long-term bronchodilators help control symptoms and prevent attacks.For some people, pre-treating with medication before exercise can reduce asthma symptoms caused by exercise.
Your doctor might prescribe a long-acting beta agonist such as salmeterol or formoterol.These can open your airways, but may also increase your risk of a severe asthma attack. You will usually take them with a corticosteroid.You may also use a combination inhaler such as fluticasone-salmeterol, or mometasone-formoterol.Ipratropium bromide is an anticholinergic drug that can help control acute or new asthma symptoms. Theophylline is a long-acting bronchodilator which is rarely used for asthma anymore except in certain situations.
 Studies have shown that allergy medications can alleviate asthma symptoms, especially if they are a result of allergies.Talk to your doctor about taking allergy meds for asthma.Allergy shots may decrease your body’s reaction to allergens over the long-term.Nasal steroids such as fluticasone may reduce allergy symptoms and thus reduce asthma triggers.
Oral antihistamines such as diphenhydramine, cetirizine, loratadine, and fexofenadine may reduce or relieve your asthma symptoms. Your doctor can prescribe or recommend an antihistamine for you.
 This treatment, which uses heat to limit the ability of airways to tighten, is not widely available. Speak to your doctor about bronchial thermoplasty if you have severe asthma that doesn’t improve with other treatments.Bronchial therapy requires that you undergo three outpatient hospital visits.The treatment heats the insides of your airways, which reduces the amount of smooth muscle that can contract and limit your air intake.The results of bronchial thermoplasty last for up to a year, which means you may need repeat treatments in subsequent years., Asthma is often worse following exposure to environmental factors that trigger symptoms. Limiting or avoiding triggers can minimize your symptoms or prevent attacks.Add avoid exposure to very hot or cold weather. Cover your face if you are out in the cold or wind.
Keep your immunizations up to date, especially a yearly flu shot, to reduce infections that can trigger an asthma attack.
Avoid smoking and secondhand smoke if you have asthma, as smoke is a significant trigger of asthma symptoms.
Use an air conditioner to reduce airborne pollen circulating indoors.
Reduce the dust in your home through daily vacuuming or removing carpeting.
Cover mattress, pillows, and box springs in a dust-proof cover
If you are allergic to pets, keep them out of the house, or at least out of your room.
Clean regularly to remove dust, pet dander, mold spores and pollen.Avoid exposure to pollens or air pollution by limiting the time you spend outside.Reduce psychological stress., Keep yourself healthy with diet, exercise, and regular doctor’s visit to help relieve symptoms of asthma. Conditions like obesity and heart disease may exacerbate or cause asthma.Exercise regularly to strengthen your heart and lungs. This may also help manage your weight.Eat a healthy, balanced, and regular diet. Consuming recommended daily amounts of fruits and vegetables may even help lung function and reduce asthma symptoms., There is some evidence that heartburn and GERD, or gastroesophageal reflux disease, may damage airways and make asthma worse. Speak to your doctor and treat both conditions, which may help any symptoms of asthma you experience., There is some evidence that using deep breathing exercises in conjunction with medication can help control symptoms and reduce how much medication you need.It can also relax you, which may relieve psychological stress that exacerbates asthma.


Deep breathing helps distribute oxygen in your body. This can reduce your heart rate, normalize your pulse, and relax you, all of which may help control asthma.Inhale and exhale completely through your nose. You may want to breathe to a specific count. For example, you can inhale to a count of four and then exhale for the same number.To optimize your deep breathing, sit upright with your shoulders back. Breathe slowly and evenly, pulling in your belly to expand your lungs and rib cage., Some studies have shown that herbal and natural remedies may help control asthma. Speak to your doctor before using these remedies.Look for products containing black seed, caffeine, choline, and pycnogenol, as these may help relieve asthma symptoms.Mix three parts tincture of lobelia with one part tincture of capsicum. Take twenty drops of this mixture in water to help a severe asthma attack.Eat ginger and turmeric, which may help decrease inflammation., Doctors don’t know what causes asthma, but they are aware that certain factors increase your risk for the disease.Learning whether you are at risk for asthma can help you identify symptoms and get treatment.Risk factors include:Having a blood relative with asthma
Having allergic conditions like atopic dermatitis or allergic rhinitis
Being overweight
Being a smoker or exposing someone else or yourself to secondhand smoke
Working with or being exposed to exhaust fumes or other pollutants

, Asthma has a variety of signs and symptoms ranging from mild to severe. Recognizing potential symptoms have can help you get proper treatment.Some of the symptoms of asthma include:Shortness of breath
Tightness or pain in the chest
Sleeping difficulties
Coughing, especially with exercise, acute attacks, or during the night
Whistling or wheezing sounds when breathing

, If your think you might have asthma, see your doctor. If she thinks you may have asthma, she may order tests after examining you. The following kinds of tests may be the only way to confirm asthma:Spirometry, which examines how much your bronchial tubes narrow and how much air you can exhale after a deep breath.
Peak flow meter tracking, to determine your ability to exhale.Methacholine challenge, which uses an asthma trigger to see if you have asthma.
Nitric oxide testing to measure the amount of nitric oxide in your breath, which can confirm asthma.Scans like X-ray, CT, or and MRI to look at the tissues of your lungs and nose cavities that can make asthma worse.
Allergy tests
Sputum eosinophils, to look for the presence of certain types of white blood cell called eosinophils., Depending on the results of your tests, your doctor may confirm a diagnosis of asthma. Speak to her about the best treatment for your specific case.

