 A corner kick is granted when the ball exits the field behind the goal, after being touched by a defending player. The referee and linesmen are responsible for granting corners.;
, The attacking team places the ball inside the round mark on the corner of the field. Choose the corner closest to the spot where the ball left the field.


You may place the ball on the line of this corner mark. Choose a spot where you can approach it easily, without the flag getting in the way.
 When taking a corner shot, you may aim directly at the box (where both teams will be concentrated), or pass to a player elsewhere who has a better shot. Make sure your teammates know your plan.
 As with any direct free kick, the opposing team must stay at least 10 yards (9.15 meters) away from the person taking the corner.If you're playing on a smaller field, you can use your best judgement.
 As the kicker, you are not allowed to touch the ball a second time after the kick. Once any other player has touched the ball, you are allowed to make contact again., Ask a teammate to position himself close to you, roughly 10–15 yards or meters away on a regulation field. Simply make a ground pass to your teammate and continue playing as usual. Typically, the receiver will attempt to pass to a player in front of the goal, or dribble to a position for a good shot.


Alternatively, the corner kicker runs toward the goal after passing and receives a quick, one-touch pass back from the initial receiver. Make sure to avoid offside offences, although this is usually easy while the defenders are crowded near the goal.
Take this type of corner when your team has an aerial disadvantage, making a kick to the penalty box risky. This can also work if the defense is out of position, so you can rapidly get the ball back into play.
 From your perspective, this is a straightforward cross to the box. Most of the maneuvering here is done by your teammates, who attempt to crowd around the keeper and get in his way. If your teammates can work together and give each other space once contact is made, you have a good chance of either getting a shot on goal or getting a penalty from the crowd of defenders.
 Make the signal that tells your team what you're about to do, and indicates which player should make the goal attempt. Cross the ball just in front of the nearest goal post, or as close as you can get. Your teammate should immediately start running toward that position and attempt to head or volley the ball into the goal as it arrives.


This type of corner gives a short, agile teammate a better chance to make a header. You must be a good crosser to pull this one off, and practice it with your team in advance

, As you would expect, this is identical to the near post run, but your plan is to cross the ball high up and in front of the far post instead. You must select a tall teammate to run toward this position.
 Signal the play to your team so an excellent distance shooter can position himself outside the penalty box. Kick the ball to the edge of the penalty box while your teammate runs forward and makes a shot on goal at long range.


You must be a skilled and powerful crosser to get a goal from this corner. Discuss it in advance, and make sure the shooter knows to act defensively when appropriate. Losing possession from this position could be disastrous.
 If you've got great spin, you can attempt a shot directly on goal. Place the ball on the arc away from the endline. Cross the ball aiming for one of the upper corners of the goal, depending on the keeper's position and your kicking distance. Signal to your teammates what you're doing so they can take possession or make their own attempt if things get messy.

