 When choosing parking, you need to figure out your schedule, flight time, and general itinerary. Without this information, you won’t be equipped to choose a parking lot.


Locate the time of your departure and arrival. From this information, you’ll be able to determine how long you will need to park your car for.
Know the day of your departure and arrival. This may be important, as parking might be limited on peak travel days like Friday and Sunday. Thus, if you plan to travel at a busy time, you may need to consider an off-airport lot or keep a backup lot in mind.;
, The length of time you’ll leave your car in airport parking is also an important factor in choosing a place to park. This is because different parking lots and services are geared toward different amounts of time.


Hourly parking is great if you’re just dropping someone off at the airport and want to escort them to security check point. Very often, this parking is available from one to three hours.
Short term parking provides parking over the course of a day or even several days. This is best if you’ll park your car for less than two days.
Long term parking is parking for more than one or two days. Long term parking is best for people who need to park their car for several days, a week, or even longer.
 Cost is a major factor to consider when choosing airport parking. This is especially true if you are in a city or will be parking your vehicle for a week or more.


The price of long-term parking at on-site lots at smaller regional airports range from $8 to $16 a day. The cost at major airports like Los Angeles International can top $30.
Off-site airport parking at lots not affiliated with airports can be substantially cheaper. In Atlanta, you may find parking as cheap as $6 a day. However, make sure to consider safety and transportation to the terminal.
For people who need different options, the cost of short-term parking is about a dollar per hour at many regional air ports, and $3 or $4 an hour at major airports like Los Angeles International.
You should also consider "Park and Ride" options in your community. You may be able to park for free or inexpensively, and then use mass transit to get to the airport., When it comes to picking your parking lot, you may just want to call the lot or whoever is responsible for maintaining the lot. By calling, you’ll be able to gather important information that you may need when evaluating the lot.


Inquire as to whether you can reserve a spot.
Ask about the general availability of parking for the time you’ll need a spot. For instance, if you need to park your car from 10am on a Friday to 1pm on a Sunday, ask about how busy the lot is on the weekends.
Get exact directions, or ask if there is anything tricky about accessing the parking lot.
Find out about methods of payment. In the past, many lots only accepted cash. Over the last decade, though, many airport parking lots have begun to accept credit or debit cards., When it comes to picking a lot, you need to consider its safety. This is important, as you want to make sure that you or your vehicle are not exposed to crime.


Drive by the parking lot in advance, if you can. From driving by, you’ll be able to see if there are a lot of people loitering or if there is a police presence. If there are a lot of police around, this may be an indication that crime at the lot is relatively regular.
Plug the address of the parking lot into your local law enforcement’s crime record website. By doing this, you’ll see if any crimes have been reported in or near the parking lot. If there are a lot of robberies, grand theft auto, or other similar crimes reported, you should consider a different lot.
Conceal all valuables you may have in your car., Finally, when it comes to picking a lot, you’ll want to think about how close it is to the terminal. This is important, because depending on your schedule and psychical condition, it may be a major factor.


If the parking lot is off-location from the airport, meaning it is not on an adjacent piece of land, you need to think about transportation to the terminal. In many cases, the parking lot will offer a complimentary shuttle to the terminal. Make sure to factor this time into your schedule.
If the parking lot is on-location, but is far removed from the terminal, you’ll have to walk with your luggage to the terminal or take a shuttle. If you choose to walk, be prepared for a walk up to 10 minutes or even more.
 You should have a backup plan of where you’ll park just in case the lot you intend to park is full. This is especially important during busy travel times like the winter holiday season and during the summer.


Familiarize yourself with one of the other lots you investigated when choosing your lot.
Know the address of the lot and how to access it.
Carry cash on you, just in case that is a cash only lot.
Consider parking at long term parking provided by your community’s mass transportation system and then using mass transit to get to the airport., When it comes to parking before your flight, you’ll have to make sure to leave your home with enough time for you to get a spot and then make your way through security to your gate. Without providing yourself enough time, your parking may not run smoothly and you may be late for your flight.


Use popular websites like MapQuest or Google Maps to estimate the time from the airport to the parking lot.
When estimating driving time to the airport, add thirty minutes in case something goes wrong. If you live in a city with bad traffic, consider adding more.
Factor in time it may take to find a spot in the parking lot and then to walk from your car to the terminal.
Make sure to add in time it takes to check your bags, move through security, and walk to your gate.
For domestic flights at major airports, make sure you arrive at the airport two hours early. For regional airports, consider an hour or an hour and a half. For international flights, consider two and a half hours or more.
If you are picking an off-site parking lot, build time in for extra time it may take to get from your spot to the terminal., The spot you choose is also very important. This is not only because of its proximity to the terminal or to a shuttle, but because your car will be there for so long.


The closest spot is not always the best.
Park near a light, in case you return at night time.
Try to park in an over-sized spot or an end spot, so you can minimize the chance of your car being hit or dinged by someone else.
Find a spot close to a breezeway or in a garage. You’ll thank yourself if it’s raining or snowing when you return.
Write down your spot. As some parking lots are extremely large and confusing, make sure to write down the spot number and the section of the parking lot. This will save you a lot of time when you return for your car.