 Think beforehand of a couple really sincere compliments you want to give to the guy. Even if you are not interested in dating him anymore, think about what drew you to him in the first place and what you’ve discovered about him since.For example, say something like, “I really enjoy spending time with you because you’re so adventurous. We’ve been on some amazing hikes together, and I’ve enjoyed your company and our conversations.”
Or try, “I really admire how committed you are to your job. It’s rare to see someone so committed to health care policy reform, and I really respect your dedication.”

, Speak from your own perspective. You should be truthful about why you want to break up, but try to avoid things that might hurt his feelings.Don’t tell him that he’s boring or unattractive, but, if he has a couple qualities that really bother you (such as being rude to strangers or flaking on plans all the time), you can be honest about those. Here are some things you could say:


“I love spending time with you, but I don’t think our personalities mesh well enough to continue our relationship.”
“I think you’re really wonderful, but I’m not in the right mindset for a boyfriend right now.”
“We had a couple of nice dates, but I think I need to be with someone a little more invested. When you cancelled our third date three weeks in a row, I didn’t feel like I was a priority.”
Do not say, “You’re really nice, but I just don’t think you’re attractive.” You can work around this issue to be a little nicer. Try, “We have great conversations, but I don’t think that we really ‘click’ in a romantic sense.”

, You should try to respond to questions about logistics and planning, such as returning things you’ve borrowed. However, try to cut off the conversation if he starts asking more in-depth questions about why you broke up or if you’re going to date that guy from your running club now.


For example, if he asks you when you can return his iPhone charger, make a plan to drop it off in his mailbox later that night.
However, if he asks you if you’re breaking up with him because he’s gained a little weight since you started dating, try to stop the conversation thereafter.
Do not promise that you will talk soon or be friends afterward. You need time to decide if those things are best for both of you.
 Do not have an extended conversation about the break-up. Hear his opinion and thoughts if he wants to share them, but try to leave as soon as possible. You both need time to breathe and recover.