 Turn on your oven and set the temperature to 275°F (135°C)., Select a large baking sheet and cover it with aluminum foil to protect it. Then, place a sheet of parchment paper on top. Lightly grease the parchment paper with shortening or cooking spray., Open your bag of Jolly Ranchers and find the green ones. These are apple-flavored, and you will need them to make your caramel apple lollipops. Unwrap the candy and discard the wrappers., Arrange the candy in groups of 2 to 3 on your baking sheet. The candies should be placed side by side, and resemble squares or rectangles. Remember to leave space for lollipop sticks., Let the candy bake for 6 to 8 minutes, or until the candy has melted. The melted Jolly Ranchers will be thin, and look like rounded squares or circles., Set the sheet down on a stable, heat-resistant surface. Leave the candy undisturbed while it cools. This will take about 5 minutes., Take a small, clean pot and drop some hard, caramel candy into it. You can also use caramel melting bits, found in the baking department of a supermarket, instead. Turn on the stove, and wait until the caramel melts. Once the caramel has melted, take the pot off the stove and set it down onto a stable, heat-resistant surface. You can transfer the caramel into a clean bowl or you can leave it in the pot.

Consider adding some water, milk, heavy whipping cream, or butter to your caramel. This will make it either thinner or thicker; it can also enrich the flavor. Remember, the more milk or water you add, the softer and thinner your caramel will be when it hardens again.Consider further enhancing your caramel by adding a few drops of vanilla extract.
You can also melt your caramel in a melting pot, a double boiler, or in the microwave., You can dip the entire candy into the caramel, or just the top half. Turn the lollipop stick between your fingers so that the caramel covers the entire candy, and wipe the excess caramel off on the side of the pot or bowl Work quickly, as the hot caramel may cause the candy to start melting again.For additional flavor, dip the caramel apple lollipops into a bowl of crumbled walnuts or pecans. Do this quickly, before the caramel hardens. For a less nutty lollipop, you can lay the lollipops on a flat surface, and sprinkle some crumbled walnuts or pecans onto the caramel part before it hardens.
Consider drizzling some melted chocolate over the caramel.
 Once you have covered the candy with caramel, set the lollipop down on a baking sheet and leave it some place where it won't be disturbed until the caramel cools off and hardens., Once the caramel has set, you will need to store your lollipops in a cool, dry location. You can store them in an air-tight container, or wrap them in cellophane.