 If you've had fish in the aquarium before, and the tank is still running, you should still make sure your filter still has nitrifying bacteria.
 It's always good to have knowledge of the variety of fish types that you can purchase. Also make sure you know the pH level of your tank as fish species vary in preference. The aquarist or worker at the pet shop or aquarium hobby store should be aware of the pH needs of the different species of fish at the store., Take a look at their fish species. They will have tags saying whether the fish are community fish, proceed with caution/community fish with other fast swimmers, or non community fish. For most aquarium owners, community fish are your best option. You will want a mix of top feeders, mid-dwelling fish, and bottom feeders.


Some aquarium hobby stores will keep the tanks stocked with common, popular fish but will change up the species of the "specialty" fish. Depending on the type, you may not be able to get it readily in the future.
 Top feeders can be identified by their mouth near the top of their head. Top feeders consist of guppies, mollies, platies, swordtails, hatchetfish, and gourami. Out of these, guppies, mollies, and platies are easiest to take care of.
 There are many varieties of fish to consider in this category. Barbs, danios, tetras, and Harlequin rasboras are just a few breeds. They are all very easy to take care of, but tetras do not tend to live as long as the others. These fish are all schooling fish, and should purchase a minimum of three.
 Cory catfish will clean the bottom of the aquarium and help to keep it clean. Plecos and loaches will eat the algae growing on the tank's walls. For small tanks, Panda cories are recommended. Julii corydoras also make great fish mates.


Algae wafers should also be provided for plecos and some catfish. Supplying wafers ensures that the fish are getting the proper amount of nutrients.
 You do not want to purchase too many fish, but at the same time you want a nice variety. For 10 gallon (37.9 L) tanks, you may just want three top swimmers, three mid-dwellers, and three small catfish. For larger tanks (20 gallons and up), you can start with more fish in the tank. Remember the rule: 1 inch (2.5 cm) fish for every gallon.
 The worker may suggest that you get certain fish over other's if you are a beginner.

