 Fluid tends to pool in the feet, ankles and legs because of gravity. Try to counterbalance this force by elevating your legs whenever you get the chance.Prop your legs up on a chair and cushions at the end of the day, or lie in bed with your feet and legs elevated with pillows.


Ideally, raise your legs above the level of your heart. This helps to decrease fluid pooling and send blood back to your heart.
 Compression stockings are special, tight socks or stockings that squeeze your lower legs. This can improve circulation, and are often used if you are on your feet all day or have leg swelling.Discuss the use of compression stockings with your healthcare provider.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) like aspirin and ibuprofen, beta blockers like metoprolol, and estrogen therapies (including birth control pills) can cause you to retain fluids.If any of these are causing issues, you may be able to switch to a different medication. Talk to your doctor before reducing or stopping a medical prescriptions.


Say something like, "I exercise and eat healthy, but still feel bloated. Do you think any medicine I take is causing a problem?"

, “Water pills,” or diuretics like hydrochlorothiazide and furosemide, can be prescribed by your doctor to help you shed extra fluid. Remember that all medications may have side effects, and that these will only help if your water weight is due to certain conditions. For instance, diuretics will help edema, but should not be used for simple bloating associated with PMS., Massage therapy increases blood flow and can help to drain your lymphatic system, which holds a lot of fluid in your body.This relaxing activity can also reduce stress hormones that may be adding to weight problems. Discuss your concerns with your massage therapist so they can focus their work with appropriate techniques.
 Cortisone is a hormone that your body produces when you are feeling stressed, and it causes you to hold onto water weight.Minimize your stress level to feel healthier and lose extra water. Meditate, practice deep breathing, use aromatherapy, go for a walk – do whatever activities you enjoy and help you feel peaceful.
 Extreme changes in environmental temperature can send signals to your body to retain water. Try to self-regulate your body temperature as much as possible with the appropriate clothing, especially if you will be outside for long periods of time.