 You'll need to decide upon the size, security, run and price. The larger the flock, the larger the coop. The more expensive the coop the more secure and size. If your chickens aren't going to be free-range (let out to roam in the garden) then you need to purchase a coop with an attached run.


You can find chicken coops online, in pet shops or at nearby ranch supply stores. Second-hand coops will be found at a cheaper cost but if you have a large budget, take a look around at a pet shop in town.
A standard chicken needs 4 square foot of floor space in the coop and 8 square foot in the run. Bantams only need half; so 2 square foot in the coop and 4 square foot in the run.
Set up the coop once delivered. What is meant by setting up the coop is constructing it if it wasn't bought set-up already.;
, If the coop doesn't already come with nesting boxes or if the nest boxes are limited to your flock, consider setting up some more. For every four hens there should be one nesting box. Perches are essential to coops so that the hens don't get dirtied in their own waste and can sleep during the night.
 The bedding will layer the floor of the coop and possibly the nesting boxes. The bedding needs to be absorbent to soak in the waste meaning you don't have to clean the coop as often. The top bedding to use is wood shavings whilst the worse would be sand and/or newspaper.


Some people like to layer their coop with two different bedding materials such as newspaper at the bottom and wood shavings at the top to make clean up easier and the material more absorbent.
 This will go inside the nesting boxes to cushion the chickens and the eggs and for the chickens to make nests if they ever want to go broody. Hay and straw is what you need to purchase.
 These are, like many other items, essential to the coop. Depending on your flock size you can choose upon a large drinker/feeder or a smaller one. They can be placed either inside or outside the coop/run.
 Sand tubs for dust bathing, chicken toys, treat bowls, wading water tubs, etc can be added to the coop for extra fun for the chickens.

