 The type you can get from a dollar store or a craft store are ideal. It needs to be tall enough to hang your bracelets from., Try to find a dowel thick enough to cover the hole in your candlestick. You may need to cut it down to the right length.If you can't find a wooden dowel, stuff a rolled up magazine into a paper towel tube, and use that instead.
 Measure across the dowel with a ruler, and make a mark in the center. Don't worry, you don't see the mark once you are done painting.
 Make sure the line is going from side to side. The candle hole will interrupt your line. You can use wood glue, tacky glue, or an industrial strength glue for this.
 Make sure that the mark you made earlier is right in the middle of the candle hole. Try to center the dowel on top of the candlestick as much as possible. If you see any excess glue, wipe it off quickly with a damp paper towel.
 Once the glue dries, you can strengthen your holder by filling the seam between the dowel and the candlestick with more glue.
 Take the bracelet holder to a well-ventilated area and protect your work surface with newspaper. Shake a can of spray paint, hold it 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the holder, and spray on a light, even coat. Wait for the coat to dry, then apply a second one, if necessary. Most spray paints will dry in 20 minutes to 2 hours.


It is better to apply your paint in many thin coats rather than one thick coat. This will give you a smoother finish and prevent any drips or puddles.
You can also prime your holder first using a spray on primer. Choose white for a light color, and black or grey for a dark color.
 Once the paint dries, shake a can of some acrylic sealer, hold it 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) away from the holder, and spray on a light, even coat. Wait for the sealer to dry, then apply a second coat. Avoid applying the sealer too thickly, or you will get drips and puddles. Most sealers will take about 2 hours to dry; some will also require a curing time, which will be specified on the can.


Choose a glossy finish if you want your holder to be shiny. Choose a matte finish if you don't want it to be shiny.
 Once your holder dries, it is ready to go. You can leave it as it is, or embellish it further to better match your room decor. You can use hot glue or super glue to attach these embellishments. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Glue a pretty button or bead to each end of the dowel. Try to choose a bead or button that is the same diameter.
Glue some small pearls, beads, or silk flowers around the top edge of the candlestick.
Glue a large bead or ornament on top of the holder, right in the center.
Wrap ribbon around the dowel in a spiral.

