 You must always start with a sentence that requires a citation. Generally, that means you need a sentence that either quotes or paraphrases the UDHR. Also, the information should contribute something to your essay.


You can use the same example: "As the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states, 'All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.'"

, Like APA and MLA, you need to add information to your sentence to tell your reader where you found it. However, unlike APA and MLA, Chicago style requires you to use a footnote. A footnote places a small number at the end of your sentence (after the period), and then a corresponding number at the bottom of the page, where you add your information.Go to the end of your sentence, and add a footnote. To add a footnote, first place the cursor at the end of the sentence after the period or quotation mark (whichever comes last). Go to "References" in your word processing software, and choose "insert a footnote." It should place a number at the end of the sentence and down at the bottom of the page.
It should look like this example: As the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states, "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights."1


, Go to the corresponding footnote at the bottom of the page. Add your footnote citation. Unlike APA and MLA, you generally include all of the information for the citation in the footnote.Start with the organization, followed by a comma, and the title. Then add an open parenthesis, a phrase that identifies the type of source, the place of publication, and the year, followed by a close parenthesis. At the end, include the location you found the information (such as the page or article number).
For instance, your footnote would look like this example: 1. UN General Assembly, "Universal Declaration of Human Rights," 217 (III) A (Paris, 1948), http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/ (accessed September 6, 2016).
In the citation, "217 (III) A" is the document reference, while "Paris" is the location and "1948" is the date. The website is where you found the document.
 Your end reference in Chicago style will be very similar to your footnote. Basically, you'll just change some of the punctuation and capitalization to make it an end reference, and put it at the end of your paper.The end citation would look this way: UN General Assembly. "Universal Declaration of Human Rights." 217 (III) A. Paris, 1948. http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/ (accessed September 6, 2016).
Just change most of the commas to periods, and capitalize what comes after the period.

