 Depending on your age and gender, you will need to ensure you are getting a certain amount of iodine each day.If you are 0-6 months: you need 110 micrograms per day (mcg/day) of iodine.
If you are 7-12 months: 130 mcg/day.
If you are 1-3 years old: 90 mcg/day.
If you are 4-8 years old: 90 mcg/day.
If you are 9-13 years old: 120 mcg/day.
If you are male and 14 and older: 150 mcg/day.
If you are female and 14 and older: 150 mcg/day.
Women who are pregnant or breast feeding need higher amounts of iodine. Speak to your doctor about exactly how much iodine you should be getting every day based on your age, gender, and other factors, such as pregnancy.;
, Most table salts have iodine as an added ingredient. Unless you are on a low-sodium diet, adding table salt to your meals every day is an effective way to add iodine to your diet. Most adults can get 100% of their daily intake of iodine by adding a total of just over 1/2 teaspoon of iodized table salt (approximately 3g) to their meals.You can add iodized salt when you cook and bake. For example, if a recipe calls for salt, use iodized table salt. Iodized table salt does not taste any different from normal table salt.
You can also replace your salt shaker with iodized table salt. That way, when you reach for salt during a meal, you are also adding iodine to your dish.
 A diet with too much salt could lead to the same symptoms as iodine deficiency, including goiter and hyperthyroidism., Dairy products like milk, yogurt, and cheese are all good sources of iodine. Incorporate a variety of dairy products into your diet, as well as eggs.Start your morning with a bowl of yogurt. A single cup of plain, low-fat yogurt can provide up to 50% of your daily recommended iodine intake. Add fresh fruit, granola, and honey for flavor and more essential nutrients.Drink reduced fat milk. A single cup of skim or 1% milk can provide almost 40% of your daily recommended intake of iodine.
Have eggs for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. A single large egg can provide about 16% of your daily iodine intake; serve it on toast, in a breakfast burrito, poached with asparagus, or in a quiche.
Add goat’s cheese to your salad or to your pizza. Cheese is high in iodine and also contains essential B vitamins, calcium, and protein. One ounce of raw cheddar cheese contains around 10-15 mcg of iodine. Goat’s milk is usually easier for most people’s digestive system and contains high levels of calcium and protein., Seafood, such as cod, haddock, and shrimp, are all excellent sources of iodine. Focus on eating a variety of seafood to get the healthy fatty acids, vitamins, minerals, and iodine you need to maintain a healthy concentration of iodine in your body.Go for white fish like cod, sea bass, and haddock. Bake the white fish or steam it to get the most nutritional benefits, and ⅔ of your daily recommended intake of iodine.
Have a tuna sandwich for lunch or shrimp cocktail as an appetizer or a snack. A can of tuna, about 3 ounces, can provide about ¼ of your daily iodine intake. 3 ounces of shrimp proves nearly ¼ of your daily iodine intake.
Be wary of overeating seafood as certain seafood can contain high levels of mercury, which can be toxic if they are over consumed. Seafood such as haddock, whitefish, trout, shrimp, and scallops are known to have the least amount of mercury. Avoid eating seafood such as ahi tuna, canned albacore tuna, sea bass, bluefish, and swordfish, as these are known to have higher levels of mercury.
 Because this region posses more iodine salt quantity in it naturally.
The vegetables and fruits grew in sea region having more natural iodine salt., Enriched grains are products where certain B vitamins and iron have been added to them after processing. They are also great sources of iodine.


Look for enriched bread at your grocery store. Many brands will state if they are enriched on the label.
Make whole wheat enriched pasta with cod or other seafood to have a meal rich with iodine.
 Vegetarians and vegans are at a higher risk for iodine deficiency as they do not eat iodine rich sources like seafood or dairy products. Beans, especially navy beans, are high in iodine and fiber., Seaweed is naturally concentrated with lots of iodine, but it can provide excessive amounts of iodine in your body, especially brown seaweed such as kelp. So only eat seaweed once a week (yes, the seaweed that is wrapped around your sushi counts), especially if you are pregnant.Excessive amounts of iodine can lead to serious health issues including goiter and hyperthyroidism.