 That is, shake with a firm hand, introduce yourself confidently and sit down prepared to impress. Obviously your name should be known, but that does not prevent you from offering the gift of your name regardless: "Debra Fine, thank you for the opportunity to interview with you." Don’t forget to listen to how the interviewer introduces himself. Is he Jon or Jonathan or Mr. Wright? If it’s the latter, say, “Hello Mr. Wright, I’m Debra Fine and it’s nice to meet you.”;
, Making eye contact in an interview is one of the most important moves you can make. It says, “I’m confident and capable.” Use your convincing smile to show that you’re personable and friendly. With this physical activity you’ll have a winning formula for positive non-verbal communication.
 In an interview, it’s important to listen to how the interviewer describes the job and listen to the questions being asked. Let the interviewer know you are actively listening by offering verbal cues such as: "That is interesting," or "Tell me more..."

, Begin and end your interview with small talk. Approach interviews prepared to talk about the industry, current events, the weekend and even the weather to prevent awkward moments or appearing distant. Don’t just answer inquisitions, elaborate on interview questions to show that you’re mature enough to have an adult conversation. If you get an opportunity, try to make a more personal bond. If an interviewer asks you where you grew up, say, “I’m originally from Dallas, Texas. What about you?” Or, if you’re asked about how your weekend was, reply with more than the cursory “good.” Make conversation and say, “I had a great weekend; I went to the new Impressionist exhibit at the museum. Have you had an opportunity to view it yet?” If you can draw a connection with this individual, and he/she with you, it will make your interview a bigger success.
 You may be extremely advanced at texting on your phone or networking on LinkedIn, but it’s critical that you aren’t just a technical device talker. Before an interview, practice calling your friends instead of texting them or meet in person for a more intimate conversation. Be particularly aware of your body language and tone since this is a 3-D interaction. For example, it’s easy to casually slouch when typing or texting, but when you’re engaging in a face-to-face conversation, you should sit straight up and in a professional position. And, instead of using slang or pop culture abbreviations as you would with your digital dialogue, use your most sophisticated vernacular.
 Show the interviewer that you are groomed for sophisticated conversations by asking intelligent and thought provoking questions at the end of your interview. Use this time to ask how the decision maker originally got into marketing or what the interviewer’s career path has been.
 Before leaving an interview, get the interviewer’s business card. This will ensure you have the proper spelling of the individual’s name and also address. If there are multiple interviewers, be sure to collect all their cards. You’ll want to send a proper thank you note through the mail, not email, because your communication shouldn’t end when you leave the interview, and a personal note delivers a lasting positive impression.

