 If you don't feel comfortable writing your own storyline, try adapting a book or movie, or putting a twist on one. Remember to write in script format! Type it on a word program on the computer and save it, or have a parent type it and save it. Make sure you have plenty of roles, or characters!;
, Get a piece of paper and a pen, then sit down where it's easy to think. Think about the play, the setting, the characters, etc. and get an idea of what your play will look like: think about what kinds of props, sets, and costumes you will need, how many actors/actresses you will need, what kind of people you want in the roles.
 Let people know about it so that you can hold auditions: send out emails or have a parent send out emails, give fliers out to neighbors and friends, tell your teachers at school. Remember to tell everyone that this will be produced and presented by kids only!

, It should include contact information (actor's name, parent's name, address, phone number, email address) as well as their height. If they have any experience with acting, make sure there's a space where they can say that! You might want to have the performers or the performer's parents help out with backstage things such as props, sets, and costumes: in that case, provide a spot where they can say how they can help.
 Try doing a group reading and a monologue reading at your audition. The group reading would be a scene or part of a scene from your play for everyone to perform. Another option for a group reading is to have the actors split into groups and do more than one reading. The monologue reading would be best optional. An actor wishing to do it should find a monologue (paragraph from a play or book that has a single speaker and opportunity for dramatic interpretation. In the case of a book, it should be first person) and present it to the director.
 Look at how each actor portrays the character: notice their voice, their body language, their expressions, everything. Also see who has a good, positive attitude, who follows your orders, and who is friendly towards the other actors. Use these notes to help decide your casting: as well as someone who is a good actor, you want someone cooperative in the main roles. The last thing you need is a bunch of stuck-up stars! Once you have decided the main roles, place people in the smaller roles and ensemble, or supporting cast. A good ground rule for these roles is to have the older actors have the larger roles in the ensemble.
 Try typing it and emailing it. Set times for the various roles to rehearse: have people in certain scenes come at different times. Be aware that sometimes people will have conflicts.
 If you can, rehearse at the place where you'll be putting the show on. If not, use a large room such as an empty basement. If the weather's nice, feel free to rehearse outdoors: however, always have a backup plan if it starts to rain or gets cold. You'll need to do blocking: that is, decide where everyone will stand, how and where people will move, where set pieces will be, etc. Also, don't be afraid to give your actors tips. Make sure you stay calm during rehearsals!

, You can have other actors and/or parents help you with this. Keep in mind your setting and characters. Try hunting through old dress-up clothes and Halloween costumes, and go to craft stores. Look for items in your house, too! You can also ask the actors to contribute items for their costumes or props. For sets, try painting old sheets for backdrops. Use fabrics and decorations to transform furniture into trees, plants, buildings, whatever you want.
, These are programs for the play that show the names of all the actors and the roles they play. Make sure you include all roles, as well as everyone who helped backstage! Also, double-check that everyone's name is spelled right- try looking back at your audition forms. Don't forget to give yourself a credit in the playbill, for all your hard work writing and directing!

,