 Being honest doesn’t just mean blurting out whatever you think as long as it’s true. You must also be considerate of the receiver. Teach your kids to stop before responding and follow this popular three-step filter: Is it true? Is it necessary? Is it kind?If your children believe that what they want to say is true, then advance to the next step. Is the message adding anything of value to the silence? Is it constructive? If so, then you’ll advance even further to determine whether it is kind. This is the final filter because even if the content is true and potentially necessary, you don’t want to speak in unkind ways.
If your children arrive at a message that meets the first two criteria but not the third, teach them to save their remarks. Or, they can brainstorm a more socially acceptable way of delivering the message that doesn’t hurt anyone’s feelings. However, be sure to teach your children the difference between being nice and being kind. Sometimes it is necessary to tell people things they might not want to hear to show them kindness.
 Experts contend that pro-social lying, that is lies that smooth over difficult social interactions and spare others' feelings, can be beneficial. However, children can easily get confused or start excusing their lies if you teach this tactic. Instead help them find ways to be honest and consider the feelings of those around them simultaneously.Teach your children how to make amends if they do hurt someone’s feelings.
 Limit little white lies that you tell to your children and others. If you do slip up and tell a white lie, use the situation as a learning opportunity. Ask your kids how you could have handled the situation better.For example, you tell your sister that you have plans because you refuse to hang out and listen to her boyfriend drama. Your children overhear you. Instead of excusing your behavior, allow them to educate you.
You could say, “Gee, telling lies even to protect someone’s feelings isn’t right. What do you guys think I could have done to be honest in this situation?” Listen to your children’s responses and work together to come up with ways to tactfully tell the truth.
They might suggest you telling her “Okay, we can hang out, but only if there’s a ban on discussing relationship issues. Just for tonight.” This is an honest and straightforward way of telling her how you really feel without being unnecessarily rude.
Another option is to show your kids kind ways to be honest while also teaching them how to avoid getting involved in a situation. For example, you could tell your sister that you're just not feeling like it this evening and set up another time instead.
 If your kids come clean about making a mistake, or even confess later after telling a lie, reinforce their honesty. Being honest can be difficult, especially if kids fear the consequences. Make honesty a praise-worthy habit, and give them a pass when they make the hard choice to tell the truth.


Rather than punishing a child after being honest—which may only make them lie in the future—give them a warning. You might say, “I’m glad you confessed to breaking the vase, Charlie. That was a smart choice, to tell the truth. But, I do believe you owe Grandma an apology for breaking it.”It may be helpful to have tiers of consequences, such as minor consequences for minor offenses like lying and then confessing the truth before they are found out, and more severe consequences for more severe actions like lying and denying that they are lying despite evidence that they are.
Do not ask your children questions that you already know the answers to if you suspect they are lying. This may give your children the idea that if they are creative enough, then they can get away with things. Gently confront them with your suspicion and encourage them to tell the truth.
 Picture books, fables, and kid-appropriate TV shows may offer great storylines that help you reinforce the importance of honesty with your children. Visit your local bookstore or library to find books at your child’s age level that help drive home the message of being honest without being hurtful.Books, movies, and TV shows can work as great conversation starters about the concept of honesty. Afterwards, you will want to discuss with your children what the characters went through and any lessons they learned.Being Frank is a great picture book that expounds on the topic of telling the truth while considering others’ feelings.