 If you're using Windows, go to the Control Panel and go to Add/Remove Programs and find Trovi and click Remove. Sometimes this doesn't completely work and it reappears.

In that case, use a Registry Cleaner like CCleaner or RegSeeker which removes the files and any folders. RegSeeker also has a search engine you can use to find remaining files and folders and delete them off the registry.;
, This is located in the Control Panel of Windows. Choose a time the computer worked well by clicking on a time or date before the Trovi virus was install., Open Internet Explorer and click on Toolbars. Locate the Trovi toolbar and click remove/delete., Find your browser's homepage settings. Replace the Trovi web address with the homepage you desire.

Find the Internet Explorer icon on your computer and right click on it. Go to properties and look for the house icon with the Trovi webpage address. Replace that address with the address you want for your homepage.
Open the web browser and find the house icon. Click on it and repeat the step above.
 Many users accidentally install this legitimate-looking software when installing many freeware programs. If you are offered it, do not press the install options and make sure the boxes are unchecked for installation of Trovi. Also look for the skip or decline button.

Use caution when downloading files from sites such as CNET. This virus is often included on many freeware files on this and similar sites.
 When you go to some sites, this happens from time to time, especially on mp3 or YouTube converters. The first obvious sign is your homepage changes to Trovi and no matter what you do with the homepage settings Trovi manages to keep your homepage on it. Another sign is the Trovi Toolbar that appears near your original toolbar. When you use the internet you are more at risk for errors and pages not to work or display properly.
 Some antivirus programs don't recognize Trovi as an virus program. Good antivirus programs can keep this annoying thing off your computer for good.