 If you haven't been exercising much, don't expect to go out and swim 40 laps at the pool. You need to start smaller. Try starting with just what you can do each day. That is, when you find yourself wearing out, stop. Tomorrow, you'll be able to go a little bit more. Plus, going slowly can decrease your chances of an injury., Some people don't like to exercise because they find it painful or too strenuous. However, you shouldn't be in pain while exercising. If you are, you should talk to your doctor. You may also need to find a different exercise that's more comfortable. Swimming is a great exercise for a wide variety of body types and exercise levels, so it might be a good place to start., Goals can help encourage you to keep going. Your goals should be small, measurable, and concrete. That is, you may have an ultimate goal of running a marathon, but you need smaller goals that you can use to work up to your larger goal, such as starting by running 10 minutes a day for 4 days. Then, you can increase as needed.Measurable goals are important because you can actually achieve them and hold yourself accountable. That is, making your goal "I will run more" isn't really helpful because it's not measurable. "I will run for 10 minutes a day 4 days this week" is.
Try working up to 150 minutes a week, broken up in 10-, 15-, or 30-minute increments., If you just try to fit your exercise in when you feel like it, you're less likely to do it. A better plan is to exercise at the same time every day or most days. For instance, you could get up a bit earlier in the morning to do your exercise or try to fit it in right after work. Scheduling it as part of your week makes it easier for you to stick to it., One of the best ways to motivate yourself is to have someone who can help hold you accountable. If someone is expecting you at the gym in the morning, you're more likely to drag yourself out of bed than if someone's not there. Therefore, try to find someone with a similar schedule who wants to work out at the same time. You can even try making a friend at the gym who always seems to be there at the same time.You're also less likely to stop going with someone else there, which means you won't slip into the non-exercising part of yo-yo exercising.
 Some companies offer discounts or even free gym memberships. Another option at some companies is an on-site health class during or just after work hours, such as yoga.Check to see if your company has a program like this one. If it doesn't, talk to your boss about what you could get started. Companies like to see their employees healthy, so they can work harder.


Some companies even allow workers to take a bit of time off during the week to go to the gym.
Having a workplace that's friendly to a healthier lifestyle can encourage you to be more vigilant about exercising.
 You can find a wide variety of exercise apps for your smartphone. They can help track how many steps you take in a day, and many let you set goals and then note when you've achieved them. It's a good way to have an outside accountability source for your workouts.


An exercise app will be a constant reminder to keep going, which can keep you from sliding back into the inactivity part of yo-yo exercising.
You can also get devices, like fitness watches, that connect to the app. These devices can be good because they can track your steps even when you don't have your phone on you, as well as keep track of your heartbeat and other health stats.
 If you miss a day, you may think your goals for the week are ruined, and you may decide not to exercise anymore that week. However, it's important to remember that even some exercise is better than none, particularly because if you completely miss a week, you're less likely to start up again. If you miss a day, get up the next day and go. Don't beat yourself up; just move ahead with your goals.
 Even if you find something you love, you're going to burnout if you do it all the time. Try to switch up your exercise routine. For instance, try yoga one day, swimming the next, and running the third day. Of course, you still want to stick with exercises you mostly enjoy, but adding variety can keep you interested.In addition, changing up your routine will work different muscle groups, so you'll get a better workout overall., Getting help from a trainer can help make your workouts more interesting and more efficient. For one, a trainer can show you new exercises to try, as well as help you figure out different pieces of equipment. Plus, a trainer can show you how to do exercises properly so that you're getting the most out of your workout.Most gyms have trainers available for an extra fee. Some even have them available for free.
 If you find yourself bored with your routine, try joining an exercise community online with fitness experts. You'll get ideas for new exercises, and you may even find a new exercise that you absolutely love. Stay open to new possibilities., Having good background noise can help you keep going longer. For instance, listen to high energy music to keep you engaged and to pump you up. You might also like listening to audio books because then you have to go exercise to hear what happens next.
 Sometimes, you need a break between exercise days. That's perfectly fine, even healthy. If you push yourself too hard, it could lead to injury. It could also lead to burnout more quickly. Therefore, make sure you take time to rest, as it can help keep you on track.In fact, you don't even need to push yourself that hard when you work out. Even moderate activity is beneficial. That means that you just need to breathe a little heavier, such as still being able to chat but not sing. You also should feel a little warmer, but you don't need to sweat a lot.Listen to your body. It will tell you when you need a short break., One of the problems yo-yo exercises have is they tend to overdo it when they're "on." In other words, you may find that you want to exercise 2 to 3 hours every day. The problem with that is that you will burn yourself out. That type of lifestyle isn't sustainable for most people, so make sure you stick to what you can handle. That way, you'll be more likely to keep going., While you do need to take rest days, you can't let that stretch into days on end in a row, or you'll lose momentum. If you find yourself saying, "I'm too tired," remember that working out can actually boost your energy, even though it doesn't feel like it when you're trying to wake up in the morning to go workout., If your only reason for exercising is losing weight, you're more likely to yo-yo exercise. Instead, think of it as changing your lifestyle. That is, you're not exercising more. Rather, you're creating a healthier lifestyle. The change in mindset can help you stick with it because then exercising becomes part of your routine., That is, if you know you always forget your workout clothes on the way to work, make sure to stick them in a bag by the door. If you know that once you get home, you won't get out again, try to go to the gym before or after work instead., Rewards can help motivate you to stay active. However, they only work if you just use them after you workout or achieve a goal. Try to skip food rewards, though you could do something like have a cup of coffee. You could also spend some time reading or doing an activity you enjoy., While getting to the gym or setting aside special time for exercise is good, adding more physical activity to your everyday life can also be helpful. For instance, try taking the stairs instead of the elevator or escalator.You can also park farther out in the parking lot when you go to a store.
Take up gardening, as that's good exercise.
Walk in place while you talk on the phone instead of sitting.
 It can be tempting to kick yourself while you're down, when you miss a workout routine, for instance. You may also not be at the level of fitness you want when you're first starting out. However, the more you get mad at yourself, the more likely you are to quit. Instead, try to stay positive.For example, instead of saying, "You're so lazy for missing that workout this morning," you could say, "Yes, you missed your workout this morning, but you'll get back on track tomorrow."

