 One very essential way to prevent and treat constipation naturally is by drinking an adequate amount of fluids. The second you're able to drink in the hospital, start sipping on hydrating fluids.In general, people need about eight 8-oz glasses (2 liters) of clear, hydrating fluids each day; however, you may want to aim for more than that to help get your bowels restarted after your surgery.Try fluids like: water, sparkling water, flavored water, decaf coffee and decaf tea.
Avoid caffeinated beverages since these can deplete your body of fluids. Also stay away from sodas, fruit juice cocktails, fruit drinks, alcohol and energy drinks.
 In addition to plain water, there are some teas that are designed to help give you the gentle urge to go. Try including these teas as part of your fluids after surgery.


Look at your local pharmacy or a health food store for natural laxative teas. These are not stimulants and just combine herbs and dried tea to help relieve constipation.Since there are a variety of herbs and teas that can help move your bowels, look at the front description. It should say "gentle laxative" or "bowel regulation." This is the type you're looking for.
Try to drink these teas plain without adding sugar; however, just a touch of added sweetness from honey won't hurt.
Drink a glass or two of these teas daily, but don't overdo it. Many times, it takes a few hours for these herbal remedies to work.
 An old school natural remedy for constipation that works well is adding prunes or prune juice to your diet. This is a great first remedy to try when you're feeling constipated.Both prunes and 100% prune juice are great natural laxatives. Prunes have a naturally occurring sugar known as sorbitol which acts like a gentle laxative.
Start by drinking about 4 – 8 oz of prune juice once a day. Make sure that you buy 100% prune juice. In addition, if the prune juice is warm, it can help alleviate your constipation a bit quicker.
If you want to eat prunes for your constipation relief, buy prunes with no added sugar if you can. Measure out a 1/2 cup of prunes to start with.
 Another natural method to relieving constipation is by adding in a fiber supplement. When combined with an increase in clear fluids, this is a great way to soften your stools and make it easier to go.There are a few different ways that you can add fiber to your diet. The most common are fiber capsules, fiber gummies and fiber powder. All are acceptable as a supplement.
Take fiber supplements one to two times a day; however, always read the package instructions. In addition, more is not always better. Too much fiber can cause a lot of cramping, bloating and stomach upset.
Always check with your physician about taking additional pills or gummy supplements. They may not be appropriate for you after your surgery.
 There are a variety of natural ways to get your bowels going and making your stools soft; however, there are foods that you should avoid or limit immediately after your surgery.


Some nutrients in food, like potassium and calcium, can promote constipation or make it worse. If you're eating foods that have high levels of these nutrients or eating them in large quantities, you could worsen constipation.
Foods that can worsen constipation include: dairy products (like cheese, milk or yogurt), bananas, white bread, white rice or processed foods.