


If he is going into a crate, place the crate in a quiet area of the house and put a safe bone, favorite toy, or other treat inside to occupy the dog. The dog will go in for the treat; once he or she is in, drape a dark-colored blanket over the crate to create darkness. Praise him and close windows and doors; you can also play a TV, radio, iPod, etc. to cover the sound of the party, or use the soothing music.
If the dog is staying in the house, choose a room where the dog will be able to see the people but which people will not enter (for example, an office or study). Leave something to keep him occupied, and consider playing music/etc.
 Avoid tables, where scraps can lay or food can sit tantalizingly close. If a guest offers your dog food, politely inform your guest that human food can be toxic for dogs and that you would prefer for your dog not to eat any. Guests, especially children, might ask you if they can walk or pet the dog; if they do, tell them that feeding the dog food is not allowed. Do not leave the dog unattended – this is particularly dangerous outside, where stray fireworks can land or the dog can bolt from if fireworks go off or there is another loud noise.
 You’ll want to be on the lookout for anything that could scare your dog, but keep in mind that your dog can sense your emotions and will often copy them. For example: If you’re on edge and nervous, your dog will sense this and be on edge and nervous as well. Clearly, you can’t control your guests’ behavior, but take the following precautions:


Stay aware of the effect of the party’s tone on your dog. If your dog starts to become anxious or overly active, the best option can be to put him in a separate room, crate, etc.
Ask kids to play away from your dog. Children running around can be especially upsetting for a dog, and it’s a good idea to ask any kids upsetting your dog to quiet down or play in a separate area.
 These are an unfortunate danger in places where fireworks have been set off or have been set off nearby, and it’s wise to stay on guard for any, as fireworks are unpredictable and can be highly dangerous.

