 Most ice cream machines have a bowl that you need to freeze beforehand. If you forgot or didn't get to freeze the bowl, make the ice cream base first. Put the base into the fridge and the ice cream maker bowl into the freezer. Churn the ice cream the next day.


Philadelphia-style ice cream is egg-free. It has a light and delicate texture and flavor. It is also quicker to make, compared to French-style ice cream.;
, Even though you won't be cooking the ice cream base, you still want it to be as cold as possible. Fill your sink with enough cold water and ice so that it comes up ½ to ⅔ of the way up the side of your mixing bowl. The ice bath should be more ice than water.
 Pour both into a large bowl or saucepan, and stir them together. Make sure that you have enough room for the sugar as well.
 This will take about 3 to 4 minutes. Taste the mixture and make sure that it doesn't feel grainy. If you are using a glass bowl, look at the bottom and make sure that there are no grains of sugar.
 At this point, you can also add in other flavoring extracts or oils.
 Set the bowl down into the sink. Make sure that the ice comes up ½ to ⅔ of the way up the sides of the bowl. Leave the bowl in the ice bath for 30 to 45 minutes.
 Take the bowl out of the ice bath. Place a sheet of plastic wrap right onto the surface of the mixture. Put it in the fridge, and leave it there for 3 to 24 hours.
 Most types of ice cream machines have a bowl that needs to be frozen for several hours. If you forgot or didn't get a chance to freeze the bowl, prepare the base as instructed in the following steps. Put the base into the fridge and the bowl in the freezer, then churn it the following day.


French-style ice cream is also called custard style. It is made with egg yolks, which gives the ice cream a smooth, rich, and creamy taste and texture., Place a large bowl into a sink. Fill the sink with enough ice and cold water to reach ½ to ⅔ of the way up the side of the bowl. Place a strainer over the bowl.


The ice bath should be more "ice" than "water."
You will be tempering the eggs to reduce curdling, but some curdles may form. The strainer will catch them.
 Separate the yolks from the whites first. Place the yolks into a medium-sized mixing bowl and add the sugar. Whisk the two together until the mixture turns pale yellow. Set the bowl aside when you are done.


The mixture will be thick and dark yellow at first; keep whisking until it turns pale.
 Pour the milk into a medium-sized saucepan, then place it on the stove. Add the vanilla extract, then bring the milk to a simmer over medium heat. Once it comes to a simmer, remove it from heat.


You can also use a vanilla bean pod instead. Split the bean in half, then scrape the seeds into the milk. Add in the pod as well.Consider adding other herbs and spices to the milk for extra flavor, such as mint leaves, lavender flowers, coffee beans, chocolate, etc.
 Measure out ½ to 1 cup (120 to 240 milliliters) of the hot milk. Slowly pour it into the egg mixture, whisking while you do so. This will help gradually warm up the egg mixture and prevent it from curdling in the next step.
 Stir the tempered egg mixture into the milk first. Place the saucepan back on the stove and turn the heat up to low. Stir the custard base slowly, but constantly, as it cooks. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the saucepan often. You are ready for the next step when the custard turns thick enough to coat the back of a spoon and reaches 170°F (77°C).
 Once you have everything in the bowl, lift the strainer out. If you see anything caught in the strainer, such as egg curdles or vanilla bean pods, throw them out.
 You can leave the custard base in the ice bath for 20 minutes, stirring it occasionally. You can also cover the bowl with plastic wrap, then refrigerate it for 3 to 8 hours.


For extra flavor, stir in your favorite extract, liqueur, or flavoring oil., If you have not already, put the bowl of your ice cream maker into the freezer the night before you plan to make ice cream. If it's too late for that, put the bowl into the freezer now, and the ice cream base in the fridge. Leave them there over night, then continue the next day., Take the bowl out of the freezer and place it into the ice cream maker. Insert the beater, then plug the ice cream maker in. If you have a manual/hand-cranked ice cream maker, do the following:Insert the bowl into the bucket, then the beater.
Fill the bucket (not the bowl) with 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) of ice.
Sprinkle salt evenly over the ice.
Repeat these layers until the bucket is half-full.
Pour cold water over the ice until the bucket is full.
 Use a rubber spatula to help scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste any ice cream base.
 You want it to reach a soft-serve consistency, which is a little thicker than a milkshake. If the mixture becomes hard to churn, you are ready for the next step. This will take about 20 minutes for most machines, but double-check the instructions on your machine.If you have a manual or hand-cranked machine, you will have to turn the crank to the right., Now is the time to add in any extra ingredients into your ice cream, such as chocolate chips, nuts, or chopped up strawberries. Other options include caramel sauce, chocolate sauce, and sprinkles. You don't have to do this, but it can take your ice cream to the next level.
 Remove the churner from the bowl first, then take the bowl out. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the ice cream into a freezer-safe container.


If you want to enjoy your ice cream as soft-serve, you can serve it now.
 Make sure that it is touching the surface of the ice cream. This will help prevent the ice cream from developing ice crystals.If you don't have any wax paper, you could try parchment paper or plastic wrap.
 Cover the container with a lid, if you have one, and place it in the coldest part of your freezer. Leave it there until the ice cream turns solid. This will take at least 4 hours., If you made Philadelphia-style ice cream, you may start noticing ice crystals after a few days.After 2 weeks, the French-style will start to form ice crystals as well.