 Corners can be challenging to decorate effectively, and they can feel empty or even harsh and angular. A good way to counter this effect is by growing a tree in a corner. Trees that grow well indoors, including rubber tree and fiddle leaf fig, can provide a soft, lively touch to a corner that integrates it seamlessly into your décor.;
, Orchids are some of the most dramatic houseplants available, prized because they keep their colorful blooms for months. Orchids make ideal houseplants for tricky, humid spots like bathrooms, because they respond well to humidity and need to be kept in fast-draining potting mix that dries out too quickly in dry air.
 Houseplants don't solely have to be decorative - they can provide you with fresh herbs for your cooking as well. A row of fresh herbs in unadorned terracota pots along a kitchen windowsill can make your kitchen feel rustic and inviting. If herbs are given plenty of sun, they will easily grow to a usable size indoors.
 Succulents are a classic choice when decorating with houseplants, as they are extremely hardy and tolerant of adverse conditions. In addition, the wide variety of shapes, textures, and colors that succulents offer makes them ideal for clustering in eye-catching groups. Pair violet with green, matte with shiny, and pointy with soft in a range of coordinating pots.
 Air plants (tillandsia) are a special type of houseplant that can be grown without soil or water. For this reason, you can place them in any type of container, from a cereal bowl to a conch shell. Like succulents, air plants look especially dramatic when clustered in groups. Make sure to mist the air plants with water regularly to keep them healthy., Terrariums are enclosed glass containers in which various plants are grown in the extremely humid environment created. Part of the joy of terrariums is the act of composing them - combining soil, moss, small plants and grasses, and even decorative elements like stones. For extra drama, place humidity-loving carnivorous plants like Venus fly traps or pitcher plants in your terrarium.
 Large urn-style planters are mainstays on front porches and decks, but you can also move the planter just inside your door for dramatic entryway appeal. Grow a hardy, tolerant plant in this location so that it can weather the constant temperature swings of an opening and closing front door.

