 If you can make your work enjoyable the motivation will come all by itself. This starts with finding work and tasks that you enjoy, but it doesn't end there. Spending some time by yourself and taking occasional breaks while you work is a great way to ensure that you are happy and motivated for anything.
 Go out and splurge on lunch. Get someone to make you a playlist or suggest a new band to listen to while working. Try out a new shirt or tie, something bright and a bit weird. Take control of your work life and inject it with a bit of spontaneity. This burst of personality will help you feel more personally invested in your work.
 It doesn't have to be longer than 5-10 minutes, but these brakes will give you time to recharge you brain, move around a bit, and cut your day into more manageable chunks. You could:


Head to the break room and chat with a coworker.
Go for a brief walk to get coffee, or simple exercise a bit at your desk.
Read 1-2 articles about something you enjoy.
 A lot of problems with motivation are not because you hate your job or coworkers, but simply because you body isn't running as effectively as it could be. Feeling tired, out of energy, and down is a sure-fire way to end up unmotivated, but it can be easily avoided as well.


Make sure you get 6-8 hours of sleep each night.
Bring a water bottle with you and hydrate throughout the day.
Exercise for at least 30 minutes 4-6 days a week.
 There are lots of ways to do this, of course, but all of them aim to make your work an extension of you, not something you're forced to do. Bring in photographs, toys, and knickknacks that make your desk an enjoyable place to be. Take some time to get your desk in order, and make things just how you like them, so that you don't loath sitting down at your desk each morning.
 Having a support system in place at your work will help everyone stay motivated. Take some time to chat to your coworkers to build a sense of camaraderie and teamwork. If you notice someone doing a great job, let them know. If someone seems down, ask them what's up. You'll start hearing similar comments back at yourself, and this sense of community is a great way to keep everyone working together on common goals.

