 Decide how much you can afford to spend on this trip by creating a travel budget. That will likely determine whether you drive somewhere a few hours away or hop on a flight to another country. Even if you don’t own a car, renting one for a few days may be cheaper than round-trip flights for two people, especially if you select a fuel-efficient vehicle.Visit websites like Kayak, Expedia, or Priceline to compare flight and rental car costs.;
, If you’re planning a weekend getaway, it’s best to choose someplace you could get to within a few hours. Otherwise you’ll spend too much of your time traveling rather than enjoying your destination.Start by searching online for destinations in your region. Type things like “romantic getaways near Chicago” or “romantic destinations within 3 hours of me” into a search engine.


It may help to determine what feature you want most from your trip. If you want to relax on a beach, but don’t live near the ocean, research nearby lakes that offer beach access. If you want to go hiking, look for destinations near mountains or national parks.
 Tropical destinations don’t have to be out of reach, even if you’re on a budget. Many travel websites offer deals on flight and hotel packages, and some packages even include meals and activities. Just be sure to read the fine print with these deals to be sure you know what’s included and whether they’re refundable if your plans change.Search websites like Orbitz, Hotwire, or Travelocity for romantic getaway packages. Compare multiple travel sites against each other since they may offer different prices, and consider setting up fare alerts to get an email when flights to a specific location drop in price., Cruises offer a convenient all-in-one getaway, with travel, accommodations, and meals often included in the price. And they’re available all over the world, from tropical destinations in the Caribbean Sea to mountainous regions in Alaska.

Cruises can be expensive, especially if you have to travel just to get to the port-of-call, but many cruise lines offer last-minute deals in order to fill empty rooms, so this may be a budget-friendly option if you’re feeling spontaneous., Search for hotels or bed and breakfasts near your desired destination. Try calling to see if they have special rooms, often called honeymoon suites, available during your stay. If you won’t have a car, be sure that the place you’re staying offers easy access to public transportation or a free shuttle service to local attractions.


Research local accommodations on Airbnb or VRBO (Vacation Rental By Owner). You can often find an entire apartment or house at a rate comparable to or less than a hotel room. Some hosts on these services will also offer recommendations on their favorite local places to eat or shop., Search websites like TripAdvisor or Yelp for romantic restaurants near your accommodations. Look for places with a view overlooking the water or mountains or try to find pubs with private booths or fireplaces. Also, consider cuisines that allow you to get closer and share plates, like tapas or fondue.
 Pick up local fare from a market or corner grocery store, or get takeout from a popular restaurant. Find a spot in a public park or along the beach to lay down a blanket or towel and sit and eat together., If you both enjoy being pampered, schedule a couple’s massage or facial. This is a good way to treat yourselves and relax together. If your hotel doesn’t have a spa, or you’re staying in an Airbnb, ask the concierge or host if there’s a reputable spa nearby they can recommend., Search online for any vineyards near your destination, and see if they offer tours and wine tastings. If there are multiple vineyards around, find out if any local tour companies will shuttle you among them on a guided tour.

Keep it budget-friendly by sticking to smaller vineyards and by just paying the winery tasting fee rather than buying any bottles., Research local opportunities for mountain climbing, hot air balloon rides, scuba diving, white water rafting, or horseback riding. Pick something that excites both of you, even if it seems scary. Doing this together is an opportunity to bond and make fun memories.
 Your romantic getaway doesn’t require you and your partner to spend every moment with just each other. A group tour is a great way to break up the monotony of seeing only each other for days on end. Plus, it provides the opportunity to have new experiences and make new friends., Ask your partner what they want to do and what they hope to get out of the trip. If you plan everything yourself, the other person doesn’t get to share in all of the excitement. And you risk planning a trip that doesn’t appeal to them as much as it does to you., Take clothes that make you feel sexy, like lingerie, sun dresses, or outfits that are fancier than what you ordinarily wear. Buy a special swimsuit to surprise your partner with if you’re going someplace near a beach or with a pool.

Bring sunscreen or mosquito repellent if applicable to your destination. Sunburns and bug bites won’t create a very romantic mood.
Bring massage oil to give each other sensual massages. Just be sure that you follow TSA guidelines for liquids if you’re flying., Don’t fill all your time with activities and not allow yourselves to rest. The point of the trip is to enjoy each other’s company. Quiet moments back at the hotel or bed and breakfast can be just as special as time at restaurants and local attractions., Take a break from texting, calling, and answering emails. Take pictures, but consider waiting to post them to social media until you get home. You took this trip together to get away from all that, so take advantage of this opportunity to unplug.

