 If anxiety starts interfering with your life to the point where you are unable to function in school, work, relationships, or other activities, it's time to see a doctor. Your doctor can conduct lab tests and an examination to determine the source of your anxiety.In some cases, anxiety is not simply indicative of a mental illness, but, in fact, a precursor to another health problem. Anxiety could be an initial warning sign (or side effect) of heart disease, diabetes, asthma, and even drug abuse or withdrawal.
In other cases, anxiety may be a side effect of medications. Talk to your doctor to determine if this is possible in your situation.
 If your general physician finds no known medical cause to your anxiety, you may need to get a referral to see a psychiatrist, psychologist, or psychotherapist who has experience in diagnosing and treating anxiety. Your doctor may be able to offer you relief by prescribing medications, but many people find that a combination of therapy and medication works best to manage anxiety., Simply labeling what you're going through as anxiety does not give you all the answers you need to recover. Even within the realm of mental health disorders, there are a class of disorders in which anxiety is a hallmark feature. A psychologist may evaluate your personal history, administer assessments, and ask questions to determine which type of anxiety is affecting you.


You may have an anxiety disorder, such as panic disorder, a phobia, post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or social anxiety disorder., Although you can use some self-help techniques to manage the symptoms of anxiety, these disorders should be treated by a professional. Depending on the type and severity of the disorder, mental health professionals use one of three methods to treat anxiety:


Prescription medication. The diagnosis of anxiety is often confused with depression because psychiatrists frequently prescribe antidepressants to improve the symptoms of anxiety.A class of medications known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been found to be effective in treating anxiety. Other options include serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), benzodiazepines, and tricyclic antidepressants.Therapy. An empirically-proven, effective treatment for anxiety is cognitive behavioral therapy, which focuses on becoming aware of and changing unrealistic thought patterns that contribute to anxiety. Other potential therapeutic approaches include exposure therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, dialectical behavior therapy, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR).A combination of the above two.
 People often assume they failed at treatment or it didn't work because they did not give the interventions enough time to work. Also, consider that many anxiety-sufferers may try several different treatment options before finding the one most effective in treating their symptoms.