 Freewriting is a great thing to do if you're bored and are looking for a way to bide your time. Essentially, freewriting is a stream-of-consciousness exercise where you will set aside a certain amount of time to write whatever you want. With freewriting, you don't have to worry about editing or even proper grammar or punctuation. You should just write out whatever's on your mind. Though you may find it tough to get started, it's quite likely you'll find the writing inspiration come pouring forth once you latch onto a certain idea.If you reach your given amount of time and feel impelled to keep going, do so by all means! Some of the best creative projects begin from freeform practice exercises such as this, and finding inspiration in your own work may get you so immersed you lose track of time entirely.
 If you have the option available to you, losing yourself in your job can be a lucrative way to make the hours tick by faster. Many people will notice that busy days of work pass by faster, and relaxed days feel like molasses in comparison.So long as you keep yourself busy in something you're at least mildly interested in, you shouldn't find it difficult to get time to pass by.


Catching up on work should also help to alleviate stress. It is possible you're wanting to kill time as a way to cope with stress and anxiety, so attacking the root of a problem will make you feel much better.
 Tidying is often something that gets pushed to the backs of our to-do lists when the going gets tough. When we're bored however, it can take some willpower to get around to doing it. However, once you get started with cleaning, you'll find it's easy to keep going. New things to do will constantly reveal themselves to you the longer you look.Mop up your floors. Rearrange your bookcase. Make your bed. Depending on how messy your place is, you should feel much better once your home is clean.


Rearranging furniture can be a fun and refreshing way to spruce up the feel of your home. Try switching the placement of couches; judge how a certain switch appeals to you. If you've got a creative side to you, interior design can kill time very efficiently.
There are things you can do to make cleaning more enjoyable. Turn on the TV and half-watch something while you're cleaning, or turn on some music., It should go without saying that the easiest way to make time accelerate is to go to sleep. We're usually asleep for hours at a time but it seldom ever feels that long. Sleep is something you're going to have to get at some point in the day, so if you don't have a formal sleep schedule to follow, you might consider getting a few winks as a way to pass the time. Depending on how tired or stressed you are, this could be easy or near-impossible to accomplish. Try to gauge how you're feeling, and whether or not taking a nap is right for you or not.


In most cases, if you're simply trying to make time pass by faster a nap will be more appropriate than a full-blown 8 hour stretch.
Meditating or reading before sleep are great ways to get relax yourself into a sleep-capable mindset.