 If you have a standard certificate in another US state or territory, apply for a review by the Texas Education Agency. Create an online TEA login (TEAL) account on the agency’s website, get a TEA ID number, and fill out the application for an out-of-state certificate review. After completing your application, pay the $180 review fee.Apply for a one year, non-renewable teaching certificate in tandem with your application for a review.
 You need to submit a copy of any standard certificate(s) you hold in other states of territories. You can submit most of the necessary documents to the TEA via email. Include your TEA ID number with any documents. Don’t forget to include both sides of any two-sided documents.If you’ve having a student services or administration certification reviewed, submit proof of two years of corresponding experience in an official school service record.
 Your review also requires official transcripts from any colleges or universities you attended. The transcripts may not be submitted electronically. Have each of the school(s) you attended send official transcripts to the TEA by mail. If you have any official documentation from outside of the US, these will also need to be submitted by mail. It may take 3 to 4 weeks to receive confirmation of the receipt of your documents.
 Once your review is complete, the TEA will email you the results. These results will include a list of the tests you need to pass for standard certification in Texas. If certified in another state, it’s likely that you’ve already taken a test that is comparable to those required in Texas. See the TEA’s chart of comparable tests on their website.If your test qualifies as comparable, contact the testing company and direct them to send your official results to the TEA.
Do not have your test scores sent until you get the results of your review.
If you have not taken a comparable test, take any test the TEA indicates. This will likely be either the Texas Examinations of Educator Standards (TExES) or the Examination for the Certification of Educators in Texas (ExCET).
 Your results will also notify you if you received or are eligible for a year long, non-renewable certificate. If you did not apply for this certificate when you applied for the review, log in to your TEAL account to do so now. Click the “Educator” link. Select “Out-of-State Certified Applicants,” and then “Initial One-Year Certificate.” The website will prompt you to apply and pay for the one-year certificate.
 Once you’ve met all of the requirements, you’ll need to apply for the standard teaching certificate in the state of Texas.Use your TEAL account to apply online. Click the “Educator” link, select “Out-of-State Certified Applicants.” You will see a list of applications. Scroll down and click “Standard Certificate.” You will be prompted to submit your application and pay a $78 fee.

