 You should choose emergency contacts who know about any allergies or medical conditions that you may have, and who know how to contact your family. You should also notify anyone that you designate as an emergency contact that you have done so, and make sure they are clear on what information they might need to share to help you in an emergency. , Open the address book or contacts section on your cell phone and create a new entry with the name ICE. Then add the contact information for your chosen emergency contact. It is also a good idea to enter additional information about the contact, including his or her name and relationship to you under "Notes" or in another unused field.Some people add a dash or a space after the word "ICE" followed by the person's first name, so that emergency personnel know who they are calling. For instance, you might call the entry "ICE – Sarah" or "ICE – Mr. Smith."

, Having more than one emergency contact is a good idea, in case the first person called is not immediately available. You can prioritize these contacts by naming the entries "ICE 1," ICE 2," and so forth.
 If your phone is password protected and you are incapacitated, an ICE contact won't do any good. Fortunately there are now apps available for Android, Windows, and iPhones that can add emergency contact information to your lock screen. Search for "ICE" or "ICE lock screen" in your appropriate app store to find one that works on your phone.
Install the app and input the relevant information. An emergency responder can then pick up your phone and access your emergency contact information, even if you are unable to supply the password.
 ICE stickers with blanks for contact names and numbers are a great way to clearly label your phone, bike helmet, or laptop with important emergency contact information. These stickers can be found at many pharmacies and doctor's offices, or purchased online.Be sure to complete the contact information clearly, preferably using waterproof ink.
Don't forget to replace and update the sticker as needed to keep the information current.
 You can create an ICE label using computer label paper or decal paper available at any office supply store, or even using waterproof tape and a permanent marker. Creating your own label will allow you to add as much information as you would like about allergies and medications.


Remember to replace your label if the text becomes worn off or illegible.
 These are often available for free at doctor's offices, hospitals and pharmacies, but you can also download a free emergency contact or ICE card blank. These are available on many different websites, including the American Red Cross. There are even ICE cards that can be completed using online forms so you don't have to worry about less-than-perfect handwriting., If you have allergies, prescriptions, or medical conditions, include that information on the card along with your blood type and emergency contact information.Carrying an ICE card is important, even if you wear medic alert jewelry, in case your medic alert is missing or damaged at the time of an emergency.
 You should also consider keeping a copy in the glove compartment of your car, or in your gym bag.


Runners and others who exercise outdoors can get identity tags to affix to their running shoes. These can be found at most sporting goods stores, or online by searching for "shoe ID" or "shoe tag."
Shoe tags are also a great option for children who might not carry a bag or phone.
Remember to replace or update your ICE card if any changes occur.
 You can place an ICE card inside your child's backpack or school bag. Be sure to add one to Grandma's purse or Grandpa's wallet, as well.


Many parents also add emergency contact stickers to children's car seats. You can create your own custom labels, or order them online through agencies such as the W.H.A.L.E program.