 Mindfulness is a concept that originated in Buddhist meditation practices and has been adopted by many people around the world as a strategy for dealing with stress. It involves focusing the mind on the sensations and experiences of the moment rather than thinking about the past or worrying about the future. It also involves accepting how we are feeling or experiencing the world instead of considering our responses to reality "good" or "bad."Practicing mindfulness, even for just a few weeks, has been shown to increase the body's ability to fight illness, stress, and depression as well as increasing empathy, satisfaction with life, and even our ability to create meaningful relationships.As a way of dealing with repetitiveness, it has the potential to help you overcome frustration and accept your daily life moment by moment.
You can incorporate a formal practice of mindful meditation into your life (with ten minutes of meditation each morning), or you can simply work mindfulness into your routine and make it a part of how you experience the world. Focus on the details of each moment, especially when you are feeling stressed. Concentrate on your bodily sensations, especially your breathing but also the temperature of the room, the feeling of your hair on your neck, the gentle breeze. Notice all the sensations: sights, sounds, smells, feelings, tastes, especially the things that you normally overlook.Over time, you will begin to focus on the experiences of the moment rather than worrying about things that have already happened or things that are going to happen (including the redundancy of life). This can help you to be grateful for each moment as well as accepting that the moments of your life do not define who you are., Many necessary jobs are repetitive in nature-- assembly lines, fast food jobs, accounting, and many other professions tend to do the same types of things day in and day out. Unfortunately you may not have the ability or resources to simply quit your job and find something you enjoy more.


Instead, think of ways to occupy your mind while doing redundant tasks. Listen to music or books on tape on headphones if you can. Engage your co-workers in meaningful and challenging conversations. On your breaks, do something that engages your mind like learning a new language.
Consider setting small goals for your workday and promising yourself particular rewards if you meet them. If you do redundant tasks, studies show that having incentives can help make it more bearable.Find the positive aspects of your work: are you making the world safer, healthier, smarter somehow? Are you helping to keep people fed or bringing joy to people's daily lives? There is some glimmer of positivity to be found in any occupation. If you can put your finger on what it is, you can focus on that and commit yourself to being your best at your work even despite how boring it might be at times., Sometimes our frustration with life's repetitiveness comes from feelings of powerlessness. Finding meaning in life's changes can make what was once a repetitive and frustrating cycle into something beautiful and precious.


Each morning at dawn, consider that the day is new and unwritten, a blank page to fill with whatever you desire. Today, you have made no mistakes and you can direct the day any way you choose. Fill it with love, kindness, generosity, and charity to others.
Consider the meanings of the seasons: symbolically, each season corresponds to processes of human discovery. While it might seem like the meanings of nature and weather are just social constructions, the effects of seasonal changes are actually tied to our psyches and how we experience life.Spring is about transformation and birth, when plants and hibernating creatures come back to life.Summer is a time for celebration, warmth, and life, as nature is at its peak. The autumn is a time for harvest and abundance, thankfulness and gathering together. Winter, often thought of as a time of death, is actually a time of rest and renewal-- trees and plants allow themselves to be overcome by the cold in preparation for the reward of the spring.
 Humans throughout history have struggled with the realization that all of life is a repetitive cycle, and one way that many people have been able to accept and make meaning from the cycle of life is through religious, spiritual, or philosophical orientations toward life.Consider joining a church or religious organization. All faiths have practices, rituals, and teachings that harmonize the repetitiveness of nature and culture with higher meaning.
Learn about existentialism or other continental philosophies that deal with the nature of reality and the purpose of life. Existentialism posits that there is no meaning or predetermined reason for our lives, and instead we must make daily choices that give our lives meaning. A philosophical orientation to the redundancy of life can help us take responsibility for our roles in life.
 Sometimes the repetitiveness of life combined with a mental disorder can contribute to dangerous thoughts of self-harm, erratic behavior, or even suicide.It's important that you seek help immediately if you feel that your frustration is interfering with your daily life.


In the United States, call 911 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 (800) 273-8255. In other countries, do an internet search to determine the right number to call or talk to your mental health care provider immediately.

