 The first 2 week on the market is when a house generates buzz and interest. If you are still fixing the roof or painting the walls when the first buyers show up you are losing your best chance to sell the house. Wait to put your house on the market until it is clean and updated.
 This is the easiest way to increase the chance your house sells for the amount you deserve. The cleanliness of a house is the first thing a potential buyer will notice, and it won’t matter how great your countertops look if they are covered in crumbs. If you are low on time, hire a cleaning service the day before you show the house to make sure everything is sparkling.


Dust the surfaces.
Clean the floors and remove any stains.
Wipe down the refrigerator, oven, and countertops in the kitchen.
Clean out toilets, showers, and baths.
Empty your closet partially – all buyers love seeing how much storage space they might have., You should take the same care to clean the outside of your home as the inside. Keep your grass trim and clean up the gardens and flowerbeds regularly to make a good impression as buyers enter the driveway.


Take the time to wipe down the outsides of the windows.
If the sides of your house are dirty, rent a pressure washer to blast away grime from the siding.
 Pets, pet toys, litterboxes, and hair all give a house the illusion of dirtiness, which can significantly lower the value of your home. Clean up your pet’s mess and put all pet supplies out of sight as you show your home to make the best impression., Unfortunately, adding a new bedroom and bath to the back side of your house won’t increase the value enough to pay back what you’ve spent. Focus instead on little renovations, which can return more money than you spent when it is time to sell. Large renovations often cost more money than they add to house’s value., Tons of family photos, knick-knacks, and personal items are a big turn-off for potential buyers. While you want to your house to feel homey, you don’t want it to seem so personal that the next owner can’t see themselves living in it. Hide any toys, books, computers, or keepsakes when people come see your house and limit the number of family photos scattered around the house if there is a picture of you on every wall.

