 Thai regulations require that your passport be at least six months from its expiration date in order for you to enter the country. Therefore, if your passport is close to its expiration date or will be by the time you plan to go to Thailand, be sure to renew your passport or apply for a new one.;
, One way to jump start your job search is to visit Thailand on a travel visa and speak to people and businesses about potential employment opportunities. If you plan to search for a job in country, be sure that you have saved enough resources to live in Thailand for up to 30 days.Before you travel, check websites such as Facebook and Linkedin for networking groups related to Thailand.
Join local rotary clubs, Toastmasters International, or faith organizations for networking opportunities.If you stay in the country for less than 30 days, you do not need to apply for a tourist visa.
If you stay beyond thirty days, you are subject to fines and detention until you can be deported., Learning the Thai language can open up a variety of employment opportunities. You can combine learning Thai with networking by attending an immersive Thai language program in Thailand. This not only allows you the opportunity to develop Thai language skills, a talent desired by employers, but it also gives you time to live in Thailand and make potential business connections while on a student visa.There are a number of language schools in Thailand’s larger cities, such as Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Phuket, and Pattaya, as well as smaller towns. These programs can run between $600-$1000 dollars for 200 hundred hours of instruction and a one-year education visa or $1200-2000 for 400 hours of instruction and a one-year visa.
If you are studying Thai in Thailand, you will be required to sit for a language test every four months to show that you are in fact learning the language.
Some of the language schools in the major cities include: Pro Language, Walen, Language Express, The Knowledge, AUA, and AAA., If you intend to eventually work in Thailand, you will need to have a Non-Immigrant Visa before you can even apply for a Work Permit. You will need the following to apply for a Thailand visa:


Original U.S. passport that doesn’t expire for at least 6 months;
2 passport size photographs;
A completed and signed visa application located at: http://www.thaiembassy.org/hochiminh/contents/files/services-20130322-192257-602396.pdf;
A copy of your round trip tickets or itinerary;
A copy of your bank statement showing at least $500; and
Applicable fees.
You can apply for a visa at a Thai embassy or consulate, which you can locate here: http://www.thaiembassy.org/main/.
There are also organizations that facilitate the visa application process, such as http://thailand.visacenter.us/embassy.
 You should decide whether you want to work abroad for a couple of years or many years. This will help you narrow down potential employment options.


Short-term work can be a job that lasts several months or a few years or work that is for a set amount of time, such as the Peace Corps.
Long-term employment is more like permanent employment in which you are looking to start or further your career.You can find short-term and long-term employment opportunities by searching online. Websites run by Jobs Abroad and/or Transitions Abroad offer resources for finding work in Thailand.
 Networking is a great way for you to locate potential employment opportunities abroad.


Start by asking family and friends whether they know any expatriates (people with citizenship from one country but working in another country) who worked or are currently working in Thailand. If they do, ask for an introduction so you can get first-hand information about the job market there.
Check the alumni database at your school. Almost all post-secondary schools maintain a database with their alumni’s current address. Check the database to see whether anyone is living in Thailand and use the contact information to reach out to that alumnus. Alumni expect that other alumni may contact them with networking questions.
Ask your college or university’s career services department whether they have any employment connections in Thailand., The U.S. Government hires American employees at its embassies and for other international work in Thailand. You can check embassy job postings at: http://bangkok.usembassy.gov/job_opportunities.html.
 Teaching English is a great way to work in Thailand. You should consider earning a Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) certificate. This will make it easier for you to get a job and should provide you with additional employment options in Thailand.


You can locate in-person or online TESOL certificate programs at https://www.tesol.org/attend-and-learn/certificate-leadership-programs/tesol-core-certificate-program.You can look for English teaching opportunities in Thailand on http://www.ciee.org/teach/programs/thailand/ or other websites that cater to international language programs.
 While you may have an excellent résumé for jobs in the U.S. or your home country, it is important to update the document for an international job search. Your international résumé can include the following categories.


A skills summary that highlights your skills and training that is relevant for each particular position.
A summary of your professional experience that highlights any international work or skills that would be transferable to an international job.
List your educational background and include the schools you attended, degrees you earned, and any awards you received. You should also list any other experience that may be relevant to international work such as language classes or study abroad programs.
List any foreign languages that you can read, speak or write and your level of proficiency.
Your résumé should be no longer than 3 to 4 pages.You can view sample international résumés at: https://www.livecareer.com/resume-samples/international-resumes.
 When you apply for a job, it is critical that you submit all of your application materials. After locating potential employment opportunities, closely read the job post and draft your materials to specifically address the position to which you are applying. You may be required to submit the following materials:


A cover letter;
Your C.V. or résumé;
Proof of your Non-Immigrant Visa;
Proof of your TESOL certificate;
Your academic transcripts; and/or
A job application.
If you are applying to a Thai company, you may want to have your documents translated to Thai to make it easier for hiring managers to review your materials., It can be very difficult for foreigners to get permission to work in Thailand. There are several steps that you can take in order to improve your chances for getting your work permit approved.


Get a job. While you cannot work without a work permit, if you have a employer that has offered you employment, you have an increased chance of having your work permit approved.
Find a job that is permitted for foreigners. These jobs include: teaching; experienced IT personnel; hotel management; upper-level executive positions; performers; diving teachers; importers or exporters; and ministers., It is illegal for foreigners to work in Thailand without a work permit. It typically takes seven days to get your work permit so long as you have already applied for and received your Non-Immigrant Visa. Once granted, a Thai work permit is valid for 1 year. You need the following documents to apply for a Thai work permit:


Your original passport;
Your Non-Immigrant Visa;
Copies of all of your educational degrees;
Copies of all of your transcripts;
Copies of all certificates or licenses;
Three 5 x 6 centimeters photographs showing your full face and taken within 6 months of your application for the work permit;
A CV or resume describing your past employment in detail;
Your marriage certificate if you are married to a Thai national; and
A Departure Card TM.6.
In addition, your employer must provide its Commercial Registration Department Certificate; a shareholders list, if applicable; a factory license, if applicable; VAT Certificate; and Withholding Tax.You can apply for a work permit at a Thai embassy or consulate, which you can locate here: http://www.thaiembassy.org/main/.
There are also organizations that facilitate the work permit application process, such as http://thailand.visacenter.us/embassy.
 Once your work permit has been issued, you must comply with the following regulations:


Carry your work permit with you or keep it in your office. You must be able to produce it for government officials or be subject to a fine.
Apply for an extension before the permit expires. You can be subject to fines or imprisonment for working without a valid permit.
Inform the Employment Service office of any changes to your personal information.
You can only perform work that is specifically delineated on your work permit.
You must replace a lost or damaged work permit.
If you resign, you must return your work permit within seven days.