 One thing your doctor will ask you to do is to stay away from silica and quartz dust. This may mean you have to quit your job or stop certain activities, like sandblasting or working with ceramics or glass.Continued exposure to silica dust can worsen your condition and make it progress faster.Your doctor may refer you to a counselor to help you make the transition between jobs if you are having difficulty.
 If you smoke, you should work with your doctor to develop a plan to quit smoking. Smoking causes further damage to the lungs, which can worsen your symptoms. Smoking can also speed up the progression of the disease.You should limit the amount of time you spend around second-hand smoke also. That can irritate your lungs and worsen your symptoms.
 One important treatment for silicosis is keeping your lungs as clean as possible. This means you should stay away from all lung irritants. This includes any respiratory allergens you have, such as strong fragrances, pet dander, or plant debris.You should also stay away from indoor and outdoor pollution. Monitor for air quality alerts and stay inside when the air quality is low.
Try to limit your exposure to dust particles.
 For coughing, breathing difficulties, and phlegm, your doctor may suggest that you try a few at-home treatments. You may benefit from inhaling steam or increasing your fluid intake.Place water in a pot and bring it to boil. Let it cool for a few minutes after taking it off the heat. Then, place a towel over your head and hold your head at least six inches from the water. The steam should help you breathe easier. You can also talk to your doctor about whether adding essential oils or herbs will help.
Increased fluid intake can help produce more phlegm and improve your cough.
 Living with a chronic lung disease can be a challenge. However, you are not alone. You, your family, and caregivers may want to try joining a lung disease support group. You can do this online through organizations such as the Lung Association, or you can look for a group in your area.Ask your doctor or local hospital about any support groups in your area.
Search online for groups, message board, mailing lists, or forums for those living with silicosis or lung disease.

