 There are many naturally occurring substances that are poisonous or otherwise hazardous to people. Many people value terms like “natural” and “organic,” and possibly for good reason, but don’t allow buzzwords to skew your perspective on non-traditional medical treatments.While natural products can be healthier for you in some regards, don’t allow marketing terms to blind you to possible risks.
Look for other qualifications to verify the credibility of a medical treatment beyond the terms used to market it.;
, There are many scams in the alternative medicine industry that take advantage of people’s desire for overnight transformations and miraculous recoveries. These people prey on those who are looking for help and the products are often not regulated by any government.Be skeptical if you see advertising guaranteeing results that sound too good to be true.
Remember that miracle cures, if truly effective, would be widely reported on in the media and would become commonly prescribed traditional treatments.
 Many natural medical treatments and health supplements may try to dazzle you with technical wording on the packaging and in their marketing materials. Remember that using complex pharmaceutical terms does not necessarily mean the product has medical value. Some common words used to distract you from a lack of real scientific basis are:Detoxify
Energize
Purify

, Most traditional and non-traditional or natural medical treatments are developed with a single purpose in mind. These treatments can be an effective method of treating the illnesses they were designed for, but products that suggest that they can cure a multitude of health issues are often untrue.Very few single products can effectively treat a wide variety of symptoms or illnesses.
Remember that claiming a product can do something does not necessarily mean it actually can. False claims are made through marketing materials and on packaging all the time.
 When a company suggests that you can only receive a medical treatment at a certain price or at all for a “limited time,” they are using a sales technique designed to convince you to make a purchase, not necessarily intended to help you get healthier.Avoid companies that suggest your opportunity to receive treatment is subject to how quickly you are willing to pay them.
Phrases like, “limited time,” “act now,” or “before it’s too late” are all intended to drive sales, not improve health.
 There is no current law requiring the testing of natural or alternative medicines and the Federal Drug Administration usually only intervenes upon receipt of complaints about the safety of a product. In other words, many natural medicines can advertise results that have not been appropriately tested, or even tested at all.Dietary supplements are unregulated and are not required to prove their effectiveness in any formal way.
In order to have a product restricted or removed from shelves, the burden of proof is on the FDA to prove a product causes harm. This can take months or even years.

