 As you start your birthing plan, you need to have a general outline of what you want to do. Your birth plan should outline what you want to have happen around the time you give birth. This will help you keep track and will also help your obstetrician or midwife and your birth coach to provide you with the experience you want., There are three options to where you can give birth. You can give birth at home, to ensure that you have a natural birth. You can also choose a birthing center. Your home or a birthing center will likely provide more family-centered experiences, and you may have more freedom in creating the natural birthing experience you want. The third choice is a hospital, which is always the safest place in case of unexpected problems.


More and more hospitals are providing birthing centers that are comfortable and homey.
If you choose a hospital, make sure you have a clear plan that has been relayed to your obstetrician or midwife., If you want a drug-free and natural delivery, you need to let everyone know that is your plan. You may also choose to have a water birth, which is a method that occurs while in the water. It is thought that it is less stressful for a baby to leave the amniotic fluid-filled uterus into a water-filled tub.


Water isn’t always recommended. For example, it is not recommended for premature labor, breech birth, or multiple births.
Remember, labor is called labor for a reason. However, most women who have a natural birth say that the pain and discomfort is worth it, especially once they can hold their newborn baby.
Expect some pain and discomfort, but the levels vary for each new mom. Choose how you want to deliver your baby. Different options vary in different locations, so you will need to see what is available in your area. Again, talking to your obstetrician, midwife or doula can provide invaluable information., Although home births are great for natural childbirth, there are some things you need to take into consideration. There are a few reasons why medical or surgical intervention may be needed to ensure safety for both you and your baby. These may occur after all the planning for a natural birth, so you want to make sure you understand and have a back-up plan in place. Under certain circumstances, your obstetrician or midwife may need to send you for an emergency C-section or perform other interventions. These circumstances, which may happen rapidly and unexpectedly, include:If the umbilical cord is being compressed, cutting off blood flow to the baby
If the baby is not positioned correctly for delivery
If you are carrying two or more babies
If your baby is too large to pass through the birth canal (Macrosomia)
If the placenta is not positioned normally (Placenta previa or placenta accreta)
If a fetal heart rate monitor detects any sign of fetal distress
If there is a tear in the placenta, which can cause significant bleeding

