 Even if you're adopting through a private service, a caseworker at your local department of social services will be able to help you determine if you're eligible for state financial adoption assistance.Many states offer financial assistance to families that don't qualify for federal assistance.
Typically state adoption assistance must come from the state that originally had custody of the child, so if you are adopting a child from another state you should contact the department of social services in that state.
 Most states allow reimbursement for some or all of the expenses you incur as a result of the adoption process itself, up to a maximum amount.Most states allow reimbursement of up to $2,000 of non-recurring adoption expenses per placement, provided those expenses cannot be paid or reimbursed by another source.
Reimbursement typically can only be requested after the adoption has been finalized. Speak with your adoption social worker about getting a reimbursement request form.
Any reimbursement is paid to you, not to service providers. You must pay the expenses and then apply for a reimbursement.
If you live in a different state than the child you're adopting, you should check with the department of social services in the child's home state to get a reimbursement request form.
 Typically, states provide some financial adoption assistance to adoptive families who don't meet the requirements for federal assistance but still need financial help to adopt a child.The child must qualify as a child with special needs, as defined by the state's law. There may be additional requirements not present under the federal definition.
For example, many states require the child to be over a certain age, typically at least eight years old.
Most states also categorize children as having special needs if they are racially mixed or a member of a racial or ethnic minority, or if they have physical or mental disabilities.
While some states provide assistance for children in licensed private adoption agencies, most require the child to be in the custody of the state or a public adoption agency.
 If you qualify for state assistance, you must sign a written contract outlining the amount of assistance you will receive and any conditions that must be met to receive that assistance.Your final adoption assistance agreement will include the amount of financial assistance you will receive from the state, as well as the provision of any medical, counseling, or other services.
Many states evaluate adoption assistance agreements periodically while they are in effect to reassess the needs of the child and the family's situation to determine if circumstances require an increase or decrease in state assistance.
Some states may offer additional specialized or exceptional rates based on the needs of the child.

