 If your cat only associates its carrier with a visit to the vet, your cat will probably fight getting into it. To encourage your cat to get into the carrier, get it used to the carrier before the visit. You might place treats in the carrier and leave the door open for your cat to explore. You could also place your cat's favorite toys in it or make it cozy so your cat enjoys playing or sleeping in the carrier.Ensure that the carrier isn't too small for your cat. If you haven't purchased a new cat carrier since your cat was a kitten, it may be time to buy one that fits your full-sized cat. Your cat should be able to stand up and turn around in its carrier.;
, Most cats don't like riding in the car so driving to the vet can make your cat anxious. To reduce your cat's anxiety, take it for short (5 to 10 minute) drives through your neighborhood before the cat's visit. You could drive your cat to the vet's office even if it doesn't have a scheduled visit just to get it used to the experience.Getting your cat used to riding in the car for no reason will help your cat associate the car with pleasant things instead of just going to the vet.
 Even if your cat remains calm in the car, it may become upset as soon as it gets into the waiting room with other nervous cats. Try to stay calm so that your cat sees there's nothing to fear. You should also keep your cat in its carrier while you wait. You may want to place a blanket or covering over the carrier so your cat doesn't become overstimulated by everything it sees, hears, and smells in the waiting room.Consider buying a calming pheromone spray. Spray your cat with the pheromone spray to relax it.
Talk to your cat in soothing tones to make it feel relaxed and reassured. Hearing your voice can help it realize that you're still close by even if it's in the carrier with a cover.
 If you can, work with a veterinarian who has a friendly and calm attitude. This will make your cat feel at ease and make your visit go smoother. If you think the vet is too clinical or impersonal, you may want to ask friends to recommend a vet who is known for good bedside manner.A vet can calm your cat by talking to it and petting it for a few minutes before the exam. If the vet doesn't automatically do this, ask them to do this.
 Make your cat feel happy and loved by talking to it in a comforting voice. You should tell your cat how brave and good it is. Stroke and pet your cat to put it at ease. You can also place treats in the carrier to reward and distract your cat.Your cat should feel safe and loved. You may need to pay extra attention to your cat after the vet's appointment so your cat is reassured.
 Annual exams are an important part of keeping your cat healthy. You can expect the vet to do a physical exam, take your cat's medical history, check for dental health, and get vaccine boosters. You can also talk with the vet about giving your cat preventative treatments for parasites.If your cat is showing any problem behaviors, you can also talk to the vet about possible causes for the misbehavior. For example, you might say, "Why do you think my cat has just started scratching the furniture?"

, You'll probably need to give health information about your cat to the veterinary tech and veterinarian. Try to be as detailed and thorough as possible so the vet team has all the information they need to examine and treat your cat. For example, instead of saying, "My cat has been withdrawn," say, "My cat hides from people every afternoon and is no longer affectionate."It may help to keep a health journal for your cat. Write down any health issues or concerns you have so you can refer back to it during the exam. For example, you might write down that your cat urinated outside of her litter box three times one day. Bring this concern up with the vet and ask about possible causes.
 Watch what the vet does during the physical exam and ask for more information about what the vet is looking for. This way you can learn about ways to improve exams you give your cat at home. You should also assist the vet if the vet asks you to hold your cat. This can make your cat feel more assured than if the vet tech is the one to restrain your cat.


If the vet does anything you're confused or concerned about, don't hesitate to ask the vet for answers. You might say something like, "I see that you're checking the cat's fur. What exactly are you looking for?"

, A visit to the vet is your chance to ask any questions you have about your cat. If you find that you forget your questions when you're actually at the appointment, you might try writing them down in the days before the exam. This way, you'll be sure to remember to ask them.If you remember questions that you forgot to ask, don't hesitate to call the vet's office or email them. You can call them and say, "I was in the other day with my cat and I remembered a question I have for the vet."

, If your cat needs any treatment, talk with the vet so you understand procedures that your cat may need. Find out whether or not your cat will need to stay overnight, what kind of home care your cat will need, and determine if the cat will need procedures in stages.For example, you might say, "Could you walk me step-by-step through the treatment procedure and tell me what I should do when I take my cat home?"
If you're worried about paying for a treatment, tell the vet. Depending on the condition and treatment, the vet may be able to schedule staggered treatment so you can pay in installments.

