 If your cat is silly and playful, you may want a name like Squirrelleaf. But if your cat is a noble warrior, you'd probably look for something more epic, like Lionheart, or Fireheart. Please note that prefixes (the Lion- in Lionheart) don't usually determine a personality, suffixes (the -heart in Lionheart) show traits like that.;
, If they have unusual patterns or striking colors, go ahead and name them something like Flameclaw or Leopardpelt.
 If your cat loves to swim, for example, you could name them Graysplash.
 If they were always lovestruck, you could name them Larksong or Goldenheart.
 If you like them, combine them! Examples:


Ambertail. She-cat. Warrior. ThunderClan. Dappled tortie with white paws and dark amber eyes. Bright and sweet, a good hunter and kind. Wants kits of her own. Adores her leader.
Bluefang . She-cat. Warrior. RiverClan. Bluish she-cat with amber eyes. A stern and uptight warrior, is hard to find kindness in her.
Aspenfur. Tom. Warrior. ThunderClan. Gray tom with green eyes, was trained under Sandstorm. A quick and fast warrior, the fastest since Runningwind.
Shadetail. Deputy. Tom. Windclan. A black cat, has pale green eyes. Was once a maltreated kit during the regime of Brokenstar, was left to die in the woods during leaf-bare when he couldn't keep up with a raiding party, but found his way to WindClan when they were driven out by ShadowClan. Has never trusted the cruel, hostile Clan of RiverClan. Is a natural leader though, but does his best to be modest. Is good friends with Dustpelt and Longtail, who are like him.
, Colors, types of trees or flowers or nature, animals, types of weather, etc. The name must never include "Star," "Spirit," or "Moon."


Moonflower was a mistake on Erin Hunter's part, and she has admitted to it. "Star" is the end of the leader, and it wouldn't be good if there was a "Starstar," now would it? "Moon" cannot be used as it is religious, and a large part of the Clan's lives.
Moonstone, Moonhigh, Fullmoon, there are many uses. "Spirit" is also religious and therefore forbidden. It is also forbidden to use the clan names for other Warriors; Thunder, Wind, Shadow and River. Erin Hunter has stated these themselves.
(Examples: Lily, Flower, Pine, Oak, Willow, Rose, Flame, Stone, Fox, Mouse, Dove, Hawk, Lark)

, For instance, if his/her first name is Leopard, you may use Leopardfur or Leopardclaw. If it was Hawk, maybe Hawkflight or Hawktail (Ex: claw, fur, pelt, storm, tail) If your cat has a color, plant, or other thing as the first part, things can be more flexible.
 You wouldn't want to name a sweet golden she-cat Darkpelt or Shadeclaw. You're better off naming her Goldfur or Dawnpelt.
 If your cat is black or a dark color, don't give it a name like Cloudfur. Stormcloud or Ravenfeather would probably be better. Give your cat a name that describes him/her in the best way possible.
 Does your cat have something characteristic about him/herself? For instance Runningnose, from Erin Hunter's books, was named for his 'running nose' because he always seemed to have a cold.
 You should not name it based on the personality, eye color, or even the full coloring of that cat when it is named. However, you could have the queen wait a few days before naming the kits. "Eye" is a very uncommon name, and most people refrain from using it (Blue eye is an example, but some use it for an elder as Blue-Eye. It is usually not used because of the "e" in the beginning and also there is usually a vowel in the last two letters of the prefix (usually "e", but it can be an "a"). If you do insist on having the "eye" suffix, Swan eye (A beautiful white she-cat with a black patch on her head that covers her baby blue eyes), Fox eye (A ginger tom with scars over his jade-green eyes, but does not harm his sight. He has black paws and a white underbelly), and Brown eye (Extremely matted grey tom with white paws, black underbelly and brown eyes) are a couple of suggestions.


Most cats don't have an obvious personality right away. The eye color for cats is always hidden for a while as their eyes are closed, and even when their eyes are open, they are blue and then fade into the final color.
Also many cats, like tabby cats, don't show their markings right away. Don't name a nice golden she-cat sweet; you might not know they are nice until after naming them. Even the Warriors books have made this mistake.
 For instance, Dragon, Drake, Super, Power, Vampire, God/Goddess names. Anything mystical or make-believe should not be in a Warrior's name, as it doesn't exist in the Warrior cat world and therefore doesn't make sense.

