 Ask yourself what is keeping you from belonging. Co-workers sometimes hang out with their own age group by default and maybe you’re much older or younger. Perhaps you are a manager and feel excluded from your subordinates?Maybe everyone else has energy for the job, but you’re dealing with burnout. There even may be varying levels of lifestyles, values, or interests separating you and your colleagues.Sit down with paper and a pen and try to list whatever reasons come to mind. After you make a tentative list, you can spend a few days observing yourself and your peers at work to see if your reasons are accurate.;
, Sometimes, the biggest roadblock keeping you from connecting with people is in your own head. If you keep telling yourself you don’t fit in, you won’t. Your thought patterns can lead to a self-fulfilling prophecy in which what you believe about yourself becomes true.If you’re thinking you don’t belong, you’re awkward, or people won’t like you, reframe your self-talk. Create a list of positive, realistic statements about your workplace connections, such as “I have much to offer as a friend” or “I enjoy the culture of my workplace, so I am certain to find people with common interests.”

, If your boss or a peer has recently expressed concern that you are not a team player, dominate conversations, or bring a toxic competitive vibe to the workplace, you may need to dial it back to feel like a part of the group. If you shrugged off their feedback without trying to make positive change, they may be excluding you on purpose.


If this describes your circumstances, you have two options: you can stay the way you are and remain excluded or reflect on their feedback and find ways to improve. It’s up to you, just know that if you choose to stay the same, you could be hurting your reputation and growth within your career., Your engagement at your job has a major influence on your career growth and life satisfaction. If you can’t seem to identify what’s keeping you from fitting in, you made need to seek out professional assistance.


If you are struggling with self-esteem issues or social anxiety, you should see a mental health expert.If you are dissatisfied with your choice of work or feel like your workplace does not align with your values, it may help to see a career counselor.Look into leadership or self-help workshops to get help with specific areas of personal development. One good option for leadership and self-improvement training is called Landmark Education.