 Building strong relationships with other people can make you feel happier and less depressed. Friends can lift you out of a negative mood. Having someone to share your experience with helps you feel less negative.Being a friend to someone else, such as being a listening ear, can also make you feel more happy.
Build friendships by meeting new people, being friendly, and persevering through obstacles.Engage in a spiritual pursuit because it will help you feel connected to something beyond yourself. A church, synagogue, mosque, or temple will also present you with a strong social network., Being kind is good for making you happy. People who care for others on a regular basis have a better sense of well-being. You can be kind to others in a variety of ways.You can be kind directly to others by helping someone who needs it, like serving food at a soup kitchen or moving boxes for a friend.
You can be kind indirectly by donating money.
Look for people who need help or look like they need cheering up.
 Thinking about positive things in your daily life can boost your joy and make you feel better. Directly thanking other people for their kindness also makes you feel happier. Start making a daily list of things you are thankful for.Make it a habit to write thank you cards for gifts throughout the year.
You might want to start a diary or journal with a list of things you are thankful for. Add to this list each morning to give your day an extra sense of happiness.
 Staying healthy is directly tied to feeling happy. Exercise in particular boosts a sense of happiness, mainly because of the endorphins that are released when you exert energy. Exercise also increases your sense of physical growth, making you feel good about yourself.For example, going for a morning jog can set up you up for a happy, positive day.
Exercise forces you to set and achieve goals, perhaps many in one exercise session. Achieving goals gives you a sense of accomplishment, which promotes positive feelings.
 Many people think that getting more of what they want will make them feel happy. However, experts have observed that after our basic needs are met, more money or items does not add to a sense of well-being. In other words, ceasing to desire additional things will lead to a sense of happiness.To add to a sense of contentment, stop feeling guilty and beating yourself up. If you feel bad about something you have done, ask the people involved to forgive you. Then forgive yourself and stop thinking about it.
Take stock of the items in your life. If you have a sense of needing more things, consider changing your mindset so that you feel happy with simple things.Simple things you could focus on include eating dinner with your family, gardening, or listening to music.

