 Use medicinal honey if possible (Manuka honey from New Zealand is recommended), but any organic honey will have antibacterial and antiviral properties.In one study, honey performed better than dextromethorphan (a common cough suppressant)You can try two teaspoons or more before bed to quiet your cough.Do not give honey to children under the age of one due to the possibility of infant botulism.Adding fresh lemon to the honey may also help. Lemon has a high level of vitamin C, which helps immune system function.Though it may not fight the cough directly, it will help arm your body to fight off a cold or flu.
 Ginger has been shown in studies to open up airways to allow the greater flow of oxygen.It is particularly useful as an alternative therapy for asthma, making it a great natural option to help relieve chronic cough in asthma sufferers.
 Some studies have indicated that elderberry may work as a decongestant and reduce swelling in mucus membranes.If your cough is due to cold and flu symptoms, then elderberry may be a natural option to help break up mucus contributing to your cough.


Never give an elderberry product to a child without first consulting your doctor., Peppermint and its main active ingredient—menthol—are both effective at reducing congestion.It thins and loosens mucus, making it great for quieting a cough caused by congestion. However, it has also shown to be calming for dry coughs as well.If you don’t like actually drinking peppermint, you can also try placing one or two teaspoons of the dry herb in boiling water, covering your head with a towel, and breathing in the vapors from the herb.
 Marshmallow root is another herb traditionally used to treat a cough. While studies of the herb in humans are minimal, it has been shown to soothe mucous membranes with signs of irritation from asthma and coughing.As a throat irritant itself, coughing often creates a vicious cycle of more coughing. By soothing your throat, the herb can help shorten the duration of an acute cough.


Marshmallow root is available as a tea, in supplements, or as a tincture that you add to water.Always follow manufacturer directions.
Dosages have not been safely tested in children, so consult your child’s pediatrician before giving the child this herb., Two studies have suggested that you can use thyme to relieve cough and treat acute symptoms of bronchitis.If you pick up an herbal supplement containing thyme, follow the manufacturer’s instructions.


Thyme oil should not be ingested as it’s considered toxic.Thyme may additionally increase your risk of bleeding. Consult your doctor before taking thyme, especially if you’re on a blood thinner., Eucalyptus is used in many over-the-counter cough drops and lozenges, but you can also use it as an herb without the other chemicals in the commercial products.In addition to use in teas, you can also find eucalyptus oils and extracts that you can apply directly to your nose and chest to help loosen phlegm and relieve cough.Do not ingest eucalyptus oil directly because it is toxic.Always check with your child’s pediatrician before using a product containing eucalyptus, including ointments applied to the chest or nose, which should never be used on children under the age of two.Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should also avoid using eucalyptus.