 Being a heavy spell user, Jaina can easily bypass enemy minions on the board and inflict direct damage to the enemy hero directly. Just the same, her spells can also halt and destroy dangerous enemy minions with her fire/ice spells.


Jaina’s hero power is called Fireblast. This ability is very useful in inflicting damage to anyone! Unlike weapons or Druid/Rogue skills, this ability bypasses taunts. It also does not inflict damage to Jaina when hitting a minion with attack power.
The mage has lots of spells that have area of effect (AOE) such as Flamestrike. These spells are very powerful that it can wipe out an entire set of enemy minions with at least 4 heath points (HP). Not to mention if you have a minion on your side of the board which boosts spell damage.
Mage minions also has lots of freeze effects that halts enemy onslaught until you draw that AOE spell card to clear the board.
Mage decks can be aggressive, but it is mostly known to be a control deck due to its AOE spells. It can easily set the board into your advantage. Use these AOEs when you have lots of enemy minions so its use can be maximized.;
, The Mage cards mostly consist of spells that clear the board or weaken strong enemy minions. This is useful so that as you attack the enemy hero, there’s no big threat on the enemy side that threatens Jaina.


Frostbolts and fireballs are quick damage spells that you can deploy. These four cards are already 18 in damage altogether. Use this to reduce your opponent’s HP or simply destroy an enemy minion. Frostbolt has an extra effect of freeze that disables an enemy hero from attacking as well.
Use the Mage's most powerful spell in Hearthstone – the Ice Block. Not only does it save your HP from reaching zero, but it gives you immunity for the rest if that turn! Accompanied with Counterspell, the Mage can easily put the opponent’s plan into a halt after countering one of its essential spells.
 The minion will be now reduced to a just 1/1 sheep.


The only Mage minion that is almost an automatic addition to the deck is the Water Elemental. It just costs 4 mana and with a whopping 6 HP. Try using the Chillwind Yeti as it can also be a good option for this slot for a 4/5 minion.
Use the Flamestrike and Blizzard for the AOE spells. They may be high cost spells, but they are really worth it! They can easily obliterate enemy minions in one turn. If not, the Blizzard has a special effect that freezes enemy minions in one turn that prevents them from attacking the following turn.
Getting cheap spells like Mirror Image and Arcane Blast are easy to deploy since they just cost one mana each. Their cost is small compared to how they impact the game. Use the Mirror Image to instantly gives you two taunts, while the Arcane Blast inflicts 2 damage to enemy minions that can be increased when you have a minion that boosts spell damage.
Mana Wyrm and Sorcerer’s Apprentice are also essential minions to add to your deck since they are low cost and has good synergy with spells. The Mana Wyrm gains one attack each time you use spells (including the mana coin) and the Sorcerer’s Apprentice reduces spell cost by one making spells such as Arcane Shot and Mirror Image zero cost!
Pyroblast inflicts 10 damage for 10 mana. Using this will likely be the best finisher that you’ll have when using a Mage deck. Keep this in your hand until the time is right.
 The minions included in the neutral side are composed of minions that can help add damage to spells and prevent your opponent from dominating the board.


Heroes such as Rogue and Warrior relies heavily on weapons. These weapons can be a headache, especially if they start to destroy your minions on the board. Adding Acidic Swamp Ooze on your deck resolves this issue - activate its battle cry, which will let it destroy the enemy weapon.
One of the favorite small drop minions is the Knife Juggler and why not? It has a decent 3/2 stat and it fires a damage every time you add a minion to the board. This works well with Mirror Image since for a price of one – the Knife Juggler gets to fire two knives to enemy characters. Same principle works with Violet Teacher when it summons a 1/1 minion every time you cast a spell.
One of the minions that has high survival rate is the Harvest Golem. You have to destroy it twice to totally get rid of it. You can also add Argent Commanders to your deck since it has charge and divine shield. Again, you cannot destroy it in just one attack. Additionally, it has 4 attack!
Azure Drakes can easily boost your damage spells and it also has a draw battlecry. That’s two powerful effects in just one card. It is also a decent minion even when silenced since it has a solid 4/4 stat
Since Mage decks are heavy on spells, adding a Gadgetzan Auctioneer could be a good idea. This minion can easily fill up your hand with cards with its effect which is to draw a card each time you cast a spell. Very handy when you find yourself running out of cards.
 There are a lot of legendaries that can work well with Jaira. The exclusive legendary that you can use though is Archmage Antonidas. You can also consider using Alexstrasza for that instant HP enemy depletion.


Archmage Antonidas simply gives you an infinite supply of fireballs – literally. As long as you cast a spell, he will give you a fireball spell. Very powerful especially during the end game!
Imagine deploying Alexstrasza in the field setting your enemy HP to 15 while you have 2 Fireballs and a Frostbolt at hand. Do the math! Your opponent is defeated on your next turn unless he heals himself.

