 This should only be done for makeup, chalk, soot, and other substances too solid to be blotted. Use a dull knife or nail file. Hold the knife flat against the rug and use it to scrape up the substance without spreading it.;
, Any food or liquid spills need to be absorbed immediately using a paper towel or undyed cloth. Dab the area with the towels to remove as much of the liquid as possible., In a small bowl, add a small amount of a neutral dish detergent, such as Dawn, to an equal amount of lukewarm water. Stir the mixture until it is soapy.Avoid using laundry soap and other cleaners, as these can change the rug’s color.
Another option for cleaning seagrass rugs is commercial cleaner such as HOST Dry Cleaner. Follow the directions on the label to treat the spill.
 Dip a sponge or a brush into the detergent mixture. Apply small amounts of the cleaner onto the outside of the stain, working towards the center. This will help get rid of food, drink, and pet stains.


Dissolvers such as Tetra and petroleum solvent for oil and acetone polish remover for nail polish can be substituted to combat specific stains. Apply sparingly the same way you would detergent., Again, only use paper towels or undyed cloths to avoid staining the rug. Use these to remove excess moisture before it gets absorbed into the rug.
 When the stain persists, you may still be able to remove it. Add more of your cleaner and apply it the same way you did before. Follow it up by blotting off the excess using paper towels or undyed cloth. Do this a few times.
 Once the stain is treated, it is important to remove the moisture before it is absorbed by the rug. Apply a heat source, such as that from a hair dryer, that can focus heat onto the wet area and dry it quickly., Quickly apply paper towels or white, undyed cloth on top of the spill. Pick up as much moisture off the rug as possible.
 In a bowl, combine a half-cup of water and a tablespoon of ammonia. Stir the mixture as thoroughly as possible., Use an undyed white cloth or paper towel. Dip the cloth into the ammonia solution, wringing out excess moisture before patting the stain with the cloth. Cover the area with as little cleaner as possible to avoid damaging the rug.
 Get a clean, undyed cloth or paper towel. Dip it in clean water, not the cleaning solution. Wring out the cloth to remove excess moisture, then blot the ammonia-treated area to pick up any ammonia left on the rug.
 In a clean bowl, add ¼ cup white vinegar to ¼ cup water. Stir the mixture thoroughly. The vinegar solution will remove the smell of urine. Vinegar is for removing the smell of urine, so it is only necessary when the scent lingers after normal spot cleaning., Use another dry, undyed cloth or paper towel. Dip it into the solution, wringing out excess moisture before patting the stained area.
 Only use a clean, undyed cloth or paper towel. Dip it into clean water, then wring out the excess moisture before dabbing it over the treated area. This will remove the vinegar on the rug., Once the ammonia or vinegar is washed from the rug, remove excess moisture by blotting the treated areas on the rug with a paper towel or undyed cloth. Another option is to dry the rug quickly such as with a hair dryer.
 Add a cup of chlorine bleach to a bowl. Dilute the bleach with six cups of water. Stir the mixture thoroughly to minimize the rug’s exposure to the bleach., Since adding too much bleach to the rug can discolor it, you can’t apply it directly. Instead, get a spray bottle from the store. Pour the bleach into the bottle and you’ll be able to mist a thin coating on the moldy areas.
 Spray as lightly as possible, covering the rug in an even coating. Do this only on the rug itself, not the binding. You may want to test the spray in a single area first to see if it discolors the rug. If it does, add more water to the mixture.
 Allow the bleach mixture to work on the mold for ten minutes. When the time is up, take paper towels and blot the rug to remove moisture. Make sure you pick up as much of the bleach as possible.
 While you can allow the rug to air dry, it is a good idea to dry it quickly using a hair dryer. A quick heating ensures that none of the moisture or bleach soaks into the rug, minimizing damage from treatment.
 Natural rugs must not be washed regularly, since they absorb moisture. Instead, use a suction brush to pass over the rug. Pass over it several times, moving in a different direction each time. Do this when dirt starts to accumulate in order to prevent staining., In dry climates and low humidity areas, a very light coating of water can extend the life of the rug. First, make sure all the dirt is vacuumed, then spray a very fine coating of water evenly over the rug. You may also sprinkle the water, use a clean mop, or a brush dipped in water., As a last resort for a soiled rug, find a machine that has a spray-extraction setting. Set the machine to the lowest moisture setting. In this method, the machine applies liquid cleaner and then quickly removes it.