 When moved up or down, this lever will cause a light on either the left or right side of your car to flash.


The turn signal will not make a sound or light the signal light on your car unless the car is running.;
, To signal a left turn, wait until you are approximately 30 yards from the corner around which you intend to turn.Ensure you are in the left-turn lane, then push the turn signal lever down gently with your left hand. When the turn signal locks in place, you’ll be able to see a flashing arrow directed to the left on your instrument cluster. You’ll also hear a tick-tock sound which clicks in time with the flashing of the light. This indicates that the signal is operating properly. Return your hand to the steering wheel and continue driving.


Keep your right hand on the wheel while flicking the signal lever down with your left hand.
Turn on the signal before braking to let other drivers know why you are slowing.
 Ensure you are in the right-turn lane, then move the lever up with your left hand. The series of events which follow are similar to those which occur when making a signal to turn towards the left.


Once you have moved the lever up, an arrow light will begin blinking on the dashboard instrument cluster. You will also hear a metronome-like sound at regular intervals which clicks in time with the flashing light on your instrument cluster.
 Normally, the signal will automatically turn off after you have made the turn. Some turns which are at angles of less than ninety degrees, however, might not trigger the automatic suspension of the turn signal after you’ve made the turn. Failing to turn your turn signal off after you have completed a turn can be illegal and cause confusion for other drivers.It is easy to see if your turn signal is still on after you’ve made a turn. Just check the indicator panel above and just behind your steering wheel. Listen for the rhythmic tick-tock sound of the signal blinking on and off. If you see the indicator light blinking or hear the signal sound, reach over to the signal lever with your left hand and gently move it to the “off” position.
 Some traffic lanes are reserved for left or right turns only. While it might seem unnecessary to indicate you’re turning when it should be obvious based on the lane you’re in, use the turn signal anyway. Drivers who are not familiar with the area or who cannot see the signs due to multiple vehicles ahead of them in the lane will appreciate the indication as to where you are headed, and could clue them into the fact that your lane is for turning in a given direction. Plus, the law requires that you make a turn with your turn signal.
 If you turn your signal on too soon, someone might think you are turning into a parking lot or down a street which you actually are not. This confusion could lead to an accident or to you being cut off.

