 In some stadiums or civic centers, you may have a half mile hike to arrive at your seat, and threading your way through a line of people can cause a lot of stress.;
,, These may be a very real part of the rock scene, but you should be concerned enough to behave responsibly.
 Again, this may not be the ordinary attitude for concert goers, but it will tend to make it easier to enjoy the show. Here are some things which you should note.


Do not push and shove to get to a merchandise table, food and beverage vendor, or restroom. Rock music fans are like any group, they can be laid back and mellow, or volatile and edgy.
Do not throw things, insult people, or complain to people sitting near you. If the band stinks, walk out, or if there is another group coming up, chill out and wait for them.
Don't block the view for other concert goers. If the crowd gets up and start screaming or waving their arms, join them, but don't try to do a one person show in the stands for your own entertainment.
 You may be stoked and overjoyed with the show, but you should still allow others to enjoy it in their own way.
 Some rock concerts, usually the best ones, do get a little out of control, and if you are into it, it is fine to get involved with the crowd.
 People can get very touchy on the subject of bands they like.
 Generally the best clothing to wear is that of similar bands to the headline act but as long as it's in the style of the music it's okay (e.g. black for a metal band, checkers for a ska band etc.) for most styles no-one really cares what you look like and for the ones where people do you'll probably already know the dress code.
, Your main aim in the gig is to have fun. This depends on what your idea of fun is, if you want to be a barrier boy then you need to get onto that front barrier right at the start and never let go no matter how squashed and deafened you get. If you want to sit and not be squashed then go upstairs. If you want to be a demon of the pit then you need to rip your shirt off and start acting like a gorilla in heat. Choose where you want to fit into the gig.

