 (Do not worry if you turn out to be wrong because you will be able to make up for this later in step 5.) Using the method explained in another WikiHow article of mine (see first link), compute the Day of the Week for the Month and Day that have for the Target Year, but in this case for the Start Year.;
, If that value is less than the value (from step 1) for the Day of the Week in the Start Year, add 7 to it. Now subtract the value for the Day of the Week for the Start Year (from step 1) from the value for the Day of the Week for the Target Year that you just looked up and perhaps adjusted. Let's call this result the Day of the Week (DOW) Gap.
 Let's call this the Leap Gap. If the month is January of February, add 1 to the Leap Gap, but if this makes the result 5, then change it to 1 (this will happen when the Start Date is in January or February in an actual leap year).
 But add 5 to this if the DOW Gap is equal to the Leap Gap or subtract 1 from it if the DOW Gap is greater than Leap Gap (but if the Dow Gap is 6 and the Leap Gap is 1, do both, that is, add 4). This is the first occurrence of the Target Year after the Start Year. If this turns out to be the actual Target Year you are looking for, your task is done.
 Now, go to the table to the right and find that Leap Gap (numbers 1-4) among the numbers in red outside the circle. To find the occurrences of the Target Year PRIOR to the first one you found in step 4, move counter-clockwise from the point at which you entered the circle, subtracting the indicated numbers (inside the circle) from the last Target Year to jump to the next prior Target Year. To jump to the NEXT occurrences of the Target Year AFTER the first one you found in step 4, move clockwise from the point at which you entered the circle, adding the indicated numbers (inside the circle) to the last Target Year to jump to the next subsequent Target Year. (This is why we call those numbers in the circle the Jump numbers.) You can keep going round and round the circle as long as like as long you stay within a century (see tips).

