 If you are experiencing any side effects or an addiction to Alprazolam, you should contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor may be able to make adjustments to your treatment plan or otherwise help you deal with side effects.Remember that Alprazolam (or any drug in the benzodiazepine category) is intended for very short-term use and should never be stopped abruptly. Alprazolam can be habit forming, and you can quickly develop a tolerance for the drug, meaning you need higher doses to feel any effect.
A small percentage of people are recommended to take Alprazolam as part of a regular treatment regimen. If this is the case, you and your doctor should carefully monitor for increased tolerance, interactions with other medications, and any side effects.;
, You should start a health journal, such as a paper journal or a file on your personal computer or device. Keeping a health journal can help you track the medications you are taking to manage your anxiety or panic disorder. It can also help you monitor any immediate side effects from Alprazolam, as well as communicate these side effects to your doctor.Side effects include impaired memory, drowsiness, forgetfulness, difficulty concentrating, difficulty speaking, slurred speech, loss of interest or pleasure, depression, weakness, trouble performing routine tasks, difficulty with coordination and muscle control, lack of appetite, and more., Although you may experience a loss of appetite, dry mouth, nausea or an upset stomach during the course of your treatment, you should remember to eat. Eat regular small meals. Avoid larger meals that could worsen these side effects.You should try to eat four to five small meals a day.
You should eat a balanced diet that includes a good mix of fruits and vegetables, healthy grains, fiber and protein.Try to eat at least five fruits and vegetables a day.Avoid eating too much saturated fat and sugar.Make sure you are getting enough protein, such as beans, pulses, fish, meat and eggs., Try eating more beans, nuts, whole grains and vegetables. You should look for foods that have a lot of antioxidants such as fresh fruits and vegetables. You should also remember to eat a solid breakfast and incorporate healthy snacks into your routine. Try integrating more of the following superfoods into your diet to increase your energy:Almonds
Avocado
Quinoa
Flax seeds
Dates
Seaweed
Berries
Edamame

, If you are experiencing a loss of libido since going on Alprazolam, you should make sure you are getting plenty of exercise, staying hydrated and eating a balanced diet. In particular, make sure you are getting enough vitamin C, iron, collagen-rich foods, and using spices like nutmeg in your cooking. Consider integrating more of the following foods into your diet:Sweet potatoes
Dark chocolate
Watermelon
Nutmeg and clove
Brazil nuts
Almonds
If diet and exercise doesn’t work, you should ask your doctor about treatment options.
 Your slurred speech could be caused by an overactive mind and your anxiety or by the muscle relaxant effects of Alprazolam. Start by telling your doctor, so they can take this side effect into consideration in your treatment plan.When you get the slurred speech, avoid forcing the words out. Forcing yourself to speak will add stress. Relax and speak when you are ready., Although Alprazolam is sometimes used to treat insomnia, it can sometimes cause rebound insomnia. If you take Alprazolam at night or are getting off the drug, you may experience rebound insomnia.To manage your rebound insomnia, you should set a regular bedtime and avoid all screens before going to sleep. Ensure you have a good sleeping environment, including a comfortable mattress and temperature in your bedroom. In addition, you could try the following tips:Read by candlelight before going to sleep.
Write in your journal before going to sleep.
Turn off all of the lights in your room.
Use aromatherapy such as lavender scents.
 If you have any of the rare side effects, you should seek immediate medical attention. For instance, seek medical attention if you have rare side effects such as chest pain or suicidal thoughts. Remember to document rare side effects in your health journal. Rare side effects include, but are not limited to, the following:Chest pain
Ear pain
Decreased awareness
Loss of hearing
Slowing down of mental activity
Inability to control your legs
Complete loss of energy
Talking in your sleep
Changes in your voice
Suicidal thoughts

