 To cut down on costs, you should try to buy paleo food in bulk. You may invest in buying items like olive oil in bulk to save money and to ensure you have access to this paleo diet stable. You can also buy meat in bulk directly from a farmer or from a quality meat source. Talk to your local butcher about buying large cuts of meat. Then, freeze them and eat them for meals for weeks at a time.You can also buy paleo foods like nuts in bulk at a bulk supplier in your area or a big box food store.
Try buying fish in bulk by picking up canned wild Alaskan  salmon and other canned fish. You can stock up on canned fish so you can eat them as part of your paleo diet.
Eggs can be purchased in large quantities and are fairly inexpensive. They are often sold by the dozen and each egg has 6 grams of protein.
Be sure to store bulk food properly. Deep freeze the extra portions of large cuts of meat in a freezer and store extra bulk nuts in a secure place, like a refrigerator, to keep pests away.;
, A big part of eating paleo is eating fresh fruits and vegetables. Going to your local farmer’s market will ensure you have access to the best local produce and that you are not paying marked up prices in a grocery store. You may make it a regular habit to go to the farmer’s market once a week and stock up on fresh fruits and veggies.When you shop at the farmer’s market, make sure you walk around and look at the produce at different sellers closely. Compare prices for product and make sure you are getting the highest quality produce at a good price when you buy.
 A Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) program gives you access to local, fresh produce from farmers in your area. It is also a good way to buy produce in bulk every week that is local and high quality. You can look at CSA programs in your area online or find one through your school, your work, or your community association. This way, you have access to fresh produce every week that is affordable and fits with your paleo diet.If you live in a shared household, you may try splitting a CSA order with others to cut down on the cost. Often, CSA programs offer a large amount of food to consumers, making them ideal for sharing with others.
 You can eat paleo on a tight budget by checking online and in the newspaper for coupons on paleo foods. Scan the coupons for discounts of fish, meat, eggs, and produce. You may also find discounts on certain bulk nuts. Clip the coupons and use them at checkout to save some money on your groceries each week.There are apps on your phone you can download that can tell you of coupons and discounts on certain food items. Using these apps, you can track these discounts and use them when it comes time to buy food for your paleo diet.

