 It can be difficult to comb through the Internet to find information about your business. However, you can set up a Google Alert using Gmail. After you set up an alert, Google will send to your email inbox any statement referring to you that has been published on the web. You will need a Gmail account to set up alerts.


Visit the Google Alerts website at https://www.google.com/alerts.
In the box labeled “Create an alert about…” you should type in the name of your business. Then click on the “Create Alert” button.;
, Not all negative information is defamation. Before you do anything else, you should analyze the statements. To qualify as defamation, the statement must meet the following requirements:The statement explicitly identified you, or a reasonable person would understand the statement is about your business.
The statement must be false. Defamation doesn’t exist if the statement is true. Remember that an opinion is not false because it is negative.
The statement isn’t an opinion. Opinions are protected, even if very negative, provided they are based on facts that were true at the time the opinion was made.Statements like “They serve the worst clam sauce I’ve ever eaten!” are protected, provided the person did eat clam sauce.
The statement must be published to at least one other person. Given that it is on the Internet, this element is satisfied.
The statement can’t be privileged. Each state has many privileges for communicating statements that may be defamatory. For example, in many states any statement about a public proceeding is privileged. If your business is dragged in front of a state legislative committee and someone makes defamatory statements about you, you can’t sue for them.
If you are considered a public figure, you might have to prove malice, which is a higher burden than just proving negligence., You can help yourself by showing how the statement is false. For example, if someone is claiming they received poor service from you on June 1, 2016, you should check to see if the person visited your business that day.


If someone claims they were overcharged, then find their bill. Check to make sure all charges are accurate.
One way you can differentiate opinion from fact is by seeing whether you can disprove the statement. It’s virtually impossible to disprove an opinion.
 Generally, you must show that a defamatory statement injured you in some way.As a business, the most obvious injury would be financial—reduced sales or lost future business opportunities. You should compile financial records to show a drop-off in income.
 A claim for defamation will not be successful if the defendant has a legal defense. If the defendant has a defense to your claim, they will bring it up in their answer to your lawsuit. If successfully argued, a defense will defeat your claim and the litigation will end. Common defenses to defamation include:Truth (i.e., the statement made was not false at all), which is an absolute defense to defamation.
Statements of opinion. However, the definition of opinion is always up for debate and different courts may look at the issue different ways.
Retraction of the defamatory statement. If the defendant retracts the statement that led to the dispute, the dispute will usually end.
 As soon as you find defamatory statements, you should schedule a consultation with a lawyer to discuss your next steps.Defamation law is complicated, and each state’s laws may be a little different. Only a qualified lawyer can properly advise you.


You can get a referral to a business lawyer by asking another business or by contacting your local or state bar association.Also think about hiring a lawyer “on retainer.” This means that you pay the lawyer a small fee every month and they are available to answer your questions as they arise.As a business owner, you must constantly be on guard against attacks to your reputation, so this is probably not the last time you will need legal advice.
If you want to sue for defamation, then you can discuss how much it would cost with the lawyer.
 One option is to respond to the comment. If someone complains on Yelp about poor service, for example, you can respond to the comment by providing more context. For example, someone might complain about the food at your restaurant. If you fired the chef, then you could provide that information.


Make sure you don’t have a stock response. Instead, make each response original and specific to the complaint.Be careful about responding if you are a lawyer, medical provider, or other professional. Ethical rules and many laws prohibit you from releasing confidential information. You don’t want to accidentally reveal confidential information.
You can also respond by asking the complainer to contact you directly offline.When they call, you can work out your problem by, for example, offering a refund.
 You might also ask the website owner to remove the defamatory material. Send a formal business letter identifying the statement and include a polite request to remove it.


Realize, however, that the website owner doesn’t have to remove it in the United States. Furthermore, they are protected by federal U.S. law from being sued by you for defamation if they choose not to remove it., In some situations, you might want to send a letter directly to the commentator. You can have your lawyer draft the letter and mail it to the offender, or you can send it as an email. A solid letter or email would contain the following information:Identify the defamatory statements. Also provide the URLs where the statements appear.
Request that the commentator retract the defamatory statements or unpublish them.
Explain why the statements are false.
Tell them that the false statements will hurt you financially if they remain online.
 Over 90% of bloggers will remove information if asked.However, the commentator might ignore you and leave the defamatory statements online. In this case, you might want to write a full blown “cease and desist” letter.


This letter will be like the original email or letter that you sent. However, you will include a deadline for removing the information and an explicit threat that you will sue for defamation if they don’t remove it.
 A reputation management service will try to minimize any defamation that your business faces. For a fee, they will do the following:Threaten the publishers of defamation with legal action. If successful, the publisher will remove the information.
Publish good information about you using Search Engine Optimization. Essentially, they will try to overwhelm the defamation with positive stories about you and your business. Accordingly, negative information won’t show up on the early pages of search results. Because more than 90% of users only look at the first page of search results, using SEO can help you bury negative information., You can search for reputation management services online. However, there are so many different companies you will need to follow some sort of process to find a good service. Try the following:


Ask other businesses or individuals who have used a reputation management service if they could recommend someone. A personal referral from someone you trust is often the best approach.
Check different websites. You can get a feel for the business only by visiting the website.
Look at online reviews for the product.
Compare prices. These businesses provide a mix of services at different price points. You should get quotes from several.
 You can also try to fill up the first page of your search results with positive content. For example, you might want to create the following on your own instead of hiring a reputation management company:an affiliated blog
articles which you publish online
personal profiles using Facebook and LinkedIn

, You can try to get positive online reviews by sending out an email 24 hours after seeing the client. Ask them to provide feedback about their experience. You can provide a link to a neutral review platform, such as Yelp or Google+.Your email message can be simple: “Thank you for your visit. Please help us continue our high quality service by clicking here to provide feedback.” Include a link to a review platform.
If a client had a negative experience at your business, you can train staff not to send them this email.
 You can often prevent disgruntled customers from posting negative online content by creating customer-friendly policies. You should train your staff on how to handle angry customers. You should also consider the following:Give front-line staff the power to immediately resolve customer complaints. Obviously, they can’t resolve everything. But you might want to give them the power to refund 10% of the price, for example.
Implement social media policies which prohibit staff from responding to online posts about the company. You don’t want to escalate the tension into a flame war online.
 Before filing a defamation lawsuit, you need to talk to your lawyer about the risks. Generally speaking, defamation lawsuits are incredibly difficult to win. First, damages can be hard to prove (e.g., it is difficult to monetize what happened to you as a result of the defamation). Second, if you file a suit seen as attempting to chill free speech, you might be susceptible to an anti-SLAPP (strategic lawsuits against public participation) motion and SLAPP-back suit. These suits allow defendants to get your initial lawsuit dismissed while at the same time recovering damages from you.


Even if you have a valid case, online cases can make it difficult to identify who the author if the defamatory statements were.
Finally, if you win your case, you still might damage your reputation with clients and customers.
 Suing someone for online defamation is particularly challenging because people can often remain anonymous when they post. However, you can still bring a lawsuit. If you can’t identify the poster by name, then you can originally sue “John Does” as defendants and then try to find out the commentator’s real identity.


In the U.S., Internet Service Providers and website owners are generally shielded from liability for the defamatory comments posted by their users.However, outside the United States, you might be able to sue the ISP or the website operator that published the defamatory comment., You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. In this document, you provide the judge with enough information to show that you have a valid legal claim. Your lawyer can draft the complaint for you, which should contain the following:


your identity as the “plaintiff”
who you are suing (if you only have online pseudonyms, then you can sue “John Doe”)
the court’s power to hear the case
the surrounding factual allegations
the defamatory statements, reprinted word for word
your cause of action (e.g., defamation)
what you want the judge to give you (usually money damages)

, Once your complaint has been drafted, you will need to file it with the correct court. Your lawyer will make this determination and it will depend, among other things, whether you decided to file in state or federal court. When you file your lawsuit, you will also have to pay a filing fee. The fees will vary depending on the court you are filing in. The fees usually range from $200 to $400.


Once you file your complaint with the clerk of court, you will receive stamped copies of the complaint along with a signed summons. The summons is a piece of paper meant to inform the defendant of the lawsuit and how they need to respond., The defendant will need to be notified that they are being sued. If you do not currently know the identity of the defendant, you will usually complete service by publishing a legal notice in various places. Serving unknown defendants is a complex procedure, so make sure your lawyer is comfortable with them.


If you know the identity of the defendant, you can serve them by having someone over 18 who is unrelated to the case give them a copy of your complaint and summons. You can also pay the sheriff’s office (in state court) or the U.S. Marshals (in federal court)., After filing your lawsuit, you can serve the webmaster or Internet Service Provider with a subpoena, which is a court order to turn over the identity of the poster.In order to uphold a subpoena, a court will generally require that you show the following:You have a valid defamation claim. This shouldn’t be difficult to prove, since you shouldn’t sue unless you have a valid claim.
You have tried to contact the poster. For example, you have posted requests for identification on the website where the defamatory comments appear.
 If you use a subpoena to identify the real name of the poster, then you can amend your complaint and substitute in the new defendant once you find out their real identity.After amending the complaint, you can serve the defendant with a copy. They then have a limited amount of time to respond to your complaint.
 As part of the defendant's initial response to your lawsuit, or soon after, they will usually file a motion to dismiss, which attempts to throw out your lawsuit. The reasons for filing this motion will vary but it is usually because of some procedural defect (e.g., failure to state a claim or lack of jurisdiction). You can respond to these motions by filing a motion of your own. To win, you will have to persuade the judge that the defendant's reasoning is flawed and that your lawsuit should continue.


Unique to lawsuits touching on free speech, including defamation suits, you may also have to fight an anti-SLAPP motion. An anti-SLAPP motion asks the court to strike a complaint that chills valid free speech. You will have to defend against the motion by filing a response that proves you are filing your suit for valid reasons. If you lose, you will have to pay for the defendant's legal fees to cover the filing of the anti-SLAPP motion.
If you lose the anti-SLAPP motion and your defamation case is dismissed, the defendant may also choose to file a SLAPPback action, which is a new lawsuit filed to recover damages against you. You might also have to defend against this., One of the first pretrial stages of litigation is discovery, which is when you and the defendant will exchange information in order to prepare for trial. During discovery you will collect facts, interview witnesses, find out what the other side is going to say at trial, and see how good your case is. In order to achieve these things, you will use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal, in person interviews with parties and witnesses. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions sent to witnesses and parties. The recipient must answer the questions under oath and the answers can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests for documents relevant to the case. Examples of documents might include internal memos, phone records, emails, and text messages.
Requests for admissions, which are written statements posed to the defendant. The defendant must admit or deny each one. These requests help narrow the focus of the litigation.
 As soon as discovery concludes, most defendants will try to end the litigation immediately and have the judge rule in their favor. To do this, the defendant will file a motion for summary judgment, which tries to convince the judge that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant needs to persuade the judge that, even if every factual assumption were made in your favor, you would still lose the case.


You can defend against this motion by filing a responsive motion of your own. Within the response you will provide evidence and affidavits showing the judge that factual disputes do exist, and that they need to be resolved at trial., Lawsuits are typically long and expensive. You can shorten the length of the lawsuit by reaching a settlement with the defendant. Settlement can happen at any time—before you sue or even after a jury verdict has been reached. Talk about the value of settlement with your lawyer. Consider the following:


What you want from the defendant. If the defendant did not cause you serious financial damage, then you might be happy with a retraction or removal of the negative information online. But if someone has caused serious monetary loss, then you will probably want some form of compensation.
The minimum you are willing to accept. Settlement negotiations are voluntary, and at some point you might need to walk away if the defendant cannot meet your demands. Come up with the absolute minimum you are willing to settle for. This is your “walkaway” point.Identify what you can offer the defendant in return. You can sweeten the deal if you are willing to give something up. For example, the person defaming you might be a former employee. You could agree not to give a negative reference if contacted by a future employer. If the defamer is a customer, you could offer store credit.
 Not all lawsuits can be settled. If not, then you will need to continue on with your defamation case. Stay in close contact with your lawyer and discuss upcoming events, such as hearings. If your lawyer needs information from you, then provide it as soon as possible.


See Prove Libel for more information.
 If your case makes it all the way to trial, you and your lawyer will be responsible for presenting evidence in front of a judge and possibly a jury. Your job will be to convince the court that the facts support a finding that every element of medical malpractice is met. Your lawyer will do this by presenting witness testimony and physical evidence. Once you have presented your case, the defendant will have a chance to present theirs.


At the end of the trial, the judge or jury will deliberate until a decision regarding your case has been made. If you win, you will be awarded damages. If you lose, you might be able to appeal the decision by the trial court. This is usually only possible when some legal error has been made that affected the outcome of the case. If you think an appeal might be appropriate, talk to your lawyer as soon as possible. Notices of appeal must usually be filed soon after a decision at the trial level has been made.

