 To do this, open iTunes and navigate to the Devices menu under the larger Preferences menu. Check the "Prevent iOS hardware from syncing automatically" box, save your changes, and quit iTunes.


If you do not turn off automatic syncing in iTunes, iTunes may attempt to automatically sync the music library you have on your computer to your iPhone when you plug it in, which can cause unnecessary complications.
 You must have iTunes 10 or later to use it, however.


Download the program here: http://www.macroplant.com/iexplorer/

In addition to needing iTunes 10, you must also have Mac OS X 10.6 - 10.9 or Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, or 8.1
After downloading the EXE file, open it and begin the installation process. Follow the on screen instructions to complete the process and install iExplorer on your computer.
 Plug your iPhone into your computer by connecting the two with a USB cable.


In most cases, your iPhone should come with this cable. It will be the same cable you use for your wall outlet, except for the fact that you will need to remove the plug portion of the cable to reveal the computer end of the cable.
 Once the program is installed and your iPhone is plugged into your computer, double-click the iExplorer icon to launch it.


Note that you should wait until after you plug your iPhone in to do this. If you launch the program first, it will see that there is no device plugged into your computer and may not detect your iPhone after you do plug it in.
 You can usually do this by clicking on the arrow next to the iPhone device name on the sidebar in iExplorer. Then, click on the arrow next to "Media" and the arrow next to "iTunes_Control."


This should expose your Music folder, as well as the folders for much of your other iPhone content.
 Click and hold the "Music" folder. Drag it over to a blank space on your desktop before releasing it.


This action will transfer all of your music from your iPhone to your computer. Depending on how much music you have, the process can take a while.
Note that this should not remove the music from your iPhone.
 Close out of iExplorer after the transfer is complete and eject your iPhone from your computer to safely remove it.


You can technically stop here since your music is now on your computer, but if you have iTunes, you might find it beneficial to complete a few extra steps to add the music to your iTunes library on your computer.
 Double-click the icon on your desktop to launch the program as usual.
 Go to your Preferences menu and then to Advanced. Within those settings, check the "Keep iTunes Media Organized" box and "Copy files to iTunes Media Folder" box.


You can also re-enable automatic syncing at this point, if desired, by returning to the "Devices" panel as before.
 You can copy the new "Music" folder from your iPhone to iTunes by dragging it onto the iTunes icon or by dragging it into the iTunes window.


This should prompt iTunes to import all the music.

