 Place the tip of the syringe into the liquid medication. Pull the plunger out to draw the medicine in. Make sure to place the syringe nearby so it is easy to retrieve when you are ready to administer the medication.Make sure to follow the dosing guidelines per the instructions on the bottle.
For the best results, use a 1 milliliter (0.034  fl oz) (cc) syringe.
 Place your cat on top of a towel on your lap. Gently hold your cat in place with one or both of your hands. If your cat is anxious, talk to it in a soothing voice while petting it to calm it down.If you think your cat might resist and/or scratch you, then wrap the towel around its whole body so that just its head is sticking out.
 This will help warm the medication to room temperature. Before placing the syringe in your cat’s mouth, push the plunger to allow some medication to come out. Hold the syringe in front of your cat’s face and let it lick the medicine.If your cat will not lick the medicine, then grab your cat by the scruff with your other hand. This will cause its mouth to open slightly so you can administer the medicine.
 Place the syringe near the back of its mouth between its teeth and cheek at a 45-degree angle, i.e., at the side of its mouth. Make sure to place the syringe behind its canine tooth, i.e., the sharp fang. Gently push the tip until it is just between your cat’s teeth. Try to avoid sticking the syringe too far into your cat’s mouth. This can cause your cat to panic and possibly breathe in the medication.
 Push the plunger to dispense the medication little by little. Make sure to wait a few seconds between each dose. This will allow your cat time to swallow the medication and breathe.Try not to administer the medication all at once; this may cause your cat to breathe in the medication.
After you have finished dispensing the medicine, your cat may spit some of it out. If your cat does this, do not give it more medication unless you are sure that none of the medication was swallowed.
 It is recommended that you give the medication with food to avoid side effects such as vomiting. Provide your cat with its favorite food and some treats to entice it to eat. Make sure to praise your cat for good behavior by petting it and talking to it in a soothing voice.Additionally, make sure to provide your cat with fresh, clean water.

