 Purple prose tends to happen the most in sentences that are overly long or rambling. You can avoid purple prose by breaking up your sentences into digestible chunks. Doing this can help you write sentences that are clear and easy to read, without sacrificing any meaning or depth in your writing.For example, you may have the long, rambling sentence, “I wondered to myself how I was going to escape my predicament as I had royally screwed up once before in Mr. Medina’s class and he wasn’t the most lenient teacher at school so I realized I was to be in store for a several rounds of dull, boring detention and this meant I was going to miss Rory’s annual party so Rory will surely hate me for it.”
You can break up this sentence into a series of short, concise sentences. Breaking up the sentence can also help you recognize when the sentence starts to become confusing or not as strong as it could be.
The revised sentence would be, “I pondered how I was going to get out of this one. I had royally screwed up once before in Mr. Medina’s class. I figured I would earn a few rounds of detention for my screw up, which meant I would be a no show at Rory’s party. Rory will surely hate me for missing it.”

, Using the active voice in your sentences, as opposed to the passive voice, can help you avoid purple prose. Purple prose often appears in sentences that are in the passive voice, partly because we tend to lean on unnecessary words and phrases in the passive voice. Keep your sentences active, with lots of active nouns, and avoid the passive voice.For example, you may have the sentence: “The steering wheel spun dramatically out of my hands and continued spinning until I could no longer see clearly out of the windshield into the pitch dark night.” This sentence is confusing because it is in the passive voice and it uses adverbs that pile on top of one another, rather than add meaning or depth to the sentence.
You can rephrase the sentence in the active voice to make it easier to understand and digest, “I lost my grip on the steering wheel in the pitch dark night. The car spun around and around until I could no longer see out the windshield.”

, Get into the habit of reading your sentences out loud to help determine if they are full of purple prose. Listen to how your sentences sound when you read them out loud. Ask yourself, “Does this sentence sound confusing?” “Does it take me more than one full breath to read this sentence out loud?” If the answer to these questions is “yes”, you may need to rephrase or revise the sentence.


Writing for the ear can help you avoid purple prose, no matter the type of writing you are doing. Listen to how each sentence sounds and be willing to cut or adjust any sentences that seem wordy or unclear.

