 Take the hair on the very top of your head, and clip it or tie it with a hair tie. Do the same thing for the same for the hair at the back of your head. This will leave the hair on each side of your head hanging down. Use your preferred hair product to give the hair in each section a shiny and lustrous appearance., Take one of the sections of hair on the side of your head and create a loop, securing it with a hair band. Do the same for the other side section.The loops should look like a circular rings of hair. There should be space inside the loop, unlike a bun. Don't worry if the rings are droopy or if you can see through them; you will correct this later.
 Take down the section of top hair that you pinned up. Make two sections out of this hair: a top and a bottom section. Back comb through your bottom section by holding it up and softly with a comb coming from the tips of the hair toward the roots. This will give your hair more volume.
 After back-combing, place a small hair sponge or donut between the two top layers of hair. Clip the sponge in place. Then make sure the sponge is fully covered by the top hair. Then tie the top hair using a hair elastic.The hair sponge or donut should give you a bump in you hair, which gives it more volume.
 Take the top section of hair you were just working on and make a loop out of the hair that’s hanging out of the elastic. Do the same for the back section of hair., You should now have four loops on your head: two on the sides and one on the top and bottom. Use hair donuts or whatever equipment you prefer. Place these supports inside the loops to give them more of a defined shape and bottom. Pin the equipment in place with bobby pins so that the buns don’t budge.The Shimada hairstyle depends on the definition and volume of the buns. If you don’t use hair donuts, your hair will look droopy and asymmetrical, which is not the look you want to go for.
 Many times geishas, and especially maiko, will wear ornaments in their hair. These include flowers, ribbons and ornamental pins and combs. Although ornaments are not necessary, you may wish to buy or create ornaments. If you already know what color your kimono will be, try to match the ornament in some way to the color of the kimono. You may put a hairstick in the bun, but don't use a chopstick. , Many geishas use wigs as opposed to their real hair, since styling your hair can be a very labor-intensive process. If you don’t have long hair, you will have to use a wig, as the elaborate geisha hairstyles require long hair. Wigs vary in price, and also in quality. If you buy a wig, you can also add flowers, accessories or any other embellishments you want.