 Honest and open communication is one of the foundations of a healthy relationship. If you and your partner can effectively bond, you will find that it is easier to work together to solve problems. It will lessen your need to control him.Choose your timing. If you want to have an important conversation, choose a time that is good for both of you. Don't try to have a deep conversation right as he is walking in the door from work, for example, or if you know you have to leave for the gym in five minutes.
Watch your body language. During important talks, try sitting side by side with your man. This makes you both feel equal, and is more effective than if one of you is standing over the other. You should also try to maintain eye contact, as that conveys trust and respect.;
, In the early stages of dating, the two of you probably had plenty of romantic dates. But as a relationship progresses, it can become easy to fall into a rut. Perhaps you're spending all of your time together watching tv rather than actually enjoying each other's company. Make sure to get some quality time together each week.Having alone time with your man is very important for your relationship. It helps you connect to each other as adults. Set aside some time each week that is just for the two of you--no kids, no friends, no one but you.
Do activities that require you to interact. For example, try a fun activity such as bowling. This will help you relax and feel more comfortable with one another. If your man enjoys your company, you will need to worry about controlling him.
 Of course your know your boyfriend or husband, but that doesn't mean that you know all of the important things about each other. The healthiest relationships are those where the couple makes a real effort to understand one another on a deeper level. During your quality time, make an effort to learn new things about each other.The best way to get to know each other better is to ask questions. These questions can be as simple as saying, "How was your day?" The important part is that you both give detailed honest answers, and that you both actively listen to the other.
You could also try asking more creative questions, such as "If you could be any character in a book ,who would you be?" These types of conversations will allow you to learn more about each other. The more you know, the more you will trust each other. You will be able to communicate instead of controlling.

