 You can attract people to your business by offering a sale over the first few days, refreshments or a drawing for a large gift certificate.


Consider getting a local promoter involved, if you have the budget for it. At the launch of a business or campaign, it may be important to look for outside help. Later on, you may be able to fully rely on free online promotion or email blasts. This is an important step if you are just breaking into the local area. If you don't know a local promoter, you can try MatchLocal to set you up with local marketing solutions.
Send out a press release to all local newspapers, and use any connections you have made to local newspaper writers in your business section. While it may be very hard to garner a section in a large city's newspaper, smaller towns often enjoy writing a story about a new business.
Set up a sign-up list to receive e-newsletters from your business. This will help you grow your email list. Ensure you tell people that you will not share their information and you will let them know about local promotions and new products.
List your event in all the newspapers in your area, beginning a month in advance. Also, create an event on Facebook and send it to your followers. Call local radio stations and ask if you can get listed on their announcements. Ask local businesses if they would be willing to trade promotions so that you can put up a flier in their store.
 This is important especially if you cater to an older demographic. Many people still have a book in their home or in their car that they reference. A regular listing may not cost very much, and you can pay to put your listing in bold or list it in the yellow business pages.
 This can include Google Maps, Bing Local and Yahoo local. There are a number of online yellow pages where you should submit, such as Merchant Circle, Web Local, Yellowpages.com, Local.com, Bizjournals.com, Insider Pages and Super pages.
 These companies sell or share local listings and you may find your business listing in places before you request a listing.


You may need to pay for some of these listings. You should weigh the cost against your total marketing budget. Google, Bing and Yahoo, however, are essential steps in local marketing and should be done no matter what.

