 To help reduce leg acne, shower often. Aim for once every day. Bathing removes bacteria, dirt, and sweat from your skin.


If you sweat a lot, for example after a workout, you should take an extra shower afterwards. Legs can be prone to sweating during physical activities.
Use a gentle product. Use products labeled as noncomedogenic. This means it won’t promote the formation of acne. If your leg acne has larger pimples and bumps, you may want to try using an antibacterial cleanser.
Consider an exfoliating product or using a loofah once or twice a week.
Try products from brands like Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay.;
, Herbal oils may be effective to spot treat acne on your legs. These essential oils have antibacterial and antiseptic properties. Herbal oils may help new pimples from forming and help pimples heal. They can also help dissolve the oil that clogs up the pores.Try spearmint, peppermint,, calendula, lavender, or tea tree oil.Always combine the essential oil with a carrier oil.Try camphor, mineral oil, castor oil, almond oil, avocado oil, olive oil, peanut oil, hazelnut oil, apricot kernel oil, safflower oil, grape seed oil, hemp seed oil, and evening primrose oil.
Mix 10 drops of the essential oil for every ounce of carrier oil.Dab the mixture on any problem areas.
Always test the essential oil for sensitivity on your skin. Add a drop of the essential oil diluted in water to your skin. Wait for about an hour. If you have no reaction, use the oil.
 Sea salt is great to treat acne. It cleans the area and helps eliminate the acne-causing bacteria.Sea salt works as an exfoliant, which means it helps get rid of impurities and dead skin.Sea salt baths can be especially effective for your legs since you can soak your legs in the bath water.
Begin filling your tub with hot water. Add a cup of sea salt to the running water. This will help it dissolve more easily. Soak your legs for at least 10 to 15 minutes.
You can also add about three to five drops of an acne-fighting essential oil, such as lavender, spearmint, peppermint, or tea tree oil.
 Leg acne can occur when you sweat in clothing that doesn't breathe. Excessive sweating or sweat trapped against the skin of your legs can make acne worse or give your breakouts.Wearing cotton underwear, shorts, or pants helps the sweat evaporate better.
Avoid wearing non-breathable fabrics, such as polyester.
If you work out a lot, make sure you wear cotton or other breathable fabrics. You may also consider fabrics with moisture wick technology. Change your clothes immediately after sweating a lot. Don't wear workout clothes multiple times without washing them if you sweat a lot.
 To reduce leg acne, wash shorts and pants on a regular basis. Sweat and dirt on the clothing can cause pimples.Make sure to wash your clothes after wearing them, especially after a workout or other physical activity.
If you also have trouble with acne on your buttock area, make sure to change your underwear daily.
You should also wash your sheets often, preferably once a week.
 Leg acne can occur as a result to something in the products you are using.Some of the additives in skin care products, cleansing products, or fragrances can cause breakouts, especially if you have sensitive skin. These additives include formaldehyde, neomycin, nickle, and even soy.Use body wash, soaps, and lotions with less fragrances or additives. Look for products specifically for sensitive skin.You may also consider using a laundry detergent with fewer dyes and no fragrance.
 If you find your legs break out after you shave them, make sure you are using proper, hygienic techniques. Some things to try include using a clean, sharp razor; using shaving cream to soften the hair; shaving with the the growth of your hair, not against; and shaving your legs at the end of your shower, when hair has been softened by the water.