 The most telltale sign of Lyme disease is the presence of a rash known as erythema migrans, or EM. The rash most commonly develops between seven and ten days after the bite, but it may develop in as few as three days or as many as thirty days after. The rash will expand over the course of a few days, potentially growing to more than 12 inches (30.5 cm). EM rashes are almost always circular in shape, and may clear up in the center, leaving the visual representation of a “bull’s eye.”Note that the rash only appears in 70 to 80% of infected individuals, so the lack of a rash does not guarantee that you are not infected.
The rash may arise anywhere on the body and may even occur in multiple locations, though it will usually envelop the location of a bite.
Though the rash may feel warm to the touch, it will likely not itch or cause you any pain.
The rash may begin looking uniformly red, then develop the "bull's eye" or a more complex shape as they expand.
The edges of an EM rash may be irregular or hard to see. It may also ultimately range in size from that of a coin to the width of your back!Have any rash that develops following a tick bite checked out by a doctor.;
, Within three to thirty days of infection, you may begin experiencing mild symptoms that could potentially be mistaken for another type of illness. If you know you were bitten by a tick, even a simple fever may indicate you’ve been infected with Lyme disease, so pay diligent attention to your health following a tick bite.Muscle and joint aches may come and go, and will vary in severity.
Swollen lymph nodes are another classic sign of infection.
Recurring chills or headaches, and a persistent fever are other symptoms to watch out for.
If you’re experiencing these symptoms, even mildly, see a doctor to ensure you’re not infected.
 A powerful case of fatigue is another early warning sign of a Lyme disease infection. If you are so tired or sore that you struggle to get out of bed, see a doctor. Though it may feel like you simply have a bad case of the flu, it is important to make sure you’re not infected.Fatigue symptoms may even dramatically lessen after a short period of time, though this does not indicate that you are not infected.

