 If you're having problems with your Kindle device, you may not even need to contact Amazon at all. Instead, start by visiting the Amazon help pages, available here.If you're not signed in to your Amazon account, the link above will take you to a list of products (including Kindles). Click the Kindle product you need help with to see a variety of help topics for that product.
If you've registered your Kindle device and you are logged in to your Amazon account, you'll see your Kindle device at that top of the page. Clicking it will take you straight to the appropriate help page.;
, Can't find the help you're looking for on the page above? Use the official online help form to contact Amazon Customer Service directly. Click here to access the form.
 Click the "Fire and Kindle" button at the top of the page. Use the drop-down menus on the page to select which type of device you have and what kind of problem or question you need help with.


If you have registered your Kindle device and you are logged in to your Amazon account, you won't have to fill out the information about your Kindle. Instead, just click the button near the top of the page with your device on it. If you don't see your device, click "My Kindle is not shown" and fill out the form as normal.
 Once you finish filling out the part of the form that describes your problem, Amazon may immediately display information that has been determined to be helpful to you. You can read this help information (and watch any video that is included with it) or simply scroll past it to continue — the choice is yours.
 At the end of the form, you'll see three different contact options. Pick the one that matches the way you want to get in touch with customer service. Your choices are:



Email: On the next screen, you'll be asked to verify your Kindle model and your email address. You can also type in any extra important information you want customer service to see. Click "Send Email" to finish.

Phone: You will be taken to a screen with the appropriate phone number for you to call. You may also be given the option to input your phone number and have Amazon call you.

Chat: A window will pop up with a space to describe your problem. When you're ready, click "Start Chat" and you'll be connected to a customer service representative who will talk to you via text chat.
 Certain support issues may make it so that one or more of the options above are greyed-out. For example, if Amazon Customer Service determines that a certain Kindle problem needs one-on-one help to fix, the Email option will be disabled. In these cases, just select one of the remaining options.

