 Unless the nosebleed resulted from a minor infection or injury, your cat might have to stay at the vet's office or animal hospital for several days. For their recovery, they'll need to see familiar faces and hear familiar voices. Talk to your cat and pet them often to reduce their stress., Heightened activity or emotions could trigger another nosebleed. Follow your vet's advice on keeping your cat calm for the recovery period. This might include crating, relocation to a small room, or medication., If your cat's nosebleed was the result of kidney failure, high blood pressure, or related condition, they'll have to go on a special diet. Give your cat only the foods that the vet deems safe. Sometimes, the diet will only be temporary. However, you should be prepared to keep your cat on the diet for the rest of their life., Cats suffering from respiratory infections or recovering from surgery will need antibiotics. Some nosebleed-related conditions, such as poisoning or blood clotting disorders, require dietary supplements and/or long-term medications.


Stick to the dosing schedule your vet prescribes. You'll usually only have to give your cat antibiotics for two weeks or less. However, if your cat has cancer or other chronic condition, you should be prepared to stick to the dosing schedule for the rest of their life., Cats whose nosebleeds were caused by foreign bodies, abscesses, or cancer will likely have to undergo surgery. Change the surgical dressing as prescribed. Look for swelling, redness, blood, discharge, or foul odor in the stitched area. These usually indicate infection. Call your vet if you notice any of these abnormalities., Your vet will give you a list of symptoms to look out for as your cat recovers. These usually include blood loss, pale gums, weakness, or collapse. Don't try to improvise on any instructions. If your vet tells you to bring your cat to the office for certain symptoms, do exactly that. Your cat's life could depend on it., Your vet will need to check your cat's prognosis. Work out a schedule for follow-up visits and keep each appointment. The vet will let you know when your cat has a clean bill of health.

