 You will need to provide the bank with proof of the error or problem with your account.You might want to circle to highlight the error so it is visible. Make a copy of your receipt or statement that contains the error – don't send your original to the bank.
For minor errors, you might consider simply calling the bank rather than filing a formal letter of dispute. A representative at your bank's customer service line may be able to correct the error instantaneously.;
, If you are disputing an item on your statement that you believe is an unauthorized or fraudulent transaction, you should cancel your card immediately.Most banks have a toll-free fraud line that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
If you cancel your debit card within two business days, you will only be liable for up to $50 in fraudulent charges. Some banks have additional protections.
For credit cards, you are not liable for any unauthorized charges if the theft involved your card number and information and not the physical card itself.
 To use the protections guaranteed by federal law, you must provide your bank with written notice of the error.You should always consider calling first to provide initial notice of the error. You also will have the opportunity to ask the bank representative what specific information should be included in your letter.
If you mail your letter within 10 days of calling, the date you called typically is considered your date of notice – so calling has that additional advantage if you're coming close to that 60-day deadline.There are form letters available online that you can copy and adapt to your own situation. For example, the Federal Trade Commission has a letter to dispute billing errors available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0385-sample-letter-disputing-billing-errors.
Use standard business format for your letter. Most word processing applications have a template you can use so your letter is formatted correctly.
 Before you print your letter, look it over for any typos or grammatical errors, and double-check the name and address to which it is addressed.


Once you've completed your letter, sign it using blue or black ink. Don't forget to include copies of any statements or receipts that provide evidence of the error.
Make a copy of your letter and everything you plan to send with it before you mail it so you have a copy for your own records. 

, Check your bank's website to find out where you should mail your letter – don't just mail it to a branch.Consider sending your letter using certified mail with returned receipt requested, so you know when the bank has received your letter and can calculate the response time.
Keep in mind that if you don't notify your bank of the error within 60 days, it has no obligation under the law to respond. Typically this means nothing will happen regarding the error., The bank must respond to your letter within 30 days to acknowledge receipt.After receipt, the bank has two billing cycles – or a maximum of 90 days – to investigate the situation.
After its investigation, the bank must send you a written report explaining its decision, and either correct the error or explain why the bill is accurate.
 If you aren't happy with the way the bank handled your dispute, you have 10 days to send another letter appealing the decision.Mention the bank's response in your follow-up letter, but explain that you still refuse to pay or expect the money to be credited back into your account.
You also can file a complaint against your bank by visiting the Federal Reserve's website at https://www.federalreserveconsumerhelp.gov, or with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/.

