 Even minor burns can produce some uncomfortable swelling, so immediately remove any clothing or jewelry near the burn that can make the site even more uncomfortable.If clothing is stuck to the burn, then this is not a minor burn, and you should seek immediate medical care. Do not try to remove clothing stuck to a burn. Instead, cut around the stuck portion to remove only the loose areas., The cool water will lower the skin temperature and can even potentially stop the burn from becoming more serious. Hold the burned area under cold, running water, or soak it for about 10 minutes. Don’t panic if the cool water doesn’t immediately stop the pain: it can take up to thirty minutes.Do not ever use ice or ice water because the colder temperature can lead to additional tissue damage.You can place arms, hands, feet, and legs into a basin of cool water, but you should use a cool compress for burns to the face or body., You will need to clean the burn to reduce the risk of infection. However, it’s very important to thoroughly wash your hands before handling the burn at all because any open blisters can easily become infected.This also includes using only clean cloths, gauze, gloves, or anything else you might use when handling the burn.
 Burn blisters are not like minor friction blisters, where breaking them can help reduce pain. Do not break any blisters associated with the burn; doing so can greatly increase the potential for infection., Use a cold soap and cool water to clean the burned area.Lather the soap gently so as not to risk breaking any blisters or irritating the skin.


Some of the burned skin might come off as you wash the area., Use only a clean cloth to pat the area dry. Do not scrub at the area with the cloth. Sterile gauze is an even better option if you have it available.


For extremely minor first-degree burns, this may be all the care you need to provide to the area.
 You can use ointments such as Bacitracin or Polysporin each time you clean the burn.Do not put sprays or butter on burns because they trap heat inside the burn.
 Loosely cover the burned skin with a clean bandage. Change the bandage every time it gets wet or soiled in order to avoid infection.Avoid wrapping the area too tightly, or you might risk doing further damage to the burn.


If the burned skin or blisters have not broken open, then the area may not require a bandage. However, wrap the area regardless if it’s in a location prone to getting dirty or that could become irritated by clothing.Do not tape a bandage so that it circles a hand, arm, or leg. This can cause swelling., Acetaminophen or ibuprofen can help soothe minor pain symptoms. Take only as directed.
 Even with electrical burns that appear to be minor, you can develop symptoms that warrant a trip to your doctor. Contact your caregiver if you:Feel dizzy or weak
Have stiff joints or muscle pain
Experience confusion or memory loss
Have questions or concerns about your condition or care

, Infection is a minor risk for first-degree burns. However, you should always keep an eye on the burn and watch for signs of infection, especially when any blisters or broken skin are present. See your doctor immediately for prescription antibiotics if you believe your burn is infected. Potential signs include:Change in color of the burnt area or surrounding skin
Purplish discoloration, particularly if swelling is also present
Change in thickness of the burn (the burn suddenly extends deep into the skin)
Greenish discharge or pus
Fever

, If any large blisters develop from your burn, you should have them removed by a doctor. They will rarely remain intact, and it’s better to have a doctor remove them taking all of the necessary, sterile precautions.A large blister is roughly anything larger than your pinky fingernail., Any time the bandages become wet or soiled, change them. Clean the burn (using clean hands or gloves) with water and a mild soap, apply more antibiotic ointment, and rewrap with a new, sterile piece of nonstick gauze.

