 Potty training your puggle is crucial. People often give up their dogs due to behavioral issues, which can be prevented with careful training while the dog is young.To house train your dog, you will need to keep a careful toileting schedule for him. Take him out to go potty several times per day, especially after meals. You will also need to watch him while he is in the house to prevent him from going potty indoors.


If you notice that your puggle is about to go potty in the house, gently pick him up and take him outside. If you are too late, then do not yell at your dog or hit him or rub his nose in the urine. These measures do not do anything but frighten the dog. Instead, clean up the mess right away and take him out to his potty spot.
You may also want to keep some puppy pads or newspapers around while you are house training your dog. This will help to ensure that he always has a place to go potty if he has an emergency or if you are not around.
 Crate training can be helpful with house training and preventing your dog from chewing on tings he shouldn’t as well. It is important to note that crate training is not a means to punish your dog. Your dog’s crate should be a place that he likes to go, as if it is his den.


If you decide to crate train your dog, make sure that you get a crate that is large enough for him to stand up, turn around, and lay down in. If the crate is too large or to small, then it will not be as comforting for your dog.
Place some comfortable bedding and a toy inside of your dog’s crate to make it more appealing to him. Try leaving the crate door open for the first couple of weeks so that your dog can investigate the crate and use it as he pleases.
 Teaching your puggle some basic commands will also help to make him a well-behaved member of your family. Training a dog takes daily training sessions and lots of patience. Some other good things to keep in mind when training your puggle include:


Rewards. Use rewards to motivate your dog and never yell at him or hit him to teach him something. Dogs respond much better to positive reinforcement, so make sure that you give your puggle lots of praise, petting, and treats when he follows a command.
Length of training sessions. Dogs have short attention spans, so it is best to keep training sessions under 10 minutes long. If your puggle starts to lose interest, then just give him a command that he has already mastered, reward him for obeying, and end the session.
 Puggles are pretty friendly dogs, but all dogs need to be socialized to prevent them developing fearful or aggressive responses to strangers and new situations. Start by taking your puggle out on walks (on a leash) while he is a puppy and invite people over often as well to help you socialize your puggle. Make sure that you do not expose your puggle to other dogs until he has had his first round of vaccinations.Be sure to expose your puggle to:


people of different genders, races, ages, and sizes
cats and other dogs
people in unusual clothing, wearing coats or hats, holding umbrellas, etc.
loud noises and crowds of people
bikes, cars, rollerblades, skateboards, etc.

