 Anything that shows proof of them cyber bullying. If it is an email, you can go on the computer and print it out, instead of simply saving it onto your phone. Cyber bullying is somewhat easier for a bully to perform, since they don't have to do anything when the victim is right there in front of them. But you're smarter than that. You may just want to click "delete" on every hateful email, text, or IM. However, this is not the right way to go. Because there may come a time, when this bully needs to be reported- and you'll need all the evidence right there in front of you. Save and print each and every mean thing they send. Bookmark or "favorite" the webpages they insult you on. The day will come when you'll need this untenable evidence to accuse them and stop them.;
, If you receive a "bully" message, never get more involved than you need to. Replying to that hurtful comment will only worsen the problem- what you say on the internet, STAYS there, no matter what you do; and anger, sadness, or any other emotion that can cause you to do this you'll regret. Keep yourself cool. Remember that It's okay to be upset, but responding to the bully just as they responded to you will fix nothing other than add more fuel to the fire.
 Emails, screen names and images of themselves can be deceiving, and can temporarily disguise a bully. However, there are ways of figuring out the guilty party. First, write down the email or screen name you've received this from. Check your inbox- have you ever received ANYTHING from this person before? This may clue you in. If not, simply go to the email provider (after the @ part of the email) website, and search the screen name you have. If the profile is not blocked, you should be able to view this person's name. When all else fails, get others involved. Let your parents, a teacher, or another adult you trust know about the situation. Most likely, they can track the IP address, and get the exact location of the attacker.
 A cyber bully is nothing when not behind their internet mask. Talking to them about it upfront might even scare them away. If this person seems to not be intimidated, or issues more violent or humiliating threats, contact an adult to intervene.
 Bullying of any kind is illegal in most states. After letting a parent into the situation, allow them to contact the bully's parents (if the school has not already done this). If you've suffered severely from this, or experienced humiliation or violent threats/acts, this girl/boy can be suspended, expelled, or even arrested, depending on how severe they have acted towards you.

