 Any variety of rose will be a beautiful addition to your garden, but it's important to check which roses will grow best in your region by looking at a regional guide to roses. You can also consider the appearance of the roses as well as their size. Here are several of the most popular and beautiful varieties of roses:



Floribunda. These are the most colorful types of roses, and they are bushy shrubs that bloom freely, creating clusters of three to fifteen blossoms instead of just one blossom on a step. These shrubs can be grown individually but look the most impressive when you plant many rows of them next to each other.

Hybrid Tea. These are one of the most popular types of roses, which grow as upright bushes that grow one flower per stem. These may be the roses you're most used to seeing at the florist's.

Grandiflora. This beautiful variety of rose is a mix between a floribunda and a hybrid tea. It grows up to six feet tall and creates classic hybrid tea flower clusters.

Shrub and landscape roses. These roses come in a variety of shapes and sizes and they can suit any landscape. They grow close to the ground, are naturally disease-resistant, and they require less attention than other roses while bearing roses over a long season.

Climber roses. These roses add flavor to any garden and typically grow on a fence or a trellis. They have long, arching canes that have many flowers which can cover pillars, walls, or any structure that offers them support.

Miniature roses. These are the smallest of the rose plants and they can grow anywhere from six inches to two feet tall. These roses flower continuously and are great for container gardening, making borders, and for growing in a small space.

Tree roses. These roses have a hardy rootstock and are grafted to a long stem that is then grafted to a rose bush at its top. The tree rose is visually stunning but it takes more care for it to survive through the winter.;
, This is an important distinction to make because you will have to plant the roses differently depending on whether they are bare root roses or roses that come in a container. Both will need to be planted into the ground to make the roots grow in the earth, but you'll have to choose between the two parts below to find what to do to plant your preferred type of rose. Here's what you need to know about the two kinds of roses:Bare-root roses. These roses will not come with flowers on them, but that's not a bad thing. It means that the bush can expend its energy on developing its roots, not sustaining its flowers. You can plant these earlier in the growing season, as early as six weeks before your region's last average frost date in spring and not any later than two weeks after that date. If you plant them at the right time and using the right method, these roses will grow faster than container-grown roses.

Container-grown roses. These roses have the advantage of already having flowers and therefore looking more beautiful when you plant them in your garden. They're usually sold in 1 gallon (3.8 L) sizes or larger and you'll have to be more careful about growing them in true springtime because they're more likely to get nipped by frost.
 Your planting site will determine the fate of your roses, no matter how beautiful and tough the initial roses may be. You should find a place that gets at least 5-6 hours of direct sunlight each day, especially in the morning. You should also plant your roses near any shelters, such as a wall or a fence, if they're going to be in a particularly windy area. Here are some other things to keep in mind as you choose the perfect site for your roses:Hot climates should have some shade to protect the roses from the hottest sun. Cold climates should have a warm wall or a fence to keep the roses from getting too cold.
Your soil should have good drainage. Before you plant your roses, dig a hole and pour water into it to make sure that it drains after just a few hours. If your soil is too moist, the roots of your roses may rot. If this is the case, then you should consider planting your roses in raised beds.
Make sure your soil isn't too thick or sandy. Adding organic materials such as dehydrated cow manure, shredded bark, or compost can help the soil reach the right consistency.
Avoid planting your roses near trees or shrubs. They will compete for nutrients, water, and light, and they will not win out.
The soil should not only retain moisture easily, but it should have a pH between 6.5 and 7.
 Having your roses and location is a great start, but if you want to plant the roses, then you have to get all of your materials in order. Here's what you will need:


Fertilizer
Mulch
Pruning shears
Gardening gloves
Compost or rose planting mix
A spade
A shovel
A filled watering pot

, This is the best time for planting bare root roses. While you can purchase container roses and continue to water and care for them while they are still in their containers, when it comes to bare root roses, you'll have to plant them immediately after you purchase them, so make sure you have everything you need.
 The hole should be bigger than the roots of the rose and the earth attached to them so that the roots have something to grab on to as the plants grow. This is what you will need to do to plant one bare root rose. However, many plants are sold in groups of three and growing them that way can be a great plan. If you're planting more than one rose, however, then you should make sure they are planted at least 2–3 feet (0.6–0.9 m) apart, so their roots have room to grow., Mix it well until you've formed a mound of the entire mixture at the bottom of the hole you've dug.
 If you're planting in a warmer climate, then you should position the the rose so that the bud union of the rose is just above the level of the ground. If it's colder, the bud union should be about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) below ground level. The roots should be covered, but the stem should be out of the ground.
 This will keep out any air pockets that could harm your roses. Then, pat the soil around the roots a bit more firmly. Keep filling the hole with the mixture until it's about 3/4 full. If you're shoveling with your hands, just watch out for the thorns.
 Let the water soak all the way into the soil and then refill the hole. Trim the canes of the roses so they're about 8 inches (20.3 cm). Do this by making angled cuts that are about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) above the outward facing buds.
 This will protect the canes of the rose from drying out. In about two weeks, the buds should sprout, and then you can remove the mound.
 This is an old gardener's trick that will help the plant retain water a bit better and which will also keep it from falling down after the first wind., This is typically the time when you will find the roses for sale and when the frost will be guaranteed to be over. These roses are more prone to frost so you will have to plant them in the right season so you don't risk it., If you've kept the roses in a container for a while or if they're just very moist, wait until the moisture goes down a bit so that you can plant them more easily. If the roses are too moist, the roots won't grow as much and you may lose some of the roses when you transfer them out of the container.
 This is the same thing that you'll need to do if you're planting a bare root rose. Use a spade or a shovel to dig this hole.
 First, remove the bottom of the container, and then remove the sides when you set the container into the hole. Remove the container off the sides as if you were peeling an orange. The container may just look like a pot and will have to be removed at once., This will help expose the roots a little bit and will make it easier for them to grow into the soil in the soil bed. This will also help straighten out any roots that got tangled from growing in the small rose container. To loosen the roots, you can score the rose by making vertical cuts with a sharp knife. The scores should be opened about an inch to let the roots form.
 Fill the hole with simple potting soil when you're done.
 This will eliminate any air pockets and will help your container roses grow strong.
 Water the plant, wait for the water to drain, and water it once more to get off to a good start. If you have organic mulch such as bark, pine needles, or wood chips, then you can add this to the top layer to help retain the moisture of the soil.
 Usually this is when the top 2 inches (5.1 cm) of soil is dry. To stay healthy your roses need a lot of hydration and food., Four weeks after planting, you should start soaking the bed every 2 weeks or so. Do this in the morning for the best results.
 Use 3–6 inches (7.6–15.2 cm) of mulch to control the moisture, temperature, and to stops weeds from popping up. Mulch also helps to lock in the vital nutrients your roses need in order to remain healthy. Read How to Grow Roses for more information on how to care for your roses after they've been planted.
 Pruning your roses will keep them from getting crowded and will make them grow healthy and strong. All you need is some pruning shears and a good eye for what you need to eliminate. You can cut off any rootstocks (suckers), which are new plants that grow from the roots of the old plant, as well as any remaining canes that are thinner than a pencil, which rub or cross each other, or which are just not fitting the desired shape you want for your roses.
 In the winter months, or just when it gets unseasonably cold, you may have to take action to keep your beautiful roses alive in the winter. You should cut back your rose plants to about 24 inches (61.0 cm) so they don't get harmed by ice and wind. Then, you should tie the canes together with twine to further protect the roses from winds.Each rose plant should have a nice mound of fresh, loose compost or soil around its base.
You can add another layer of hay or straw over the mound for further protection.
When spring comes around, you can remove the added protection.

