 Now that you're feeling beautiful on the inside, it's time to show off your looks through the right clothes and makeup. You don't need to go on a shopping spree, but you should find the look that will help you snag a man.


Find clothes that emphasize your best attributes. If you have toned arms, go for a tank top, or if you want to show off your long legs, find the perfect dress and heels for your body. Make yourself look a little fun but do not always focus on that; focus on in the inside too!
Dress appropriately for the occasion. If you're hoping to attract a man at a wedding, for example, look classy--not trashy. You don't want a man to think that your body is your best feature--it's just one of the things that makes you unique. However, if you're out at a club, avoid business-casual attire, which will make you stick out like a sore thumb. If you are going to a a party, than sure! Go show off those pretty legs of yours, or your nice arms, but don't get too skimpy and inappropriate; watch what you wear
Have the right hair and makeup. Light hair and makeup maintenance can go a long way in emphasizing your best features. Most men prefer a natural look, so avoid trying too hard by applying too many layers of makeup or hairspray. Well, if you ask me it would be best to not where make-up, and show your natural beauty, but if you would like to put on a bit, then be my guest! But too much can make you look like you're trying too hard.
 That new dress or new found self-confidence won't have much of an effect on the man of your dreams if you haven't showered in a week. It's important to stay clean and smell nice. I would wear some deodorant, or the slightest spritz of perfume! But not to much because some people react very poorly to it, and who knows what could happen?


Shower at least every other day, and definitely on the day of a special occasion. It's important for your body to smell fresh. And you never know what could happen!
Wash your hair as often as you need to. Some women wash their hair every day, while others take more time between washes. Find whatever works for you in order to keep your hair from looking greasy.
Keep a clean mouth. Remember to brush your teeth and use mints or gum to keep your breath fresh when you need to. You can even test the smell of your breath by blowing into your hands. Nothing will turn off a man faster than a beautiful woman with dragon breath!

, Though a real man will love you for who you are, being health-conscious and working out will help you maintain a trim figure and will boost your confidence in the process. If you feel great about your body, any man you meet will feel the same.


Exercise at least three times a week for at least thirty minutes, or more. A solid work-out regimen is essential to getting and staying healthy. Don't let your routine stagnant - keep challenging yourself as you get stronger and fitter.

If you don't have a lot of time to set aside for exercise, consider ways in which you can add more walking to your daily routine.
If you don't care for exercise for the sake of exercise or health, find an external motivation - for instance, take a local kickboxing or boxing class because you want to be able to defend yourself, or taking a yoga class because you want to make some new friends.


Eat healthy. Moderation is a key in life, so take the time to splurge on your favorite ice cream or pizza, while also taking time to eat lots of fruits, vegetables, and food that is rich in nutrients. Avoid processed or greasy foods as much as you can. Your body will feel better, and your skin will look better.

