 You can't go home again, and scold yourself for not talking to him even though you said you would. Or even though you passed up the perfect opportunity just because you thought you were ugly. Or because you thought that he probably wouldn't want to talk to you. You can't be nervous. Relax and trust your instincts. If someone came to talk to you, I'm sure you would probably just flirt back.;
, The more you think about it, the less likely it will happen. Close your eyes, and breathe. After people start to look at you weird because you just did that; just go up to him and talk. Just talk

, So do girls. See? It's not a girl vs. guy thing; it's simply a human thing. Make it a point to talk to him everyday. You can't just talk to him one day, then skip the next. You need to make it gradual. So think of this conversation-thing as an engine when you start a car; once it's on...you keep it running.
 With small talk comes follow-up conversation. Example: in class you spoke about the crazy teacher. Next day, or even later next class, you tell a story about the teacher. Or you make reference to her. This is also a great way to create inside jokes- which are ideal. Make sure that when you're talking to him you smile, and try to make it look like you really want to listen to him. Oh and laugh.
 Once you talk to him on a daily basis and are perfectly comfortable around him, ask him to go somewhere. It could be anywhere, just the fact that you asked him will make him feel good. Again, this is not a girl vs. guy thing, this is simply human. Whether it's coffee, or McDonalds, just ask. But make sure you ask very chill-y. Very casual. i.e Ha, speaking about obesity...I'm probably going to McDonald's after school with Michelle and Amanda, wanna come? If he agrees then excellent! But if he doesn't, don't start hating, it's just going to McDonalds...right? That's the whole point-casual.
 Or when you're talking, make sure you use 'we'. It'll develop an automatic friend-thing in his subconscious, and will make all of this easier. Tell jokes, don't hold back. Say whatever is on your mind; if it's funny...it's funny.

