 If you are an author, check the contract you signed with your publishing company. Typically, the publisher is the copyright holder, but it may revert back to you once the book is out of print.If you are not the copyright holder, respond to the request with a short, polite letter directing them to the address of the current copyright holder.
 Unless you know the recipient personally, write in business letter format:


Type the letter.
Place your name, address, and today's date at the top of the page.
Open with "Dear (Title) (First and Last Name)."
Close with "Sincerely, (Your Full Name)."

, Grant permission for the exact article, excerpt, images, or book pages listed in the request. If you have no objections to the use of any of the requested materials, you may say "the materials outlined in your request of (date of request)."Keep a copy of the request in case of legal dispute later.
If you do not grant permission to one part of the request, specify this.
 Clearly state exactly what you are granting permission for. The request should specify this: an excerpt in a book, a reading packet for students, etc. There should be no doubt over what type of use you allowed.
 If you would like to limit the use further, specify the restrictions here. If your material will be printed in a temporary work, you could specify a time frame or limit the permission to a certain number of copies. For a book, you may request a mention in the acknowledgements. For images, you may state that the permission is limited to black-and-white copies only.


If you are an author, check your publishing contract for additional restrictions.
 If you are writing on behalf of a publishing house, find out the standard fees you charge for the type of material requested. If you are the author or artist and sole copyright holder, this is your decision.


Many authors and artists waive the fee for an educational or nonprofit institution they support, or for minor uses. To do this, state "I waive my fee for this request."
If you'd like to support a small for-profit group, you could waive the fee but request a certain payment if the venture is successful. (For instance, if they sell a certain number of copies.)You can typically charge US$25–100 for allowing the reproduction of a short quote (a few lines).The price of larger text excerpts, images, songs, or video varies depending on how many people will see your work. US$100–200 is a very rough estimate for a book or newspaper, but your agent or other people in your field can give you more precise information.

