 In order to qualify for a diagnosis, children aged 16 and under must exhibit at least six symptoms in more than one setting, for at least six months. Symptoms must be inappropriate for the person’s developmental level and be seen as interrupting normal functioning in social or school settings. Symptoms for ADHD (inattentive presentation) include: Makes careless mistakes, is inattentive to detail
Has trouble paying attention (tasks, playing)
Doesn’t seem to be paying attention when someone is talking to him
Doesn’t follow through (homework, chores); easily sidetracked
Is organizationally challenged
Avoids tasks requiring sustained focus (like schoolwork)
Can’t keep track of or often loses keys, glasses, papers, tools, etc.
Is easily distracted
Is forgetful;
, Some symptoms must be at the level of “disruptive” for them to count in a diagnosis. Track if your child has at least six symptoms in more than one setting, for at least six months: Fidgety, squirmy; taps hands or feet
Feels restless, running or climbing inappropriately
Struggles to play quietly/do quiet activities
“On the go” as if “driven by a motor”
Excessive talking
Blurts out even before questions are asked
Struggles to wait for his turn
Interrupts others, inserts self into others’ discussions/games

, If your child has at least six inattentive and/or hyperactive/impulsive symptoms, he or she may have Combined presentation of ADHD. , As you determine your child’s level of ADHD, seek the guidance of a mental health professional to make an official diagnosis.


This person will also be able to determine whether your child’s symptoms can be better explained by or attributable to another psychiatric disorder.
 As if having an ADHD diagnosis isn’t challenging enough, one out of every five with ADHD is diagnosed with another serious disorder (depression and bipolar disorder are common partners). One-third of children with ADHD also have a behavioral disorder such as conduct disorder or oppositional defiance disorder. ADHD tends to pair up with learning disabilities and anxiety, too.