 Many carriers give out free minutes in addition to the regular airtime balance included in the plan for marketing purposes.Before you sign to a plan:


Investigate on your own or check with the service representative to find which plans offer the most free minutes every month.;
, A loyal customer who pays his bills on time is usually a customer a carrier will work to keep. Some plans or carriers offer free minutes as a reward for customer loyalty.You should be careful to pay your bill on time, as paying late will often disqualify you from getting your free minutes.


To ensure you pay your bill on time and do not lose out on free minutes, you might set a reoccurring alarm in your phone's calendar.
You might also set up automatic payments to occur before the due date of your bill. This way, if something goes wrong, you can still pay your bill on time and get your free minutes.
 Service carriers will usually hold promos or offer programs that pay out free minutes subscribers. Some promotions offer a tier member system, where higher ranked members get extra minutes, while others might reward free minutes to subscribers who consume a certain amount of airtime.Check with a customer service representative with your service provider to see if there are any promos available where you might earn free minutes.
 Much as you can earn free air miles for certain airlines through the use of a credit card, some companies now are rewarding customers with free minutes that can be applied to most carriers.Be sure you investigate the conditions of these rewards programs; there are sometimes carriers excluded from the rewards program.


To find partnerships between your provider and another organization, you might call your provider's customer service line and inquire if there are any external free minute programs.
Check with your credit card company, or even inquire at the customer service counter at general retailers and groceries to see if free minutes programs are available.
A general Internet search can also put you on the right path, though be on guard for scams.

