 Before the trial, you typically will meet with your attorney at least once to go over the direct questions your attorney will ask you when you take the stand. Your attorney will help you understand how best to answer these questions.Your attorney typically will have a standard list of questions that they always ask. In addition, there may be other questions based on your particular case.
Before you go to trial, you want to have a solid understanding of the types of questions your attorney will ask you, and how they will proceed with those questions.
Attorneys never want to ask a question for which they don't know the answer, so your attorney isn't going to surprise you at trial.
Generally you will have already gone through the questions and answers, maybe even multiple times.;
, When you testify at trial, it's important not to introduce any new evidence through your testimony. For this reason, you should make sure you understand all the documents and evidence available and that your answers comport with that evidence.Most of the questions you'll be asked should be things you have no trouble remembering – even at trial when you're nervous.
However, you probably want to review information that you know you'll have a hard time recalling. For example, if you're bad with dates, you may want to spend some extra time memorizing the date you and your spouse were married and the date you separated.
If custody and child support also are being considered at your divorce trial, make sure you know basic details about your kids such as the name of their school and their teachers or coaches.
You also need to have a good handle on your finances, including knowledge of the accounts and debts you and your spouse share. If you own a small business, be prepared for questions about your business finances as well.
Keep in mind that you won't be allowed to bring any notes or documents up with you to the witness stand. Study all documents that will be introduced into evidence at trial and ensure you have at least a passing familiarity with them.
 Your attorney will work with you to come up with possible questions your spouse's attorney might ask you during cross-examination, so you can have practice responding to them.Your attorney won't just ask you the types of questions your spouse's attorney might ask – they'll also probably ask them in a similar style.
During cross, your spouse's attorney likely will try to knock you off balance with a series of rapid-fire questions, or confuse you with compound questions or complex summaries of facts.
Preparing to testify includes having practice with and understanding how to handle these types of questions so you can diffuse these tactics.
Your attorney also will help you understand what questions you shouldn't answer, for example to protect your attorney-client privilege.
 If you have any questions or issues about testifying, you need to ask your attorney about it before your trial. Once you take the stand, you may not have an opportunity to pause the proceedings and ask your attorney about anything – nor will your attorney be able to advise you on how to respond.If you're particularly nervous about testifying, be sure to let your attorney know. Your attorney is there to help and support you, but they can't remedy a problem if they don't know it exists beforehand.
You also may have more difficulty speaking if your spouse is in the room, particularly if they have exhibited abusive behavior. Many courts have special allowances in these situations, such as allowing you to testify through a closed-circuit television connection from another room.
It's important that you tell your attorney everything, especially something that your spouse's attorney might ask you about. Don't tell yourself that something embarrassing is unlikely to come up or isn't really related to your divorce – let your attorney make that decision.
 While practice can help increase your confidence, you don't want to memorize your answers verbatim or prepare a canned response to every possible question you might be asked on cross-examination.Being over-prepared or memorizing answers makes you appear coached. As a result, your answers won't seem authentic to the other side – or to the judge.
Relying on memorized answers also can potentially cause you problems if you're asked a question for which you haven't prepared.
When you're spouting memorized answers, you're not really thinking about what was asked, making it hard to switch gears when you suddenly have to generate a response spontaneously.
 The day of the trial, take care to groom yourself conservatively and wear clean, neat clothing. Your attorney may give you some additional tips, but generally, you want to think in terms of dressing as you would for a job interview.Your divorce trial is not the time to make a fashion statement, or techies attire designed to anger or distract your spouse.
If possible, you may want to visit the court ahead of time and sit in the gallery for a few hours to observe the proceedings.
This not only helps you get more comfortable with court procedures but allows you to evaluate the presentation and attire of those before the court. You will be able to tell who doesn't make a good impression.
Try to get a good night's sleep the night before your trial, so you aren't distracted or fatigued. Likewise, avoid too much caffeine before the trial if you know it will make you jittery or more nervous.
 Even though you know your attorney fairly well and have talked to them many times, when they're asking you questions on the stand you should respond as you would to someone you don't know.Address the judge as "your honor," and address all others, including the attorneys, as "sir" or "ma'am."
If someone makes a joke or lighthearted comment, it's okay to crack a smile – but try to stay serious, and don't crack any jokes of your own.
Keep in mind a court reporter will produce a transcript of the proceedings. Jokes often don't translate into text, and sarcastic comments that depend on your tone of voice never do.
Without a doubt, your attorney will be asking you questions for which they already know the answers. You are establishing the answers for the benefit of the judge – not your attorney.
Avoid beginning an answer with statements such as "like I told you before" or "as you know" – you're not having a conversation with your attorney, you're speaking for the record.
 Even though the attorney asking you questions may be right next to you, it's important to speak so that you may be heard and understood by everyone in the courtroom. This ensures the court reporter can create an accurate transcript of the trial.All of your answers must be verbal – the court reporter can't transcribe gestures or a shake or nod of your head.
If you're asked about the dimensions of something, try to describe it as best you can without resorting to gestures. Your attorney may be able to clean up the record in some instances.
Be sure to enunciate your words. Sit up straight and speak from the chest so your voice will project, and don't cover your mouth with your hands while you're speaking.
 When your attorney is asking you questions on the stand, look directly at him or her – don't look at your spouse, or direct your answer to anyone other than your attorney or the judge.Your spouse may be scowling at you, or making facial expressions or gestures in an attempt to distract you or make your scared or nervous. If necessary, you may be able to angle your chair so they are not directly in your field of view.
Maintaining eye contact also has the benefit of helping you sit straight up and focus on the question being asked, rather than allowing your mind to drift.
Particularly during direct examination, when your attorney is asking the questions, steady eye contact also can help you relax and feel more comfortable testifying.
Allow the rest of the courtroom to fade into a blur in the background, and pretend you and your attorney are the only people in the room.
 You were sworn in when you took the stand, so there's no need to pepper your answers with phrases such as "honestly" or "to tell you the truth." Given that you are under oath, they can make other answers look dishonest by contrast – even if they aren't.This can be difficult, particularly if you use these phrases often in everyday speech – but they are not appropriate in courtroom testimony.
You also should strive to keep your answers as direct as possible. Avoid placeholder or throat-clearing words or expressions such as "you know" or "like."
Other phrases to avoid include thinking or feeling statements. Make positive statements – if you don't know or remember various details, it's okay to say so.
Many people say "I think" or "I feel" even if they know that what they're about to say is true. Have confidence in your answers and state them clearly.
For example, if your attorney asks you what day of the week you asked your spouse for a divorce, and you know that it was Friday, say "Friday," not "I feel like it was Friday."

, Wait until the attorney has finished the question, and then repeat it to yourself in your mind before you begin your answer. Your spouse's attorney may put pressure on you to get you to blurt out something that could be damaging. This tactic won't work if you take a moment to digest each question and formulate an answer.Repeating the question in your mind also allows you to separate the question from the tone in which it was asked.
While your spouse's attorney may ask questions in a tone intended to intimidate or anger you, respond to the question itself and not to the tone.
Taking a moment before you speak also gives you the time to formulate your answer, so you can state it directly without a lot of "uhs" and "ums."

, If your spouse's attorney asks you anything you don't understand, it's better to ask them to restate the question than to try to come up with an answer anyway.Often it is a point of pride to understand everything. Particularly if your spouse has demeaned you or insulted your intelligence in the past, you may consider it a point of pride not to ask for clarification.
However, keep in mind that you are under oath. You need to be able to answer the question truthfully, and you can't do that if you don't understand the question.
Sometimes this is a ploy. Your spouse's attorney may ask you an exceedingly complex question in an attempt to get you to answer in a way that would benefit your spouse. Don't take the bait.
It's also possible to rephrase the question in your own words, and ask the attorney if that is what they're asking you. If they say "yes," answer your own question.
Another trick is to ask a compound question, particularly one in which the answer to the first part of the question is "yes," but the answer to the second part of the question is "no." If this happens, break the question down into its components and answer each one separately.
 No matter what your spouse's attorney asks you, answer the question directly, without expounding further or volunteering any information or explanation for your answer.This is particularly important with yes/no questions. Your natural tendency may be to explain why you answered a certain way, but if the attorney didn't ask you why, don't tell them.
Keep in mind that you're not having a conversation. While a simple "yes" or "no" without any elaboration might seem rude in a different context, it's perfectly acceptable when you're on the witness stand.
Be careful with details as well. Pay close attention to exactly what the attorney is asking, and make them ask you the right questions to get the information they want.
For example, if your spouse's attorney asks you what kind of car you drive, you should answer in one word – regardless of how proud you are of your car and its many features. The answer to "what kind of car do you drive?" is something like "a sedan" or "a hatchback."
The attorney may follow up, such as by asking "What make is it?" This is also a one word answer, for example, "Volkswagen." That's all you have to say. "What model?" One word: "Jetta."
When you know the follow-up questions are coming anyway, and you know the information the attorney wants, this can get tedious for you too – but stick to it and make the attorney do the work to get the information.
If the attorney starts to appear annoyed or agitated, that means you're doing a good job because they're not getting the information they want easily.
 In most situations, you can answer a question without giving any indication of frequency. However, when a question calls for an indication of how often you do something, train yourself to use words such as "typically" or "usually" rather than "always" or "never." Using absolutes opens the door for your spouse's attorney to introduce evidence of a time when you didn't do that thing.
Even though you may not have meant the absolute literally, proving you exaggerated once makes you appear prone to exaggerate in other contexts.
For example, suppose your spouse is accusing you of having an affair, and your spouse's attorney wants to know what you do after you get off work each day.
Something as simple as saying "I always go to the grocery store" can get you in trouble when it is revealed that you have a book club you attend after work on the first Tuesday of every month.
 Your spouse's attorney probably will try to get under your skin during cross-examination. That's part of their job, and something your attorney will do on cross as well if your spouse takes the stand.Getting angry and blowing up on the stand won't help your case in any way, and actually may harm it – especially if your spouse is claiming that you are prone to violent outbursts.
On the other hand, you will come off looking saintly if your spouse's attorney does everything possible to get you angry or flustered and you remain calm and collected.
Avoiding emotion also means resisting the urge to insult or demean your spouse. Your spouse's attorney may mention things that your spouse said or did, or characterize the relationship in a way you don't like.
In these situations, it's best to ignore the statement or characterization and instead focus on the question being asked and answer it – directly, and in as few words as possible.

