 Most modern freezers will have an automatic defrosting function. This feature will automatically remove any freezer crystals that might have built up. However, older freezers will not have this feature and will require you to manually defrost it. Check with your freezer's instruction manual to learn more about its features.
 Before you defrost your freezer, you will need to remove all items from it. Place your frozen items in another freezer or cold place. This will give you room to work with and will prevent frozen items from defrosting. After everything is removed, including the shelves, you can unplug the freezer.You may need to use a friend or family member's freezer while you defrost.
You could also store your food in a cooler while your work to defrost your freezer.
 Once your food has been removed from your freezer, you'll be ready to defrost. However, it's a good idea to get ready for the melting ice. You'll want something to catch the water as it comes out of the freezer. Having a good way to catch the melt water can help prevent a big mess.Get some old rags ready to lay along the front of the freezer. These will help soak up ice water as it melts.
Having a bucket handy can help you store the melt water before dumping it.
Keep a mop ready for any water that spills onto the floor.
 Once everything is removed from the freezer and it has been unplugged, you can begin defrosting. Find something to hold the door open with, allowing warm air into the freezer to melt the ice. The goal is to wait for all of the ice to melt or get to a point where it can be removed by gently scraping it away with a spatula.You can add a pot of hot water to the freezer to help speed up the defrosting process.
You might try using a fan to move air in and out of the freezer.
Avoid using a hairdryer as this can be a safety hazard as the ice melts.
Never use anything sharp to break up ice.
 Now that the ice has been removed from your freezer and it is completely empty, you can give it a good cleaning. Take a cloth and some gentle cleaning solution and wipe down the inside of the freezer. Take your time and make your freezer as clean as you can before adding your food back in.Any mild detergent will work fine for cleaning your freezer.
You can make a simple cleaner by mixing 3 tablespoons of baking soda into 1 quart of water.
 Now that your freezer has been defrosted, cleaned and dried, you can put your food back in and turn it on again. Your freezer should run much more efficiently and all of the ice crystals will be gone for a while. Keep an eye on the build up of ice and defrost again whenever necessary.The more you let ice build up in your freezer, the longer the defrosting process will take.
Make sure your freezer is totally dry before putting food back in. Any moisture will refreeze and cause ice to quickly build up again.

