 The person who got a DUI in your car may have been given information about where the car was being taken. Otherwise, you typically can locate your car by calling the police precinct where the person was arrested.If you live in a smaller town, this may be pretty easy to figure out. However, if you live in a larger city and don't know exactly where the person was arrested, you may have to call several precincts before you find the right one.
Typically you'll also receive a written notice in the mail about the impoundment of your car that will provide you with all the information you need.
However, it may take several days for that notice to get to you and you might not want to wait that long.
If you've been in contact with the person who was arrested, you also can ask them which precinct they were taken to after their arrest.;
, If there were drug-related crimes in addition to the DUI, or if the DUI itself was drug-related, your car may be subject to forfeiture in some states. Under the forfeiture laws, you typically will not be able to get your car back at all.If a police officer indicates that your car is subject to forfeiture, your best option is to contact a criminal defense attorney as soon as possible.
Even though you haven't been charged with a crime, a criminal defense attorney will understand how the forfeiture laws in your state work.
To get your car back if it's subject to forfeiture, you may have to prove that the person took your car without your permission.
This may mean reporting the stolen vehicle to the police. If the person who borrowed your car is close to you, this may not be something you want to do to them. However, it may be necessary to get your car back.
 The police precinct responsible for the person's arrest should be able to provide you with information so you can contact the impound lot where your car is located.You also may be able to get this information from the DMV. Typically, though, you'll need to go through the police department.
Particularly if you live in a larger city, you also may be able to find contact information for impound lots online. Just do a general search for "police impound" and the name of your city.
 Once you have contact information, call the impound lot to find out their hours of operation and what you need to do to get your car back. You also may want to verify that your car is actually there.The person who answers the phone will be able to provide general information about how to retrieve your car. However, they typically won't have specific information about your car in particular.
They will be able to tell you if your car is there. Be prepared to provide them with the make, model, and license tag number of your vehicle.
Usually they'll be able to tell you what the towing and storage fees are for your vehicle. They may be able to tell you the administrative fees as well, or direct you to where you should call to get that information.
 To have your car released from impound, you must be able to prove that you own the car. If you want to drive it off the lot, you also must show a valid driver's license and proof of insurance.You must provide documentation that you are the title owner of the car. Typically a certified copy of your vehicle's registration will suffice. You also typically must provide proof of insurance for your car.
If you have registration and proof of insurance in the glove compartment of your car, you may not be able to get them out – or you may have to pay a gate fee to do so. Generally it's better just to get fresh copies of the documents you need.
If your car is being held as evidence, you also may need a release letter from the police department before you're able to take your car off the lot. However, if a DUI was the only crime, there's typically no legal reason your car would be held as evidence.
You also may need a release letter if the law in your city or state requires the car to be held for a specific amount of time.
For example, if the law requires cars impounded because of a DUI arrest to be impounded for 30 days, if someone else was driving your car when they got arrested, you may be able to get your car released to you before the 30 days is up.
 Your city or state government charges administrative fees when cars are impounded. These fees are assessed to the owner of the vehicle and must be paid before your car will be released.Administrative fees vary greatly among jurisdictions. You can expect to pay anywhere from several hundred to several thousand dollars.
In some cities you may be able to pay these fees at the impound lot. In others, you'll have to go to the DMV or the courthouse to pay the fees, and then provide a receipt to the attendant at the impound lot.
If you can't afford the administrative fees, you may be able to contest the impoundment. If you are successful, the administrative fees will be waived.
However, you may still have to pay towing and storage fees, and storage fees will continue to accrue while you're contesting the impoundment.
 To retrieve your car from impound, you must go to the impound lot in person and bring originals of all required documents to prove you are the owner of the car before it will be released to you.You can call ahead to find out the total amount of towing and storage fees, and any other fees you need to pay, as well as the methods of payment accepted by the impound lot.
You typically can expect an initial impound fee of several hundred dollars plus storage fees ranging from $20 to $50 a day. There may be additional fees depending on the circumstances surround the impound of the car.
For example, some tow companies may charge additional fees if the car is towed after midnight or beyond a certain number of miles from the lot.
 Once you've paid all required fees and the lot attendant has reviewed your documentation, you'll be free to get your car and drive it home. Keep copies of all receipts and other documents you receive from the lot attendant.Check your vehicle carefully for any damages or any property missing from the vehicle. Take photos of any damage in case you decide to file an insurance claim or sue the person who was arrested for DUI while driving your car.
Even if there are no damages to your car, you may want to sue the person who was arrested for the administrative and impound fees you had to pay to get your car back.
Typically you can file this case in small claims court without having to hire an attorney. Contact the small claims clerk's office in your county to get the forms you'll need to file your case.
However, you may want to talk to an attorney just to get a better idea of arguments and strategies you can use in your case. Look for an attorney who specializes in civil suits for property damage and offers a free initial consultation.
 If you believe your car was unfairly impounded, you typically can request a hearing to contest the impoundment. You may have several options available that would allow you to reduce or even eliminate the fees you had to pay to get your car released.Keep in mind that you still must pay the fees if you want your car released in the meantime. If you are successful at the hearing, however, the fees you paid would be refunded.
If you can't afford to pay the fees, you may wait until after the hearing. However, storage fees will continue to accumulate while you're waiting for the hearing to be held – which could be several weeks.
Forms to request a hearing typically are available at your local DMV or at the court office where the administrative fees must be paid.
 A hearing to contest impoundment of your car is an administrative hearing, not a court proceeding. You typically don't need an attorney, and you may not even be allowed to have an attorney represent you at the hearing.However, you may want to talk to an attorney to get a better idea of your chances of success in contesting the impoundment, and what kind of evidence you'll need.
The laws in different cities and states vary in terms of what you'll have to show the hearing officer to prove the impoundment was unfair.
Keep in mind that in most cases, you must demonstrate that the person stole your car or was driving it without your permission to prevail.
 Before your hearing, take the time to make copies of any documents you intend to present to the hearing officer as evidence. Compile them in a folder or binder and arrange them neatly so you can find them quickly.For example, if you reported your car stolen, you should have a copy of the police report to bring with you to the hearing.
If the person merely took your car without your consent, but you didn't report it stolen, this still may allow you to recover some of the administrative fees you were assessed for having your car impounded.
In addition to any evidence, you also will need your license, registration, and proof of insurance to show that you're the owner of the car and can operate it legally.
 On the date of your hearing, arrive at the hearing's location at least 10 to 15 minutes early so you have time to find the room where your hearing will be held and get settled. Be prepared to wait, as there may be other hearings taking place before yours.Even though it isn't a court hearing, you still should try to dress and present yourself in a professional, conservative manner.
Generally you should try to wear the type of clothes you would wear to a job interview or a religious service.
If you're taking time off work to attend the hearing and have to wear your work uniform, just make sure it's as neat and clean as possible.
If there are other hearings ahead of yours, observe them if you can. It will give you a better understanding of the proceedings and what's expected of you.
 When the hearing officer calls your name, step forward and explain way you believe the decision to impound your car was unfair. You may want to prepare a statement or outline to which you can refer, particularly if you get nervous speaking in public.Speak slowly and loudly so that the hearing officer can hear you. Be polite and considerate to the hearing officer and all other office staff.
The hearing officer may be an administrative law judge, in which case you can address them as "judge" or "your honor." However, they might not be classified as a judge. If you're not sure, just address them as "sir" or "ma'am."
You may be asked to present your case, or the hearing officer may ask you a series of questions.
After you've explained the situation, the hearing officer will make a decision as to whether you should pay all impound fees.
There typically isn't any appeal from the hearing officer's decision. If there is, the hearing officer will explain that process when they hand down their decision.

