 Almost any company that has a customer service number could potentially have a call center where their agents operate. Phone companies like AT&T and Verizon use call centers, for example. If you had a company like this in mind that you were interested in you can check job listings on their site. Otherwise, you can look at job board sites like Indeed or Monster which will give you many options. Another good option is Callcenterjobs.com which has listings by location and job category. Many companies even offer work-from-home opportunities so you would not be required to commute anywhere to get to work.


Tampa, Florida, Salt Lake City, Utah, and San Antonio, Texas are a few cities that have a high number of call center employees. But most states have at least a few call centers.
 Since call center jobs are very people oriented and require strong communication skills, a cover letter is a great way to make a positive first impression. Since call centers may not require you to have experience specifically in a call center, it is good to highlight the skills and experiences you do have that make you a good fit. Point out the skills you have been polishing such as patience, efficiency in fulfilling multiple tasks at once, and solving problems quickly.Cover letters are all about selling yourself as the best candidate for the job, so don’t be afraid to talk yourself up, while being honest. Think of the jobs you have held so far and highlight the skills from those that would translate well to the call center model.
You can also mention specific skills you have working with computers or any experience that involved customer service or customer relations.
Make sure to look over the cover letter a few times to make it straightforward and informative, and edit it thoroughly to make sure there are no errors. You can even have a friend check it over to see if you missed anything.
 In general, interviews may be over the phone or in person, and given the phone aspect of call centers, a phone interview may be likely. Know the information from your cover letter well so you can refer to it when asked about yourself. The most important aspect will be communicating well. Be sure to practice speaking very clearly so the interviewer will be able to understand you. Think of good answers to some common interview questions ahead of time.Examples of interview questions might be: “What can you tell me about yourself?” or “What are your weaknesses?” or “What would make you a good call center agent?” You can answer these by saying, “I enjoy meeting new people and typically find it easy to talk with strangers. I am a little weak in the area of learning things quickly, but I am very good at remembering what I’ve learned. I love to talk with people and help them figure out problems they are facing.”

, Before you are face to face or on the phone with someone who may decide whether or not to hire you, do some research into the company and what all they do. Having a decent foundation of knowledge about the company you are wanting to work for will set you apart from the many other applicants.If they sell products, learn some of the different ones and the specifications. If they run customer service, find out what the customers have purchased. This is also just good knowledge for you to have to understand what types of calls your job would require.
 One of the benefits that working in a call center offers is that often there is a good opportunity for you to advance beyond the frontlines of phone calls. If you stay with the company long enough and establish a strong track record of high quality and efficient calls, you may be able to earn more and move into positions of authority. When you are interviewing, it can be a great idea to ask what advancement opportunities are available because this will show that you value commitment to the company.You will make a stronger case for yourself as candidate by telling the hiring person that you are interested in being able to stay with the company long-term and work your way up the ranks.
 This kind of job is likely to have lots of applicants and maybe even lots of people who get interviews. To show the company that you are serious about the job, be sure to call after you apply to see if someone received your application. You can also call after the interview and find out if there are next steps you can take. Unless they specifically tell you not to call, they will most likely see this as you being eager and interested in pursuing the job further.


A couple ways to follow up would be to call the company and say, “I recently put in an application for a customer service job in your call center and I wanted to make sure my application was received.” Or after an interview you can say, “I recently interviewed and I wanted to get some feedback and find out of there are any next steps I can take.”

