 Every store within every state is going to vary when it comes to their rules/laws. It's important to understand these before you sell. Ask your manager if you're unsure what yours are.Most state/federal law requires a customer to look at least 27+ to not be carded.
Most retailers require a customer to be/look at least 40.
Some retailers require all customers to be carded.
All customers must be at least 18 to purchase tobacco or lottery.
All customers must be at least 21 to purchase alcohol in any form.;
, Currently these are the only forms of ID that you can accept:

Any state issued ID card/driver's licenses
Current military/armed forces ID cards
Passports/passport cards
Green cards
Foreign IDs

, Take a good look at their face, hair, and etc. Look for obvious signs of age (or lack thereof): beards, wrinkles, grey hairs, etc. Try not to stare but just give them a quick once over. If they look young enough or you have to card everyone keep going., Try something like:

"May I see your ID please?
"Do you happen to have an ID that I could look at?"
"Could you take your ID out please?"
"I just need to scan/look at your ID please."

, A common trick tried by many is to just flash it at you, or keep it in the wallet. Ask for it again or for it to be taken out. Refuse the sale if they refuse., Once you have it in your hands, give it a good once over. Again, try not to take too long. Some common things to look for include:


Date of birth. Ensure they are overage. Most times this is located on the front. Military service IDs have it located on the back.

Expiration date. Is it current? If it's expired you shouldn't accept it.

Picture/description. Consider height, eye color, and the picture. Hair style changes, people lose/gain weight, but ensure that you are looking at the same person. Kids borrow parents' or friends' cards all the time.

Evidence of tampering. Is it real? Look for variations of font color or size, flaking, lack of holographic state seals, blank backs, etc.
Optional: If you have the equipment, scan the barcode on the back. This way the system will tell you if it's real, if they're overage, and etc. You still need to make sure it's their ID if you do this, but can cut down the inspection time.
 So you don't forget, hand the card back immediately and preferably into the customer's hands, so they can't accuse you of keeping it. If your register makes you type in their birthdate, do so while it's fresh in your mind., If you have any reason to doubt the sale, refuse it. Make sure to do so politely. Try something like:

"I'm sorry. I can't accept this ID do you happen to have another on you?"
"I'm sorry. I can't sell this to you. You have to be (age) to buy this, and we could both get into a lot of trouble."

, Some customers may yell at you or get angry for being carded or having their sale refused. Stay firm and do not give in. Explain that it's law, and/or company policy, and that you could get fined or fired if you don't comply.