 You might be thinking, “You’re so annoying” or, “How could you be so stupid?” Yet, do not say these things to your kid. This can hurt your child’s feelings and affect their self-esteem.Remember that there are times you feel overwhelmed and encounter things that you do not understand well.


If you’re feeling impatient with your child, take a deep breath before saying anything. Instead of saying, “Why can’t you understand this?” say, “What part is confusing to you?” or, “Should we take a break and come back to this later?”;
, If you find yourself saying, “You’re just like your father” or, “Why can’t you behave more like your sister?” Statements like this can cause your child to feel ashamed of their similarities with their father or feel pangs of rejection whenever their father is criticized. When you compare your children, it can increase feelings of sibling rivalry or that one sibling is preferred over the other.If you’re tempted to say this, it’s best to say nothing at all. Recognize that you’re frustrated but don’t take it out on your kid.
 Some parents are quick to say, “You’re okay” or, “Stop crying. You’re fine.” While children need to learn how to handle stress and pain, it’s important for them to feel heard, especially when hurt. Even if you think your child is overreacting, acknowledge the way they feel.Saying “you’re okay” or, “don’t cry” does not comfort your child.


Offer a hug and say, “You hurt your knee! That must feel painful” or, “You didn’t like it when grandma went away and it made you feel sad.”

, If your child tends to take their time getting ready in the morning or in finishing tasks, avoid telling your child to do it faster. You might catch yourself saying, “Hurry up!” or, “We’re going to be late if you don’t get done.” Telling your child to hurry creates stress, which can overwhelm your child and not encourage them to get moving. Instead, wake your child up earlier to allow for the slow start.If your child struggles to do simple activities, make a game out of it. Say, “Wanna race to put on our shoes?”

, If your child constantly gets the message that “Mommy is busy” or, “Daddy needs to work,” they will begin to think you don’t have time for them. They may stop asking for your attention with the assumption that you will say “no.” If you need some alone time, let your kids know in advance.Say, “I need to finish something important, so I need you to play quietly until I’m done. Once I’m done, we can go to the park.”

, If you’re losing weight, keep it to yourself. Don’t talk to your child about dieting, food restriction, or weighing yourself. This can create a negative self-image or create a desire to do these things, too. If your child asks about your eating habits or exercise habits, say, “I like the way eating healthy and exercising feels.”If your child asks about you losing weight, say, “Sometimes our bodies make changes based on what we eat or how we treat them.”

, Instead of telling what behaviors you don’t want to see, ask them for the behaviors you do want. For example, instead of saying, “No, don’t run,” say, “Please walk when you’re indoors.” Correct your child’s behavior by saying what you’d like to see and praising the positive behaviors.Instead of saying, “Don’t touch!” say, “This is fragile and we don’t want it to break. Please look with your eyes and not with your hands.”

, If you’re feeling frustrated or annoyed with your child and are ready to let them know that they’re being annoying or obnoxious, listen to what they are saying and ask them to rephrase it. Offer a feeling word to help your child identify what they may feel. Finally, listen to your child and validate their experience. Let them finish telling their story without cutting them off.If your child won’t stop complaining, say, “I can see this is making you upset. What’s upsetting about it?”
You can also say, “Oh, that sounds like something sad. Were you feeling sad?”

, A child can be scared if they hear their parents arguing or fighting. If you fight when your child is home or asleep, close the door and fight away from the child. Avoid name-calling, excessive yelling, screaming, or breaking things. This can make a child feel unsafe and anxious.Even if your child is asleep, they can wake up and hear you fighting and become scared. Keep your language as civil as possible to avoid any potential harm to your child.
 If you use hurtful or harmful language in front of or at a child, let the child know that you were wrong and apologize. This helps to communicate that sometimes people make mistakes and that you can be accountable for your own errors. It can also help the child feel less scared or affected.


Say to your child, “I lost my temper. I know that it scared you, and I’m sorry.”

, Whether the sentiment is directed at your child, partner, or your ex, avoid saying intentionally hurtful words to other family members, especially in front of your children. Especially if you’re using a word to hurt or insult somebody, think twice before saying it.Let all family members know that it’s not okay to insult someone by calling them a name and correct it every time if it does happen. Say, “That’s not okay to say about her.”

, Cuss words can be used in a variety of contexts, and with kids, context matters. You may feel okay with using a swear word in reference to events or situations, but not toward people. Sometimes, swear words can denote pleasure or happiness and other times, they can be hugely insulting and hurtful. If you’re helping your child to know the difference, correct any missteps in your family.Teach children the nuances of language. Some parents feel okay swearing in front of their children, but forbid their children from using those words, as they are “adult speech.”
If a family member crosses a line, say something. For example, say, “We don’t allow that kind of talk in the house.”

, If you’re worried about your child hearing you swear, use other words to help curb the habit. For example, many people say the words, “dang it” or “shoot” instead of swear words. If you’re trying to kick the habit but need a little help, try making up your own words. This can help you express the emotion you feel while also avoiding cussing in front of a child.


Especially if using these words in front of children (whether on purpose or by accident), the sillier the better.

