 This is not to say that a spirited, argumentative debate is not important. However, many news outlets focus elusively on the "exciting" moments of attack and counter-attack. But the true "meat" of a debate is what the candidates actually commit to doing, not what they say their opponent is doing.


Try to view debates not as "why shouldn't I vote for that one," and more as "why should I vote for this one.", In a perfect world, you could take both candidates' words at face value. But we don't live in a perfect world. Today, political attacks and smears often take nuanced, difficult issues and make them black and white, leading to lines that may not be lies, but certainly don't tell the whole truth. The substance of a debate comes from the proposals to change or fix things, not from uselessly yelling at your opponents. That said, the attacks are entertaining, and make "good TV," so they aren't going away anytime soon.


Hypothetically, a candidate may vote "no" on a bill that says "women deserve equal pay" not because they disagree, but because that same bill also says "all illegal immigrants must be deported." While it is true that a candidate "voted against equal pay for women," it doesn't exactly tell the whole story thanks to bizarre congressional rules and deals.
Attacks and negative comments have value -- but they should be well vetted before being accepted as fact. After all, Trump once said Ted Cruz's father helped kill JFK -- a totally untrue fact that 7% of his supporters believe., Anyone can say "we're going to lower taxes and raise jobs." But great, worthwhile candidates will say how they're doing it, and how they're going to make it work. Put more bluntly -- you can actually debate a program with specifics, and you can actually pass a program. You get very little useful information from buzzwords and promises. Real proposals:



Have timelines -- an estimated window when the candidate can accomplish something.

Address specific problems with specific numbers -- making new jobs is not a plan. Bringing jobs to West Virginia by cutting regulations on coal plant emissions by 10% is a plan.

Acknowledge challenges -- great candidates have thought of the negatives and found a way to address them.
 Watch for candidates who repeatedly skip or ignore questions. It is a political skill to turn any question into a talking point, but that doesn't mean you want this person as president. More often than not, the candidate tries to take a tough question, or one with an unpopular answer, and make it about something popular. This isn't bad on its own, as some questions are designed to trap candidates. But, done repeatedly, you need to ask yourself if there is some viewpoint being hidden away that is worth listening to.


Good moderators will often follow up, looking to pull someone back to the question. How candidates respond (twist the question again or actually answer) says a lot about their communication skills and trustworthiness., Debates are tricky beasts because candidates must fight simultaneously for both viewer's minds and hearts. Think of the primary debates, where like-minded democrats fight each other while like-minded republicans duke it out. Here, the fighting and arguing is less about "who is right" and more about "look at me, give me some TV time instead of that guy." While the arguments in these debates are still important, you need to recognize what is actually a proposal or policy and what is a marketing ploy.


This is especially important when reading post-debate coverage. There will be a lot of headlines like "So and So opens fire on Such and Such," that may make similar candidates look like bitter enemies.
Remember to stick to concrete proposals and positions, not vague attacks and promises, to learn about the candidates.
 At what points do candidates start yelling over each other, get boo'd/cheered, or make claims that seem just a bit too big to be true? Debates aren't always known for their nuance, but keen viewers will note that these moments are often the most important, lasting moments in the campaign. When things get really heated, you might not get a lot of information. But you know that this issue will only become more important, and it is a key difference between the two candidates arguing.


That said, even candidates are people, and they can blow things out of proportion like anyone else. Ask yourself if they are arguing because they really disagree, or if they just want to score some political points.