 It is better to create a separate folder containing the pictures you want in the slideshow.


Open “File Explorer”. Click the “Start” button (the one with the Windows logo at the bottom left side of your desktop) and select (by clicking or tapping) “File Explorer”. On the left pane of the “File Explorer” window, click/tap the “Pictures” folder. At the ribbon on top of the window, click the yellow icon that looks like a folder labeled “New Folder”. This will create a new subfolder in the “Pictures” folder. Rename the new folder “Lockscreen Slideshow”.
Transfer or copy the pictures you want to this folder.
 Right-click an empty spot on the desktop. Select “Personalize” from the context menu that pops up to open the “Settings/Personalization” window.
 In the left pane, select (highlight) “Lock Screen” by clicking/tapping on it. When you select “Lock Screen,” the personalization options for the “Lock Screen” section appears in the right pane.
 Do this by clicking/tapping “Slideshow” from the “Background” choice box. The Slideshow options will appear below the “Background” choice box.
 Click/tap the plus (+) button labeled “Add a folder” located below the “Background” choice box and labeled “Choose albums for your slideshow”. This will open the “Select folder” window.


Look for the “Lockscreen Slideshow” folder you created and click/tap on it.
Click/tap the “Choose this folder” button located at the bottom right portion of the “Select folder” window. After you click/tap “Choose this folder”, the “Select folder” window closes and the name of the folder will appear on the placeholder above the plus (+) button. Your choice will be reflected in the Preview pane indicating that you have successfully chosen your preferred slideshow folder.
 There is no Fit option for Lockscreen slideshow backgrounds other than “Fill”, but other settings are available. Below the plus (+) button is a phrase that says “Advanced slideshow settings.” Select this to move to the next window where you will see some toggle switches. You can click the toggles on and off.


The second toggle is labeled “Only use pictures that fit my screen.” This is self-explanatory. If the toggle is “On.” only those pictures that fit the screen will be shown. This solves the issue of not having Fit options.
The third toggle is labeled “Play a slideshow when using battery power.” Note that a slideshow uses up power, so if you are conserving battery power, this is better turned off.
 When you are done, just click/tap the “Close” button (×) at the upper right-hand corner of the window. Your slideshow will be set as your lockscreen background. .