 If you come to work empty handed, you might find yourself raiding the vending machine for candy bars and bags of chips when snack cravings hit. Instead, bring snacks and lunches from home. Plan healthy, easy-to-make meals, such as salads and bring them with you for lunch. That way, you won’t be tempted to eat out for lunch or grab fast food.Almonds, low-fat cheeses (like 1% cottage cheese), yogurt, fruit, and sliced veggies are all really great snacking alternatives. They will give you the boost in energy you need, as well as a healthy dose of vitamins, minerals, and protein. These are good snacks to help you stay full for longer while you work.Pair a lean protein with a fruit or vegetable for a healthy snack. For example, you could try a boiled egg with some cherry tomatoes, carrots and a couple of tablespoons of hummus, or low-fat Greek yogurt with fresh berries.;
, If you’ve got a crazy sweet tooth and you have to bring a little splurge snack with you to get you through the day, keep it out of sight. Tuck your food and snacks into a desk drawer or keep them in the office fridge. If it’s out of sight, it’s more likely to be out of mind. Try keeping out something healthy, like a piece of fruit or some baby carrots. That way, if you do feel compelled to snack, the first thing you’ll have to reach for will be something good for you. Something that won’t spoil from sitting out is a good option, like an apple or unpeeled orange.
 Use a smartphone app or just a regular old pen and paper to keep track of your intake throughout the day. Balancing your intake with exercise is important if you are trying to lose weight. Plus, a visual representation of what you’re taking in, like a chart of calories, can really help you see what changes you need to make with your diet.If apps or writing down your intake don’t work for you, you could try simply keeping a food journal. In it, keep notes of what you eat, when you eat it, and about how much you ate. It might not be as formal as counting calories, but it holds you more accountable for what you’re eating each day.
 Chewing gum has been shown to reduce tension in those who chew more than in those who don’t. Since stress levels can lead to a higher rate of retention of body fat, busting stress is important when trying to lose weight. Pop a stick of gum in your mouth when you feel stressed at work to limit stress eating and calm tension. Look for chewing gum that has the American Dental Association stamp of acceptance on the label. The ADA puts this label on chewing gum that is good for your teeth, so while you work on losing weight, you can also be looking after your dental health!, Keeping yourself hydrated might also help keep away the hunger pangs by keeping you feeling full. Keep a water bottle on your desk and make it a habit to drink it and refill it throughout the day. Forgo sweet drinks like sodas in favor of water to save on calories, as well.


Try adding some sliced lemons, limes, oranges, or strawberries to a jug of water. Let it steep in the fridge overnight to infuse some fruity flavors into your water--a good alternative to sugary water sweeteners.You could also use an app to monitor your water intake. There are applications available for your smartphone that will help you track how much water you’ve had each day so you can be sure you’ve reached your goal. Alternatively, you can keep track on paper.
One study showed that drinking two glasses of water before meals can help with weight loss., Rather than grabbing a donut from the break room or a greasy breakfast sandwich from the drive-thru, start your mornings with a healthy smoothie. Not only are smoothies filling and satisfying, they help you get the vitamins and minerals you need to have a productive morning and feed your body in a healthy way.Virtually any fruit or vegetable is fair game for a smoothie ingredient. Powerhouse ingredients like half an avocado, Greek yogurt, berries, bananas, and greens like kale or spinach are a great place to start.
Try this: in your blender, put in a half a cup of ice cubes, a half a cup of almond milk (or coconut milk, or soy milk, or Greek yogurt), a healthy handful of spinach leaves, a handful of strawberries (you can use frozen berries), and a banana. Blend until smooth, adding milk to thin it out as necessary. Strong-flavored fruits like berries are great for blending with greens, as you’ll taste the berries and not the spinach!

