 If the cast iron isn’t all that dirty and you use it a lot, simply pour in enough cooking oil to coat the insides. Then use cloth or paper towels to wipe away any loose bits of food. Use fresh paper towels to wipe away any excess oil. If it looks clean after that, that’s all you need to do, so call it a day!Cast iron becomes sterilized once it reaches 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius), which should only take a couple minutes the next time you use it.However, if you don’t use your Dutch oven frequently, it’s a good idea to give it a more thorough wash than this. The cooking oil may turn rancid after a few days of non-use.;
, Wet a sponge with warm water. Add a few drops of mild dish soap. Scrub off all traces of food and then rinse thoroughly with plain warm water.A popular myth is that you should never, ever use soap on cast iron. Manufacturers definitely advise against using strong detergents, scouring pads, and dishwashers, but handwashing with mild soap is fine., To remove more stubborn bits of food that have scorched to your Dutch oven, shake some salt into it. Then place it on a burner and turn the heat to high. Use cloth or paper towels to scrub the abrasive salt around to loosen and dislodge the scorched bits. Then repeat either Step 1 or 2 to remove the salt and loosened crud.The heat from the burner should also help loosen the crud as you work. However, cast iron heats up pretty quickly, so switch the burner off after a minute or two (or less if it feels too hot to handle safely).
Wiping more cooking oil over the cruddy bits can also help loosen them as it heats up.
 For especially tough crud, pick up some tools specifically designed for cleaning cast iron. Scrub your Dutch oven with steel mesh instead of a sponge or towels.If you think that might be a little too abrasive, pick up some plastic scrapers so you can chip away at burnt food.
 Expect prolonged exposure to water to rust your Dutch oven pretty quickly. If your cast iron develops any, use steel mesh or fine-grade sandpaper to scrub it off.If the rusted area was relatively minor, rinse it with warm water, dry it off, and then wipe it with cooking oil.If the rust returns soon afterwards, or if the affected area was pretty large, you will need to reseason your Dutch oven.

