 In the U.S., each county runs its own fire department, and not every department has a dedicated website. Run a web search to find email contacts and station addresses or visit the National Volunteer Firefighter Recruitment Center at .Call, write an email, or go down to the nearest fire station. Say that you're interested in becoming a volunteer firefighter.


If you call, make sure to use the non-emergency number! This should be listed on the department website. The emergency line is reserved for fires, and the people at the station won't appreciate a non-urgent call.If you are in the U.S., you can go through your state firefighters' association. Visit the website and look for information about firefighting in your area.;
, Not all stations take volunteers. Even if your local station does take volunteers, it might already have plenty of help. Ask about non-firefighting roles like communications, support, and fundraising.


If there are no current openings, ask if there is any sort of waiting list. The department may need more help at some point.
 The qualifications for volunteer firefighting vary widely from department to department. However, all fire stations do enforce a minimum age requirement.Most fire departments require that you have a valid driver's license and can legally work in the U.S. Make sure that you live within the service area of the fire department so that you can respond to local emergencies!


Most departments require that you are at least 14 years old. Some only accept volunteers older than 18.Some departments only accept volunteers with a high school diploma or an equivalent degree.
 You will need to fill out an application form, and you may need to undergo a background check. Check the requirements! The screening process and the qualifications are slightly different for every fire department. Wait for the station administration to review your application. If they want your help, they will contact you.
 If the department accepts your application, you'll usually be asked to come into the station and meet the firefighting team. There may be an interview, and you may even sit in on a training session. If the fire squad approves you for volunteering, then you will need to get a physical examination before you start your training. Be respectful and engaged. Focus on your goal.