 Fluid buildup in your knees is not usually a cause for concern, but it can be serious if other symptoms are present. Seek immediate medical attention if you experience joint swelling along with serious symptoms such as:shortness of breath
chest pain

, Some situations may require medical treatment by your doctor. You should call your doctor as soon as possible if you:have a history of kidney or heart disease and your swelling is getting worse.
have a history of liver disease and you also have swelling in your abdomen and/or legs.
have a fever.
have swelling that also feels warm.
are pregnant and your swelling increases or comes on suddenly.
 If your joint swelling is ongoing, then your doctor may decide to do a synovial fluid analysis to determine the cause. For this procedure, your doctor will numb your joint with a local anesthetic and then draw out some of the fluid from your joint using a syringe. Then, the fluid will be sent to a lab for analysis.Your doctor may use the test to determine if you have certain conditions, such as gout, an infection, or bleeding from an injury.
 If other treatment methods have not worked for you, then your doctor may decide to drain some of the excess fluid from your joint to help relieve the pain. This is known as an arthrocentesis.Before drawing out the fluid, your doctor will numb the area. Then he will insert a needle into the joint fluid and draw it out with the syringe.
After the fluid has been drained from your joint, your doctor might also inject a corticosteroid to help relieve the pain and swelling even more.
 If you have any loose tissues or damage to your joint, then your doctor may need to perform an arthroscopy. For this procedure, your doctor will remove any tissue fragments from your joint fluid. Your doctor can also repair tissues during this procedure.This procedure would only be necessary if you have sustained an injury to the joint.
 As a last resort, your doctor may recommend a joint replacement.This is a major surgery that will replace your natural joint with an artificial one, so it should only be considered if other treatment options have not helped you and if the cause of your joint swelling can be treated with joint replacement.

