 Remain calm after suffering a burn. If treating someone else, say soothing, comforting things like, “It’s not that bad,” or “You’ll be all right.”


If you were burned by flame, move away from the source of the flame and practice the stop, drop, and roll method to put the fire out.This method requires laying on the ground, folding your arms to your chest in an ‘X’ and rolling rapidly from side to side.
Wrapping yourself in a thick coat or blanket will also help you extinguish the flames.
You could also pour a large bucket of water over yourself to put out the fire.
If you were burned by contact with hot metal, plastic, or coal, remove the heated object as soon as possible without touching it.;
, Clothing, including belts, should likewise be removed (especially in cases of major burns) so that the burned area can be seen and evaluated, as well as to minimize constrictive swelling.


Be gentle when removing jewelry and clothes.
Do not remove burned clothing if it is stuck to the skin., For minor burns, fill a sink or tub with cool (but not cold) water and keep the burned area of your skin in the water for at least five minutes, or until the burn is no longer very painful. If a sink is not available, run cool water over the burn for at least five minutes, or until the burn is no longer very painful.


Depending on the burn, it might take as long as 15 to 20 minutes for the pain to subside.Do not use ice on a burn.
Do not immerse large, major burns in cold water. This could cause hypothermia or shock.
 Run a mild soap and cool water over the burned area. Be very gentle and pat the burn dry with gauze or a clean cloth. Apply a thin layer of triple antibiotic ointment over the burn.


Do not pop or scrape away blisters.
 During the first 24 – 48 hours, wrap the burn loosely in an absorptive dressing like gauze. After this early period, the burn will exude less pus and you should switch the dressing to a nonadhesive type that is water and air-tight. Polyurethane film or hydrocolloid dressings are good choices at this stage.Change your dressings once every 48 hours.
If the site of the burn weeps some fluid, don’t worry. This is normal; however, if your burn exudes green, white, or yellowish liquid, or becomes increasingly swollen or red, it has become infected and you should consult a doctor., Second-degree burns are more serious than first-degree burns but less serious than third-degree burns. Second-degree burns are characterized by swelling, pain, and blisters. They may produce white or splotchy skin.Comparing second-degree burns to third and first degree burns can help treat them appropriately.
First-degree burns cause redness, pain, and swelling.Second-degree burns extend more deeply into the skin than first-degree burns. They result in blisters that reveal pink, moist, and painful flesh when removed.If your second-degree burn is deep, it will probably be dry, not moist, and not terribly painful. If it is deep and dry, you might not be able to determine whether it’s a third-degree or second-degree burn.
Third-degree burns will often cause no pain at all the nerves have been damaged. They involve all layers of the skin, including body fat. The burned skin might appear black or white, and will be dry, possibly with a leathery appearance.Bone and muscle might be burned as well. Victims of third-degree burns might have difficulty breathing or go into shock.
 Second-degree burns are minor if they are less than three inches wide. They are major if they are larger than three inches, or are located on the hands, feet, face, groin, major joints, or butt.If you have burns on your face, feet, genitals, or hands, consult a medical professional immediately.
If you’re unsure of the severity of your burn, err on the side of caution and treat it as a major burn.
 Second-degree burns are classified as either partial or full thickness and must be treated differently. Partial thickness (or superficial) burns are often wet in appearance, can be extremely painful, and involve damage to the upper layers of the dermis. Full thickness burns appear dry and are usually less painful, as they involve most of the dermis and may cause nerve damage. Partial thickness second-degree burns can usually be treated successfully at home. A full thickness burn, however, will most likely need excision and skin grafting to heal and should be seen by a doctor immediately., Most second-degree burns can be taken care of at home; however, minor burns can only be treated if the skin is unbroken. All major burns must be referred to a physician. Furthermore, even if a burn appears minor, it might require serious care if it is particularly deep or in a sensitive location like the hands, face, feet, or genitals.If you have any doubts about the extent and severity of your burn, consult your doctor for advice and treatment.
 Avoid placing pressure on the burn, and do not scrape the affected skin.If the burn is on your arm, for instance, try to use your opposite arm and wear short-sleeved shirts. If the burn is major, raise the burned area above the level of your heart. This may require laying down and, for instance, propping a burned leg up with pillows.

Apply lotion to the burn. Aloe vera lotion or gel can provide pain relief and reduce swelling., Even minor burn injuries require a tetanus shot if you have not had one in the past ten years.
 If you still have pain with a minor burn after 48 hours, contact your doctor.If the burn has not healed within three weeks, you should also consult a medical professional.

