


The Play Store icon looks like a bag with a colored triangle over it.
 Tap on the search icon at the top right of the Play Store. Type “Kids Place” in the search bar then tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.
 Tap on Kids Place—Parental Control from the search results then tap on the green “Install” button.


Read the terms and conditions then tap on “Accept” to begin downloading and installing the app on your device.
 Open the application once the download is complete by tapping the “Open” button that replaced the “Install” button on the app’s information page.


If you’ve already closed Google Play, look for the app on your home screen or app drawer, and tap on it there.
 Tap the “Set PIN” button that appears in the bottom of the screen below “Quick tips,” and enter a 4-digit PIN in the first field. Enter it again in the next field to confirm it then tap the “Update PIN” button located in the bottom right corner of the screen to continue.


This ensures that your kid cannot exit the application without your PIN, thereby restricting your kid’s activities to Kids Place and thus keeping your data and other applications safe.
 Do this in the first field of the screen that appears next to “Recover your PIN in case you forget it.” In the next field, enter a hint to help you remember your PIN. This will be displayed whenever you receive a prompt for your PIN.


Tap the “Continue” button located in the bottom right end of the screen to proceed.
 Tap on “Lock Home Button” on the screen that appears. Check the check box next to “Lock Home Button” then tap “Fix this issue” at the bottom left of the screen that appears.


Scroll down and tap the button “Clear defaults” and press the “Back” button present below the touchscreen to the right.
Doing this step enables the Child Lock feature. This will lock the Home button below the touchscreen, so you cannot exit the Kids Place platform by pressing it.



Press the Back button of your device to return to the previous screen.
 Tap the “Select Apps for Kids Place” button below the “Lock Home Button” option. A list of apps that are already installed in your device will appear. Select the ones that you find suitable for your kids to have access to by tapping them. Then tap the “Done” button at the bottom of the screen to proceed.
 Tap the menu for configuring the Kids Place app. This button appears as three dots arranged vertically at the top right corner of the screen. Enter the 4 digit PIN and tap “OK” to access the menu. A list of options will appear.



Select Apps — Here you can choose apps that your child can access through Kids Place.

Settings — This is the Settings menu of the app where numerous options such as “Lock home button,” “Auto restart apps,” “Change access PIN,” “Allow phone calls,” etc. are available for you to configure.

Timer — Here you can set the time that your kid can use Kids Place.
Manage User — You can add more new users to Kids Place here.
To access any option in the menu that can change the Kids Place configuration, you have to provide the PIN.
 Once your child is playing with your Galaxy device, tap the menu icon then select “Settings.” Enter the PIN to access the Settings menu. Once there, scroll down and tap “Exit Kids Place” to close the app.