 When training your child to wear glasses, it can be helpful to understand when and where your child should have their glasses on. In some cases, the child may need to wear glasses all of the time. In other cases, they may only need to wear them during certain activities, such as school or reading. Some questions you might ask your optometrist or optician:


“When does my child need to wear glasses?”
“How do I care for this specific lens or frame?”
“Does my child need sunglasses as well?”
“Can I have the glasses adjusted for free if they become loose or misaligned?”;
, When you first receive the glasses, you should put the frames on your child for them. Use both hands to slide the arms of the glasses over their ears until the bridge of the glasses rests securely on the bridge of their nose.


As you do so, talk to your child. Say, “This is the proper way to put on your glasses. They should always sit on your nose.”
The glasses should not slide off. If they do, you should have them realigned.
 To help teach your child the proper way to put on and take off glasses, have them practice it in front of you. Have them take off the glasses with both hands. Make sure they do not touch the lenses. Next, have them put on the glasses again. Do this a few times until they have it down.Talk your child through the steps. Say, “always put on and take off your glasses with both hands. But do not touch the glass, or it will get dirty.”
If your child is a toddler, you may have success by cheering them every time that they do it correctly. If they take off glasses with both hands, clap and cheer. Do the same when they successfully put on the glasses.
 If you or another family member wear glasses, make learning a group activity. Have members of the family practice taking off and putting on glasses together. Clean your glasses together at night. Before leaving the house, ask “Does everyone have their glasses? Does everyone have their case?” This will help show your child that wearing glasses is normal, and it makes learning more of a fun, inclusive activity.
 There are certain rules that you should enforce about caring for glasses. Tell your child what these rules are, and remind them of the rules if they break them. You should teach them:



"On your face or in their case": You want to make sure that if your child is not wearing their glasses, that the glasses are securely stored in their proper case. This will prevent the glasses from becoming scratched or lost.

“Wear your glasses on your nose, not on your head”: Pushing glasses up to the top of the head may cause them to misalign.To help keep the glasses in good shape, teach the child to wear them on their face only.

“Do not touch the lens/glass”: touching the lens can leave smudges. Encourage your child to not play with the lenses.

“No swimming or running in glasses”: if your child plays sports in glasses, they risk breaking the lenses and injuring themselves. Glasses should be put away during rough physical activity. If your child absolutely needs their glasses to see, you may want to invest in sports goggles that they can wear instead of their normal glasses.