 If you are considering getting engaged, you probably love your partner. But are you in love with them? There actually is a difference, and it is important.There are several differences between being in love and loving someone. When you are in love, you likely want to be physically intimate with your partner.
Being in love can cause a rush of emotions. You may feel like it is difficult to be away from your partner.
The sensation of being in love is different from the love you would feel for your sister, for example.
Keep in mind that it is also possible to be in love with the idea of being in love. In this case, you may want to be in love so much that you make yourself believe it.;
, Spend some time reflecting on what your future looks like. When you picture yourself 5, 10, or 20 years from now, is your partner there in your vision? Do you automatically imagine the two of you together?When you picture your future, it is a good sign if your partner is automatically there.
Choose a specific scenario. For example, do you want to have kids in the future? Can you picture your partner being a good parent? What does that look like? These are some good questions to ask yourself.
 Think about what you want out of your life. Is it important to you to live in a certain city? Do you want to focus on your career? Take some time to think about how your goals fit into your relationship.Does your have similar goals? For example, you might be able to relate well to one another if you are both career driven.
Is your goal to live in New York City? That might cause a problem if you partner's goal is to live in a remote mountain cabin.
 It's great if you and your partner have some different interests. That can help keep your relationship exciting and interesting. However, it can also be nice to have some things in common. You might not want to spend the rest of your life with someone who doesn't share any of your interests.For example, if you are a very fit and active person, it might be troublesome if your partner is a more sedentary person. It's ok if the two of you don't work out together every day, but you might get frustrated if you can't ever enjoy a hike together. Ask yourself if you are okay with doing this activity with a friend instead?
You might try making a list of all of the activities you like to do together. If you can't think of many (or any), you might want to consider how important your interests are to you.
 When you are evaluating your relationship, you definitely want to take your partner's personality into consideration. Make a list of the characteristics that are important to you, and then determine whether or not your partner has them. You might list traits such as:Honesty
Empathy
Kindness
Sense of humor
Affection
Ambition

