 Find your expertise, develop a way to get your point across, and find your potential clients. It may seem outrageous, but tutoring in an extreme case has pulled in $1,250-an-hourTypical tutoring services, however, start somewhere between $10 and $15 an hour.Start with the kids in your classes who may be struggling academically, and you may soon be on your way to quick, big money.
 Many people are too busy to do the simplest things like get groceries, pick up dry cleaning, or transcribe a page of text. Sign on to a site like TaskRabbit, Fiverr, or Zaarly and look for the jobs you can complete in your area.
 Though it is hard to comprehend, people born before the internet age don’t find computers as easy as you do. Here are a few creative ways to exploit your knowledge:


Some people who don’t have the time, know-how, or patience to set up electronics. Just hooking up a TV to a stereo, or connecting an equalizer is daunting to many. Charge a set up fee or a service fee for those who are having issues.
Train people how to set up their wireless devices. Setting up a Roku, an Apple TV, or a Netflix account may seem simple, but there are tons of people who don’t find it so easy. They may not know the various ways to connect to Netflix, or how to setup parental controls, or secure it so they are not being hacked.Teach the elderly all about computers. Some of the most basic tasks can cause plenty of problems and reluctance for the elderly venturing into their first computer experiences. Try a few of the following needed options to help those with their cyber-education:

Show them the hardware basics. Walk them through the basics of mouse control (e.g. single-click, double-click, scroll-button), the volume keys, and the function buttons. You’d be surprised how foreign this concept may be.
Give a vocabulary lesson. Cookies, phishing, and spam have nothing to do with food. It all sounds like a foreign language to the inexperienced. Break down a bunch of common terms and abbreviations to the very basics.
Security is a huge issue. Show them which websites are secure, the popups and ads to avoid, and when it’s safe to enter a credit card number. You’ll ease their fears and make money at the same time!



