 Add banners, flags, signs, paintings, plaques, windows (the normal Window and Winter Window are nice), etc. In the reception or living room, you could put the flag of the country where your ski resort is located.

Try to avoid cluttering up the walls. Keeping everything simple will make your ski resort look nice.;
, Imagine how you want your reception to be set out. Look at ski resort receptions on the Internet for inspiration, if necessary. Add a desk, chairs, laptops, clocks etc., Try buying den items from the Cafe Collection - they are most suitable for this room. If the Cafe Collection items aren't in Jam Mart Furniture, buy items from the Dinner Party. Imagine how you want your dining room to be set out. You'll need tables, chairs, food, drinks, etc.

The Dinner Booth, Cash Register, Candelabrum, Ice Cream Sundae, Cafe Hostess Stand, Hot Cocoa Machine and food tables from Epic Wonders are some good examples of item to put in your dining room. There are so many more great items out there, so do a bit of research and trade people for items you want.
 Place a Fireplace or Fancy Fireplace at one end of the room. Add sofas, chairs and pillows around the border - you could add bookshelves too. Add the tables in the middle of the room. On the tables, add Hot Cocoa Set, Stack of Books, laptops, tablets, etc., Add HD TVS, sofas, mirrors, clocks, wardrobes, cupboards, shelves and boxes for storage. Don't forget to add a bed, pillows and rugs. Some cute rugs to use are the Poofy Rug and Snowflake Rug.

Stick to your ski resort theme. Make sure the colours of your items complement each other and don't clash.
 Add basic den items such as a doormat, mailbox, etc. Because this is a ski resort, find den items that resemble skiing and the snow. Good items for a ski resort include the Ski Lift Chair, Sleigh Runway, Pet Ski Jump, Winter Log Bench, Winter Fire Pit Table, Winter Firepit or the ordinary Firepit, Wood Piles, Snow Shovel and Snow Fort Pennant.

If your den doesn't have any snow (or enough) on the outside, place down Snow Patches, Snow Angels, Frozen Ponds and Pile of Snowballs. This will give a more winter-y vibe.
Place trees around the snow. Epic Jamaaliday Trees and the multiple variations of Pine Trees are great for this.
 Place Cafe Lamps, Jamaaliday Street Lanterns and Lanterns inside and outside your den., You could put plushies on shelves, cups and food on tables, etc.