 In your device’s list of apps, you’ll find an icon that looks like a gear. You may also find this icon on the home screen of your Android or in the notification panel. Tap it, and you’ll open the device’s Settings menu.;
, Scroll down the Settings menu a bit, and locate “Applications” or “Application Manager,” depending on your device. Tap it and the “Downloaded” tab will open. This screen lists all the apps you’ve downloaded and installed on your device in alphabetical order.


Each time you swipe to the left from the “Downloaded” tab, you’ll open the next tab. The possible tabs include: “SD Card” (if you have apps saved here), “Running,” “All,” and “Disabled.”
At the bottom of the screen of each tab is the total amount of space occupied by the apps listed in the tab.
 Here you can switch between running and the cached processes by tapping the “Show cached processes” or “Show services in use” button at the top of the screen. Cached processes are processes that are suspended in the background until needed again, which improves the performance of the device. “Services in Use” displays the apps that are currently running on your Android device.
 Tap the “Options” button to change preferences. Here you can be presented with two options:Sort the apps by size and Reset app preferences.


Sort by size—This sorts the apps by arranging them from the largest to smallest in terms of the space they occupy. Tapping the button again reverts the arrangement of the apps to alphabetic order.
Reset app preferences—Tapping on this button reverts all apps to their default settings. This will undo all the app customization.
 This gives you information on the version of the app, how much storage it uses, cache data, permissions, and defaults.
 If you need to close an app that just won’t quit for some reason or if the app is using an abnormal amount of resources, you can Force Stop it. Tap the “Force Stop” button to the top left part of the app info screen.


Apps that you can’t quit usually have some of their services running in the background. An example of this app is Skype. After using Skype in the menu screen, you may close it and think you have quit from it completely, but it may keep popping up after sometime. Force Stop will ensure the app is completely closed.
 If you no longer use a certain app, you can uninstall it here. Just tap the “Uninstall app” button. It will completely remove the app from your device.
 Some apps may have an “Uninstall update” button. These are pre-installed apps that can’t be uninstalled. If you need to clear up space, you can do so by uninstalling updates of pre-installed apps that you rarely use or don’t use at all. To do this, tap the “Uninstall update” button to the top right part of the app info screen. This reverts the app to an earlier app version.
 There may be times that pre-installed apps will update and use up more space on your device. If you have a pre-installed app that you do not use, and you don’t want it to update, it’s best to disable it. Tap the “Disable” button to the top right of the app info screen to disable the application.


Disabled apps will stop working and stop downloading updates. They will also be removed from the Apps list and be placed in the “Disabled” tab.
 At the very bottom of the app info screen you will find the app permissions. There is nothing you can do here but view the information you agreed upon when installing the app.
 Clearing data will delete sign-in or password information as well as delete any customizations. For instance, if you clear data on the Twitter app, you will have to sign-in again in the next time you open the app. To clear app data, tap the “Clear data” button on the app info screen. Tap the “OK” button on the “Delete app data” pop-up screen that appears to clear the application data.
 Clearing cache means deleting all the temporary files that have been generated by the app while running. Tap the “Clear Cache” button on the middle of the app info screen to clear the app cache.
 Default settings are for apps designed to do similar functions, like browsers. When downloading this app from the Play Store, you are asked to set it as the default app. If you did set this and want to reverse the settings, you can do it by clearing app defaults. Tap the “Clear Defaults” button, below the “Clear cache” button, on the app info screen to clear an application’s default settings.
 In most devices, this is done from the back of the phone by removing the battery. Some, though, can be inserted from the side of the device.
 On the Apps Setting screen, tap the app you desire to move to the SD card. The app will open up with a number of settings, including the “Move App” option.
 When you tap it, a question will come up asking you to confirm the request. If you tap on “OK,” the process will proceed, transferring the app from the main memory of your phone to the SD card memory. If you press “Cancel,” the process will be stopped and the app will continue residing on your phone memory.


Moving apps to SD card can help clear up phone memory. Note also that not all apps can be moved to SD card. If this is the case, the “Move to SD card” option will be grayed out.

