 This is known as SEO. You can use Google to search for keywords that are likely to bring in profit and traffic to your website. Make sure that all of your content is grammatically correct and all words are spelled correctly. It is also imperative that none of your content is copied from another website. You can check this by visiting a plagiarism site such as Copyscape.;
, These tools will help you to monetize your website easily with just a few clicks.


Google Adwords is a paid service. Many other websites will give you free Google Adwords credits so that you can get your site up and running quickly and easily. Create your own ad, set up how much you want to pay out in a day, choose your keywords, and watch the traffic pour in.
Google Adsense is a tool that enables Google to place ads on your website. You can set up the ads to match your site's theme as well as the topic of your website.
Google Analytics will help you keep track of website views and clicks on your website.
 This includes Google, Yahoo, CityData, Bing, City Search, and many others that are based on your website topic. This will help you get your website noticed and bring in profits.
 There are many affiliate programs available to website owners that are free and can help bring in profits. Two of the most popular affiliate programs include Amazon.com and Walmart.com. When a visitor on your site clicks on an ad by Amazon.com or Walmart.com and makes a purchase, you are compensated according to the guidelines in your contract.
 Companies may pay a lot of money to place an ad on your website if you get a sufficient amount of traffic and your site is reputable and related to their topic. You can also purchase advertising on other websites by contacting them to see if they are selling any space.


Once your site is getting a sufficient amount of traffic, you can begin searching for companies that might like to advertise on your website. Send them an email with pricing information as well as what you will offer them, including the ad's location and size. The businesses may respond if interested.
 Make sure the products or eBooks are related to your topic and are of excellent quality.
 If you are a non-profit or charity organization, you can ask for donations. You can also ask visitors for donations in order to help keep your site going or upgrade. Use PayPal or other online merchants to find out how to add a donate button to your site.

