 Know exactly what you are looking for. Vague memories of an "old brown book about a dog" just won't do, especially in the rare book field. Know who, what, when, where, and why! This includes having a complete and accurate description to offer potential book scouts and dealers, a full or partial title, the author's name, and the year it was first published. Helpful (but not crucial) ancillary information includes the name of the publishing house, co-authors or editors, and illustrators. Decide if you will or won't accept alternative editions, such as one with a different illustrator, or a later reprint of the book by a different publisher. Also, it is helpful to all concerned to obtain beforehand as much bibliographical information as possible on the production of the book, often referred to as “points,” in order to correctly identify the right book.;
, Scarce books, or those that are relatively uncommon, are very rarely seen for sale on the open market, or are very rarely seen in better-than-good condition. By their very nature, rare books show up on the market sporadically and can be very expensive because of when, where, and how many were published, and how many are available today for purchase. A fine example of this would be Shakespeare’s First Folio. This is considered a “rare” book due to many factors, including its importance in the world of literature, the date it was published (1623), the number published (fewer than 500), how many have survived to this day (223 known) and how many are available for purchase in any given year (fewer than 3). Reputable sellers such as Ken Lopez may either have what you seek or will know how to find it for you. Talking to experts in the field, either in person or on collectors' internet forums, may also be a great help.
 Develop a relationship with a reputable bookseller who has earned certification from the Antiquarian Booksellers' of America (ABAA) or other bodies, such as the International League of Antiquarian Booksellers (ILAB or LILA). Ask a bookseller to look for the book for you, or place the book on a “want list” with several internet booksellers of some repute, such as Ken Lopez, Between the Covers, or The Quill and Brush. Certified antiquarian book dealers have both the resources and information to guide you to your book, along with a reputation for fair dealing.
 Most online book sites allow you to list "wants." Put in requests at several of these sites, especially ABE.com and AddALL.com, which contain listings from used and rare book dealers from all over the world. Ken Lopez, Between the Covers, or The Quill and Brush also gladly accept your wants lists. All of these sites will notify you when items fitting your description are listed. And if you are collecting in a specific area of books, rare booksellers can also "keep an eye out" for items which may be of interest to you.
 Be patient. A copy of your chosen book should turn up eventually, but be prepared to pay top dollar for your prize. Price is driven by supply and demand, and rare books are often in low supply and high demand. Rare books are often traded on the open market, and entire collections in various categories can, and do, go up for sale.
 If a dealer finds the book for you, be prepared to pay the agreed-on price. If the book is very expensive, you can ask diplomatically if there is any leeway on the price, but don't expect to get any discounts unless you are a regular customer. Do not ask booksellers to find books for you or to discount prices unless you are a serious, legitimate buyer. Auction houses such as Bloomsbury, Heritage, and Christie's are also places to shop around for rare books; be prepared to add a closing fee or "hammer price" at auction houses.

