 Losing weight through healthy eating and exercise may help reverse heart disease. Losing weight can improve your blood pressure, lower cholesterol, reduce risk of diabetes, and even reverse some heart conditions such as atrial fibrillation.By following recommendations for a healthy diet and incorporating exercise into your daily life you can prevent and possibly reverse heart disease — sometimes even without the use of medication., You don't want to put a strain on your heart and body either, but you want to get your heart pumping as part of a daily routine.Before beginning any exercise program, consult your doctor to make sure it is appropriate.



Quit smoking as well. You need to do this not only for your heart's health but to improve your ability to workout.
Set aside at least 30 minutes to 1 hour of time for working out at least five days a week.
Use most of the workout days for cardiovascular exercises like running, brisk walking, biking, and/or swimming.
Include strength training workouts on two to three days of the week. You only need to do about 20 minutes of strength training to benefit, so you can do these in addition to cardio or on days when you skip cardio.
If you have a busy schedule then find ways to get a workout in, even if you have to break it up. For example, do a 15 minute run in the morning, and then another 15 minutes in the evening.
 You will need to ask your doctor to test your cholesterol levels.If you're already at least 20 years old, then you should consider asking your doctor for a cholesterol test to establish a baseline.
Your doctor will determine what schedule is best for you given your condition, and family history, but get tested at least every five years.
Warning signs in the test, a family history of cholesterol, and/or a family history of heart problems may mean you need to get tested earlier and more often.
Most of the diet changes mentioned in this article also help lower your cholesterol. This would be a diet low in saturated fat, high in fiber, and low in refined carbohydrates.
Exercise, as mentioned in an earlier step, also helps lower cholesterol.
Your doctor may also recommend taking fish oil supplements.
 This is more for those who are diagnosed with diabetes, but the strategies for dealing with the condition are often related to preventing heart disease. Controlling your blood sugar may help prevent or reverse heart disease.Most of the meal options to help with reversing heart disease should help with blood sugar management.
Additionally, your doctor may prescribe a number of forms of insulin in different doses with varying delivery methods, from inhaled to injected. Oral medications, such as tablets and capsules, may be prescribed instead of, or in addition to, insulin. Consult with your doctor closely to monitor drug usage in conjunction with your other conditions.
 It might help to identify some sources of stress if you need help eliminating them.Let anyone at school, work, and home know you have a heart condition and see about getting a reduced workload.
Look into relaxation programs at your local gym, spa, or recreation center. Deep breathing, massages, and muscle relaxation techniques could all be beneficial.
Tackle any bouts of depression with therapy. You might consult with your doctor about recommended psychologists that deal with patients in your physical and mental condition.
 With your heart already in a vulnerable condition you don't want to add to your body's woes by risking infection.Avoid people with infections such as colds, the flu, unidentified rashes, and the like.
Keep up to date with your vaccinations.
Maintain a good washing routine by washing your face, washing hands, showering, bathing, brushing your teeth, and flossing.

