 Be there for the person (text, call, see him). Remain positive in your interactions with the person; but be direct and honest and serious when necessary. He needs to know that there will be people to support him on the road to recovery, and that includes you.


Be kind and understanding of the person’s struggle. Treat others as you would like to be treated.
 An addiction to pornography results in an imbalance in the amount of time spent online vs. time spent in real life. If a person hopes to have real, meaningful relationships with people, then he must engage in a balanced amount of human interactions.


Invite him to attend gatherings with you where there will be new people. He may be uncomfortable in the beginning so be at his side to provide him the support he needs.
Pornography has caused a distorted view of human sexual interaction. He will need to be educated on the realities of sexual relations. Do your best to provide reliable and honest resources to him.
 Put yourself in charge of coordinating fun activities that will be beneficial to you and the other person. You deserve to have fun and if it can help the person expand their view of the world, all the better.


Arrange sporting events, casual hang-out events, and vacations. If there is something you want to experience, encourage the person to join you.
 Be the one who makes sure that common sense prevails. If the person tries to negotiate with you about complying with his commitment to not watch pornography, then confront him on his actions. He may think he can watch just a few minutes of it and be fine. You know that once he starts back up he won’t stop.


Be the reminder of consequences. You will need to remind him about the dark place from which he came. Remind him that all the hard work he did will be eroded if he starts watching again. Approach the conversation in a matter-of-fact tone and explain, “This is not about shaming you or guilting you into something. This is about the reality that you were living and are living right now. You have a responsibility to yourself and the people who care about you.”
Observe changes and discuss them. If you see changes in his behavior that lead you to believe there might have been a slip-up, then calmly confront the issue. You can say, “I’ve notices you look really tired. Is everything okay? Are you abstaining from watching pornography? If you aren’t, I’m still here to help you so there’s no reason to lie.”

, Either way, you must focus on helping the person forgive himself, regroup and continue on the path of abstaining from pornography. The more open and willing you are, the more likely he will continue to feel safe sharing his thoughts and feelings. This will prevent the person from creating secrets that can undermine his progress.


Help the person manage the temptation to view pornography if a particularly difficult situation presents itself. Suggest alternate activities that will distract or preoccupy the person’s attention such as remote control airplane flying, or rock climbing. Get the person involved in something completely different.
Encourage the person to forgive himself for any lapses in behavior. It is crucial for dealing with a setback.Do this by helping him focus on recommitting to his goals. You can tell him something like, “You may have slipped up, but what is important now is that you focus on small steps to get back on the program. Commit to the next hour that you will not do it. Build momentum with each hour you stick to your plan. You have to work your way back. Don’t give up on yourself.”

