 After dinner, the first thing you want to do is put food away before it goes bad. There are usually at least some leftovers after a big dinner. While you're cooking, get out any Tupperware, plastic wrap, and other supplies you'll need to store leftovers.Set out Tupperware containers, plastic bags, aluminum foil, and plastic wrap somewhere in your kitchen. After dinner is over, you'll be able to quickly store leftovers.
If you plan on sending leftovers homes with guests, keep this in mind. You may want to set out some disposable Tupperware containers that you can give to guests at the end of the night.;
, Dishes are easier to wash if you don't let food get stuck on. Make sure to soak dishes as you're done using them. As soon as you finish a dish while cooking, soak it in warm, soapy water.Before dinner, prepare a sink full of warm, soapy water. This way, guests can simply transfer their plates and utensils to the sink and let them soak. This will make cleanup easier for you.If you have a dishwasher, empty it before dinner.
 Spills and stains should be addressed in the immediate moment. While you organize for cleaning, set things out near the table, like paper towels, you can use to quickly wipe up anything that spills. This will allow you to clean as you go along.If you're serving something like wine, that can stain a carpet, keep supplies on hand to address this. Wine can be removed with hydrogen peroxide mixed with a few drops of dish detergent. Make a mixture like this ahead of time and set it in a plastic spray bottle near the table.
 If you're cooking for family members or friends who don't mind helping out, assign tasks ahead of time. If everyone has something to do in the aftermath of a dinner, things will go smoothly for cleaning.Everyone can have their own task. One person can be in charge of clearing the table, another person can put away leftovers, someone can remove excess food from dishes, and a team of people can wash them.
If you quickly designate tasks ahead of time, things will go easier during the cleaning process.
 While you're cooking and serving people, strive to clean up what you can as you go. This way, there will be less to clean up when the meal is completely over.As you're cooking, wash any measuring cups and measuring spoons as soon as you're dong using them.
Clean other dishes as you go during the meal. If the mashed potato bowl is empty, for example, quickly duck into the kitchen to place it in the sink.
Wipe up any stains and spills as they occur throughout the night.
 After dinner is done, let guests know how to clear their plates. If everyone clears their plate after dinner, this makes cleanup a lot easier for you.Instruct guests how to clear their plates. Let them know where the garbage is, so they can scrape off any food, and which sink to place dirty dishes.
 After dinner, the food should be the first thing you clean. For safety reasons, food should be put away promptly after dinner commences. As soon as everyone's cleared their place, remove and store any leftover food items.Gather any food from the table. Store them properly using your prepared storage containers.
Aim to remove food that should not be left out, like dairy products and meets, before other items.
You should also remove any excess food from serving bowls and dinner place. If food sticks on, it's harder to clean so make sure to scrape off any excess food just after dinner.
 You should tackle the dishes next. The longer dishes sit, the harder they will be to clean.If you're hand washing, clean the easiest dishes first. Dishes that are dirtier need more time to soak before they can be clean.
If you have a dishwasher, load it effectively. Keep glasses near the top and load the dishwasher as full as you can before running it.
 Remember, many guests will be eager to help to show their appreciation. If you need help with something, politely let your guests know. Say something like, "Could someone help dry the dishes and put them away so I'll have space to dry what's left in the sink?"Younger children can help you with basic tasks, like clearing the table. Do not hesitate to enlist the help of kids, as this can help teach responsibility.
 Once you've put away the dishes and food, finish the rest of the cleanup. Take out the garbage, put away any dry dishes, and wipe down the table and countertop. Once you're done, take a break and enjoy after dinner conversations with friends and family members., Before you start cooking, try to prepare your fridge and dishwasher. This will make clean up go quicker as you won't have to be scrambling to make room in your fridge.Prior to a big dinner, clear out your fridge. Remove any items you don't need, throw out anything that has gone bad, and try to create empty spaces for leftovers.
Empty your dishwasher before a big meal. If your dishwasher is completely empty, you'll be able to fit more dishes in it. This will minimize the amount of times you need to run the dishwasher after dinner.
 Try to minimize the amount of pots, pans, and measuring cups you use when cooking. This will result in there being less to clean after dinner.Try to use only one or two measuring cups, cleaning the cup out in between ingredients.
Wash mixing bowls as you go. You can reuse the same bowl for preparing different foods rather than dirtying a single bowl.
 Move your trashcan near where you're cooking. This way, you can toss items quickly. Things like potato skins, paper towels, and other items of garbage can be thrown away as you go along. This will greatly cut back on cooking time., Trays and tablecloths can prevent mess from getting on your counter. If you simply need to clean a tray, or wash a tablecloth in the washing machine, this will take less time than wiping down your tables and counters.