 Avoid checking the box in early morning and dusk. Also, avoid checking the box during wet and/or cold weather, especially if it is less than 50ʡF (10ʡC) outside. Instead, check the box during calm, dry weather conditions. Remember that you only need to monitor the box during nesting season, i.e., late March through August.Avoid checking the box 12 to 14 days after the bird's eggs have hatched. Checking the box during this time can cause premature fledging.
Do not check the box too frequently, i.e., every day. Instead, check the box only once or twice a week, or every seven to 10 days.
How frequently you check the box depends on how serious predator problems are, how much data you want to collect, and how much time you have.
 Before opening the box, make your presence known. If you do not, you might startle the female, and a startled female could damage the eggs.Make your presence known by whistling, calling out, and/or lightly tapping on the side of the box.
 Once you have made your presence known, slowly open the box. Do not yank it open. Spend less than a minute when checking the box to avoid stressing the birds, or chilling the eggs or nestlings.Once you are finished checking, slowly close the box, as well. You want to close it slowly because a sitting female or one of the nestlings might decide to fly out. If they do, you do not want to inadvertently hurt the birds by closing the door too quickly.
 Every time you check the box, record what you see. This way, you can avoid checking the box during the critical period when disturbing the box could cause premature fledging. This critical period is 12 to 14 days after the nestlings have hatched. You will also be able to determine when fledging may occur, i.e., 17 to 18 days after hatching. It is ok to check the box during the official fledging period.Record the day egg hatching begins and when the last egg is laid. This will help you calculate when the critical period will take place. Remember, do not check the box during the critical period in order to avoid premature fledging.
Also record what kind of nest you see, how many eggs and nestlings there are, and any evidence of problems.
 There are a variety of pests that can make a home out of your nesting box. These pests include House Sparrows, paper wasps, fire ants, bumblebees and honeybees, blowfly larvae, mice, and snakes. When monitoring the box for these pests, always use caution and never reach in with your hands.House Sparrows are non-native birds that may attack and destroy eggs, nestlings, and incubating adults of native bird species. By identifying a House Sparrow's eggs, you can remove their nests from your box. Because these birds are non-native species, you may legally remove their nests, eggs, and young.
A House Sparrow's eggs may be cream, white, grey, or green in color. All of the eggs are speckled with irregular fine, brown speckles. The shell is also smooth with a slight gloss.