 The formula weight (often used interchangeably with molecular weight) of a compound will be listed in grams/mole (g/mol) on the side of the chemical bottle. If you cannot find the formula weight on the bottle, you can search for the compound online to find it.The formula weight of a compound is the mass in grams of one mole of the compound.
For example: The formula weight of sodium chloride (NaCl) 58.44 g/mol.
 It is very simple to make a 1 liter solution since molarity is simple moles/liter; however, you may need to make more or less than a liter depending on what you’re using the solution for. You will use the final volume of the solution to calculate the number of grams needed to make your molar solution.For example: Make a 50 mL solution of 0.75 molar NaCl.
To convert mL to L, divide by 1000: 0.05 L.
 To calculate the number of grams needed you will use the equation # grams = (desired volume)(desired molarity)(formula weight). Remember, the desired volume needs to be in liters, molarity is in moles per liter, and formula weight is in grams per mole.For example: If you want to make 50 mL of a 0.75 molar solution of NaCl (FW: 58.44 g/mol), you can calculate the number of grams of NaCl needed.
# grams = 0.05 L * 0.75 mol/L * 58.44 g/mol = 2.19 grams NaCl.
When you cancel all units, you should be left with grams of the compound.
 Using a properly calibrated balance, weigh out the necessary mass of the compound. Place a weighing dish on the balance and zero it out before weighing. Add the compound to the dish until you have the correct amount.


Clean the balance when you are finished using it.
For example: Weigh out 2.19 grams of NaCl.
 Most solutions will be diluted using water unless otherwise specified. The volume of the liquid to be used is the same that you used to calculate the mass of the compound. Mix the compound and the water together until the powder is fully dissolved.


Clearly label the solution with the molarity and the compound so it can be easily identified in the future.
For example: Using a graduated cylinder (measuring equipment for volume), measure 50 mL of water and mix it with the 2.19 g of NaCl.
Mix until the powder is fully dissolved.

