 You will need hair dye specially formulated for dark hair and a color remover to help strip the color from your hair. Bleach and ammonia are commonly used to strip hair, though since these can be very damaging, you might consider using a sulfur-based color remover.


Read all product information before use. Some products might be specially formulated to require extra steps or specific wait times/procedures. Follow the directions for the best results., These products will be much gentler on your hair, unlike bleach or ammonia.As these are sulfur-based products, they can be quite smelly, but you don't have to worry about that smell sticking around.To help with the smell, you might want to step outside while allowing it to set.


Each product will be different, and you should follow the directions that accompany your preferred product for best results., Spacing out hair coloring over the course of a month, or several months, will not only give you better, more accurate results, but will also do the least amount of damage. Also, changing your color by shades will help ensure that you meet your target without overshooting it. A lighter shade of dye, like a 20 volume developer, can be used to lighten gradually with each application.
 You should space out dye applications as much as possible. A deep conditioner is a must to help keep your hair hydrated while dyeing. You should also think about using a product with protein added to it to help, which will strengthen and hydrate. Use these products throughout the dyeing process to protect your hair from damage., Hair is unique to each individual, and if your lightening techniques don't accomplish your desired results, it may be best to visit a professional. Professional hair stylists are often able to easily strip your dark hair of its color and add a lighter color on top of it.


While you are at the salon, you should inquire about lightening shampoo or spray-in treatments. Professional hair stylists will have a better idea of how it will affect your hair. Many products are designed to help individuals with blonde hair brighten their blonde color; these will not be effective for your dark hair.

