 You need to pay attention to your child to look for certain causes of incontinence. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are most common in girls who have just started school or have recently been potty trained. In addition to incontinence, UTIs can also cause frequent urination, a burning sensation when she urinates, cloudy or dark colored urine, strong smelling urine, and pain in the lower abdomen. UTIs can be treated with antibiotics.Some children who get frequent UTIs also have a condition called asymptomatic bacteriuria (ABU). These children, most frequently girls, have bacteria colonizing the bladder, meaning that they reside there, similar to having bacteria quietly living on our skin. This increase in bacteria in the urine can sometimes be the cause of frequent UTIs., Many kids, particularly girls, will develop irritation and inflammation in the area of the urethral and vaginal openings when they have a UTI. You can use certain creams to help relieve the irritation your child feels. In particular, a zinc oxide-containing skin barrier cream or ointment such as Desitin or Triple Paste can be very helpful.You can purchase these creams at your local pharmacy. Follow the directions on the bottle or box that the cream comes in., The bacteria that creates a UTI thrives in moist areas. When your child experiences incontinence and leaks a bit of urine onto her clothes, it’s important that she changes into dry clothes to keep her from getting a UTI or to relieve the symptoms of her UTI. This will also keep it from coming back.


You can explain this to her so that she does it herself, or you can ask her to tell you when this happens so that you can help her change.
 If your child has recurrent UTIs, you should talk to the doctor about getting antibiotics to clear up the infection and prevent new infections. Your child’s doctor will be able to tell you whether or not antibiotics are the appropriate treatment for your child to prevent infections. Your child will need antibiotics if he has an active UTI.


The most common antibiotics used for prophylaxis, or prevention of infections, are nitrofurantoin and trimethoprim sulfa. These are usually given once a day, at bedtime, at about ¼ of the usual full treatment dose given to adults.