 With this cleanse, make certain that you do not use it more than once every one to two weeks. It may be an effective cleanse, but it is low in nutrients and low in calories.To make, mix two tbsp of freshly squeezed lemon juice, two tbsp pure maple syrup, and 1/10 tsp of cayenne pepper in eight ounces of water.


Drink at least six of these drinks during your detox day., For this juice, use only fresh, organic vegetables. The vegetables in this juice contain vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, fiber, and other nutrients. Put three carrots, two celery stalks, ½ a medium cabbage, two medium beets, one medium turnip, ½ a medium onion, and two cloves of garlic in a blender. Mix well, adding water to make it fluid. Once these are well combined, add three large kale leaves, one cup of spinach, and ½ a bunch of parsley. Blend again, adding enough water to make it the taste and consistency you desire.


Drink two to three helpings on your detox day., This is a spring detox that has been used for centuries. Dandelion leaves support the elimination functions of the kidneys, and dandelion root supports the function of the liver. In the spring, pick about 10 large herbicide-free dandelion leaves. Wash them well and chop them finely. Next, get dried root from a local herbalist. This root should be dried for about a year before it is ready to use.


Mix three tablespoons of dandelion root and six tablespoons of chopped dandelion leaves into two cups of boiled water. Let the leaves and root steep for about 10 minutes, then strain and drink.
This tea can be stored in the refrigerator and used as a cold drink as well. Drink at least four cups a day.
While dandelion is rich in vitamins, fiber, and minerals, it is low in protein and calories. Use this detox about once a week., This fruit detox is high in fiber, vitamins, antioxidants, and minerals. It is an overall healthy drink that you can drink as often as you would like, even on non-detox days. If you add yogurt, it’s a healthy smoothie. The added lecithin and flaxseed oil provide essential omega-3 fatty acids as well. Mix all the necessary ingredients in a blender until smooth.


You can refrigerate this juice or drink it right after making.
 This tropically-based detox juice is high in nutrients. If you have any digestive issues, try this juice on a non-fasting day. It is full of digestive enzymes that will help you get the most of your food. Blend one medium ripe papaya, one small pineapple, a one inch piece peeled fresh ginger, and one medium kiwi in a blender until well mixed. Pour into a glass and drink. Add ½ cup fresh young coconut milk or coconut water if you want it a little thinner.


Make sure to peel, core, and seed your fruits as appropriate before you chop them., The pectin in apples is thought to help flush out cholesterol and toxins through the liver and kidneys. The citric acid in lemons have a mild laxative effect, which helps your digestive system remove waste. Add 16 ounces of organic apple juice with the juice of two lemons and two limes. Mix together, then add one cup of water. Mix well again and refrigerate.


Makes four servings of the juice.