 If you suspect your friend has a serious problem, you may have to intervene. In this scenario, you should be watching carefully for signs that your friend is depressed, angry, or upset. Note any abnormal behavior.


They may be less talkative than normal.
They may not be answering your calls.
They could be sleeping more often.
Their temper might be shorter.
They may be missing class or work often.
 Your friend should feel comfortable when you speak to them. The goal is to get them to open up. Find a private location where you will both be comfortable. This may be at either of your homes. Alternatively, you can take a walk together.
 In a gentle tone, tell your friend that you are worried. Let them know that you have noticed their recent behavior. They may become defensive, so avoid accusative terms. As you do so, inform them that you are there for them.You can say, “I’ve noticed that you’ve seemed sad lately. I want to make sure everything is all right. Is there anything you need to talk about? You’re not alone, and I’m here for you.”

, Rather than ask “yes/no” questions, try asking questions that will get them to talk about their feelings. These are broad, open-ended questions that give them room to express their feelings.

Some examples include:

When did you know?
How long have you felt that way?
How did that make you feel?
How have you been coping?
If they do not want to respond, don’t push them.
 If your friend does confide, allow them to speak. They may need to vent, or they might struggle with how to state their thoughts. Do not interrupt them. Instead, make eye contact, and nod along to their words. Wait for them to stop talking before you speak again., If someone you know starts crying, don’t laugh or roll your eyes. Allow them to cry. Ask them what is wrong. If they are not ready to confide in you, sit quietly with them offering support. If you are close to this person, you may rub their back or offer gentle words of encouragement. Let them know that you are there for them no matter what.You can tell them, “It’s ok. Let it all out.”
If they try to apologize for crying, let them know that it is unneeded. You can say, “You don’t have to be sorry. It’s good to cry every now and then.”

, If someone tells you something is wrong, you should tell them that you understand. Let them know that they are allowed to feel the way that they do. You may even want to share similar experiences that you’ve had. This will show that you are not judging and that you understand their feelings.Try telling your friend something like “You have every right to feel angry” or “It’s ok to feel sad.”
Don’t use statements like “Get over it” or “You should be more positive.” These invalidate others’ feelings. Instead of wanting to confide in you, they’ll only want to hide their feelings.
 If the other person says they do not want to talk about it, do not push them. They will only become more defensive and closed off. Instead, you can tell them that you are there for them whenever they need to talk. At that point, you should drop the subject.


You can say, “I understand, but if you do want to talk, you can come to me. I am always available for you.”

