 The cow's head must be restrained in order for the cow to be given a bolus, because any other method will be too stressful and dangerous for both the cow and the people helping with the restraining process. A head-gate is a piece of equipment (always made of heavy-duty iron for greatest strength and durability against even the feistiest one-ton beast) that allows the head to be accessed by the handler, and locks in place so that the animal cannot force its way forward nor backwards. Once the bovine is locked in place with its head easily accessible, then the bolusing process can begin;
, You can do this by simply inserting the pill into the tip of the balling gun. Hold the "business end" of the gun up so that the pills don't fall out onto the ground.


When giving many different types of medication through one single application, always load any gel-based pill last because soft-coated capsules may melt under the heat of the cow's mouth and stick to the insides of the balling gun.
 Position yourself so that your body is acting as an object to hold the cow's head in place and reduces her action of trying to avoid getting the medication, and for easier grip on the animal's mouth. Place your butt up to the chute with the cow's head against your side, and use your legs as leverage and as a means to brace yourself. With your arm closest to the cow's head, wrap your arm over the top of the cow's muzzle so that you can get her opposite lip, not the side of the lip that's closest to you, so you can safely get to her mouth and elevate her head. Push your hand under her lip and use the same hand to stroke the roof or palate of her mouth. This will encourage her to open up wide enough to get the balling gun in. Be sure you are keeping her head elevated.
 With your free hand, the gun will need to be inserted down the middle of her mouth right to the very back, but not so forcefully that she will choke on it. It's best to initiate the swallowing reflex once the tip of the gun is at the very back to the entrance of the esophagus (into the pharyngeal area) and slowly let the end of the gun work its way down--you helping it along--until the handle of the gun reaches the lips of the cow's mouth. She will chew on the balling gun as she swallows it--this is completely normal--and at this point you can press the plunger to deposit the bolus.
 Keeping the gun in position from the above step, press down on the plunger or handle to deposit the bolus into the very back of the cow's mouth. This projects the pill further down the back of the mouth into the esophagus.
 You can also encourage this by stroking the throat, optional this may be. The sign she gives that she has swallowed the bolus is licking her lips and nose, likely followed by a cough. By then you can let her head go if you have no more oral medications to give.
