 Some dents are best accessed from behind. This is especially true for dents with very small diameters that are difficult to remove with other methods. Determine if the dent you intend to remove is located somewhere you can access by removing components of the body.You will likely need to remove body components to access a dent from behind.
Determine if you can gain access to the dent based on the tools you have on hand and your level of expertise in removing and replacing body panels.
 Once you have identified what components of the body you will need to remove to gain access to the dent, lay down blankets on the ground for any painted pieces you will need to remove. You may also need to replace mud guards from the bottom of the vehicle, tail or headlights or the wheels.Be careful not to lose any of the hardware used to fasten the body components to the vehicle that you remove.
Never lay painted components down on blacktop without a blanket or something to protect the paint.
 Once you are able to access the back side of the dent, jack up the car if need be and find the dent from the inside. You may need a flashlight in order to see the inside of the dent.Locate the dent and position yourself so you can reach it.
You may need to try multiple positions in order to apply the leverage you need to the dent.
 For larger dents, you may be able to apply pressure to the inside with your hands to pop the dent back out. Dents with smaller diameters may require that you press into them with a harder surface such as the handle to a hammer.Attempt to press the dent back out before resorting to using a mallet.
There is less chance of damaging the metal by applying pressure than there is in striking at it with a mallet.
 Wrap a cloth around the head of a wood mallet to soften the striking surface, then hit the inside of the dent with the mallet. You may need to hit the dent repeatedly in order to knock it back out.Be careful not to bang on the interior metal from an angle or the side of the mallet may create small creases in the metal.
Do not continue to hammer on the metal after the dent pops out or you could cause the metal to bow outward slightly.

