 Sometimes, the most difficult part of forming a plan to solve a problem is that you’re not exactly sure what the problem is. Often, the problem we are facing is actually causing more problems for us. What you need to do is get down to the root of the matter--the true problem that you need to solve.Your mom isn’t letting your go to your friend’s mountain cabin in four weeks. This is definitely a problem, but what you need to do is determine the root of this problem. The fact is, you are getting a C- in your algebra class, which is why your mom doesn’t want you spending the weekend skiing. Therefore, the problem is that you are not doing well in your math class. This is the problem you need to focus on.
 What is your goal that you hope to reach by solving your problem? There might be more hopes attached to your main goal. Focus on attaining your goal and the other results will come with it.


Your goal is to raise your grade to at least a B in your math class. Along with this goal, you are hoping that by raising your grade, your mom will let you go to your friend’s cabin.
 What habits have you developed that may be causing this problem? Take a moment to examine your interactions with the problem.Your problem is that you are getting a C- in math. Look at what you are doing that is affecting this problem: you talk to your friend in that class… a lot, and you haven’t been doing your homework every night because you recently joined a soccer team and after practice on Tuesdays and Thursdays, all you want to do is eat dinner and sleep.
 While a lot of your problem may be caused by your actions, there also might be outside forces working against you. Consider what these might be.You are getting a C- in math, which needs to change. A barrier to your success, however, might be that you truly don’t understand the concepts being taught in the class--not just because you are talking in class, but because you have never really ‘gotten’ algebra. On top of that, you don’t really know where to get help.
 You can simply list these solutions on a piece of paper, or employ some brainstorming techniques like making a mind map. Whichever way you choose, you should consider solutions to both the way you personally are affecting the problem, and the barriers that you might be facing that are not of your own making.


Solutions for talking to your friend in the class: A. Force yourself to sit on the opposite side of the class from your friend. B. Tell your friend that you are getting a really bad grade in the class and you need to focus. C. If you have a seating assignment, ask your teacher to move you so that you can focus more.
Solutions for not doing your homework because of soccer: A. Do some homework at lunch or during your free period so that you don’t have as much to do at night. B. Keep yourself to a strict schedule--after practice you will eat dinner and then do homework. Reward yourself by watching an hour of TV after your homework is done.
Solutions for not understanding algebra. A. Enlist the help of a classmate that can explain the concepts to you (but only if you both won’t get distracted while going over the problems. B. Ask your teacher for help--approach your teacher after class and ask if you could set up a meeting with her because you have questions about the homework. C. Get a tutor or join a study group.
 Now that you have figured out what the problem is and have brainstormed some solutions, pick the solutions you think will work best and write down a plan for yourself. Writing down your plan will help you visualize it. Hang your written plan somewhere where you can see it often, like on your mirror that you use when getting ready for the day. You don’t need to use all of the solutions that you listed, but you should keep some of the other solution ideas as backups.Your plan for raising your grade in math should look something like this:
Plan to raise grade in four weeks:

Talk to Peggy about how I can’t talk in class. (If she keeps talking to me, change seats)
Do homework during lunch every Tuesday and Thursday so I can keep going to soccer practice but don’t have much to do when I get home
Go to my school’s math tutoring center for help every Monday and Wednesday; ask my teacher if there is any extra credit I can do to raise my grade


Goal: By week four I will have raised by grade to at least a B

, Did you do everything you hoped you would do during that first week of trying your plan? If not, where did you slip up? By recognizing what you need to work on, you will be able to more effectively stick to your plan the next week.
 The only way you will be successful is if you really stay motivated. If you work better when you are motivated, create a reward for yourself (though solving your problem may be reward enough). If you deviate from the plan one day, don’t let yourself do it again. Don’t lighten up on your plan halfway through it just because you feel like you are close to reaching your goal--follow through with your plan.


If you find that something you are doing really just isn’t working, modify your plan. Swap out one of the solutions you used in your plan with a different solution you came up with during your brainstorming session.

