 When evaluating if you need to lose weight, start by asking yourself if your current weight hinders your daily activities. Ask yourself if your size makes it difficult to perform basic functions such as going up and down stairs or fitting comfortably into spaces like an airplane seat.

Consider whether you have any recently developed pains such as back or foot pain. These can be a sign of a few things, but very often these pains are caused by the extra stress put on your body due to excess weight.
This may also be a good time to consider whether you have been diagnosed with any medical conditions associated with being overweight such as type 2 diabetes or polycystic ovarian syndrome.
Not every overweight person will have complications because of their weight. If you believe that your weight is impacting your ability to live a healthy, productive lifestyle, though, this might be an indicator that weight loss could benefit you.;
, Recent research suggests that weight gain and obesity are linked to mental health. Consider whether you have been diagnosed or think you may suffer from anxiety or depression, which may be linked to weight gain and unhealthy lifestyle choices.Symptoms of anxiety may include restlessness, irritability, difficulty concentrating, constant worry, muscle tension, difficulty sleeping, and panic attacks.Symptoms of depression may include feeling sad, empty, or hopeless, angry outbursts, loss of interest in normal activities, slowed thinking or moving, trouble concentrating, undue feelings of worthlessness or guilt, and lack of energy., Your doctor will be able to take a look at your overall health to see if you would benefit from losing weight. They may take measurements such as your blood pressure or your body mass index (BMI). This helps them get a more complete picture of whether your weight is impacting your health.A BMI of between 25 and 29.9 is considered to be overweight for an American adult, and a BMI at or above 30 is considered obese.
Calculating your BMI can help doctors figure out if you are at a higher risk for certain medical conditions. Complications that come with being overweight include heart disease, hypertension, gallstones, sleep apnea, and certain types of cancer.A good doctor will be able to either refer you to a nutrition and weight loss specialist or help you customize a diet and exercise plan that fits into your daily life. If your doctor suggests that you should lose weight, ask them, “What can you recommend I do to help me get started with that process?”

, Everyone will have different weight loss needs, but before you start on a weight loss journey think about how much you truly want to lose. If you are looking to lose 2-5lbs (1-2.5kg), you may only need to consider slight lifestyle changes. If you are looking to lose considerable size, though, or reverse the effects of a weight-related complication you may benefit from establishing a serious weight loss plan.If your doctor tells you that you are at a healthy body weight but you still feel the pressure to lose weight, talk to a medical professional seriously about screenings for body dysmorphic disorder and common eating disorders. Constant weight loss and being underweight can be just as dangerous as being overweight., Instead of approaching weight loss as something that you must do, think of it as an opportunity to get to do things you’ve always wanted. Perhaps you have always wanted to run a marathon, for example, but feel like you get tired too easily. Or, perhaps you want to go horseback riding, but you are too heavy at the moment. Look at your weight loss journey as a chance to train for the thing you’ve longed to do.Consider physical activities that you have wanted to try, like yoga, a certain type of dance, or even something like trying the trapeze. Work these into your exercise routines to keep you excited and motivated.
If there is something that you have not been able to do because of your weight, use that as reward to motivate yourself.
 Research suggests that long-term success may benefit from starting out with a positive body image. The basic concept is that people are more likely to take care of something long term if they love and respect it. Learning to accept your body for all it does for you may help you better accept why it’s important to get it to and maintain it at a healthy weight.


Think about the vital things your body does for you, and the features that you like. You may even want to include a running list that could include items like, “I love the color of my eyes,” and, “My body daily fights away infection and disease to keep me healthy and strong.”
Try finding something that makes you feel good in your own skin. It might be a great pair of shoes, your favorite top, a great accessory, or even a pair of underwear. Find something that helps you feel a bit better every time you put it on and wear it when you need a confidence boost.
Take care of your appearance. You can decide what this means to you. It may mean wearing makeup, or maybe it’s going fresh-faced. It may simply mean setting aside time to make sure you are clean and feel prepared every day. There is no wrong answer. But the more you invest in what you want from your body’s appearance, the more likely you are to invest in internal care.
 One major reason people break their weight loss routines is because they aren’t seeing the results they want in the time they want. One to two pounds per week (0.5 to 1kg) is generally considered a realistic, healthy weight loss goal. Setting realistic goals for your weight loss can help keep you on track.Understand that this is an average. Weight loss tends to happen faster at first, and will slow down after awhile. If you notice that you go from losing a pound a week to half a pound, do not be concerned.
You will likely notice your weight loss before anyone else does. Do not get discouraged if others don’t notice the same changes as you right away.
 Accepting a weight loss regimen and a healthier lifestyle can be a lot easier when you find ways to incorporate things you like. Incorporate treats into your routine that help you indulge in the things you like either as a form of motivation or a way to help keep you on track.Keep yourself on track with treats such as food that you like but that no longer fits into your daily diet. Consider swapping something like ice cream out for frozen fruit popsicles for every day. Then allow yourself one day a week or a month where you can have your favorite ice cream.
Some treats don’t necessarily deal with your diet and exercise routine, such as getting a spa treatment or picking out a new book. Use those as rewards for when you hit a goal. You may, for example, treat yourself to a massage for every five pounds you lose.
 Your loved ones can be a good motivator for losing weight. Perhaps you are looking to set a good example for an unhealthy person in your family. Maybe you want to promote longevity so that you can be around for major moments in your children or grandchildren's lives.


Ask yourself, "How might my health impact those I love?"
Make a list of possible impacts, such as needing more extensive care as you age. Allow these factors to help motivate you when you need an extra push.
 One of the most important components in weight loss is diet. Your diet will depend greatly on your current health and your weight loss goals. No matter what eating plan you choose it is important to avoid fad diets or crash dieting. Those tend to have short-term results and can be harmful to your health. Instead, focus on healthy eating habits such as:Getting at least 5 servings of fruits and vegetables daily.
Cutting back, though not necessarily removing, simple carbohydrates such as pasta and white bread.
Choosing whole grains when possible.
Looking for healthy, monounsaturated fats like those found in olive oil or peanut butter.
Checking serving sizes on nutrition labels and serving yourself proper portions.
Cutting back on sodas and sugary drinks and drinking more water. Aim to drink eight 8 ounce glasses of water every day., Exercise not only aids in the weight loss process, it helps your body maintain healthy functions. The rigor of your exercise routine will depend on both your weight loss goals and your current health and ability. However, no matter what you choose it is recommended that you get 30 to 60 minutes of cardiovascular exercise three to five times a week.Strength training has also been shown to help break down fat and lead to a healthier body. Consider varying your workout routine with a combination of cardio and strength training practices.
If you feel you are not in proper shape for a vigorous cardiovascular workout routine, start with something you consider manageable. Walking for 30 minutes three days a week will still help you lose weight and build up your stamina to take on greater physical challenges in the future.
If you need help figuring out what kind of exercise routine will work for you, consider using a personal trainer or taking a group exercise class. These can link you to professionals who may have more information on how to get the most out of certain types of exercise.
 Many people feel that weight loss is easier when they have the support of a group or community. You may form your own group by trying weight loss challenges with friends and family, you may find one in your community, or you may find one online.Setting weight loss goals with friends and family helps keep you accountable in your daily life, if you are comfortable discussing your weight loss with people in your everyday life.
Many community groups such as diet support groups, running groups, exercise classes, and more may be available locally. Search online or ask others you know who have gone through weight loss to find out what is available in your community.
There are a multitude of online communities and apps that are designed to bring people together to share weight loss struggles, tips, and success stories and foster support from people who all have a common goal., When you start your weight loss program, if at all possible you should work with a medical professional or health and nutrition specialist to help ensure that you have the right plan for your health needs. Working with someone will help ensure that you are losing weight in a healthy way that is maintainable long-term.Make a monthly appointment with your doctor or dietitian to evaluate your current weight loss and readjust your program to fit your new needs.
Monitor vitals such as your blood pressure and heart rate daily as you progress through your plan and contact your doctor if you notice a sudden or dramatic shift in either.

