 Consider what colors interest you, what kind of style you like and what simply makes you feel good about yourself.;
, Most people's natural hair color matches their skin tone anyway, but if it doesn't you should think about dyeing it a color slightly darker than your skin tone. You should also take good care of your hair by bathing every day, grooming hair and using a good shampoo and conditioner. It is also nice to trim your hair with a pair of scissors once a week in between your hair salon appointments. Use a heat protecting spray before straightening and drying hair to keep it healthy. Brushing hair regularly will also help.
 Drink as much water and eat as much fruit and vegetables as possible. Exfoliate gently before going to bed and then dry with a face towel, not the one that you wipe your hands with. You should also exfoliate the rest of your body about 3+ times a week and invest in a foot exfoliator and some moisturizer which will keep your body fresh and clean. Buy a pot of face mask, and then use it a few times a week to cleanse your pores.
 When going shopping, you should be in the right mood first. You will want to choose clothes which are the same sort of pattern and style, which is why you should think carefully about it before going. The style of clothing you choose should embrace your personality whilst suiting your skin tone and complementing your figure. When buying shoes make sure you have comfy ones like pumps which will match your style, also think about investing in some Converse as they up your cool factor and are amazingly comfy. Even consider buying some classy heels if they go with the look you are going for, but make sure they don't look trashy.


When in the shops you should buy essentials but also buy a jacket which excites you to add a splash of personality to your wardrobe, remember the phrase 'I wear what I like so I like what I wear'. This is to remind you not to wear anything you have not fallen in love with yet. Also go shopping with a friend who can get you started.
 If you feel you need foundation and powder, buy one which is the exact color of your skin tone. This way it'll cover up your pores but your makeup won't look so cakey. Wearing mascara and eyeliner is great if your skin is dark toned as it can look amazing, just make sure it's not a cheap one and you don't overdo it. If your skin is light or fair toned, it may be best not to wear any, but a splash of eye shadow that complements your skin tone won't hurt. And finally, for your lips, you should buy a lip exfoliator and use it in the morning or night, or even both! You can also use Vaseline throughout the day and if you have dark skin, a sexy red lipstick will look great!

, Maybe taking a brisk walk once or twice a day, or even joining a fitness or swimming class. Dancing can be great for appearance and can help your posture, rhythm and exercise also releases endorphins making you instantly happy and feel great. And remember, beauty begins on the inside.
 Making friends and having fun, being happy. It can prove amazing for your appearance. Being happy makes you care about detail and makes you eager, having friends who take care of their appearance can be a great influence on you and even give you extra ideas.

