 Pour a 16-ounce can of pickled beets into a large container or mason jar. Add one cup (237 ml) of apple cider vinegar, a 1/3 cup (78 ml) of brown sugar, a tablespoon (15 ml) of peppercorn, and a teaspoon (4.93 ml) of salt. Mix the ingredients until they are well-combined and the sugar is dissolved. Add 6 hardboiled eggs to the mixture one at a time. Place the lid on the jar and refrigerate for 12 hours, or up to three days. After they have finished marinating, serve as is or make deviled eggs out of the yolk.The longer the eggs marinate, the stronger the pickled flavor and pink color will be.
 Slice six hardboiled eggs in half and place them on a clean platter. Remove the yolks with a spoon or your fingers and place them in a bowl. Use a fork to mash the yolk into a powder. Add in 2 ½ (37.5 ml) tablespoons of mayo, two teaspoons (10 ml) of yellow mustard, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix the ingredients together until a smooth paste forms. Place the filling in the empty egg halves with a spoon (about ½ teaspoon of filling for each egg). Finish by sprinkling paprika powder on each deviled egg.This recipe makes 12 servings.
If you like, you can garnish the eggs with freshly chopped parsley or green onions.
Gently squeeze the eggs to loosen the yolks for removal.
 Heat six tablespoons (90 ml) of water on medium heat until hot (105 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit/40 to 46 degrees Celsius). Place the hot water in a large container or mason jar. Mix in one tablespoon (15 ml) of granulated sugar until it is dissolved. Add two tablespoons (30 ml) of rice wine vinegar, ¾ cup (177 ml) of low-sodium soy sauce, ½ teaspoon (2.46 ml) of chili garlic sauce, and two diced scallions to the water. Mix until well-combined. Place six eggs in the jar one at a time. Place the lid on the jar and refrigerate for two hours, or up to 24 hours. Once they have finished marinating, slice in half and serve as is.You can also serve them over rice, ramen, or on a salad for a quick, fulfilling meal.
This recipe makes six to twelve servings.

