 In a contact center, emails and letters might be handled in addition to calls. Many times, a call center will employ web chat to interact with consumers as well.


A call center agent will wear a headset to keep their hands free to perform other jobs. A headset also protects the neck from injury caused by cradling a phone all day.
Call center agents will generally be placed in a cubicle with their own PC to use in addition to the phone.;
, Good computer skills are a must as details of each call are customarily required to be entered into the system.


A call center agent reports to a supervisor who will give regular performance reviews to help improve your customer service abilities.
Calls are also usually monitored and recorded to guarantee quality, or used for review in the case of a complaint.
 In a call center, the sound of phones ringing is a thing of the past. Modern day call centers use a queuing system to handle all calls fairly. When a customer dials in, their call is placed in the line in the order in which it was received.


If all agents are busy assisting other patrons, the call will be put on hold, typically with hold music. The first available agent will receive the call which has been holding for the longest time period.
There will generally be a screen in the call center that displays the amount of calls holding, and the time period of the longest hold.
 Goals are usually set to establish the maximum period of time a customer should be on time, the length each call should be, and the number of calls a day each agent should realistically be able to handle.


These goals help management plan for the quantity of staff they'll need every day based on average number of callers expected on each given day.
 A call center relies on phones and computers, meaning that a call center agent can be located anywhere geographically.


Some call centers for a similar company might be spread across the nation to help handling of time-zones.
Some call center agents have the choice to work from home even.
Many times, a call center will be located in a foreign country such as India, where the cost per agent might be lower.
 There are plenty of other job opportunities in a call center aside from being an agent.


Supervisors and chiefs are needed to guide staff.
Trainers are wanted to train new staff coming in.
Business researchers are required for reporting of call center statistics.
Quality assurance staffs are needed to improve processes and procedures.

