 Have a friend or helper measure down from the top of your head down to where you want the veil to end. A typical veil would come down to your fingertips, but other popular lengths include shoulder, elbow, floor, chapel, and cathedral., Look for something that is around 72 inches (182.88 centimeters) wide. If you are making a shorter veil (ie: shoulder length), consider getting something that is around 55 inches (139.7 centimeters) wide. If you are making a really long veil (ie: floor or chapel), consider getting 108-inch (274.32-centimeter) wide tulle instead. This way, it will be more proportionate.
 You can leave your veil rectangular, but a rounded bottom will give you a nicer shape. Lay your tulle out with the bottom edge facing you. Fold the tulle in half, then cut the bottom (loose) corners off so that they are rounded.


Your veil may look a lot wider than it is long at this point, but that is alright.
 You don't really have to do this, but since it is your special day, why not go full-out and make yourself feel like a princess? You can hand-sew a beaded trim for something more delicate. You can also sew some narrow, white, satin ribbon instead.If you are sewing ribbon onto the edge, sew it an inch or two (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) away from the edge first, then trim off the excess tulle.
 You can do it by hand using a running stitch or on a sewing machine using a straight stitch. If you choose to do it on a machine, sew two rows, about ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) apart.For a full veil, sew all the way across the top, straight edge.
For a less-full veil, sew across the center part, leaving a gap on either side.
 Gently tug on the end of your stitching until the tulle gathers. Keep pulling until the gathered area is the same width as your comb, about 2 to 4 inches (5.08 to 10.16 centimeters). Tie the thread off into a secure knot, then cut off the excess.


If you used a sewing machine, pull on the bobbin threads.
 Match up the top edge of the veil with the top edge of the comb. Sew the veil to the comb, wrapping the thread around the comb and between the teeth. Tie the thread off in a tight knot, then snip off the excess.


Some people like to wrap ribbon or extra around the comb first.
 Use a needle and thread, sew on some pearls, silk flowers, beads, or rhinestones onto the comb. Be sure to choose something that matches your dress. If you must glue something on, use fabric glue. Hot glue tends to get messy, and it can melt on a hot day.

