 Bronchitis is the result of inflammation of the air passages in the lungs and can be acute or chronic. Knowing the difference between acute and chronic bronchitis is important as the two conditions require different treatment.


Acute bronchitis is usually due to a viral infection and symptoms should not last more than seven to 10 days. This is the type of bronchitis that can be treated naturally as it usually does not require prescription medication.Chronic bronchitis is an ongoing condition that occurs mostly in smokers. It's part of a variety of conditions that contribute to chronic obtrusive pulmonary disease (COPD). If you have chronic bronchitis, do not attempt natural treatment. Seek medical care.;
, Know the symptoms of bronchitis. People often misread bronchitis symptoms as that of another cold or a sinus infection. This leads to poor treatment options.


Acute bronchitis is much like the common cold. Symptoms include sore throat, sneezing, wheezing, fatigue, and fever; however, acute bronchitis is different from the common cold in that it's usually accompanied by a cough that produces green or yellow phlegm.Symptoms of acute bronchitis should only last seven to 10 days. If your symptoms last longer than this your bronchitis may be chronic.If you experience blue-tinged lips and swelling in the ankles, feet, and legs, call your emergency services immediately.
If you are not a smoker and have no symptoms specific to chronic bronchitis, you are likely experiencing acute bronchitis. This can be treated naturally and with over-the-counter medications. You may not need medical care if symptoms clear up within seven to 10 days., If you're still having trouble identifying your symptoms as bronchitis, you might be able to diagnose yourself based on your risk factors. There are a variety of factors that put you at increased risk for bronchitis.


A compromised immune system increases your risk for acute bronchitis, as it is caused by viral infections. If you've had a long-lasting cold or have a medical condition that weakens immunity, such as HIV/AIDS, you are at increased risk. You're also more susceptible if your immune system is lower due to age. Young children and the elderly are more vulnerable to viral infections that lead to bronchitis.If your job involves regular exposure to lung irritants, including ammonia, acids, chlorine, hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, or bromine, you are at risk of developing bronchitis. These lung irritants easily make their way inside the lungs, which can cause inflammation and blocked air passages.Gastric reflux can irritate the throat and make you more susceptible to bronchitis.If you are a smoker, you are at increased risk for both chronic and acute bronchitis. You should forego natural treatment and seek medical care if you think your bronchitis was caused by smoking., Bed rest is generally recommended to treat bronchitis, as the body needs time to rest and heal after exposure to a virus; however, sleep can be difficult due to the cold symptoms associated with bronchitis.Engaging in behavior that could, even in good health, improve sleeping habits is worth a try. Keep your room quiet. Electronic gadgets and appliances should be turned off. Do not look at laptop or phone screens before attempting to sleep.
Natural, herbal cough syrups and cough suppressing teas can be found at many health food stores. If your cough is persistent to the point it's keeping you up at night, these might be a good option.Sleeping with your head tilted upward can help. Sinus pressure that has migrated to the ears moves downward and breathing becomes easier. Try sleeping with an extra pillow or on a recliner.Chamomile tea, or teas specifically designed to aid with sleep, help you relax before bed and provide you with needed fluids. A cup of tea shortly before you go to sleep or take a nap can help., Moist air can lessen symptoms by loosening mucus, resulting in less coughing and sneezing. Try to add humidity to the air in your home.


Invest in a humidifier. You can buy one online or at a department store. Make sure you follow the manufacturer's instructions, particularly in regards to cleaning. You don't want to make symptoms worse by adding mold to the air.If you do not want a humidifier, you can add humidity in other ways. You can boil water in a bowl and inhale the steam. You can take a hot shower, with doors to the bathroom closed to maximize humidity. Houseplants are a good option as they add moisture and help purify the air., While at home, avoid exposing yourself to anything that can further irritate your lungs.


Do not smoke while symptoms last. If you live with smokers, ask them to smoke outside so you do not come into contact with secondhand smoke.Household cleaners and fresh paint can also irritate the lungs and should be avoided as symptoms persist.If you have any known allergies that result in sneezing and coughing, avoid them while your bronchitis lasts.
 Drinking liquids is helpful in treating bronchitis. The body loses fluids faster during fevers and heavy liquid intake helps thin mucus and reduce coughing, sneezing, and other symptoms.Plain water is great as it's the easiest route to hydration. Try to have a water bottle on hand at all times, and refill it as soon as it's empty.
You may find warm liquids more soothing. Soups and teas may soothe your throat after long bouts of coughing. Boiling water is also an option.
Avoid milk, as properties of cow's milk may thicken mucus. It is also not particularly hydrating in comparison to other options., There are a variety of foods that can help treat symptoms of bronchitis. Adding these to your diet during your recovery time can help.


Lemon and ginger help soothe the throat and can reduce coughing and mucus production. They can be added to teas and grated lemon rind can be added to water to provide flavor and help the throat.Almonds contain a variety of vitamins and nutrients that can encourage healing in respiratory infections.Spicy foods can lead to a runny nose, but the mucus produced is thinner and more easily expelled. Eating hot and spicy dishes can help clear the air passages and improve your breathing., Honey comes highly recommended for colds and flus for a reason. It's a powerful and natural cough suppressant.


In one study, a variety of treatments for coughing were used on patients experiencing cold-like symptoms. Honey, specifically buckwheat honey, was the best method for treating symptoms. Notably, honey improved symptoms far more than no treatment. This helps to debunk the notion that honey for colds is an old wive's tale and does not actually improves symptoms.Adding honey to your nighttime tea or taking a spoonful before bed is a good way to combat symptoms; however, not all coughing is bad. It's a necessary bodily process when it comes to clearing mucus from your airway, so you should not use honey all day to suppress a cough. Try to limit use of honey to times when the cough interferes with rest., Salt water can help soothe a sore throat temporarily. If your symptoms are particularly troublesome, you can try gargling with salt water and see if that provides some relief.


Generally, one fourth to one half a teaspoon of salt dissolved into an 8 ounce glass of water is ideal.Gargle for about 30 seconds, as you would with mouthwash, and then spit into the sink. Repeat as needed.
The water's temperature is a matter of personal preference, but many find lukewarm or hot water more soothing.
 Oil from the eucalyptus tree, sold at health stores and drug stores, is a powerful and natural treatment option. It relieves congestion and can soothe coughing and sore throat; however, there are some important precautions in regards to eucalyptus oil.


Do not take orally unless specifically instructed by a doctor. The oil is meant to be used and consumed indirectly and oral consumption can be dangerous.High doses or orally consumed eucalyptus can be toxic.
For bronchitis, add five to 10 drops of eucalyptus oil to 2 cups of boiling water. Placing a towel over your head, bend over the water and inhale the steam.You can also place eucalyptus oil on the skin, if diluted with another oil like olive oil or almond oil. This is generally used for skin rashes and inflammation, however, and may not be helpful when addressing bronchitis.Do not use eucalyptus oil on children unless you have asked your doctor. It can be toxic to children.