 If you're in a sketchy area and you want to keep your cash safe in case you get mugged, the two best places are your shoe and your underwear.If you're traveling somewhere unfamiliar, this is a good idea to make sure you keep your cash safe.


Women can safely cup a few bills inside bras, while men will usually need to hide bills in their undershorts. The waist-band is a good bet, but it can become unloosed quite easily.
If you can, sew a pocket into a pair of undershorts to keep your money secure, or use a paperclip to clip it to the hem.
Head to the bathroom before you get your cash out obviously. Don't just start digging in your nether regions.;
, If you're hiding money on your body, another common trick is to load up a cheap "fake" wallet and put it in a regular place. This way, if you attract the attention of a thief or pick-pocket, they're likely to come up empty-handed.


Instead of putting credit cars inside, put old grocery store membership cards, or expired cards or some kind. Instead of cash, put monopoly money, or just a dollar or two.
Keep it visible in your purse, and easily accessible if you're a woman, or put it in your back pocket if you're a guy.
 Some pants come with clips or ties that you can use to keep your money secure in your pockets, secured in one of the front pockets. If you're traveling, this is an excellent way to keep yourself from being robbed.


Likewise, wallet chains are a common accessory in many areas, letting you turn any pair of pants into a secure pair.
Pants with buttons on the pockets are somewhat effective, but less so than pants specifically outfitted with clips for the money. Use some combination of methods for the best protection.
 Even with your money in an unusual place, it's not so secure if it's all in one place. If a thief finds a few bucks in your pocket, that won't be such a big deal if you've got a couple hundred split between both shoes, your bag, your undies, and sewed into the head of your hat. Keep 'em guessing.
 One of the best ways to keep yourself from getting robbed? Carry less cash on your person and you'll attract less attention. Try to only carry what you'll need for a specific outing, or event, and then leave the rest of your cash at home, or better yet, in the bank.


If you can, try using a card for as many purchases as possible. If you don't have any, you can't be robbed.
 If you're in an unfamiliar place, try to keep the amount of money you have on you a secret. Don't show anyone the inside of your wallet or purse, and don't flash around big stacks of cash if you don't want to attract unwanted attention from thieves.


If you get change, just put it into one pocket and put it into your wallet later when you get the chance in private. Don't stand there fiddling with all your cash, or walking around with your wallet out.

