 Some people also take these sorts of supplements as a general health and performance supplement. For instance, there are claims that this chemical boosts concentration and memory, and even improves physical endurance. No scientific studies have proven that NADH is either safe or effective when taken for these purposes., Most people get plenty of niacin and niacinamide, which the human body converts into NADH, from the food their diet. Make sure you’re eating plenty of foods that contain niacin, such as mushrooms, green peas, chicken, pork, beef, peanuts, and avocado. This will ensure that you do not become vitamin B3 deficient.If you do not eat meat, consider taking a niacin or niacinamide supplement. Talk to you doctor about where to get health supplements.
The amount of niacin you need daily depends on your age, gender and, for women, whether you are pregnant or breastfeeding. The maximum daily intake for any adult is 35 milligrams. While eating a diet rich in niacin will help keep you healthy, NADH supplements provide a more aggressive treatment approach. Do not attempt to replace NADH supplements with dietary changes unless you are told to do so by your doctor.
 There are various supplements that can ultimately boost your levels of NADH. These may be labeled as vitamin B3, niacin, niacinamide, NADH, or coenzyme 1. While these are very similar, you should talk to your doctor about which source makes the most sense for you. You also want to ensure you’re getting supplements from a reputable source.


Get a recommendation for a specific brand of supplement from your doctor or pharmacist. The FDA does not regulate supplements, and they are often found to contain fillers or other ingredients not listed on the bottle. Look for supplements labeled “USP Verified” which means they been inspected by the U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention.
 While a supplement bottle may advise certain dosages for daily intake, your doctor may advise different doses based on the reasons you’re taking the supplement. Always follow your doctor’s advice. Make sure to read any information printed on a supplement’s bottle. Here, you may find advice about taking a supplement with a meal or with a glass of water.

