 Do you see anything with a story behind it? Like that necklace grandma gave you, or the blue ribbon for the soccer tournament? Put that story down on paper.;
, For example, if you live in a nature filled place, take a look at the leaves and how they sway in the wind and those small, delicate butterflies that flutter from flower to flower. Writing down notes of what you see, touch, taste, hear and smell will help you on the road to coming up with a new story idea.
 It may seem strange, but you never know where doing this might lead by way of a character leading a curious life. If there aren't people around, try Googling up pictures of random people and using them instead.


Try people watching when at your favorite coffee shop or while waiting for a bus.
 You can find plenty of topics that you would have never thought of by searching websites, search engines and article sites.


Look for listicles which list many different things for each topic of interest to you.
 The news can inspire many ideas, especially if the news items provoke feelings of joy, anger, annoyance, compassion, and so on.

Bookmark or keep copies of news items that you like, for future reference.
 Go to your country's archives to find films about the past as a great source of historic inspiration.
 Was it a certain type of character or a setting? Try incorporating similar elements into your own story.
 Just be sure you don't plagiarize, if you plan on showing your story to others.
 How did it affect you? Did it have a lasting impression, or even impact? Jot down your thoughts and try crafting a story from that.


If you had an awesome adventure or a special event that had an impact on your life, you could use this as a story idea.
 The plotlines for numerous famous stories and novels were hatched in the dreams of their author's. It may seem unlikely, but your dream could become a bestseller someday!


Keeping a journal and pen on your night stand right before you go to sleep is helpful. If you have an insane dream that you must write down, grab your journal and start writing.






The dreams don't have to be recent. They can also be ones that you remember from your childhood or many moons ago.
 For example: a secret diary, a squishy banana and a sneaky babysitter. Take your three phrases or words and try to make a story out of it. You'll never know how it will turn out if you don't try!

, The type of story you choose to write about must be developed around a certain genre and is the most important part of coming up with a story. Whether it's a romance, teen fiction or a thriller, selecting the genre may be a good source of inspiration for more ideas.

