 If something does happen and an intruder gets into your property, you want to make sure you and your family have a plan. If you do not have a professional security system, you might need to call 911 yourself. In addition to calling law enforcement, everyone in your family should have a planned escape route and rendezvous point where everyone can meet after getting out of the home. You should always get out of the home or hide if possible. Never confront the intruder unless absolutely necessary.;
, While other methods of defending your property focus on what you can do to deter intruders, you also need to know what to do if an intruder is already on your property. Before you purchase a gun or protect your property through the use of force, talk to a lawyer about the laws in your state. Each state has different laws regarding what is acceptable for property owners to do in the face of a home invasion. Lawyers will be able to give you the most up-to-date information that can be relied on.


To find a qualified lawyer, visit your state bar association's lawyer referral service website. After answering a few general questions, you will be put in contact with multiple qualified lawyers in your area.
 If you cannot afford to hire a lawyer you can do the research on your own. Start your research by doing a simple internet search. Use Google or another search engine and search for "home protection laws" or "castle doctrine".


After doing some initial research online, go to your local law library to continue your search. Ask the librarian for help on the subject. They should be able to point you in the direction of statutes and court cases you can read on the subject of protecting your home from intruders.
Read these laws and gain an understanding of what is and what is not allowed.
 If your neighborhood has had recent intruders or if you simply want to know how to protect yourself, visit your local police website and search for offered self-defense classes. Most police stations will offer free classes for individuals concerned for their physical safety. Most classes will teach you how to assess threats, strike vulnerable areas of an intruder's body, and escape from an intruder's grasp.


A lot of classes are meant for females who want to know how to protect themselves from sexual assaults; however, these same skills can be used to protect yourself from intruders, regardless of the intruder's intentions.If you are a male looking to learn how to protect yourself, ask your local law enforcement agency about options in your community. The same people that teach women's self-defense classes will most likely have other classes available for you.
 Pepper spray is a canister that can be kept close to you in your home. If an intruder is present, you can use it to disorient and inflict physical pain on them. Pepper spray is usually available at sporting goods stores, online, and through pharmacies. Each state will have different laws regarding the purchase and use of this tool so make sure you know how to use it legally. For example, in California, canisters can only be a certain size and can only contain a certain level of the active ingredient "OC." In New York, you can only purchase pepper spray from a licensed pharmacist.


To use pepper spray, grasp the canister in your hand and use your thumb to press down the trigger. Point the canister in the direction of the intruder and squeeze the trigger when the intruder gets within two arm lengths of you. Aim the stream at the eyes of the intruder. Once the intruder has been hit with the spray, step aside but do not turn your back on the intruder. Continue spraying until there is a safe opportunity to run away.
Make sure you practice using the pepper spray so you feel comfortable with it. This will make using it easier when you are faced with an intrusion.Don't touch your face with the hand used to deploy the pepper spray, as some may get on your hands. Try to hold your breath when you spray so you don't inhale any of the pepper spray.
 If you think you need something stronger than pepper spray, a taser should be your next option. A taser will disrupt the intruder's body communication system. When this happens, the intruder will become immobile for a short period of time.When used properly, a taser should allow you to get away from an intruder safely. Tasers are not allowed to be used in a number of states including Hawaii, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Check with your state laws before you purchase and/or use a taser to protect your property. Other states limit the use of tasers to homes and to people with valid permits.Tasers come in many forms and each one will be used differently; therefore, before using any taser, make sure you receive training and practice with your weapon. The improper use of a taser may cause you to get injured.
 As a last resort, if your safety cannot be secured through the use of other tools, you should consider purchasing a firearm. In most cases, you will have to go through a background check before you buy the gun. In some states (e.g., California), you may even have to wait a number of days before you can purchase the gun. For the purpose of home defense, a pistol or specialized shotgun are your best options. These weapons are easy to use and store safely in close quarters.


Before bringing a firearm into your home, go to gun ranges and practice with different types of firearms. Get an idea of what works best for you and what you feel comfortable with.
It is incredibly important to know how to handle a gun safely so you do not injure yourself or your family. Owning a gun is a serious responsibility.
A firearm should only be used in incredibly limited circumstances when an intruder is seriously threatening your life or the life of your family., Never use more force than needed to protect your property from intruders. If you use excessive force, you may be get in legal trouble. For example, never use booby traps to protect your property. These devices might include trip wires, bear traps, bamboo pits, and snares. Even if your state has not outlawed these things, when you use them you run the risk of innocent bystanders being harmed by them.