 Tomatoes contain several beneficial minerals and vitamins, including potassium, lycopene, and vitamins C, A, and B6. As any antioxidant, lycopene is especially beneficial and consistent ingestion can help ward off various cancers and heart disease.


If the taste of tomato juice does not appeal to you on its own, you can mix it with other fruit and vegetable juices, like cucumber, carrot, celery or apple juice.
You can also create a spiced tomato drink by mixing it with brown sugar and spices like cinnamon and allspice.;
, Hunger is often intensified by thirst. Tomatoes have a high water content, so a glass of tomato juice can help curb your appetite. Drinking tomato juice ten minutes before you eat can greatly reduce your hunger.


Additionally, tomatoes contain fewer calories than the body uses to digest them, so drinking a glass of tomato juice can actually help you burn calories and lose weight.
 Instead of using water or broth to stew or braise a tough cut of meat, substitute the liquid for tomato juice. Tomato juice has more acid in it than water and broth, so it helps to break down the toughness of the meat or poultry while adding flavor.

Due to its acidity, tomato juice also makes a good marinade for fish and poultry. The juice has less acidity than lemon juice, though, which makes it a good alternative for someone looking for a marinade with less acid in it.
 Many kinds of soup, from plain tomato soup to gazpacho, use tomato juice as a base. Even if a hearty soup recipe does not call for tomato juice, however, you can still substitute part of the broth or water with tomato juice to give your soup another dimension of flavor.
 Rice and pasta are typically boiled in water, but you can add a hint of tomato taste by boiling these starches in tomato juice. You can either replace the water with tomato juice completely or blend a little tomato juice into the water you usually use for a milder taste. Both pasta and rice absorb flavor as they cook, so boiling them in even a small amount of tomato juice infuses them with the taste of tomatoes.
 Tomato juice is a little too thin to make a standard spaghetti sauce, but you can still use it to create a slightly thinner, low-calorie sauce for pasta, vegetables, and poultry. Flavor the juice with Italian spices, like oregano, garlic, and basil, and thicken it up a little by adding around 1 teaspoon (4.8 grams) of cornstarch for every 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of juice.
 By mixing the tomato juice with a little olive oil and vinegar, you can create a flavorful dressing to pour over leafy salads. Mixing in other ingredients like basil, garlic, paprika, and lemon juice will create a thin dressing with a taste that is reminiscent of French or Catalina dressings.
 If a salsa or tomato-based sauce is a little too spicy for your liking, you can cool it down a bit by mixing in some plain tomato juice. The spicy "kick" will be toned down, but in return, the tomato flavor will be enhanced., If you have more tomato juice than you can use, pour it into an ice cube tray and freeze it. You can use the tomato juice ice to add extra flavor to vegetable juices, or you can save it for about three to four months in the freezer. Once you have another need for tomato juice, thaw as much as you need and use it however you want.
 Tomato juice can be used to clean plastic containers with a potent odor. Pour a little tomato juice onto a dish sponge and wipe the inside of the container before washing it with warm water and dish soap. The acid in the tomato juice helps to strip away odor-causing bacteria. After drying the container, keep it inside of the freezer for a few days.


You can use the same method to cut down on odors in your refrigerator or freezer. Pour tomato juice onto a dish sponge or washcloth and scrub out the refrigerator or freezer. Rinse the appliance with warm water and soap before wiping it dry with a dish towel.

