 While any attorney would technically work, you should look to hire a lawyer who specializes in family law. Family law is a field of practice that focuses on marriage, divorce, child custody, and other issues related to the family. Specifically, you should try and find an attorney who is experienced with separations and divorces.


Also, be aware that any attorney you hire will need to be licensed to practice law in the state you will be filing your separation papers.;
, Before starting your search, talk with friends and family about your situation. Let them know what you are going through and ask them for advice. They may be able to recommend a good divorce or separation lawyer. If you get some ideas about lawyers from your friends and family, be sure to ask about their experience.


Ask them what side the attorney represented (i.e., plaintiff or defendant); whether the attorney was transparent and honest about their fees and services; whether the attorney was punctual and professional; and whether the attorney seemed informed about the legal issues at hand.
 After talking to friends and family, you may want to broaden your search to include online sources. Often, attorneys will have their own websites or will have profiles with professional referral services. Check these sources and make a list of possible choices.


To start this process, do an online search for divorce and separation lawyers in your area. Click on some websites that seem reputable and professional. Some examples include Avvo, Findlaw, and Lawyers.com.
 Every state has their own bar association. These organizations help manage the lawyers within their jurisdiction, and they often have a referral service or a list of attorneys that practice in a particular area of the law.


In addition, these websites will often tell you how long an attorney has been practicing, their areas of expertise, and if they have ever been in trouble.
 After talking with those close to you, looking online, and checking with your local bar association, narrow your results and come up with three to five top choices. The factors that help you narrow your choices will depend on your personal situation, finances, and your "gut feeling" about an attorney.If you've asked for references from others and researched those references online, you should have a decent sense of who will be good candidates. However, you should definitely arrange to meet with at least three attorneys in person before you make a final decision. It's important to test your personal interaction with an attorney before you hire them.
 Call all your top choices and set up an initial consultation. An initial consultation will give you a chance to personally interact with the attorney, ask questions about your case, and gauge the fit.


When you call, ask if the initial consultation is free or if there will be a fee.
At the initial consultation, ask the attorney about their:

Fee structure (hourly rates, contingency fees, retainer fees);
Qualifications (specializations, honors, awards);
Insurance coverage for malpractice;
Experience dealing with your type of case, as well as their success; and
How your case would be handled and how they feel about your chances of getting what you want.
 After meeting with your top choices, you should be able to make an informed decision. Choose the attorney that makes you feel comfortable; the one that is skilled and experienced in your type of case; and the one with an affordable fee.


If you hire an attorney and it isn't working out, you always have the right to fire your attorney. Be straightforward, talk to them about your concerns, and make sure you are reimbursed for any unused fees you gave them.
 If you decide not to hire an attorney, you will still be able to get a legal separation. While it may be more of a time commitment, you can fill out and file forms on your own if you need to.


A lot of states offer self-help information online. For example, California's government website offers guidance to people wishing to go through the separation process on their own., Not every state recognizes legal separation. States that do not do so include Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, and Texas.Even if your state does offer legal separation, you need to check with your local laws regarding any special conditions, procedures, or qualifications.


In states that do not offer legal separation, you will likely be able to enter into a specific contract called a post-nuptial agreement.A post-nuptial agreement allows you and your spouse to split property, create a child custody arrangement and agree to spousal payments. However, if you have to go to court, a post-nuptial agreement will be dealt with under normal contract law, not under family law doctrines.
 In order to file for separation, you will need to meet your state's residency requirements.If you and/or your spouse have lived in the state long enough to meet these residency requirements, you will be able to file for separation in that state.


For example, in Ohio, either you or your spouse must have lived in the state for at least 6 months prior to filing for divorce. Additionally, you must have been a resident of the county where you file for divorce for at least 90 days prior to filing. , In most states, permissible grounds for separation will be identical to the permissible grounds for divorce.Generally, valid causes include incompatibility, abandonment, adultery, and cruelty.In California, you must base a separation on incurable insanity or irreconcilable differences., Before starting the formal separation process, you need to sit down and talk with your spouse. Talk about how you both see the separation going. If you and your spouse both think the separation can be completed amicably, consider putting together a separation agreement. However, if you and your spouse are having trouble agreeing on the terms of your separation, you will need to file a formal complaint with the court. Have this discussion at the beginning of the process so that you can make the best decision possible.
 If you and your spouse are on the same page, sit down and prepare a separation agreement. A separation agreement is a written contract between you and your spouse resolving issues about property division, debts, custody, and support.There are usually no court forms available for a separation agreement. Such agreements are typically drafted in the same manner as any contract between parties.The Separation Agreement becomes legally binding when signed by both parties and notarized. It can be enforced if the terms are violated by the other spouse.


Be clear and concise when providing information. For example, instead of writing, “Respondent will have visitation on weekends,” you may want to write, “Respondent shall have visitation with the parties’ minor children every other weekend from 6 p.m. Friday to 6 p.m. Sunday.”
If you want, you can find a document preparation service online. Online preparation service providers allow you to have your legal documents prepared without ever having to leave your home.
Generally, once you and your spouse have prepared the separation agreement, you will still need to file for legal separation. When you get to your court hearing, you and your spouse will present the judge with the separation agreement and you will have the judge make it a part of the separation order., Whether you have created a separation agreement or not, you will still need to fill out a petition for legal separation. A petition is a formal request asking a court to grant a particular action (in this case a separation). Within a legal separation, you will need to tell the court about your marital situation and the type of relief you want.


For example, in California, you will need to download and fill out FL-100, the petition for dissolution and separation.When you fill it out, you need to check the box marked separation.Then you will need to explain you and your spouse's legal relationship; how you meet the residency requirements; any children you have; the grounds for your separation; and how you want the court to handle property division, child support, spousal support, and child custody., Once you have filled out your petition, you will need to file it, along with any other required documents, with the clerk of courts in the county where you reside. Bring two copies of everything when you personally file your papers. When the original and all of the copies are presented to the clerk, he or she will stamp them all "filed" and will return the two copies to you - one for your records and one for you to serve on your spouse.


In California, if you have children under 18, you will also file a Declaration Under Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act.This form tells the judge who your children are and where they have been living., When you file your petition, you will be required to pay a filing fee. Every jurisdiction has different fees, so be sure to check with your local court before filing. If you cannot afford the filing fee, you may be able to get a fee waiver. In order to do so, you will need to convince the judge of your inability to pay.


For example, in New York, the filing fee is $210.00, payable by cash, certified check, money order, or credit card., Personal service of process on your spouse is the formal delivery of your court papers in order to officially notify them that they are a party in a lawsuit and that a response is required. You must have a third party serve the petition. You can make the service of process as follows:


Personal Delivery - This entails using a third party service that specializes in delivering court papers.
Substituted Service - This method requires two separate steps. First, you must deliver the papers to a person of suitable age and discretion (who is willing to accept the papers) at an acceptable location (e.g., your spouse's house, business, etc.). Next, you must mail the papers by first class mail to your spouse at their last known residence. You may also mail them to your spouse's actual place of business.

You must mark the envelope used for the mailing “Personal and Confidential.” Also, you must not show in any way that the envelope contains papers about a legal action against the person being served.
 Once your spouse has been served, he/she will have a certain time period within which they must respond. If they fail to respond within the time limit, a judge will likely enter a default ruling in your favor. If your spouse agrees with all of your requests, he/she might not contest the separation. If your spouse disagrees with things that were said in the petition, he/she will contest the separation.
 In some states, you may be able to attend court ordered mediation before a judge will entertain your separation request. During mediation, a neutral third party will sit down with you and your spouse and discuss your separation. You and your spouse will try to work out the details of your separation amicably. If you can do so, you and your spouse will put together a separation agreement with the help of the mediator. The mediator will then present that agreement to the court, along with their own recommendation.


If you and your spouse have already formulated a separation agreement on your own, you do not usually need to go through this process. If this is the case, tell the judge that you have already reached an agreement.
 You must appear in court for a hearing unless you and your spouse have reached an agreement that resolves all issues concerning the terms and conditions of separation. At the hearing, the judge will review evidence and listen to testimony before ruling on the contested issues.
 After the hearing, your judge will sign their ruling. The ruling will set forth the conditions of your separation. It will be legally binding and you and your spouse will be required to obey its terms.


In some states, once the judge has issued their ruling, you may have to obtain a copy of the ruling and file it with the clerk of courts. Once you file the judgment, it will become official.

