 Consider this if you have books ranging from trade paperbacks to oversize art albums. Place the tallest books on the lowest shelf, placing smaller and smaller books as you move upward. This creates a tidy, organized appearance. On some bookcases, this is a necessity to adapt to the height of each shelf.
 This system looks great, but are best used if you have only one bookcase. In larger collections, they can make a book difficult to find. In addition, you need to consider that you may have to split books from a series, when they do not have the same colour. Here are a few sorting systems based on spine color:


One color per shelf (a blue shelf, a green shelf, and so on). If you're having trouble filling a shelf, wrap some of the books in kraft paper.A gradual "rainbow" flowing from one color to the next, or from the most saturated colors to pastels.
A pattern that creates a flag or other simple image when the whole bookcase is filled. This is time-consuming, but impressive.
 This is a great system if you consult your books frequently for research or reference. Keep the ones you use daily on the shelf at eye height. and a couple shelves below, where you can easily see and reach them. Books you only use occasionally go on the lowest shelves. Books that you almost never open go on the shelves above your head.


If you have enough books to fill two or three bookcases, fill the most visible bookcase with the important books. If you have an even larger collection, this system may not work well.
 If you have a large number of books you'd like to read, why not give them their own shelf? Keep an empty shelf on the same bookcase so you can slot the finished books back easily. You might want to revisit your organization once you're through your reading list, but this can be convenient in the meantime.
 Fill the top shelf with books you read in early childhood, and move down adding books in the rough order you discovered them.This one works best for books with strong associated memories – and for people with strong memories as well.
 No matter which system you chose, you have the option of leaving one special shelf. Usually the most visible one, this is where you keep your first editions, your signed copies, or the books that have changed your life.

