 Many legal websites offer forms and templates that you can use to create a real property lease. Some of these forms are free, while others require you to pay a small fee if you want to print or download a usable version.Typically the forms or templates that are available for free are generic, and may not include all the language necessary in your particular state.
Most websites require you to pay for use of a form or template that has been verified as legally enforceable in a particular state.
You also may be able to find leases actually used by landlords in your state and use them as guides. Check the dates they are created to make sure they are recent and reflect any changes in the law.
If you're using an actual lease as a guide, be careful not to copy clauses that you don't entirely understand or that don't apply to your situation. Contact an attorney if you have questions.;
, If you're not confident in your ability to draft an airtight real property lease that will adequately protect your interests as a landlord, you may want to hire an experienced real estate transaction attorney to draft your document for you.In some states, such as California, the law governing leases is more complex than in others. Additionally, some metropolitan areas have rent control ordinances that may govern your property if you intend to rent several units in an apartment building.
City ordinances also come into play with commercial leases, and may control the amount you can charge for a security deposit, the duration of the lease, or other factors.
You typically can hire an attorney to draft a legally enforceable lease which you can use multiple times. You don't necessarily have to create a new lease for each tenant.
 Before you start writing out the specific terms of your agreement, keep it organized by outlining the categories you intend to cover in your document. Then you can jot down a word or two to describe each provision that will be included under that category.Keep in mind that a lease is an operational, reference document. Aside from when they sign it, a tenant seldom will sit down and read the lease from beginning to end. Rather, they will search for the clause that addresses the issue they are facing.
Organize your lease with this in mind, using bold font for the title of each section. You also might want to have titles in a larger size than the text of the section.
Break the sections up making use of white space, and keep all text in a legible size so the document as a whole is easily readable.
 Although the clause that outlines how contract disputes will be resolved typically is one of the last things mentioned in the lease, it should be one of the first things you establish. Your choice of dispute resolution could play a key role in the terms that must be included in your lease for it to be legally enforceable.Typically you should state that the lease will be interpreted using the law of the state where the property is located. This makes it easier for both parties to understand their rights.
You may want to require alternate dispute resolution, such as mediation or arbitration, as the sole or initial method of resolving disputes.
Mediation typically is cheaper than filing a lawsuit, the non-adversarial nature of the proceedings makes it easier to navigate without an attorney, and the proceedings are confidential.
 Depending on the size of your property and the number of tenants you're going to have, there will be different state laws, as well as local housing or property ordinances, that may apply to your lease.Your state law may set dollar limits on fees, security deposits, and other charges. It also may require security deposits be placed in an interest-bearing account, with a statement sent to the tenant describing the amount of the security deposit and the interest it has accrued year.
State laws also have different provisions regarding notice. Notice requirements typically come into play when the lease is being renewed or the tenant is being evicted, but also may affect your ability to enter the property to make repairs.
If you're drafting a residential lease, your state law also requires you to maintain the premises in a habitable condition. This condition typically is defined by reference to state and local housing codes and local health and safety regulations.
There also may be specific disclosures required by your state law, such as whether certain environmental hazards such as mold or radon are present on the premises.
 The simplest lease may simply provide the street address of the property you're renting, and a building or unit number if applicable. If you intend to rent an unmarked building on your property or a single room in your house, however, your description may need to be a little more specific.For example, if you are renting out a guest house located behind your house on your property, you would provide the street address for your house and then indicate the structure you were renting, its size and approximate location on your property.
In most cases, you want to identify the property being rented by its mailing address, complete with zip code.
 You must identify yourself as the property owner – or the name of your company, if the company holds the title rather than you personally. How you identify tenants may differ depending on your state's law the purpose for which you're leasing the property.For residential leases, you typically must list all occupants of the unit covered by the lease.
In some states, all adults are required to be parties to the lease, even if they are not paying rent.
For commercial leases, list the name of the company leasing the space as the tenant, and include the address the company provides as its principal place of business as well as the name and address of the company's registered agent in your state.
 A residential lease typically lasts for a year, while a commercial lease may last for several years. Discussion of the lease's duration also should include information on how to renew the lease at the end of the term.Whether you want the lease to renew automatically is up to you. Keep in mind that some states have laws requiring advance notice to the tenant before the lease is set to end or renew.
If you're giving the tenant the option to renew at the end of the lease, specify how far in advance of the lease's expiration the tenant must notify you if they wish to renew or plan on vacating the property.
Any specific procedures related to the termination of the lease and the return of the tenant's security deposit should be included here.
You also should address the terms under which the tenant may be evicted. Typically in this section you would simply say that the tenant may be evicted "for violation of this lease or any of its provisions." That covers any lawful reason for eviction.
In this section, you also may include any information regarding what happens to the lease if you sell your ownership interest in the property to another person or company.
 In exchange for use of your property, your tenant agrees to pay you a specific amount of money, usually each month. The lease should specify the amount of rent the tenant must pay, and when that payment is due.You can include the amount of the security deposit the tenant has paid or will pay, and how that money will be kept and for what it will be used.
State the precise amount of rent that must be paid, and the date on which it is due. If you want to build in a grace period, this is the place to do that.
However, make it clear that the rent is due on the due date and late fees will be calculated from that date, not from the last date of the grace period.
State specifically the late fees that will be charged if rent is not paid on time, and how they will be calculated. You also want to include any fees that will be charged for bounced checks or returned payments.
Methods of payment can be addressed in the lease itself, or you can create an addendum. An addendum may be preferred if you intend to add new methods of payment at a later time, such as the ability to pay rent online.
 As the owner of the property, you are required by law to maintain the property for the use of the tenant. The tenant also must comply with your conditions related to use and upkeep of the property.These responsibilities may vary depending on the type of property you want to lease out and the purpose for which your tenant will use it.
For example, if you're renting out a house, you may want the mowing of the yard and upkeep of the exterior to be the tenant's responsibility. If so, this should be stated specifically in your lease.
Include a description of how the property must be returned to you at the end of the lease, and what constitutes damages to be paid out of the security deposit.
Some requirements may be very specific. For example, if you want to prohibit smoking in your rental unit, this is the place to do that.
If you're renting commercial property, you may have limits on how late the store can be open, or what kinds of promotions or advertisements can be placed on the outside of the store.
 Most states require a lease to include particular clauses to be recognized as legally valid. When drafting a real property lease, it is your responsibility to learn and incorporate any specific requirements for your state.For example, many states require you to include specific disclosures addressing the presence of environmental hazards such as radon, lead, or mold.
You may need to have detection tests performed on your property to gain the information necessary for these disclaimers – don't just state an environmental hazard isn't present if you don't have test results to back up that statement.
State law may require you to monitor the presence of environmental hazards or have tests conducted on a regular basis and keep reports on file for your tenants.
Search for your state's landlord-tenant law to learn your state's requirements.
Another easy way to discover required disclosures or clauses that must be included is to search online for leases used in different states. Compare a lease used in another state to a lease used in your state and note the differences.
If you have any questions regarding your state's legal requirements for a lease, ask an attorney. Even if you aren't planning to hire an attorney to draft your lease, you typically can get an answer to your question for free.
Consider calling your local landlord-tenant association and asking there. The association also may have samples of legally enforceable leases with the language required by state law.
 Just as some lease provisions are required, state law often includes some terms or conditions that, if included in a lease, will be considered void and cannot be enforced in court.For example, you can't include any language allowing you to repossess the property if the tenant fails to pay rent. Once you allow another person to move in as a tenant, you must abide by your state's law to evict the tenant – you can't simply lock them out.
You also typically can't include language that allows you to enter the rented area at any time, even if you are renting a guest house on your own property.
If you have questions regarding whether a particular clause is enforceable in your state, consider consulting an experienced attorney who specializes in landlord-tenant law.
 All states require written leases to be signed by all parties before the tenant enters the property. If you're concerned about a challenge to a signature on the lease, having the signing take place in the presence of a notary public can ensure the lease is legally enforceable.You can easily find a notary public at your local courthouse. Many banks also make notary services available to their customers free of charge.
The notary verifies the identity of everyone signing the lease and affirms that they have read and understood the document.
In some states, a lease must be notarized if it has a duration longer than one year. This may not be an issue with residential leases, but typically comes into play with commercial leases which often last several years.

