 The minimum requirements to become a licensed real estate agent in the state of Montana are that you must be at least 18 years of age and have a high school diploma, or an equivalent, such as a GED. If you do not have a high school diploma or a an equivalent, you will need to obtain a GED before completing your pre-license education.Community colleges offer classes that will help prepare you to pass the GED.;
, Montana requires that you complete a 60-hour pre-licensing course in person or online. You must have this course completed within the last 24 months prior to applying for your license. Visit Montana’s Board of Realty Regulation website for a current list of approved real estate schools.Some community colleges, like Flathead Valley Community College, and private schools, like Cooke Real Estate School, offer classes either online or in person.
The average cost of a course is $300 to $350.A course should cover real estate principals and ethics, as well as real estate math. Some courses offer exam prep, as well.
 Once you have completed your pre-license education, you will need to pass a state-licensing exam. In Montana, the real estate exams are handled by the AMP Testing Center. The AMP administers license examinations via computer in three different testing sites. The testing sites are located in Great Falls, Missoula, and Billings, Montana.Register for the exam online at www.goamp.com. Applicants must register for the exam at least four days in advance of taking it. The exam costs $106.You will need to take and pass the exam within the last 12 months prior to applying for your license. You must pass with a score of at least 80% on the national portion, and a score of at least 70% on the state portion.The national section consists of 100 multiple choice questions. It covers real estate and contract law, survey descriptions, financing, ethics, mathematics, property tax, closing and settlement practices, and the Federal Fair Housing Act.The state sections consists of 32 to 40 multiple choice questions. It covers Montana laws, such as licensing, deeds, trust accounts, foreclosures, and the landlord tenant act., In addition to completing your pre-licensing education and passing the state exam, you will need to find a broker that is willing to sponsor you. To find a broker, drive by different real estate offices. Assess the location of the office and the office’s exterior. The office's exterior is a good indication of how well the company is doing.Take note of offices that have convenient locations and that have an attractive and clean exterior.
Make a list of at least 5 offices to visit in person.
 Visit the offices on your list in person. Obtain and review brochures or printed material that will help you assess the office’s structure and operations. Talk with the receptionist or an active agent in the office to gauge their opinions of the local offices.Find out if the company is well established, and the kind of reputation it has locally and nationally.
 Once you have narrowed down your list to three different real estate offices, set up an interview with a broker from each office. There are major differences among companies in regard to structure, operation, and philosophy. The goal is for you to find an office that is the right fit for you. You will be paying the broker to sponsor you, so approach the interview as if you are the interviewer and the broker is the interviewee. Important questions to ask the broker are:“What is your market share?” More than 70% is a pretty good indicator that you are at a top office.
“How many agents work out of the office?”
“How many top agents do you have?” Top agents are persons who sell more than 15 homes in a year.
“Will I be working as an independent contractor, or an employee?”
“Is there a training plan in place for new agents?”
“What kind of ongoing education do you offer your agents?” Some offices pay for their agents’ continuing education classes.
 You can also find brokerage supervisors by joining a real estate organization. There are many organizations throughout the state of Montana. The associations hold annual or seasonal events where you can network and meet possible supervisors.Join an association such as the Montana Association of Realtors, Missoula Organization of Realtors, and the Billings Association of Realtors.
 Complete and submit an application online or through the mail. There is a $185 application, which includes a $35 account recovery fee. The application includes a section where your supervising broker agrees that they will actively supervise and train you. Your application must be completed no later than 15 working days prior to the Board of Realty Regulation's next meeting. Along with your completed application, you must also submit:Verification that you completed high school, or a high school equivalent.
Proof of your pre-license course completion.
A copy of your AMP test results.
Documentation for proof of age, for example, a driver’s license, passport, or a birth certificate.
A license from any licensing jurisdiction in which you hold a current license, or in which a license has been previously issued, if applicable.
 Once you obtain your license, you will need to complete a 12-hour rookie course by the first renewal date, i.e., October 31st, following your original license issue date. The rookie course is designed to give new agents a basic knowledge of the industry, for example, history, code of ethics, and changes in the industry.You can take this course online or in person. Your real estate office can provide you with an approved school.
 All real estate agents are required to complete a minimum of 12 hours of continuing education every licensing year. The licensing year is from November 1st to October 31st. Therefore, you must complete your courses by October 31st. , Many realtors stay and work for the company that supervised them. If not, it is recommended that you work for a company for a few years before you start working for yourself. This way you can develop a client base, and do not need to start from scratch.


Once you have developed a solid reputation for yourself, then look into self-employment.

