


Gmail continually gives you more space. It is currently offering 10.1 gigabytes of space.
While Gmail is an extremely simple email program, it has a large number of features and 30 different languages, but if you just want to receive and send emails, you can just ignore these options.
Another great thing about Gmail is that you have no banner ads. Only relevant text ads are discreetly shown on the side. It also allows you to search for emails and organize them into as many different folders as you want.
If you are worried about getting junk mail, Gmail is a great way to go.
Gmail allows you to send 20MB of attachments in each email.
Gmail incorporates several brilliant features - RSS feeds, integrated Google search for your mail, labels, conversations, automatically saving drafts (possibly the best feature ever), free auto forwarding, sending email from other email accounts (after verifying that they are yours) and lots more. With the huge space for emails, there's no need to delete emails. You can easily just archive them.
Instead of organizing your inbox into separate emails like other email services, Gmail organizes emails together into conversations, making it so much easier to follow your emails.
Gmail has the best email search ever. With a search bar right up top, you can search every word of every email you've ever sent and received within seconds.
They have also very recently integrated GTalk (a form of instant messaging), which is very popular as well.
The best thing about Gmail is that it's always being improved upon. If you ever have an idea of a better way to do something or a feature that you want to see, it is very easy to contact them and make suggestions. If you have any problems, their help page is extensive and easy to find what you need. If you can't find it, you can email them for help and you're guaranteed to get a response. You're guaranteed to be happy with Gmail.
The interface is spartan, yet still not lacking in features. Generally, GMail loads fastest compared to Windows Live Mail and Yahoo! Mail.
Gmail is also good at reminding you about things you have set in Google Calendar. If you check you Gmail often, a little pop message will remind you on that days date at what time you should do the item.;
