 You can set presets. You can create precise color arraignments. You can even edit preexisting gradients to perfect them. To view the Gradient Editor, select the gradient tool like normal. Then click the example gradient that appears in the bar at the top of your screen. You should see:


A variety of preset gradients
An example gradient with adjustable sliders.
Opacity and layering information.
Options to make a new gradient, load old ones, or save a creation., You can also manage the presets, or edit the current gradient you have. This allows you to perfect your gradient before applying it. If you have more than one layer, make sure to select the layer with the gradient.
 You can add more by clicking along the line. In the Gradient Editor, about halfway down, you'll see a bar with an example of the gradient in it. Underneath are two gray stoppers, which you can click on to change the colors.


Double click on the line to add another stopper. You can add as many as you want.
Click and drag a stopper down the screen to delete it. You can also click and press the Delete key.
 These little blocks change how solid the colors are, and can be lowered or raised however you want. They default to 100% opacity.


Like the color stoppers, you can add more for more complex gradients. Do this by right-clicking.
 This is where the two colors meet, each at 50% strength. You can slide this diamond between any two color stoppers to set the middle point.
 A "rough" gradient picks random colors for each spot that have similar values to your two end colors. The result looks a bit like a bookshelf, with slots of each color instead of one smooth, unbroken transition.You can adjust this further by clicking "Noise" from the Gradient Type pop-up menu.
 Gradient presets can be incredibly powerful. So don't do the work twice! If you make one you like, hit save. You can also go online and look up "Gradient Preset Packs." There are thousands of options, and all you have to do is download the small file to your desktop. You then "Load" them into Photoshop using the button in the gradient editor.