 You will need to replace your lost passport before you can return to the United States, so instead of using a domestic Passport agency, you must schedule an appointment with the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate.


To locate the nearest embassy, check here: http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/country.html

Navigate to the country or geographic area you are visiting.
Once you view the specific country's webpage, look under the "Embassies and Consulates" section to find the nearest location.
 This is the section of the embassy or consulate equipped to handle passport troubles.


Make sure that you specify whether or not your passport is merely lost or if it has been stolen.
Let the staff know the details of your travel plans, especially if you need to leave the foreign country within a short period of time.
 Usually, you will need to take a new photograph for your replacement passport. If you call the consulate or embassy, the staff should be able to direct you to a location where you can obtain that photograph.


You will need this photo before you can advance through the process, so you should try to have it before you visit the Consular Section in person.
The photograph must be a full frontal view of your face and in color. It should also measure 2 inches by 2 inches (5 cm by 5 cm) in size.
 Aside from a valid photograph, you will also need to show the consulate staff valid identification, evidence of your U.S. citizenship, your travel itinerary, and a police report (if applicable). You will need to complete Forms DS-11 and DS-64, as well.


A driver's license or expired passport can serve as identification, and a photocopy of your missing passport or birth certificate can serve as evidence of your U.S. citizenship.
Prove your travel itinerary by showing airline or train tickets.
A police report is not strictly required, but it can help confirm your circumstances with the consulate. Only spend time filing and obtaining a police report if doing so will not delay your travel plans.
Find Form DS-11, Application for a Passport, here: http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/212239.pdf

Find Form DS-64, Statement Regarding a Lost or Stolen Passport, here: http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/212245.pdf

Both Forms DS-11 and DS-64 can be completed at the time of your application if you cannot complete them beforehand.
You may need to pay a fee for your replacement passport, as well. Check on the current fee by visiting: https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/passports/information/fees.html

As of 2014, the fee for a standard adult passport book would be $135 (including an execution fee).
 If you do not need to obtain a replacement passport urgently, you can obtain a standard replacement passport. If you have urgent travel plans, however, you will need to request a limited-validity emergency passport.


A standard replacement is valid for a full ten years for adults or five years for minors.
An emergency replacement can be produced more quickly and will only allow you to return to the U.S. or continue on your trip as scheduled. You will need to turn in your emergency passport upon re-entry to the United States if you want to receive a standard replacement.
 The majority of U.S. embassies and consulates will not issue passports on weekends or holidays. Each one has after-hours duty officers, however, so you can still contact the embassy or consulate after hours if you have a life-or-death emergency or have been the victim of a serious crime.


Duty officers will only respond to serious emergencies. For instance, if you need to get home to the United States for urgent medical treatment, the officer will likely help you obtain your replacement passport.
 If you are currently in the United States and a loved one tells you that his or her passport is missing, you can help your loved one by contacting the Office of Overseas Citizens Services at the U.S. Department of State in Washington, D.C.


Contact the office by phone at: 1-888-407-4747
The office should be able to put your loved one in touch with the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate. Your loved one will need to complete the rest of the process in person and on his or her own with the assistance of the consulate staff as usual, however.

