 Look over your cat for signs of missing fur. One of the first symptoms of malnutrition in cats is loss of fur, so bald spots signal that your cat may be missing something from its diet.If you’ve found a stray cat or adopted a cat, also check for dark fur patches. When a cat loses fur due to nutritional deficiency, it grows back darker. This can help you better understand your new cat’s health history.
Even if it’s not a nutritional deficiency, it’s important that you get to the bottom of what’s causing your cat’s missing fur.;
, While you’re petting your cat, part its fur to see if the skin is dry and scaly. Be sure to look at the skin all over your cat’s body, not just in one spot because it may have isolated patches of dry, scaly skin, especially if your cat is just starting to develop a nutritional deficiency., Cats with nutritional deficiencies may have caved in or concave claws, meaning that the claws will look hollow in the center. Hold your cat and gently press on its paw to push out its claws.Be careful not to hurt or stress your cat while you’re trying to check its claws.
Be cautious when checking claws because you may get scratched. Consider wearing gloves to protect yourself.
If your cat is a stray, you may want to hold off on checking its claws because it’s more likely to scratch you, and you don’t know its health history.
 Cats with nutritional deficiencies will stop and reduce their grooming. If your cat is no longer licking its fur or has crusty patches because it hasn’t cleaned itself, then something is likely wrong., A nutritional deficiency is often linked to being underweight, so check to see if your cat has lost weight or falls under the healthy weight recommendation for its age and size.If you can’t weigh your cat, see if you can see and feel its ribs and joints. It’s normal to be able to feel the outline of a cat’s ribs, but if they’re pronounced and noticeable then the cat is likely underweight.
 Use your finger to gently open your cat’s mouth and check its gums for swelling. Swollen gums will look puffy and red.Be careful not to put your finger all the way in its mouth because your cat may bite you.
Try wearing gloves.
If your cat is a stray, allow your vet and the trained technicians to check your new cat’s gums. They will want to check its teeth also, since stray cats can have damaged or broken teeth that require care.

