 Locate the Google Play icon either on your home screen or app drawer. The icon is the white shopping bag with a colored triangle on it. Tap to launch.;
, Tap on the search field and enter “Automath.” Tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 You will be taken to the app’s information page.


The app’s complete name is AutoMath Photo Calculator and should be the first on the results list.
 Tap on the green “Install” button at the top of the page. A Permissions screen will appear. Tap on “Accept” on this screen and the app will begin downloading and installing on your device.
 Once it has finished installing, you can launch the app by tapping on the “Open” button that replaced the “Install” button on the app’s information page.


If you’ve already left Google Play, you can locate the app on your home screen or app drawer. Tap on it to launch.
The screen that will greet you upon launching the app for the first time is its manual.
 You can navigate through the manual by tapping the left or right arrows at the bottom of the screen.


Once you’ve gone through the manual, tap on the “Close” button. You will be taken to the app’s home page.
You can return to the manual by tapping the “Help” button present second from right at the bottom of the home screen.



Tap on the math mode icon at the top left corner of the home screen.
In the menu that appears, select “Standard Math.”
By checking on “Standard Math,” the app will recognize only printed equations.
 For the app to recognize handwritten equations, check the “Elementary Math” on the same menu. A message will appear telling you that only numbers and basic operations can be recognized if it is written in straight, legible handwriting.


Tap on “Okay” to continue.
 After selecting the capture mode, the home screen of Automath will change to a camera screen. The screen will have a red rectangle in the middle, which can be positioned to focus on a particular mathematical equation. Set the focus by adjusting the rectangle size with your finger so that the rectangle perfectly surrounds only the equation you want to solve.


If you want to enable the flash so you can capture a clearer shot of the equation, tap on the “Light” button at the bottom left corner of the screen
You can also select other focus modes by tapping on “Focus mode” at the top right corner of the screen.
 The app will take a picture of the equation. It will then begin processing and calculating the answer.
 The answer will appear in a new screen. Tap on the red “Steps” button to view the details in solving the equation.


Note that the picture taken will not be saved as an image file in your device.
 This is located second from the left at the bottom of the page. A screen will appear with a text box in the top.
 You’ll find this at the top right corner of the screen. A list of mathematical functions will appear.
 Note the format by which values need to be entered in the brackets present next to the function in the list. The function with closed brackets next to it will appear in the text box.
 When you’re done, tap on the equal sign towards the end of the textbox. The answer is will be shown.
 A list of options will appear. Here, you can choose the appropriate options to get the “Numeric value” or “Fractional value” of the answer, or view the steps taken to calculate the answer.


You can even even copy the equation or answer by selecting “Copy Equation” or “Copy Answer.”

