 Some local governments and realty sites publish this information on their websites. Using an online search engine is a good first step to take before you make any phone calls or visit any offices. That way, you can get an idea of what information is available without a lot of inconvenience for yourself.Some of the most popular sites for real estate research are Realtor, Trulia, and Zillow. Start here when searching for information about recent sales or other real estate data for your area. Keep in mind that this information isn't always 100% accurate, which is why you should gather information from multiple sources.;
, Local governments keep records of recent property sales, which are usually held in the tax assessment office. Contact the office and ask for records of recent sales in your neighborhood or zip code. See if they can give you a list with all the details of each property, including selling price, date of sale, square footage, year built, and number of bedrooms and bathrooms. You'll need all of this information to make an educated guess on the market price for your home.This data has the advantage in that it is real sales data and is in your local market (real estate value is based on location), but very seldom is a home exactly like yours sold in the recent past, so some adjustments will need to be made.
 Realtors will have plenty of experience in your area and be aware of recent sales, even if their office didn't make the sale. Contact the realty office and see if any agents are willing to talk about recent sales. Remember to get all the necessary information about the sale, including at least the selling price, date of sale, square footage, year built, and number of bedrooms and bathrooms.It would probably make the Realtor more willing to share information with you if you mention that you're looking for information because you plan on selling your house. When the Realtor sees you as a potential client, he may be more open with you.
If you do hire a Realtor, he should perform a comparative market analysis. This report covers many data points including comparable sales of other properties and estimates of market value. If you want more control over the data that you receive, try asking your Realtor to send you the best comparative analysis as defined by the criteria that you set. For example, since many lenders want comparative analyses based on homes within one mile of the property for sale, you can ask the Realtor to limit their search to within one mile of your home.
 Insurance companies keep data on real estate sales in a given area. Some will provide you with a property profile for free, hoping you'll buy insurance from them. The property profile will contain a list of comparable properties to your own, and the specific aspects of these properties.Not all companies will do this for free, but you might still be able to obtain a property profile for a fee.
 Town, city, and county newspapers often publish information on local property sales. You can scan the real estate section for information on recent sales. Bear in mind that you might not get all of the information you need solely from a newspaper. You'll probably still have to contact a tax assessor or real estate agent for all of the necessary information., You'll have to organize a lot of information once you get a list of recent sales, and the most efficient way to do this is with a spreadsheet. Make a separate column for all the information about properties, including address, lot size, square footage, home style, year built, garage size, number of bedrooms and bathrooms, condition of the property, and selling price. Start by plugging in your own house's information, though of course leaving the selling price section blank for now. You'll then plug in other properties as you asses the list of recent sales you've acquired.If you've never made a spreadsheet before, read Make a Spreadsheet in Excel.
If you're unaware of the square footage of your own home, look at your real estate documents like closing papers. The square footage will be listed on the appraisal report of your house. You might also be able to find it in county records, but the appraisal report will be more accurate.
If you can't find your home's square footage, you can get a rough estimate by measuring the outside of the house. In feet, measure the length and width of the house and multiply these two numbers. Subtract the garage, enclosed porches, hallways, and closets. This will give you a larger number than the actual square footage. You could get a more accurate estimate by finding the area (length x width, just like with the outside) of each interior room. Then add these numbers together., When you've acquired the necessary information about sales, you have to start sorting the properties. Start by rejecting any sales that occurred over six months ago. The real estate market changes quickly, and sales more than six months old could be too outdated to be useful. Only use older sales if you can't find any data on a more recent sale., After finding the most up to date sales that have occurred in your area, you can start assessing the information to find comparable properties. Remember that you probably won't find properties exactly like yours. The aim is just to find properties that are most like yours out of the list of sales. Using the following criteria, find comparable properties to get the best idea of what your home will sell for. Then plug them into your spreadsheet to compare them to your own home.Lot size.
Square footage.
Home style.
Number of bedrooms and bathrooms. Also include whether these are full bathrooms, with a shower and toilet, or half, with just a toilet.
Age.
Location.
Types of amenities such as patios, decks, pool, fireplaces, landscaping, property condition, land value, and view.
Whether or not there is a finished basement.
 This is where a good deal of estimation comes in. Since it's unlikely that all of the homes you'll put on your list will be identical to yours, you'll have to make them fit yours and then adjust the sales price accordingly. Adjusting the market price is a difficult process. It would help if you consulted a Realtor or someone else who is experienced in the real estate market. She will know the value of certain specifications for properties.


For example, say you find a house that is exactly like yours that sold for $200,000, except it has two bathrooms and yours has one. Try to estimate what it would have sold for without that extra bathroom. A bathroom can add over $10,000 to the market price. You therefore estimate that the home would have sold for $190,000 if it had the exact specifications of your house.A Realtor will be able to provide the comparative market analysis and has experience in making the estimates and adjustments based on differences. Make sure that you consult an experienced Realtor. When comparing Realtors, look at how both how many sales they completed as well as the prices of the houses they sell (and whether they tend to sell above or below market price).
 Once you've adjusted the sales price of comparable homes, you should be able to make an educated guess on your home's market price. For example, if you chose 4 homes and they had sales prices of $240,000, $248,000, $255,000, and $257,000, you can make a good estimate that your house will sell somewhere between $240,000 and $257,000.When coming up with adjusted sales prices, only use the final selling price of a home. The asking price of a home doesn't tell you anything; sellers can ask anything they want, but it doesn't mean they'll get it. Use only prices that houses actually sold for. This will tell you the market value of the area you live in.
 After you find the expected market price of your home, you should use this number as your asking price. Do not try to add too much money to this number because an overpriced home will take longer to sell. If you plan on putting your home on the market, talk this over with your Realtor to find the ideal asking price.
 If adjusting the prices of comparable properties seems too imprecise, you could also figure out how much comparable homes sold for based on square footage. This will give you only a rough idea of the market value. You will need to do other methods to get a more exact figure.Find four nearby properties that are similar to yours. Add their square footage together and then separately add up the prices that they sold for.
Divide the total price that they sold for by the total square footage. This will give you a rough idea of how much money per square footage your house will go for.
Multiply this price by the number of square feet in your home. This will give you a very rough idea of what your house is worth.
 Another technique for estimating your property value is to add up all the costs necessary for completely rebuilding your home as it is. Find out how much it would take to construct every part of your home and property. This will probably entail talking to contractors and getting price quotes. When you've done so, you can add up the estimates to come to a final estimate of your home's market price.Beware that this method, while it is used, tends to be inaccurate. It only works for newly built homes or homes that have recently been completely renovated. The price comparison method is usually much more accurate because it pays attention to current trends in the housing market.
 Sometimes the amount of data you have to go through makes it very difficult to estimate your home's market value. In this case, you can hire a professional appraiser. He will do all the hard work and produce a good estimate of your home's market price.If you get the property appraised for an FHA loan, the appraisal will remain in effect for six months. This means that if you disagree with the value that the house is appraised for, you cannot get it changed. If you obtained a different appraisal originally, however, you may be able to challenge this appraisal by presenting the first one.

