 The ingredients on the list are ordered in terms of their weight. Following this logic, the top ingredients make up a higher percentage of the cat food than the ingredients at the bottom of the list. However, there is a caveat. To disguise undesirable ingredients, manufacturers will break them up into smaller components. This way they can place them at the bottom of the list, when in fact they make up a higher percentage of the product than the named meat.For example, a manufacturer may break up the ingredient corn meal into smaller components such as corn bran, corn gluten, and ground corn. If you combine the percentages of the smaller components together, then they may make up a higher percentage of the food than the meat and other ingredients listed at the top do.
 Become familiar with the definitions of the ingredients listed on cat food labels. This way you can get an idea of what you are feeding your cat. Here are some common terms and their definitions:Meat: the clean flesh of slaughtered mammals such as cattle, chicken, lamb, and turkey. Flesh can mean heart, tongue, diaphragm, esophagus, striated skeletal muscle, sinew, overlying fat and skin, and blood vessels and nerves found within these pieces of flesh.
Meat by-products: the clean parts of slaughtered mammals (not including meat) such as kidney, brains, liver, blood bone, spleen, brain, fatty tissue, intestines and stomach. Meat by-products do not include horns, teeth, hair, or hooves.
Poultry by-products: the clean parts of slaughtered poultry such as feet, heads, kidney, liver, spleen, stomach, lungs, heart, and intestines.
Fish meal: the clean, undecomposed ground tissue of fish cuttings or whole fish.
Corn gluten meal: the by-products of manufactured corn syrup and starch, as well as the dry residue after the elimination of starch, germ, and bran.
BHA: a fat preservative.
Tocopherols: a naturally occurring compound, such as vitamin E, used as a preservative.
 Look to the caloric content to determine the amount of calories your cat will receive from a single serving of food.The caloric content must be listed as kilocalories per kilogram, as well as in familiar household terms such as “per can” or “per cup.” The caloric content of products varies greatly. Make sure to examine the caloric content to determine how much to feed your cat., The feeding guidelines often recommend feeding more than your cat needs and should be interpreted as general estimates. How much you feed your cat depends on its environment, temperament, age, activity level, and other factors. The product should state something like “feed one cup per six pounds of body weight daily.”Food labeled “for all life stages” should have specific feeding directions for maintenance, growth, and gestation.
If you are unsure how many calories you should be feeding your cat, ask your veterinarian and they will calculate it for you.

