 The first step to stopping your dog’s barking is to find out what’s causing the barking. You may need to do some deducing, particularly if your dog tends to bark when you aren’t around.


To help you track the barking behavior, talk with your neighbors. Ask when they notice your dog barking and if there’s any pattern to the behavior. Demonstrating to your neighbors that you’re aware of and working to address your dog’s barking will also help them see you as an ally rather than a part of the problem.
Leave a tape or video recorder running while you’re away. Taking video may be preferable to only taking audio as it will allow you to investigate potential visual as well as aural triggers of your dog’s barking. Record your dog at home over the course of several days and review the recordings so you’ll be able to get a better representation of your dog’s behavior.
 After gathering evidence, begin looking for patterns and triggers. Common triggers include:Drawing your attention to a need. Your dog may be looking to get your attention because of an immediate need—to use the bathroom, hunger, thirst, etc.
Feeling bored or frustrated. A dog may be bored or frustrated because it has been confined to a particular area or has no outlets for its energy. Barking may be a way for the dog to release anxiety or create a distraction.
Feeling afraid. If a person, thing, or noise frightens your dog, it may be barking as a response. You can tell from your dog’s body language whether it’s responding out of fear—a fear posture will include the ears pulled back and the tail lowered.
Feeling territorial. If a dog perceives a person or other dog as intruding on its territory, it may bark as a way of asserting a claim to that territory. You can often tell when a dog is barking territorially because its ears will be forward and its tail held up high.
Feeling excited. Dogs may bark when they’re excited to see you as an expression of their eagerness.
Experiencing health issues. If a dog is dealing with health issues like deafness, pain, or mental distress, it may bark as a sign that something is amiss., If you have any reason to suspect that your dog may be barking because of a health concern, make an appointment to see your vet.


Keep in mind that older dogs may bark as a result of dementia. If that’s the case, your vet may be able to prescribe a medication to help your dog cope with the symptoms.