 Be on your absolute best behavior, especially for the first few weeks of school. Sit quietly. Don’t pass notes. Keep your phone silent and in your bag. Always raise your hand before speaking. Put your lab equipment away properly. Ignore the lovebirds whispering sweet nothings to each other behind you.Don’t test the rules to see what you can get away with. Let some other kid do that. Focus on impressing your teacher with your knowledge of and adherence to the classroom rules. This demonstrates maturity, respect, and diligence.
 Don’t let yourself think that others’ conversations or hijinks give you license to do the same. Keep your primary goal — learning — in mind. Brush aside distractions, and never become a classroom distraction yourself.


You will be a distraction, and you won’t be ready to learn, if you show up late to class. Do everything you can to make it to class on time, if not early. Unless you have a truly legitimate reason for being late, don’t try to make excuses. Be as discreet and quiet as possible as you take your place in class, and give an apologetic look to your teacher., How do you know when it is important to pay attention? It’s a trick question: it’s always important — if you want to make a good impression! Having to ask the teacher to repeat something can be embarrassing and indicates that you don’t care enough to give your best effort.If you’re having trouble keeping focused during class, ask to be moved to the front row. This is especially helpful if other students are distracting you, or if you have any kind of hearing or vision difficulties. Talk to your teacher about other possible solutions if necessary.
 Nobody wants to be the kid who tells the teacher about every little thing other students do wrong — this is the easy way to get labeled the ”teacher’s pet” or a “snitch” by your classmates. So, yes, use your judgment in deciding what to report and what to let slide. But, when you know something disruptive or otherwise wrong is going on, report it quietly to your teacher.


Don’t raise your hand and blurt out “Mrs. Magowan, Sam and Max are talking instead of paying attention.” Instead, wait until after class and discreetly voice your concerns about the distraction they are causing you and others. If, however, Sam and Max are playing around recklessly with the Bunsen burner, inform your teacher right away.

