 If your doctor suspects that your mole is cancerous, s/he will remove part of it and send it to a lab for testing. A biopsy is necessary to diagnose melanoma.Biopsies can be done quickly and easily in your doctor’s office.
The biopsy will reveal whether a mole is cancerous or not. It may also tell your doctor what stage of cancer your mole is.
In some cases, you may need a surgery called a sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB). This will help your doctor determine what stage of cancer the melanoma is at.
 If caught early on before it has spread, melanoma can be eliminated entirely via the removal of the cancerous mole. This process, called excision, often requires only local anesthetic (during which the affected area is numbed and the patient stays awake), though especially large or deep melanomas may require general anesthesia (during which the patient is put to sleep).A special type of excision procedure called Mohs Micrographic Surgery has become recognized as very effective in treating two of the most common types of skin cancer, Basal Cell Carcinoma and Squamous Cell Carcinoma, as well as melanoma.In a Mohs Surgery, the doctor progressively removes small sections of effective tissue and examines these under a microscope until s/he finds that the sections no longer contain cancer cells.Excision surgeries, if minor, may only require stitches, while larger excisions may require a skin graft.You may need someone to help you care for the wound after surgery if you have a large surgery site. Talk with your doctor before surgery about what to expect. Follow the doctor’s instructions and keep any follow-up appointments.
 If the cancer spreads beyond the initial mole and into the lymph nodes or other organs, traditional cancer treatments may become necessary. Chemotherapy, radiation, and a variety of other treatments are available for treating skin cancer.Some of these options offer a chance to halt the disease, while others are palliative - meant to improve and/or lengthen the patient's life in incurable cases.
Talk to your doctor to determine your options if a simple excision surgery is insufficient for treating your melanoma.
 Excessive exposure to ultraviolet light (usually in the form of sunlight, but also from tanning beds, etc.) is a major contributor to the development of melanoma.To reduce your risk of developing the types of moles which can progress into melanoma, avoid activities that require staying in direct sunlight for long periods of time, like tanning, outdoor swimming, and so on.


If you do spend time in the sun, use plenty of high-SPF sunscreen of at least SPF 30.
This advice is especially important for pale-skinned individuals, as they are naturally more susceptible to skin damage from sun exposure.
 Having melanoma makes you 5 times more likely to have another, so it’s important to have regular skin checks.Make follow-up appointments with your doctor and consult with your physician about what other preventive measures you may need.You should also have regular skin checks if you or your family have a history of skin cancer.

