 Some people prefer writing with pen and paper, such as in a notebook. Some prefer typing into a word processor such as a computer, iPad or laptop. Many people like to combine both approaches, as this allows for different modes of thinking, working, sitting, relaxing, and so forth. Try each and then combine them to find your favorite approach.


You could even try typing on an old typewrite if you'd like to conjure the ghosts of old. Old typewriters can be found through online trade and auction sites, although you'll also need a supply of typing ribbon/ink, so check that before buying.;
, If you're using notebooks, decorating them can help to keep you inspired. This can be as simple as sticking a favorite logo or sticker on the front or as elaborate as adding scrapbook cut-outs, fabric collage or decoupage. Totally up to you, as long as it as a nice tactile feel and interesting look to entice you to pick it up and use it., This is the first good habit to get into. Write down the things you think you'd like to write about as you come across them. While many of these ideas may amount to nothing, some may turn into your next poem, article, great American novel, or whatever. If you don't note down these ideas as they occur to you, you'll be likely to forget them.

Carry a notebook and pen or have a note-taking app on your smartphone. Have these with you wherever you are, to record those ideas as they come to you.
 These are another source of inspiration for spurring on writing. For example, perhaps you have seen an amazing photo of a place taken by a friend and uploaded to Facebook or Instagram. The photo captivates you and carries you away to another time and land, and words about this experience begin to form in your mind. That's a great form of inspiration!


Keep a Pinterest or similar account filled with your favorite images. Keep the board secret if you don't want to share your writing inspiration.
 Take note of what inspires other people, what they like to read and learn about and what's current both now and in the past. All of these tidbits can feed into inspiring your writing., These are all practice prompts. Once you have chosen the best ideas from these, you will probably feel ready to start the writing process.
 There is a vast array of writing activities possible, including book summaries, book critiques, blog posts, short stories, poems, novels, non-fiction, journal entries, commentaries, essays, website reviews, and so on. You might like to try a few different ones to find which niche you're most comfortable in. As well, since writing novels or non-fiction can take a long time, mixing in some other styles of writing can help to keep you interested and current.
 Just as with any hobby, you'll need to set aside time to indulge in it. Write regularly so that you stay in the swing of it. The longer the breaks are, the less likely it is that you'll feel like returning to a piece of work. Small breaks are good, but don't stretch them out for too long.

Set aside slots during your week just for writing. Keep these times as much as possible, seeing them as important for your hobby.
 It's entirely up to you whether you mind or don't mind people around you when you write. If you wish to hole yourself up in the attic or gazebo, that's fine. So is sitting in a café and penning your piece amid the hubbub of others chatting away. Choose whatever works best for you, noting that this may change over time or even back and forth over days and weeks.

