 To build a solid foundation for long-lasting love look for someone that adds balance to your life.

Don't rely too much on the old adage "opposites attract." Relationships between opposites can sometimes devolve into dysfunctional relationships.For example, if you're the quiet type don't assume you need a partner who is loud. You may never get the chance to speak-up. Rather, search for someone who is relatively like-minded. This way you can both grow together.;
, Try to find someone that you can share your deeper beliefs with. If you are religious and your partner is an atheist, you are likely to face some problems down the road.

You are likely to be more compatible with someone who has the same basic moral values as you.Think about what you want out of your relationship. Do you want to start a family? Where do you want to live? If you want to travel, and you find yourself attracted to someone who wants to settle down, take a step back. While the two of you may get along, you may not be able to build a life together.Sharing priorities in life is a good indicator of being able to share a life together., Odds are there isn't just one person in the world for each of us. Keep an open mind and don't hold out for the "perfect" mate.

It may actually be damaging to think of finding your "one" soulmate. There is no such thing as a perfect relationship. There is bound to be conflict. Don't take conflict as a sign that you haven't met "the one."In searching for "the one" we often look for someone who "completes" us. Don't expect to find a partner that will satisfy all of your needs. Rather, look for a partner that will encourage you to grow and try new things., Attraction is a good thing in a relationship, but being friends is what will enable you to sustain it.

Find someone whose company you enjoy. You should look forward to spending time with that person. You may find someone attractive, but if you don't like spending time with them, the relationship may not last long.You and your partner should be able to engage in activities that will bring you together. If you both like music, go to concerts. If you both like being outdoors, go camping., In your search for love, don't settle for someone that won't make you happy. Don't think you can change them or make them better. You can't change people.

If you're not happy with someone, it's likely they aren't entirely happy with you. Don't lead them on. Keep looking.Consider your past relationships and any patterns you may have. Think about what worked and didn't work. Try not to limit yourself to the type of people you have dated in the past., The more time you spend with someone the better you get to know them. If you think you've found your soulmate, keep dating. See how that person grows and how they influence you to grow.

It is better to take your time when dealing with a potential life partner. Your relationship will be stronger and better because of it.Don't limit your choices with meaningless restrictions. Try not to pick a partner based on the type of job they have, or their age. While it's okay to have preferences, be open minded in your search for love., The language you use with your partner is important. Open, honest communication is key. Make sure you are both able to have a balanced conversation where each person feels listened to.

When you talk to your partner it should be kind and loving. Even in times of stress or conflict, the language between potential soulmates is calm. Each of you understands and supports the other., You may feel as if you've known your partner for years even if you've only just started dating. If you feel drawn to a person and you want to make them a priority in your life, don't fight it

It's important to be enthusiastic about your partner. If they respond with the same enthusiasm, you're on the right track., Part of being in a relationship is watching the other person grow. Encourage your partner to succeed in their new endeavors.

Be enthusiastic about their choices to take up a new hobby, or make a career change. By being supportive of these changes you can boost the relationship as well as your partner's self-esteem., It's important to foster a safe place for sharing in a healthy relationship. You should be able to share intimate details with one another without fear of judgement. By opening up to a responsive partner you can increase the intimacy in your relationship.

You might struggle at first to share facts about yourself that make you feel vulnerable. But, if you want to spend the rest of your life with a person, it's important to forge a deep connection with them.Make sure your partner is actively listening when you open up, and do the same when they share things with you., You and your partner will encounter difficult times. It's part of life. How you handle these situations is the test of whether you two are soulmates.

Loyalty is key. You need to know that your partner will be by your side even in the worst of times., Your soulmate will not only stick by your side, but will actively support you in hard times. They will help be encouraging and aware of your vulnerabilities.

Be ready to compromise with your partner. Having a soulmate doesn't mean you have found someone exactly like you. In the case of conflict, you may both tackle problems differently. The goal then, is to do it together and be supportive of one another., In the event that you or your partner have hurt one another, learn to forgive. Rather than holding the incident over your partner's head, forgive them and move past it.

If your partner continues to hurt you, and you wish to remain in the relationship and work things out, hold them accountable for their actions. Working through your problems can make for a stronger, more satisfying relationship.Admit when you're wrong. In the event that you are the one that makes a mistake, own up to it. Any strong relationship requires honesty to thrive. If you and your partner can work things out, you have the basis of a solid bond., While a relationship can't be built on sex and attraction, it is still an important component. Sexual interest and romance are signs of a healthy long-term relationship.

A soulmate will look past the imperfections of his or her mate. They will always see their partners as beautiful., Finding your soulmate is not about finding the perfect person. It is about finding someone you can work with. Ultimately, it is up to you to build your relationship with your soulmate. You both will have to put in time and effort to make it last.

A long-term relationship is something you choose to be in. You are not obligated to be with your partner, you should want to be with them. You must have a positive view of your relationship.