 The first few weeks of care are especially important. Take care when weeding, as amaranth seedlings resemble some common weeds. Planting in rows, or carefully remembering specific plant location can help prevent you from accidentally pulling them up. Once the plant is about a foot tall (30 cm), it will begin to grow quickly, and will shade out any weeds in its immediate vicinity., Once the plant develops a terminal bud (located at the end of the plant’s main stem), cut it off to encourage branching. This will also encourage more young, tender shoots, which are ideal for use as salad greens., You'll start to see flowers around June if you planted in early spring. Flowers will continue to bloom fully from July until the first frost. You can cut off clusters of flowers to dry them and hang them as decor, though do not do so if you also wish to harvest seeds from the same branch., The leaves of many amaranth varieties are healthy and hearty lettuce options. Younger greens are best for fresh salads, while older greens are preferable if you want to cook with them., Seeds are usually ripe three months from planting. The best way to determine whether they are ready to harvest is by shaking or rubbing flower heads between your fingers. If the seeds are ready, they will fall from the flowers readily.If you see numerous birds hanging around your amaranth plants, this likely indicates that seeds are ready to harvest.
You can harvest seeds even after cold weather returns. In fact, seeds are easiest to harvest a few days after a hard frost, right at the end of the growing season.
 Bend individual plants into a five-gallon bucket or wheelbarrow and rub the seed heads between your palms. While this may take a good amount of care, it will minimize the amount of other debris that falls from the plants, and reduce your need to sort through the seed later on. This will only gather the especially dry seeds, allowing a secondary harvest a week or so later.Try rubbing flower heads onto a screen balanced on top of your collection bin. This will allow you to blow away finer debris before dumping your seeds in whatever receptacle you’re using.
Dry seeds further by leaving them in the sun or a constant source of low heat. Store dry seeds in an airtight container somewhere cool and dry.

