 Before your surgery, you will probably be required to meet with a nutritionist. This nutritionist will help you with a few important things. The nutritionist will teach you how to modify your diet so your surgery can be successful due to your lifestyle changes.Your nutritionist will also help you make diet changes before the surgery that leads to pre-op weight loss.
Your nutritionist will let you know any restrictions or instructions you should follow just before the surgery.
 In the months leading to your surgery, you will work with a nutritionist to change the way you eat and the way you view food. One main concern is the size of your stomach post-op. Your stomach will be much smaller, so you will be unable to eat as much food as before.Since your stomach is smaller after the surgery, you will eat less. This means you will have to fill your stomach with nutritious food instead of junk food.
Only eating junk food after your surgery can lead to malnutrition, prevent weight loss, and other uncomfortable side effects or conditions.
Before your surgery, retrain your palate to eat healthy, nutritious foods that will nourish your body, keep you full, and keep you healthy.
 Pre-op diet plans help you begin developing eating habits you will continue after the surgery. One important thing to start doing is to eat three portion-controlled meals each day, including breakfast.You can have one to two small snacks each day.
Try to eliminate any eating four hours before bedtime.
 Patients who prepare for bariatric surgery are encouraged to eat more protein. A diet high in protein helps aid and boost weight loss.Your doctor or nutritionist will advise you on how many calories you should eat a day, along with the proper amount of protein to include each day.


Make sure you are choosing healthy sources of protein. A diet full of fatty meats, bacon, and steak is not going to help you.
Eat lean red meat, such as 85/15 or 93/7 ground beef. Choose skinless chicken breast and fish. Eggs contain a lot of protein.
Nuts are a great source of protein, as are beans.
Low-fat dairy contains protein. Try Greek yogurt and low-fat cheese.
In conjunction with this high protein diet, you should eat significantly less carbs, saturated fat, and refined sugars.Most pre-op diets suggest 800 to 1200 calories per day with 70 to 120 grams of protein each day., Your psychologist, nutritionist, or dietician may require you to track your daily eating habits. Doing this can help in multiple ways. Tracking your food may help you discover problem foods or problems times of the day.Tracking your food also helps you learn how to eat with your new lifestyle changes. If you are on a calorie-controlled diet, you can keep count of the calories you eat a day. If you need a certain amount of protein, you can also tally your daily grams.
Also track your water. You will be encouraged to drink more water and limit other beverages, especially sugary beverages.
 Part of the process that goes along with bariatric surgery is learning how to eat. This includes eating with purpose. Start eating slowly, making sure to chew each bite and taste the food.You can start paying attention to the way your body feels when you eat. This includes learning to know when you are full, or being able to recognize foods that do not agree with you.
You will start learning how to stop mindlessly eating or emotional eating. For example, you should stop eating in front of the TV or while working. You should also not turn to food when you are tired or stressed.

