 A small lump is normal when a cat receives an injection. However, if it grows bigger over time, that is cause for concern. Take your cat to the vet if you notice the lump is getting larger, especially if it continues to grow 1 month after the injection.The lump will likely be fairly hard and not move around that easily.Any lump over 2 centimeters in size needs to be seen by a veterinarian.;
, Any lumps from an injection site should go down after three weeks to a month. If you notice the lump on your cat is still there after about three weeks, it's important to talk to the vet about the lump., If your cat develops swelling at the vaccination area, that is normal. Similarly, some pain is also normal. You may also notice decreased energy, and your cat may not have much of an appetite.Serious symptoms that are unrelated to sarcoma include stomach problems such as vomiting and diarrhea, as well as allergic reactions such as bumpy, itchy skin and swelling around your cat's face. Your cat may also have difficulty breathing or even faint. These symptoms may not be related to sarcoma, but they can be very serious. Contact your vet if you notice these symptoms after a vaccination.
 A needle aspiration is likely the first diagnostic tool (aside from physical examination) that the vet will try. The vet will use a small needle to try to get a sample of the tumor cells so that they can be tested. However, sometimes the cells are difficult to pull out, so the vet will need to try another type of diagnostic tool., When the cells are too difficult to pull out with a needle, your vet may need to perform a surgical biopsy to test cells from the mass.In that case, the vet will need to cut out a piece of the actual tumor for testing., Most of the time, your vet will take an x-ray of your cat's chest. The purpose of this test is to determine if the tumor has spread to your cat's chest, which is more serious than if it hasn't spread that far yet.Your vet will also probably do things like take blood for tests.
 In many cases, the vet will run a CT scan once they have a positive diagnosis of sarcoma. The scan will help the vet determine how far the mass has spread, which is needed when the vet performs surgery., Surgery is usually the primary treatment of injection-site sarcoma. Because this type of tumor tends to spread outwards with small, root-like projections, the vet will likely need to take a wide area."Clean margins" are preferred, meaning the tumor doesn't reach all the way to the surgery's edge. However, this tumor can regrow even if the edges are clean.
If the site is on a cat's limb, it's likely that the vet will take the limb. While that seems extreme, it gives the cat a better chance of surviving. Most veterinarians now give vaccines in the limbs, further away from the body, for this reason.
 When you bring your cat home, try to keep it quiet by placing it in a quiet area. Monitor your cat to make sure it's using the bathroom, and only give food and water in small amounts until your cat is acting fairly normally again. Also, make sure you're giving any medications as prescribed by the vet.If your vet advises you keep your cat in a crate, make sure you follow that advice.
 Chemotherapy is generally used if the sarcoma is too large to remove easily. Chemotherapy may be used to try to decrease the size of the tumor before the vet performs surgery on the cat.Chemotherapy done after surgery can help keep the cancer from spreading.
Often, the vet will give you chemotherapy tablets to give at home. If they do, you need to take precautions. Handle the tablets with gloves and don't break them in half. Also, wear gloves when cleaning the litter box, and wash any bowls and bedding separately.
Like humans, chemotherapy can cause side effects in your cat. You may notice hair loss and stomach problems, for instance., In some cases, your cat may need radiation therapy. Often, radiation therapy is used if a follow-up scan shows that not all of the mass was removed and the vet cannot take more tissue due to where the injection site is located.However, some vets may recommend this treatment no matter what, as it is difficult to tell if the whole mass was removed., As the main way to treat this problem is surgery (followed by radiation and chemotherapy), treatment can be expensive. Also, this disease does have a high chance of returning. Talk to to your vet about the best way forward. As much as you love your animal, it may not be worth the pain of surgery to remove the tumor if it's in a place that has a high chance of regrowth., If the vet decides treatment won't help or you decide the risks outweigh the benefits, you'll need to offer palliative care for your cat. Pain medications, anti-nausea drugs, and antibiotics may all help your cat rest easier. Ask your vet what medications are best to give your cat.