 Take a book outside and read in the shade. Reading is not only an enjoyable break from reality, but it will also help to keep your brain sharp when school resumes.


If you having summer reading assignments, you can set aside 20 minutes each day to read the book. This way you won't have to cram it during the last few days of summer.
If you are looking for a book but don't want to spend money, visit your local library. You can check out books, movies and music at no cost.
 School starts early in the morning for most students. Many late nights of studying combined with early mornings can wear you down. Take advantage of the extra free time you have to catch up on sleep so you can enjoy the rest of your holiday. You will have more fun when you are well-rested and energized.
 Traveling is a common summer activity. It's great to expand your horizons and see the world. Make the most of your trip by starting a blog and writing about your journeys. A good travel blog will bring your readers with you, so share it with your friends so they can be a part of your adventures, even if they aren't there. The blog will give you something to remember your holiday down the road, and it will help build your writing skills at the same time.If writing isn't your thing, consider creating a photo blog. You can document your journey through pictures.
 Having a barbecue or dinner together offers a good opportunity to catch up with friends and family. If you can’t cook, just make some sandwiches and have a picnic. Show the ones you care about that you value the chance to spend your free time with them.


If you want to polish your cooking skills, you can look into signing up for some cooking classes. Most of them don't cost too much, and sometimes they are even free if they are offered at a local community center.
 Fishing is fun, relaxing and a great way to spend time with friends or family. The best time to fish in at dawn or dusk, so this is a great activity you can do when you're bored, but it's too early or late to do other activities.
 You probably have at least one show you enjoy, but had a hard time keeping up with during the school year. Now is your chance to catch up. If you missed a season on television during the spring or last fall, you can usually catch up with it on streaming television providers by the time summer comes around. You can invite a friend or two over and make a sleepover party out of it.

