 Each state’s Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) will set rules for how to transfer a vehicle. You should look for your state’s website or stop into the nearest office.


To find your state’s DMV website, search for “your state” and “motor vehicles” or “DMV” in an Internet search engine.
Your state’s website should tell you how to go about transferring title to a vehicle.
 You need to remove the license plates from the vehicle. In many states, you can’t transfer the plates with the car. However, you can keep the plates for your new car.


If you are not transferring your plates to your new car, then you should take them to the DMV and surrender them., You should get all documents lined up to make the transfer as painless as possible. For example, your state might require the following:the certificate of title (usually called the “pink slip”)
signatures of the seller and any lienholders
signatures of the buyers on the certificate of title
the number of miles on the odometer
other certificates as required by your state
transfer fee

, If you took out a loan to purchase the car, then the lender has a lien on your vehicle. You will need permission of any lienholder before you can transfer the car.


You should call the lienholder about the best way to proceed.For example, you can close the sale at the bank or credit union which holds the lien on the car. Once you receive payment, you can immediately pay off the lien. Then you will sign over title to the vehicle.
 The buyer needs to have an acceptable bill of sale which shows that the vehicle has been sold to him or her. Even if you received the vehicle as a gift, you generally need a bill of sale. Make sure the bill of sale includes the following:the vehicle’s year and make
the vehicle identification number (VIN)
the date of the sale
the purchase price (if a gift, then $0)
the names and signatures for both the buyer and the seller

, You might have lost the certificate of title. If so, you will need to fill out an application to get a duplicate. Your state’s DMV should tell you the process. Generally, you will need to provide the DMV with the following information:your name and address
your license number and state
the name and address of any lienholder
the vehicle’s year and make
vehicle license plate number
the VIN
your signature

, The seller should sign the transfer section on the certificate of title.This section can usually be found on the front of the certificate of title.The seller may also need to complete the odometer disclosure statement. If your vehicle is 10 years or older, you will have to fill out the “odometer disclosure” on the back of the certificate of title., Deliver physical possession of the vehicle to the buyer. At the same time, you can hand over the certificate of title and a copy of the bill of sale.


Keep a copy of the bill of sale for your own records. This will serve as proof that you sold the vehicle.
 The buyer should gather the paperwork and then go to the DMV and register the vehicle. In some states, you will face a penalty if you wait too long to register.


For example, New Jersey charges $25 if you wait longer than 10 working days from the day of the sale.Depending on your state, you will have to pay various fees and taxes. For example, you will probably have to pay a title transfer fee.In 45 states, you will also need to pay a sales tax. Both state governments and local governments can tax you. The tax will generally be calculated based on the total purchase price.