 After setup is complete, launch TeamSpeak for the first time. Before you connect to a server, you will need to configure TeamSpeak to get the optimal quality from your headphones and speakers.
 If you haven't started TeamSpeak before, the Setup Wizard will begin when you start the program for the first time. If TeamSpeak has been used before, you can start the Setup Wizard by clicking Settings → Setup Wizard.
 This will be the name displayed to other users and the admins of the TeamSpeak server you connect to. Your nickname is not a username, and has no impact on user accounts or security. Your nickname is simply your display name. Enter the name and click Next > to continue.


You should make your nickname the same or similar to your in-game username. This will help your teammates recognize you and makes communication easier for everyone on the team.
 There are two different ways to activate your microphone so that you can talk: Voice Activation Detection (VAD) and Push-to-Talk (PTT). VAD automatically activates your microphone when it detects sound. PTT requires you to set a hotkey which will activate the microphone while it is being held down.


Most TeamSpeak servers prefer that people use PTT to prevent accidental broadcast of background noise. Using PTT will result in a better experience for both you and your teammates, though it requires remembering to push a button.
 When you select PTT, click on the "No Hotkey Assigned" field. The next key or button your press will become your PTT button. You can use any key on your keyboard or any button on your mouse. Make sure that the key doesn't conflict with a key you use during the game.
 If you select VAD, you will need to set the sensitivity of your microphone. This creates a threshold that volume will have to surpass before the microphone starts broadcasting. Click the Begin Test button to begin the calibration process. Move the slider as you talk to set the level that the microphone will activate.
 These keys will allow you to mute either your microphone or speakers on command. Microphone mute is especially useful if you are using VAD, as you can toggle your microphone off if your room is too loud.


Click each button and then press the desired key combination that you want to assign to the function. Click Next > when you are satisfied with your choices.
 TeamSpeak will say when users join or leave the channel, as well as notify you when you have been "poked". You can choose between a male or female voice for the notifications. You can hear the example for each notification by pressing the Play button.
 On this page, you have the option of adding a few features to your TeamSpeak program. The Overlay allows you to access the TeamSpeak interface on top of your current program, which can allow you to see who is speaking. This is particularly useful in large groups. Volume Control will automatically lower the volume of your game while a teammate is speaking, which can be useful for loud games or music players.


The Overlay requires a few extra resources, and may not be a viable option if you are already struggling to run the game.
 On the final page of the Setup Wizard, you will have the option to open the public server list, the bookmarks manager, and rent your own server. At this point, setup is complete and you're ready to connect to a TeamSpeak server. See the next section for connecting to your team's server, or the final section for running your own server.

