 Meditating can be very beneficial for your brain. Practicing meditation can help you more effortlessly be mindful, as it will become your brain's default setting. Learn about meditation, and find a training method that is right for you.Meditation is most effective when you formally train your mind how to practice it. Try finding a book or audio book that will guide you through a series of meditations. You can also take guided meditation courses offered by professionals.
To get started, find a calm, quiet space to meditate. Close your eyes, and sit comfortably. Choose a mantra to focus on (a mantra is a word or sound you repeat, either out loud or inwardly). Popular choices are "ohm" and "love"., Your romantic relationship affects all aspects of your life. Research shows that couples who are more mindful are happier and more physically healthy. Ask your partner to join you in trying to become more mindful.Try meditating with your partner. The simple act of engaging in mindfulness at the same time and the same place can help you bond. Another way to increase your mindfulness is to practice your communication skills with your partner. Focus on really hearing one another.
 Truly hearing what someone else is saying is one of the best ways to be mindful. Often when you are conversing with someone else, your inner-voice is active while they are talking. Sometimes you are judging their words, or maybe half thinking about something else. Mindfulness is truly paying attention when someone else is talking.If possible, have important conversations face to face. Make eye contact. This will help you bond with the person you are listening to, and help you absorb what they are saying.
 Being aware of your physical health is an important part of being more mindful. Pay attention to your body, and be aware of energy levels, hunger pangs, and aches and pains. Tuning in to signals from your body will help with your overall well-being.Practice mindful eating by consciously being aware of the foods you choose to eat. You should think not only about your likes and dislikes, but also consider nutritional value. Additionally, be aware of the act of eating and note how your senses (sights, smells, taste) respond to different foods.

