 Put together an aerobic exercise routine that will work in conjunction with your diet to cut body fat. Together, aerobic exercise and diet have been shown to be one of the best combinations to reduce body fat.


In general, it's recommended to include at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week — that's just 20 minutes every day.To speed the reduction of body fat, it's suggested to work out for longer — up to 60 minutes daily.Include a wide variety of aerobic exercises like: walking/jogging, running, biking, dancing, swimming, martial arts or boxing and using the elliptical. Choose activities you enjoy, as this will make you more likely to stick with it.
If you're just starting out with exercise, start by building upon your current activity regimen.
Whether you opt for low impact exercises such as swimming or walking, or a more intense routine like kickboxing or weight training, aim to work out for at least 30 minutes.
 Some studies have shown that more vigorous intensity exercises that are done in intervals decrease body fat more efficiently than moderate-intensity exercise.Interval training combines both very high- and moderate-intensity exercise. These workouts are usually done for shorter periods of time. An example of interval training is: 1 minute of sprinting followed by 3 minutes of jogging. This cycle would be repeated several times, for about 20 minutes total (not including your warm up and cool down).
Interval training is great for body fat reduction as it has been shown to burn more calories from fat and keeps your metabolism elevated up to 24 hours after you've completed the workout., Strength training does not burn high levels of fat when you're performing the exercises; however, over time, strength training can help you build lean muscle mass which can help you increase your metabolism and your body's ability to burn calories.It's recommended to include strength training two to three days a week for at least 30 minutes.It's important to work all large muscle groups throughout the week.
Always include at least two days of rest and recovery between strength training routines. Your body and muscles need time for adequate recovery, otherwise performance may suffer over time., In addition to cardio and strength training, you can increase your daily lifestyle activity. Studies have shown that, in general, people who are more active tend to be healthier.Think about how much you move or how many steps you take in a day. How can you increase that?
A few ways to increase movement in your day include: do leg lifts while you sit at your desk or stand or do knee raises during commercial breaks.
Add more steps to your day by: taking a walk break during lunch, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, park farther away from your destination, and walk to places that are close to you (like the grocery store or pharmacy).

