 If you are applying for multiple grants, it is okay to have a general business plan that you will submit to each funding organization. However, before you submit each application, you want to make sure to include some information that is specific to that grant. For example, you can mention the goals of the funding organization.In your executive summary, you can discuss some specific ways that your business can help the funding organization meet its goals. Add a few different sentences about this for each application you submit.
For example, you could say, "Our company, ABC Communications, will work towards meeting some of the same goals as XYZ Grant Funding. For instance, both organizations value adding jobs to the community."
You could also write something such as, "XYZ Grant Funding has a long history of helping organizations succeed in making agricultural innovations. At ABC Farms, we will continue to seek innovations in that field."
You can also adjust the other components of your application to fit the criteria for each grant.
Try to avoid phrases such as "To whom it may concern". Instead, do some research and find out the name of the person who will likely be reading your grant and address it to her.
 Each grant that you apply for will have its own specific list of requirements. However, there are several documents that you will need to include in most grant applications. It is a good idea to keep several copies of these handy, as well as easily accessible electronic versions.Most grants will require you to submit financial information. This could include proof of income, past tax returns, and other financial documents, such as bank statements.
If your business is already functioning, you may need to submit a business credit report. This is similar to a personal credit report, and will help demonstrate the credit of your business.
You may also need to submit legal documents. Be prepared to send copies of any commercial leases or any necessary business permits.
 Before you submit your application, it is important to make sure that your materials all look professional. Spend some time working on the layout of your business plan. Ensure that every component is clearly labeled and attractively presented.Use titles and subtitles to make sure that the reader can easily find all of the information included in your application. Choose a font that is easy to read.
Look over your graphs and tables. Make sure that they are easy to read and clearly convey the information that you are presenting.
 Before you submit your application, review the guidelines again. If you do not submit your application properly, it could be disqualified. Make a checklist of all requirements and ensure that you have met them.Adhere to delivery guidelines. Many grants today require electronic submission, so make sure that you send the materials as requested.
If you have questions about the guidelines, make sure to ask. It is better to clarify than to submit something incorrectly.
 Remember that most grants require an extensive application process. While you are completing your application, keep working on other aspects of your business. Even if you are successful at securing the grant, it might take a while for the funds to be delivered.Grants are not guaranteed, so continue to search for alternative revenue sources while you are working on applications.

