 Auction drafting is nothing like a standard one-pick-per-round arrangement, and your strategy must be completely different as well. Players in an auction draft aren’t selected, they’re bid on, and knowing the projected approximate value of as many players as possible is the best way to track whether you’re getting enough value for your fantasy dollar. Most reputable fantasy sites provide auction value information for free. Study the values and identify potential busts or bargains.
 While standard drafts generally center around selecting the best player available when it’s your turn to pick, auction drafts are more complex due to the ability to land whichever player you want—if you’re willing to spend the fantasy dough. Here are some of the more popular auction strategies, each with its own built-in benefits and drawbacks (note that standard auction budgets are $260 for a 23-man roster):


The balanced team follows a standard formula in which team owners limit spending big on any one player, while devoting roughly 70 percent of the budget toward hitting and 30 percent toward pitching. It isn’t the most glamorous system, but it does ensure that the team owner ends up with a solid collection of players who accumulate stats in every category.
The “stars and scrubs” team sees the team owner shell out big for several established major-leaguers then spend the remainder of his budget on relative unknowns. While this enables the drafter to load his team with players he or she can almost certainly rely on, it leaves the rest of the roster lamentably thin—particularly if the lower-end players do not pan out.
The “LIMA” team, which stands for “Low Income Mound Aces,” is a strategy that funnels little money toward a team owner’s pitching staff. For a standard auction league, this means an owner is likely spending no more than $3 on any one pitcher. The upside here is obvious: having roughly $235 to spend on 14 hitters almost guarantees a phenomenal lineup with a great chance at securing top points in all offensive categories. But with such a thin stable of hurlers, the owner needs to get lucky—or make some slick moves or pickups—in order to not finish near the bottom on the pitching side.
These strategies are only guidelines - it is your responsibility to come up with a plan you feel gives you the best chance to win.
 If you’re interested in a player, make sure you monitor the bidding. More aggressive players will try to bid up a player they want by a large margin ($5 or more at once) in order to show players they’re serious. You can try to bid up a player you don’t want in order to take some money out of a rival owner’s budget, but you run the risk of getting stuck with that player. When it’s your turn to nominate a player, a good tactic is to toss someone you don’t want, but who will likely draw a lot of bids. That can take a good chunk of money out of play.
 One of the biggest mistakes a novice auction player commits is leaving money in his budget. Try not to be left with any money at the end because you can’t use it for anything once the draft is over. If you see that you’re a little richer than you expected to be as the draft winds down, don’t be afraid to spend an extra dollar or two on a player you want. It’s better to be poor than rich at the end of an auction draft.

