 Ombre is the transition of different colors or shades. If you want to give your tree an ombre look, you will need to hang your ornaments in rows, based on shade or color. For example, if you have dark blue, light blue, and silver ornaments, put them into three separate groups. Don't worry about the shape or material: focus on the color and shade alone.;
, If you are using different shades of the same color, plan on arranging the ornaments from darkest to lightest. If you are planning on using different colors, such as red, gold, and green, use the color with the most ornaments on the bottom of the tree, and the color with the fewest ornaments on the top.
 White Christmas lights are always a great start, regardless of the color scheme you are using. You can always take things a step further, however, by going with colored Christmas lights. Be sure to match the color of the cable to the color of your tree, however. For example, if you have a white tree, you should get Christmas lights with a white cable.If you are going with a standard ombre, consider getting lights that match the main color. For example, if you are doing dark-to-light pink ombre, get pink lights.
If you have a multicolor scheme going on, consider a strand of multi-colored lights. Take out the bulbs, then rearrange them on the string, grouping the like colors together.
If you bought a fake Christmas tree, it may already have lights attached. You can remove the clips/tags, pull the lights off, and replace them with your own.
Consider mixing and matching different colors. There is nothing wrong with having both white and colored lights., Start at the base of the tree and work your way up in a spiral. Wrap the cable around the main branches, from trunk to tip and back to trunk.Moving back-and-forth along the branches will help give your tree more depth.
 Leave about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) of space between each row/round.If you have multiple colors, you can hang the garlands in rows based on color. You can also choose one color of garland, and use it throughout your tree. This can help tie all of the different colors/shades together.


Consider having both simple and fancy garlands. This will add variety to your tree and keep it from looking too busy.Drape delicate, beaded garlands from branch to branch. Wrap fluffier, tinsel garlands loosely around the tree in a spiral., Hang all of the ornaments from your first color group on the bottommost branches. Hang the ornaments from the next color right above them. Work your way up in rows until you reach the top of the tree. Be sure to hang some ornaments close to the trunk. This will give your tree more depth.If you are doing a standard ombre, start with the darkest color and work your way up to the lightest.
If you are doing a multicolor ombre, use the color with the most ornaments on the bottom of the tree. Use the color with the fewest ornaments on the top of the tree.
 Clear ornaments make great fillers for any color scheme. Wooden ornaments are great if you have a lot of silver, gold, copper, or bronze in your tree. You can also use some neutral colors, such as white.Do not get too carried away, however! You want the main color for each section to shine through!


Other ideas for fillers include icicles, tinsel, snowflakes, and floral picks.
 You can use a tree topper that matches one of the colors on the lower part of your tree. You can also match the topper to the last color on the top of your tree. Alternatively, you can skip the tree topper altogether; ombre is a pretty fancy look for a tree to begin with.
 You can match the tree skirt to the first/bottom color on your tree. You can also choose a darker shade. Alternatively, you can go with white, which will look like snow and help the ombre really stand out. Avoid using am ombre tree skirt, or you will have too much ombre!

