 Visit the pageant’s website and get a copy of the guidelines and judging criteria. Review what is and isn’t allowed for the pageant you’re entering. You should know this before planning outfits and styling.For example, some pageants don’t allow flippers or wigs, whereas some expect them.
Find out how many different performances each child will make so that you know how many outfits and routines to plan for.;
, Use a glitz pageant photographer. Prepare your child’s outfit, hair and makeup before taking the photos. These photographers edit and enhance headshots with special software in keeping with glitz pageant expectations.


Read reviews online to find a good photographer. Ask to see examples of their work before deciding on the right photographer for you.
Send the headshots to the pageant organizers as per the rules of the pageant.
 Look for a pageant coach who is familiar with child glitz pageantry. Expect to pay about $100 an hour for lessons from an experienced coach. Ask the coach for advice on a stage walk, cute poses, and all-around styling.You may also want to enroll your child in specific talent classes, such as voice or dance lessons.
 Use your creativity to come up with props, and make sure they are allowed at the pageant. You may want to incorporate backdrop pieces into the routine. Make the prop(s) relevant to the song or routine.


For example, if the routine is about a fairy tale, you may want a large cardboard castle or a fake carriage.
Pageants may ban props that can affect the stage or audience, such as bubble machines or live animals.
 Come up with music, dances, and poses for each performance. Have your child practice about an hour a day, beginning a month before the pageant.Don’t pressure your child to practice, or the idea of the pageant can become a chore instead of a fun pastime.
Consider making a practice chart with stickers and potential rewards for practicing, to encourage preparation in a positive way.
 Begin looking for outfits as early as six months before a pageant. Choose outfits with color and style that compliment your child. Make sure that the outfits are age-appropriate. Have your child try on the outfits ahead of time to ensure they aren’t too long, short, tight or loose.Consider which colors look best with your child’s eyes, hair color and skin tone.
For example, dresses and gowns should be sweet and cute, not sexy or revealing.
Girls under ten wear cupcake dresses with ruffles and lots of shiny stones. Girls over ten wear long ball gowns. Boys wear suits or tuxedos.
Shop online or visit a prom or pageant dress shop. Expect that you will probably need to have alterations made, which can take weeks.
 Visit a dentist or orthodontist who can make a flipper for your child. Have your child try the flipper on ahead of time in case it needs to be adjusted. Keep the flipper well cleaned, and don’t allow your child to eat or sleep with it on.A flipper is made of acrylic resin and costs about $300 to $500 for a full set. Alternately, you can purchase just a top or bottom flipper for half the cost.You may want a flipper if your child has missing, damaged or very crooked teeth.
 Purchase false lashes and hairpieces, if desired. Look for a hairpiece with real hair, as synthetic hairpieces tend to look fake. Have your child try on the hairpiece beforehand to make sure its shade blends well with their natural hair color. Hire your own hair and makeup artist, or make plans to utilize one who is working for the pageant.


Keep in mind that makeup and hair professionals working for the pageant are on a tight schedule and may have issues getting everyone prepared on time. If you want to avoid that stress, bring your own artist who is informed about glitz pageant makeup and hairstyles., Get your child’s nails done before the pageant, if desired. For glitz pageants, contestants usually get a spray tan as well. Alternately, you can do your child’s nails and tan yourself.
 Book a room in the hotel where the pageant is being held. Even if you live nearby, it’s a good idea to have a room where your child can prepare, as well as take a nap if needed. Plan to arrive early or the night before so that you can set up your child’s stuff in the room and take your time.


Find out what the hotel’s check-in and check-out times are.
 Understand that pageant schedules are intense. Prepare to begin getting ready early in the morning and continue pageant activities until well into the afternoon. Bring water and healthy snacks like bananas.Have your child go to sleep early the night before the pageant.
Allow your child to nap during breaks if he or she is tired.
 Expect judges to give better scores to kids who are truly enjoying themselves on stage. Emphasize happiness and animation more than moves and cues.If your child messes up, don't be angry. Try saying, "You were great! You look so nice, and I’m very proud of you."

, Avoid making obvious gestures or statements while your child is on stage. Judges often deduct points when they notice obvious coaching, and/or a child focusing solely on a coach.


You and your child can agree upon a subtle signal to boost confidence, such as a thumbs up.
 Applaud for other contestants. Keep a positive attitude. Give other families and contestants the same respect and encouragement you would want for your child.
 Expect to pay at least $400 to $500 for a glitz pageant. You could pay over $3,500 to prepare for such a pageant. Consider entering a natural pageant or involving your child in a different activity if the cost of a glitz pageant will put you into debt.Glitz pageant entry fees alone range from $50 to $500.
Additional costs include travel expenses, outfits, styling and coaching/talent lessons.
Glitz pageant dresses are expensive and often custom-made., Don’t place unrealistic expectations on your child, such as to perform perfectly or to win the top title. Make sure that your motivation isn’t to satisfy your own need for success through your child. Focus on goals that will promote good mental health for your child. Evaluate whether you are able to instruct your child with positive, gentle encouragement.Healthy goals for children are unconditional love, play time with other kids, self-confidence, and encouraging teachers.It’s unhealthy for parents to desire financial benefits or social recognition through their child’s performance., Expect that you may encounter critics. You could potentially face backlash, particularly if the pageant is televised. Make a conscious decision to keep your child’s performance age-appropriate by choosing outfits, music, and dance moves that are acceptable for children.Many critics consider swimsuit poses and competitions to be especially inappropriate for young kids.Some critics have a strong belief that glitz pageants sexualize children and encourage superficial values.

