 Make sure your bender is designed for EMT conduit of the size you are using. Even a universal bender may require attaching a shoe and/or follow bar designed for EMT.This article focuses on hand benders. If you are using a hydraulic or power bender (recommended for conduit with a nominal size over 2 inches), find instructions for your specific bender model.
Hickey benders tend to crush or kink EMT conduit. Use a bender with a curved track for the conduit to slot into.;
, A stub up bend is a 90º bend near the end of the conduit. Measure the distance on the wall from the end of the conduit to the position of the bend.
 The radius of the bend will add extra length to the bent end of your conduit. Take this into account by subtracting a certain amount from your measurement:If you are using ½" EMT conduit, subtract 5" (12.7 cm).
¾" conduit: subtract 6" (15.2 cm).
1" conduit: subtract 8" (20.3 cm.
1¼" conduit: subtract 11" (27.9 cm).
 Place your conduit on the floor. Measure from the end of the conduit to the new length you calculated, and mark the conduit at this point. Line the arrow symbol on your bender up so it points to this mark. Slot your bender onto the conduit. Make sure the bender handle is angled toward the end you measured from.


If your bender does not have an arrow symbol, you may need to find the instructions for your

, Your foot should provide most if not all of the pressure. Without pulling, use one hand to steady the handle on your bender, and the other to steady the conduit end once it rises within reach. Apply firm, constant foot pressure, as a pause could create a kink in your conduit.Bend until the end of the conduit is vertical, or very slightly past vertical.


If your conduit is 1¼" or larger, you may need an assistant to operate the handle.
 Attach a level to the vertical length of conduit. If necessary, make small adjustments to the bend until the bubble of the level is centered. The conduit will flex back slightly after you remove the bender, so bending slightly too far will provide the best results.