 Long hospital stays can be disorienting and confusing, especially for the elderly. Talk and read to the patient in calm, soothing tones. Answer their questions in a clear but reassuring manner.Long hospital stays can promote the onset of delirium, a severe state of disorientation or confusion that can make it difficult for someone to think, rest, or follow directions.This condition may be made more likely by certain drugs that may be used to relieve pain, such as narcotics (analgesics) and sedative hypnotics (benzodiazepines). If you suspect the onset of delirium, contact hospital staff and ask what assistance they can provide.
 One job of the advocate is to act as an intermediary between the doctor and the patient. Chances are, you will end up collecting a lot of very complex information about the patient's condition and treatment options. Help clarify the information and treatment options.Keep in mind that this situation may be very overwhelming for the patient, and there is a lot to keep track of. Don't talk down to the patient, but do present things in as straightforward a manner as possible.
Avoid medical jargon and other technical language when possible.
 Make sure you know what the patient wants, both from you and in terms of treatment. You can only be an effective advocate if you have a clear understanding of your loved one's desires. This conversation is best had before the person is severely ill. It is everyone's best interest to invest time and energy into living wills, assigning power of attorney, and advance directives so family and loved ones do not have to grasp at straws when faced with a health tragedy.


Depending on the severity of the health issue, the patient may or may not feel up to communicating their desires to doctors and other medical staff.
Part of this process may involve helping the patient weigh their options to make the best decision for treatment.Being familiar with the patient's values and belief systems can be important, especially if his or her condition is life-threatening.
 It is a good idea to find out if the patient has an advance directive. This is a document that provides the hospital with instructions as to what should be done if they become incapable of expressing their desires.


This might include specific instructions, such as a desire not be put on life support if brain death occurs. Or, it may include instructions to designate a certain person as responsible for making decisions on the patient's behalf (a proxy directive, also called "durable power of attorney").Ideally, if there is a proxy directive, it should designate you, the advocate, as the patient's proxy.
If the patient does not have an advance directive, it may be a good idea to encourage them to complete one, and to help the patient through this process. The paperwork for an advance directive varies from one state to the next. You can find this paperwork here: http://www.caringinfo.org/i4a/pages/index.cfm?pageid=3289


, It is your responsibility to ensure that any questions or concerns the patient has are conveyed to the doctor. This is especially true if they feel incapable of or reluctant about asking questions.Ask for clarification when necessary. Doctors and hospitals, for example, use a lot of acronyms. If a doctor is talking in jargon you don't understand, ask them to explain things in simpler language.If you are a non-family member, the patient will need to sign some paperwork so that healthcare workers can share information with you. Ask about release of information paperwork so that you can legally be informed about the patient's treatment.
 Your most important role as advocate is to make sure the doctor and other hospital staff understand and follow the patient's wishes. This will require you to be clear and politely assertive.Use plain language to tell the doctor what the patient's desires are.
Ask questions about follow up treatments, next steps, and what will happen as a result of different test outcomes. For example: "if this test is positive, what are our options?"Get a second opinion if necessary. If your loved one wants a second opinion, or what the doctor is telling you doesn't seem right based on the information you've gathered, be direct about asking for and seeking a second opinion.