 Most people don't truly need to worry about overhydration. Most actually need to worry about being adequately hydrated.


Carrying around a water bottle with you at all times gives you access to hydrating fluids any time of day.
Consider purchasing a reusable water bottle that you can fill up as many times as you need during the day.
Make life easy by filling it up at night and keeping it in the fridge ready to go in the morning.
Also keep it on your desk at work and bring it with you in the car so you can constantly work on drinking adequate amounts of fluid.;
, Drinking plain water all day can be boring. In addition, some people don't enjoy the taste of plain water. Mix it up to help you ingest more fluid during the day.


In addition to plain water, any decaf, sugar-free beverage can hydrate you. Low-calorie sports or electrolyte drinks, flavored waters and decaf coffee and tea all count.
If you want a more natural water flavoring, try steeping fruit, herbs or even cucumbers in a pitcher of water over night for homemade flavored waters.
 If you're not good at drinking adequate amounts of fluids during the day or are chronically dehydrated, try giving yourself a schedule to follow throughout the day.


Select certain times a day that you must have some water. Of course you could drink water in between these times too.
Also, consider purchasing a reusable and measured water bottle. Make "rules" for yourself about when and how much water you need to drink.
For example, you might have a rule to start your bottle of water when you get to work and finish it before your lunch break. Then, have another rule to fill it back up and start it after lunch and finish it by the time you leave work.
Try setting email reminders, pop-ups or timers on your phone or watch to help cue you in to drinking more water, more frequently throughout the day.
 Another way to improve your hydration is to cut down on the amount of salt that you include in your diet. In fat, you only require about ¼ teaspoon of salt per day, but most people get way more sodium than this in their diets. Check the labels on any packaged foods that you buy and try to avoid eating foods that are high in sodium. Some of the high sodium foods to avoid or limit include:Salted or cured meat, such as bacon, hot dogs, ad cold cuts.
Frozen dinners and other prepared foods, like frozen pizza and breaded meats.
Canned foods, like soups, raviolis, beans, and chilis.
Salted nuts.
 If you think you're over-hydrated or dehydrated, it's important to talk to your doctor about appropriate treatment.


If you're having difficulty maintaining normal fluid status, seeing a doctor is imperative. He or she will be able to treat any underlying conditions appropriately.
Make sure to tell your physician if you're having any symptoms or if symptoms have worsened over time. For example, if you've been drinking a lot of fluid, but are not urinating frequently throughout the day.
Let your doctor know if you are experiencing excessive thirst because this may be a sign of diabetes.
 Trust your body to tell you if it needs something or has too much of something else. Start to pay attention to your body's signals and symptoms regarding hydration.


Symptoms of overhydration or "over-doing" it with fluids include: nausea, vomiting, headache, confusion, muscle weakness and cramping, seizures, unconsciousness and coma.You can tell if you're properly or adequately hydrated if you're: not feeling thirsty, your urine is the color of lemonade or very pale yellow by the end of the day and you have constant sweat production during exercise.
During the day if you feel thirsty, take a couple sips of water. However, if you've been drinking consistently throughout the day and are not feeling thirsty, put the water bottle down for a bit.
 If you have the tendency to over drink or go overboard with your fluids throughout the day, give yourself a limit to stick to.


Most health professionals recommend consuming between 8-13 glasses of clear hydrating fluids daily. These fluids include water, flavored water, decaf coffee and decaf tea.Be aware that sweetened beverages and caffeinated beverages do not count and can work against your total hydration status.
You will only need to drink more than 13 glasses of water daily if you're exercising a lot or working in humid or hot conditions.
 Sometimes you might need to rehydrate with other fluids outside of water. Think about what types of fluids to drink in certain situations.


If you want to limit the amount of fluid you're drinking or ensure you're not over drinking fluids, choose drinks that will hydrate you more effectively than water.
Some sports drinks, electrolyte drinks and coconut water all contain some electrolytes and a little bit of sugar. Your body can get rehydrated and replace any electrolytes lost through sweat and urine.
If you're exercising daily or for long periods of time, drinking a low-calorie sports drink, electrolyte water or coconut water can be especially helpful.
 Urinating regularly is a good indication of hydration, but too much urine or clear odorless urine may indicate overhydration. Check the amount and color of your urine to determine if you might be dehydrated.

In adults, too much urine would be more than 500ccs of urine each time you go. In babies, this would be a very wet heavy diaper. However, keep in mind that it is rare for babies to become overhydrated unless they are on IV fluids. A baby’s diaper can also be a sign of dehydration. For example, if a baby’s diaper stays dry for 4 or more hours, then they are likely dehydrated.
In adults, clear water-like urine that has no odor is a sign of overhydration. In babies, clear odorless urine can also be a sign of overhydration.
 If you exercise regularly, workout for long periods of time or are working out in the heat and humidity, hydrating appropriately is important. There are two simple tests you can do to figure out how much fluid you've lost through exercise.


Do the sweat test. Weigh yourself before and after an intense or especially sweaty exercise session. If you've lost 1 pound, you sweat out 16 oz (or 1 pound) of fluid. Next time you do that activity, aim to drink 16 oz of fluid during your workout.Make sure that you do not overcompensate with fluids after a workout because this can be a cause of overhydration.
Check your clothes too. If you notice you have white streaks on your clothes, skin or have a salty coating on your skin after a workout, you've lost a lot of sodium. You'll need to rehydrate and replenish electrolytes.Try coconut water or a low-calorie sports drink.
Remember, if you're working out to lose weight, stick to sports drinks or electrolyte drinks that have 50 calories or less per 16 oz serving.