 Choose a balloon weight that matches your color scheme. Wrap the end of the fishing line a few times around the handle, then tie it into a secure knot.Don't tie down the other end yet.


If you can't find any fishing line, use white string instead. You can also use balloon ribbon that matches your color scheme.
If you are making a large balloon arch, tie the string to a bucket handle instead. Fill the bucket with sand, gravel or pebbles.
You can also tie string to a cinderblock if you are making a large balloon arch.
 Unlike other arches, this arch relies on floating balloons for structure. Blow up your first balloon using the tank, then tie off the tail end.You can buy a helium tank from a party supply store or an arts and crafts store. Some places will also allow you to rent them instead.
 Measure up abut 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) from your weight. Wrap the string around the tail end of the balloon, just above the knot, then tie it in a secure, double-knot., Place the balloons close enough so that they bump against each other on the sides.Work from one end of the string to the other. Leave about 12 to 14 inches (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) of space at the end of the string empty.


If you used a cinderblock as your anchor, you will need to leave enough string to feed it through the holes on the block and tie it off.
 Measure 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) from the last balloon. Wrap the string a few times around the handle of your balloon anchor, then tie it into a secure knot.
 This is a cute touch that will make it look like the balloons are floating in an orderly fashion. Cut a length of balloon curling ribbon in a contrasting color, then tie it to the bottom of each balloon. For extra flair, use a pair of scissors to curl the ribbon., Small balloon anchors often look like little gift boxes and are pretty enough on their own. If you used a bucket or cinderblock to anchor a large arch, however, you may want to decorate it. Here are some ideas:


Cover cinderblocks with wrapping paper.
Paint the bucket with spray paint or acrylic paint.
Fill the top layer of your bucket with colored sand or gravel.
Tuck flowers into the bucket or cinderblock.

