 One of the main features of Turner syndrome is a failure to grow properly. Girls with TS usually grow slower than peers during childhood and adolescence and may also have problems with sexual development. Some do not enter puberty — the ovaries tend to be small and don’t function normally. This means that, without treatment, girls may not develop breasts or begin to menstruate.Talk to your general practitioner if your daughter has been diagnosed with TS and ask about the possibility of hormone therapy. Hormone therapy is one of the primary treatments for girls and women with this condition.
Your doctor will probably refer you to an endocrinologist. This is a specialist in hormonal conditions who can conduct regular tests and checkups as well as advise treatments.;
, Girls who have TS can start to receive growth hormone treatments as soon as it’s clear that they are not growing normally, as early as five or six years old. The treatments usually last until girls are about 15 to 16 years old and the aim is to increase their height as much as possible through the teen years. Often, these treatments can add a couple of inches to girls’ height.Talk to your daughter’s endocrinologist about the best kind of hormone treatment. The most common type is somatropin, which is given by injection several times per week.
Know that somatropin has some side effects, like swelling in the extremities, bleeding, abnormal sensation or tingling feeling, and cold/flu-like symptoms. Girls should stop taking somatropin if there is no growth in the first year, if they are near or reach their final height, or if they are having trouble with side effects.
Ask the endocrinologist about oxandrolone, as well. This is an androgen hormone that some doctors recommend for very short patients and is given along with other growth hormones. Girls won’t receive androgens until they are at least nine years old.
 Another common way to treat TS is by hormone replacement therapy, when doctors give patients doses of estrogen and progesterone — the hormones that cause sexual development in women. Since in TS the ovaries often don’t work properly, adolescent girls may need this therapy to go through puberty and are likely to be infertile as adults. An endocrinologist can help you determine if this sort of treatment is appropriate.Estrogen therapy usually starts around age 11, about the time when most girls start puberty. Doctors will tailor the treatment for each patient but may recommend gradually increasing doses. The estrogen can be given by patches, gels, or tablets and will trigger sexual development.
Progesterone normally comes after estrogen therapy has already begun. In most patients this will trigger and maintain monthly periods.
You should talk with the doctor about when to start this kind of therapy, as high doses of estrogen in the teen years can stunt bone growth. Most women with TS will also have to continue hormone replacement therapy until about age 50, when the body naturally stops producing estrogen.
 TS can affect many body systems and can lead to lots of different complications, from heart problems and high blood pressure to hearing loss and immune disorders. It’s important to see the doctor regularly for checkups to make sure that your daughter is healthy. In fact, we know that getting regular checkups can lead to big improvements in the length and quality of life of women with TS.Schedule checkups as often as the doctor thinks is necessary. These visits will help them trace your daughter’s development but also screen for typical complications.
Checkups can help the doctor look for heart abnormalities and hearing problems, for example. They will also do yearly thyroid blood work to check for conditions like hyperthyroidism.
 Girls with TS will need to have certain areas of health monitored for their whole lives. If complications emerge in one or more of these areas, you may need to get referrals for specialist treatment. Keep in mind that some hospitals have dedicated TS clinics with in-house specialists. Talk to a doctor to see what your options are.About 30% of girls with TS have a structural heart defect. High blood pressure is also common. In these cases, you’ll need to visit a cardiologist regularly for screening and ultrasounds.
Hearing loss is also common for girls and women with TS, as are middle ear infections, so you may need to find an ears, nose, and throat specialist.
About 1/3 girls with TS also have malformed kidneys, which can increase blood pressure and the risk of urinary tract infections. Keep this in mind and consider seeing a specialist in the kidneys (a nephrologist).
Apart from these doctors, girls and women with TS may need special attention from other specialists like gynecologists, geneticists, and pediatric and adult endocrinologists. Some may also benefit from developmental therapy, as TS can sometimes create learning disabilities and difficulty functioning in social situations.
 Women with TS need lifelong medical treatment. If you have a daughter with this condition, it’s important to her health that you prepare her to take care of herself as an adult and to transition from a pediatrician to her own medical team. Her adult doctor will be able to coordinate care with whatever specialists she needs.Start talking to your daughter early on about her treatment and care, so that she learns about her condition, needs, and overall health. In time, she can take on more and more responsibilities.
Encourage her to have healthy habits. This can include getting regular checkups but also exercising regularly, maintaining a healthy weight, joining a support group for TS, and being social.
 Due to the problems it causes with sexual development, many adult women with TS are infertile — they are unable to have children. While some may be able to conceive naturally, about 2 – 5%, their ovaries can still fail early on in adulthood. Others who want to have children will have to consider artificial means.Sit down and talk to a doctor if you or a close loved one has TS. Discussing sexual health is important. Since a minority of women with TS can become pregnant, those who are sexually active should have access to sexual health services and contraceptive advice and practice safe sex.
A doctor can also help with the timing of pregnancies. This may be key if natural conception is possible, but the doctor is concerned about the health of the patient’s ovaries.
 Some women with TS who are infertile but still want children can become pregnant with assisted conception treatments, like egg donation and in vitro fertilization (IVF). In this procedure, an egg from a donor is fertilized with sperm in a laboratory and then implanted in the patient’s womb to grow.Women with TS who want to try IVF will have to take a special kind of hormone therapy to prepare their uterus for pregnancy.
Know that IVF is not cheap. The price of just one cycle in the US (and it may take a number of cycles) can be over $10,000. Even then, pregnancy is not guaranteed.
 Pregnancy for women with TS can be high-risk and needs to be watched carefully. If a woman with TS is lucky enough to become pregnant, she’ll also need to get regular checkups while she carries the baby to term. This is because of the heart and vascular complications that TS can cause. Pregnancy will put an extra strain on the heart and on the blood vessels, so, for the health of the mother and baby, it’s very important to be vigilant.Patients should get an exam if they are thinking about trying to have a child — this includes a general examination but also a cardiovascular assessment to check blood pressure and heart health. Doctors may want to perform other tests on the liver and endocrine system, as well.
Doctors will strongly discourage pregnancy if a patient has certain conditions, especially if she has problems with the heart’s aorta or uncontrolled high blood pressure.
During pregnancy, patients will need to get regular follow-up care. This includes echocardiograms at the end of the first and second trimester and then each month during the third trimester. She may need to go on blood pressure medication like beta blockers and be monitored by ultrasound after delivery, as the cardiovascular risk continues for a number of days.

