 There are many different types of light to consider. You can choose from LED, fluorescent, incandescent, halogen or Xenon lights.


LED lights come in either fixed lengths or in a strip that can be cut. They reduce energy costs and do not require replacement bulbs. They last up to twenty years.
Fluorescent bulbs are long-lasting and energy-efficient, but they are harder to conceal.
Incandescent bulbs produce a soft, yellowish light and are the most inexpensive option. Their lifespan is short, and they aren't bright enough for utility lighting.
Halogen bulbs are bright and shine completely white. They create much more heat than other bulbs, but they also last twice as long as incandescent bulbs. They are more expensive than fluorescent or incandescent.
Xenon bulbs are similar to halogen bulbs, but they last longer and radiate less heat.;
, The lighting will require a power source. Plan how you will run cable to the lighting/fixture locations. Determine if you are prepared to run wires, cut holes into the wall, and create new electrical boxes. Alternatively, consider plugging the light fixture into existing outlets or finding battery powered lighting. Plugging in the lighting into an existing outlet means you have to decide how to camouflage the lighting’s power cable.Consider hiring an electrician if you’re uncomfortable tying the lighting to any electrical wiring.Make sure you are using a code-compliant source of electricity.
Make sure the source of power you selected isn’t dedicated to the refrigerator or any other kitchen appliances. You don’t want to overload the circuit.
 Lay your light on the countertop, underneath where you plan to do the installation. If you plan to run multiple lights, find lights that have a quick-connect cord. This cord will connect lights using only one power source.


Most installations are usually above the sink, work areas, and small appliances.For the best lighting, place the lights as close as possible to the front of the cabinet.
Some manufacturers suggest that multiple lights be at least 12 inches apart.
 Make sure the cabinets and counters are free from anything that might obstruct your work. If you need to go through your cabinets for wiring, make sure all the items are removed., If you plan to add new wires or a light switches that to an existing kitchen outlet, make sure the electrical box that houses the outlet has enough room. You will have to replace the box with a larger one if it doesn’t.


Use the National Electrical Code to determine the size of the electrical box. Calculate the amount of wires, devices, and clamps you will put in the box. Add 1 cubic inch for each hot and neutral wire, 2 cubic inches for each device (such as a switch), 1 cubic inch for all ground wires, and 1 cubic inch for all clamps. Take this sum and multiply it by either 2 for 14-gauge wire or 2.25 for 12-gauge wire. This calculation will give you the minimum box requirement in cubic inches. You do not have to do calculations for plastic boxes as the volume is stamped inside of them. , Do this at the circuit breaker. Find the switch labeled kitchen and make sure it’s off. Test to see if the power is turned off, plug in a device such as a lamp or radio into the outlet and see if it turns on.


You can also use a receptacle tester on the outlet. The lights on the test will come on if any power still running into the outlet.
While the circuit breaker may be labeled, make sure you test the outlet anyway. There may have been changes in the wiring since the box was installed, or the wiring may be defective., First, unscrew the wall plate that holds the outlet. Then, unscrew the outlet from the electrical box. Take the outlet out and disconnect any wires that are connected to it.The electrical box is nailed to a wall stud. Look around the electrical box to determine which side the stud is on. Use a flashlight if it’s too dark to see. You don’t want to saw through the stud when you are expanding the hole to hold new electrical box.
 Hold the new electrical box over the existing box in the wall so the expansion of the hole is on the side that isn’t nailed to a stud. Use a pencil to make an outline of where you will cut with the drywall saw.
 Use a drywall saw to cut along the tracing you made. Make sure you’re not hitting any studs.
 Make sure that any wiring connected to the old electrical box is loose before removing it. Pulling out the box when the wires are tight will damage the wiring. Once you are sure that wires are loose, remove the old box by using a flat pry bar., A knockout is a pre-scored hole made to run wire easily without drilling extra holes., There might be a plug or plate in the fixture’s knockout hole. Use a screwdriver to either pry the plug loose or unscrew the plate., Before drilling a hole in the wall so that you can run cables, you need to plot the spot. Place the light fixture in the exact location you plan to install it. Find the spot on the wall directly across from the light fixture’s knockout hole. Draw an “X” on this spot using a pencil.


Make sure that there isn’t a stud located between where you plan to drill the hole behind the light fixture and the electrical box. A stud will prevent you from running the cable. If you do find a stud, draw another “X” on the other side. Be sure to erase the previous “X” so that you don’t get confused.
, Measure the distance between the electrical box and the hole you drilled. Take the distance you measured and add 24 to the length. This is how much of the 12/2 nonmetallic cable you need to cut. Adding the length to measure gives the cable some slack when you run it through the wall.
 Go to the hole where the electrical box was and reach into the wall. Grab the cable hanging from the small hole you drilled. Once you have the cable, pull it through the electrical box hole.
 Take off everything until you have just the casing of the light fixture. Clearing the fixture will give you space to screw the fixture into the cabinets.
 Put the fixture where you plan to install it. Make sure it is lined with the edge of the cabinet or behind it.
 Screw the fixture to the cabinet using the screws the manufacturer provided in the kit.
 Insert a ½-inch nonmetallic cable clamp in the fixture’s knockout hole to hold the cable in place and protect it from damage. Unscrew the plate that locks the clamp and place the clamp in the knockout hole. Once the clamp is in place, screw the plate back into it from the outside of the fixture., Grab the cable hanging from the small hole in the wall and run it into the knockout hole of the fixture.
 Use a wire stripper to remove the coating around the end of the cable that's in the fixture. Once stripped, connect the exposed wires to the corresponding wires in the light fixture: black-to-black, white-to-white, and bare copper to green. Do this by twisting orange wire connectors to the ends of the wires.
 Make sure all the connections are secure and that there is no exposed wired. Once you reattach everything back to the light fixture, staple the cable to the cabinet using cable staples.,, There will be two sets of cables: the cable that ran into the old electrical box and the cable you ran from the light fixture. Pull both cables through the new electrical box.
 The fins on the outside of the box should rest firmly against the wall so that you can screw it in securely.
 The box has fins that flip inside the wall when you screw it. Make sure you feel the fins flip as these secure the box to the wall.
 A ground fault circuit interrupter outlet will help prevent dangerous shocks that could seriously injure or kill someone.Once installed, this outlet ground-fault circuit interrupter will shut off instantly if the circuit shorts or is overloaded.
 Use wire strippers to remove the insulation on the cables. Once the wires are exposed, strip on the insulation on them as well. Connect the corresponding wires using an orange wire connector. Use a green pigtail connector to combine the copper wires from both cables and the outlet. , Make sure you combine the black and white wires from both cables and the outlet. Once they are combined, screw the free end of each of these wires into the corresponding terminal on the outlet. These terminals will be labeled “hot-wire line” and “white-wire line.”

, If you are installing a light switch into the outlet, connect the yellow wire from the switch to a black wire coming from the light fixture cable. Attach the copper wire from the switch to the copper wire on the GFCI outlet. Connect the white wires together. Make sure you use cable connectors to combine all wires.
 Once everything is connected, carefully pack the wires into the electrical box. Screw the outlet and switch to the electrical box.
 Once the outlet is secured, screw the wall plate into the electrical box., Once everything is secured and connected, turn the power on by flipping the kitchen switch at the circuit breaker.