 Depending on how old your grandparent is, he may be limited in some respects. If you would like to spend time with your grandparent, be sure to plan for activities that your grandparent can easily do.


For example, if your grandparent needs to use a cane or walker to help him get around, then planning a morning walking around a local park is not a suitable idea. Your grandparent will not be able to walk for a long period of time and will need frequent rest breaks.;
, Especially if your grandparent has health issues or is past the age of 80, for example, he likely has some limitations for accepting visits. Avoid planning your visits during these times.


Know if your grandparent sleeps late in the mornings or takes naps around a certain time every day.
Know if your grandparent has a regular doctor appointment each week or has a medical routine to do at the same time every day.
 Based on what you know your grandparent can and likes to do, figure out how the time you spend with your grandparent will go. There are many ideas for making new memories with your grandparent:Cook or bake together
Sit and talk about life and memories
Read a book together
Take a walk around the neighborhood or in a park
Make a craft with him/her
Learn a skill that he/she has, like carving wood or knitting
Have a picnic
Visit a local art gallery
Play board or card games
Go shopping or window shopping
Go fishing, boating, or hunting

, In this case, your grandparent may not be able to leave the facility. Prepare activities to spend time together that can be done where your grandparent is.


Talk about life and memories
Play board or card games
Put a puzzle together
Make a craft together
Read a book together
Write a story or poem together

, It will be important to your grandparent that you show up on time and on the correct day. He has been looking forward to this and will be disappointed if you are late or if you cancel.


If you are running late, call your grandparent and let him know to expect you a little later. Be sure to explain why.
If it turns out that you need to reschedule, let your grandparent know immediately. Do not wait until the last minute to call and change the plans, because your grandparent will likely feel very let down. Be sure to reschedule for another day and time that you are certain you are available.
 It truly means a lot to grandparents to spend time with their grandchildren, so be sure to respect his excitement about seeing you by engaging in the activity and conversation.


Enjoy the time you are spending with your grandparent, because you never know how much longer you might be able to do this.
 Let your grandparent know realistically when you will be able spend time with him again. Create plans for the next time you will visit him.


You can do a different activity next time, or you can do the same thing again.
Make sure your grandparent has written down somewhere when you will come for your next visit.
Scheduling the next time gives your grandparent something to which he can look forward.

