 Tie an adjustable knot onto your crochet hook, positioning it close to the hooked end.


To form a slipknot, make a loop with the end of the yarn.
Slide the crochet hook into the loop and wrap the long end of the yarn over the hook.
Pull the yarn through the loop.
Tighten the loop onto the hook to complete the knot.
 This initial chain will give you the width of the scarf.


To make a chain stitch, grab yarn from the long side (the side attached to the skein) and pull it through the loop on your hook. This completes a single chain stitch.
 To create your first diamond lattice and start your first official row, make a slip stitch into the tenth chain stitch, counting from the hook instead of the beginning of your initial chain.


To make a slip stitch, insert the hook through the stitch.
Yarn over the hook at the back. Pull it back through to the front.
Pull the top loop through the bottom loop on the hook.
 Make five chain stitches. Skip four stitches of your original chain and slip stitch into the fifth.


Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
 You will need to make another chain for the second row, occasionally slip stitching into the middle of each loop created in the previous row.


Chain stitch five times.
Turn the scarf to make it more accessible for you to work with.
Slip stitch into the middle of the first loop or gap created in the previous row.
Repeat this pattern, minus the turn, down the length of the scarf until you reach the end of the row.
 Continue working in this same pattern of chain stitches and slip stitches for each row. Make the scarf as long as you want it to be.


A good length to work with is about 60 inches (1.5 m), but you can add or subtract rows as desired to make the length longer or shorter.
Chain stitch five times, slip stitch into a gap, chain stitch five times, slip stitch into a gap, and so on.
 Flip the scarf over and line up the two edges. Slip stitch into both ends to join them together.


Insert the hook into both loops or gaps at the start of the ends. Slip stitch them together.
Chain three times before slip stitching into both of the next loops.
Chain five times and slip stitch into both of the next loops. Do this four times.
Chain three and slip stitch into the loops at the end.
The finished edge will look like another row. It will be a little bumpy when lying flat, but with the scarf on, the bumpiness will be hidden and hard to notice.
 Cut the yarn, leaving only a 3 inch (7.6 cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to form an ending knot.


Weave in the remaining yarn tail along the inside of the scarf using a tapestry needle. This will hide the tail while adding further security to the end of the scarf.

