 She will be your BFF, so stay close to her. Make sure she knows about your Queen Bee project and is willing to be popular too. The ideal character for your "BFF-to-be" is fun, bubbly and really friendly to you, but she can be mean to others. This makes you sort of unapproachable and cool.;
, Wear clothes that the "popular" kids wear, like Hollister and Forever 21. But make sure you have your own style; Queen Bees stand out, not fit in. Follow the clothing guide below for starters:

Casual: Baggy tee + Skinny jeans/ leggings/ jeggings + flats
Boho: Baggy blouse with thick belt + boyfriend jeans + stretchy Toms/ flats + bangles
Edgy: Graphic tank top + distressed jean shorts + studded Converse
Girly: Logo tank top + high waisted shorts + wedges + cute earrings

, Make sure there are only friends that will support you and no backstabbers. The ideal number is around four to five people, or a larger group depending on your choice. They should be pretty and somehow outstanding in any ways. If they all want to be queen bee you have a disadvantage since they might replace you. Make sure they are loyal., Make yourself smart (you don't have to be a straight A student, just make sure you're not flunking any classes), pretty (kill your zits! Do makeup if that's alright for your school, you need your beauty), presentable (you have to be confident or else people will bring you down easily) and mean (you don't want to be Miss Goody do you?) to some people. This may cause you a lot of effort and consume a lot of time but it's worth it.
 This means "perfect in other people's eyes" not "Flawlessly perfect". Just show others you can beat them in many ways and you're actually the best among all. But this one is hard to achieve since everybody has weaknesses - you just need to brush up what's already good and improve the things you're not that good at., Join as many as possible - it gives you time to socialize and show off. Just remember don't look like you're desperate, do it like you're really happy to. This list will help sort you into activities that would suit you (refer to related articles for details):

Sporty/ active = sports club/ cheerleader/ Pep club
Movie buff = Drama club
Geek = School Newspaper/ Yearbook Committee
Musician = Band/ Choir

, Wear clothes that are appropriate and clean and follow your school dress code. Put on makeup (don't overdo it!) and style your hair nicely. You can find a lot of articles here about braids and other styles. Look as if you tried but don't look desperate., Do simple workouts, jog around your neighborhood, do whatever works for you. There are tons of articles here about how to shape up.
 Only post things that do good and never humiliate yourself online, more people will see it than you think. On Instagram, post high quality photos and edit them to make them look perfect, there are lots of apps for that. On Facebook, post things that make your life seem awesome, and attach photos to make them realistic. Never post fake statuses on Facebook though, someone will bust you.
 Make sure you are not that mean they'll tell you off, though. Important: being mean doesn't mean bullying. It just means you perfect sarcasm and stand up for yourself. Never be a bully, people hate them. Refer to related articles on how to be mean without bullying. It makes you more unapproachable and seem more Queen Bee-ish.

