 Nuts in general are high in vitamin B complex, which help with not only skin cell restoration but also hair growth and dry skin. It gives your skin a more youthful appearance and will in turn help fight the early signs of aging. So for your afternoon snack, try a handful of unsalted, natural almonds-just don’t go overboard because it’s easy to overindulge!;
, Cheese helps to prevent bacteria from growing in the moth and prevents cavities. Choose between Swiss, Cheddar or Gouda. It is high in calcium and helps to keep your smile white and your teeth cavity-free.
 These are two of nature’s most potent anti-aging foods. They help keep the skins elasticity, strengthen the gums, and contribute to the health of your eyes. It also frees you from dry itchy patches.
 It is also essential for oil generations. This rich fatty acid is high in all the fats your body needs, so it’s OK to indulge. You put in on your face in mask form which does wonders for your skin, so why not try actually eating it and see the benefits. Eaten in moderation, the monounsaturated fats you ingest will clear, soft and smooth skin.
 It is also high in iron, manganese, phosphorus, calcium, Vitamins B and E, and silicon. Silicon is crucial for healthy skin to maintain collagen levels.
 They are loaded with those amazing Omega-3 fatty acids that do wonders for the body and they are also high in vitamin D. Vitamin D is great for skin because it helps keep it fresh and promote an overall healthy appearance. If you don't like fish, you can also buy fish oil capsules that you can take every morning.
 Vitamin E builds muscle and tissue, therefore keeping skin firm and helping to prevent wrinkles. Vitamin E also helps restore skin cells, so if you have a damaged area (a scratch, sore or even a scar) eating foods with high vitamin E content may help reduce or heal the problem area faster.
 Choose fruits and vegetables that have deep, intense colors:Yellow, orange, green and red hues: eat papayas, mangoes, peaches, pineapple, strawberries, squash; yellow, green and red peppers; tomatoes (raw green tomatoes are poison), cantaloupe, apricots, carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, dark green leafy veggies, seaweed (including brown seaweed called ecklonia cava).







Eliminate white shortenings and its cousin: yellow colored margarine, called "soft, buttery spread" which are not butter at all -- and are unhealthy.

