 If you want to search in different countries you may change county on the pull down menu further on.;
, In this example put Cancun in the FROM-box. You will notice that after introducing the first letter C a window is opening which contains options starting with C, after typing A the windows contains options starting with CA and so on till you only have options starting with Cancun. You may click on this option names for full fill the Origin box.
 In this example put Mexico in to the TO-Box. Again a window will open. Here you will notice, that several options for Mexico are possible. Mexico has 4 mayor bus terminals and several smaller ones. If you just put in Mexico you will get schedules to all possible terminals.
 In the VIA-box you may choose the route you take. Lets say you want to be sure the bus goes via Veracruz. This option is optional, if you don't worry leave it black.
 Put time and date in the corresponding boxes. Here no window is showing up. You are free to chose between several date formates, US style MM/DD/YYYY, German DD.MM.YYYY, Spanish DD-MM-YYYY and so on. Time must be in 24h style.
 Indicate if the date and time you selected is the one you want to leave from the origin or the one you want to arrive at the destination.
 Press the Search connection-button.
 Then you have two schedules, the first is the one before your search time and the second after it. First line is your Origin with starting day/date/time, bus company and remarks. The second line is your Destination with starting day/date/time, phone number of the bus company and remarks. Remarks include travel type like bus, train, ferry etc. travel duration, number of changes if any etc. In our examples we have only direct buses. We see that we may arrive in Mexico TAPO ore Mexico Central del Norte (TAPO Terminal de Autobuses de Pasajeros de Oriente). So we arrive at the North- or the East-Main-termianl.
,, This box is to go back to the search page. Here we may change date or time or lock for the Via-option. If we chose Veracruz, we will get schedules, where we will have to Change buses.
, Here we can start a new request.
 This helps to located specific places.
 By clicking on the place name on the right, you can see direct connections for every place and by clicking on it, you select it to search for its schedules.
,