 You will need to cut 9 squares of this size for each block that you make.


By no means limit yourself to three kinds of fabric! If you have 6 different variations of red and 8 different kinds of blue, use them all! This is a great time to use those scraps you've practically been hoarding.
 Vertically and horizontally. You can use tailor's chalk for the lines, but the marks won't show later, so a pencil works well, too.


This may seem tedious, but you'll get the hang of it and get into a rhythm. After you've done it 100 times, you'll be able to eyeball it with decent enough precision.
 In that order. Start by holding the red and white together, then add the blue when you've completed the first stitch.


If you find it awkward to hold the squares together, pin them first with quilter's pins.
 Only this time, put the colors in the following order: white, blue, red. You're developing a diagonal pattern to keep the colors from touching and repeating.


Your third strip should be in this order: blue, red, white. That's your block! That's the same block you'll be making throughout the entire quilt.
 Stitch across the marked seam lines to join the strips. Repeat by adding the third strip (b/r/w) to the strip beginning with white.


Continue making 9-patch blocks until you have enough to cover a sheet in the same size as your desired quilt. But don't sew them together! Complete all your blocks first. Lay the squares out, leaving a 1" (2.5 cm) space between them.
 Again, one block should be 6 inches.


Since you know how many blocks you have, make all your strips now. They serve as a border and will be on all sides of each block.
 Stitch a blue strip to the left and right sides of one block, using a 1/4" (.6 cm) seam allowance.


Stitch a second block to the strip on the right side of the first block. Continue adding strips and blocks until the combination is the desired width of your quilt. Be sure to end with a blue strip. This is your first row.
Continue making block rows until your have enough to reach the desired length and width of your American quilt.
 Again, use 1/4" (0.6 cm) seam allowances, alternating with the long blue strips. Make sure to begin and end with a blue strip.
 A sheet makes for easy and quick backing.


It's very easy if you lay the quilt top on a large table or on the floor with the right side up. Whatever the surface, make sure it's cleared and clean.
 Pin the layers together, beginning in the center and smoothing the layers outward to keep them even.
 Sew around 3 sides, using a (you guessed it) 1/4" seam allowance. Sew about halfway across the last side, leaving an opening for turning the quilt. Turn the quilt right side out, and iron the seams flat.


To keep the quilt together, bring a needle threaded with embroidery floss through all of the layers at the corner of every block, from the top to the bottom. Leave a 2-inch (5 cm) tail on the top. Make a small stitch and bring the needle back to the top.
Tie a double overhand knot in your exposed threads and cut the threads to the same length. Repeat at each corner of the 9-square blocks. After that, it's quilt-admiring time.

