 From your live crickets, you should measure out the proper size and number to feed your chameleon. This can vary based on your chameleon’s age, size, gender, and species. In general, you should not feed your chameleon a cricket that is any larger than the width of their head.Chameleons up to three months should be given as many small crickets as they can eat. They may also enjoy fruit and house flies.Veiled and Panther Chameleons: Chameleons up to six months old should eat between ten and twelve crickets a day. Between six and twelve months, they should have ten to twelve crickets every other day. Adults over a year old should eat between seven and ten large crickets every other day.Jackson’s Chameleons: Chameleons up to six months should eat between ten and twelve small crickets a day. Between six and twelve months, they should eat between eight and ten medium crickets every other day. Adults should eat between six and eight medium to large crickets every other day.Pygmy Chameleons: Between three and six months, they should have between six and ten small crickets daily. After six months, they should have between four and six crickets every other day.Flapneck, Graceful and Senegal Chameleons: Between three and six months, they should be given ten to twelve small crickets daily. Juveniles between six and twelve months should eat ten to twelve medium crickets every other day. Adults need five to seven small to medium crickets every other day., Feeding your chameleon early in the day can help them digest their food properly. Find a good, consistent schedule to feed your chameleons that works with your daily life.Remember that you will have to gut load the insects a few hours before you feed the chameleon.


You may want to keep track of your feedings with a planner, calendar, or schedule. Check off dates that you fed the chameleon to make sure that they are fed the proper amount at the right times.
 If you do not have leaves or branches in your habitat, you can place them on rocks, furniture, or other items in the cage. You may place these relatively near to the chameleon. Remember to close the enclosure afterwards.


The chameleon should see the insects moving and will slowly move towards them. You may want to watch your chameleon to make sure he notices the insects and that he is feeding on them.
Do not leave too many live crickets in the cage at once. Some insects are aggressive and may bite your chameleon at night.Check under the rocks, plants, and other objects in the cage to make sure that there are no crickets hiding., Your chameleon will drink water off the plants and objects in their habitat. Using a spray bottle, mist the cage twice a day. You can also attach a dropper to the top of the cage, but you should make sure that the water falls onto plants in the cage so that your chameleon will know to drink it. Chameleons will not drink out of a bowl., While most chameleons will be happy eating a varied diet of insects, some do enjoy the occasional plant. You can try giving them mustard or collard greens. Mist the leaves with water, and watch to see if your chameleon eats them.Some chameleons will even eat fruit. You can cut up a small slice of mango or apple, and place it in their cage. Do not be worried if they do not eat it. It just means that your chameleon does not want fruit.

