 You need to understand what device is defective in order to find appropriate class actions to join. To find this information, contact the surgeon or doctor who implanted the device.


Find out the year, make, and model of the device. If the doctor didn’t purchase the device directly from the manufacturer, then find out the distributor who sold it to the doctor.
Also try to get documentary proof that you are using the device. In some situations, this is easy. For example, if you used a defective prosthetic, then can hold onto the prosthetic and show the lawyer.
However, some medical devices have been implanted in you. For example, you might have a defective artificial hip installed. In this situation, you need to get copies of hospital records that list the devices and instruments used during the surgery. This information might be on an itemized bill or on another record.;
, This website gathers information about current class actions. At the homepage, you can click on “Lawsuit List” at the top of the page.You then can scroll down through the list of current class action lawsuits. “Medical Devices” has its own section.
 Some attorneys advertise their class actions on television or in print media. Pay attention to see if any class action is being assembled to sue the manufacturer of the medical device.
 Lawyers will sometimes advertise on their websites if they have an ongoing class action.You can search for any existing class action by typing the name of the device and “class action” into a web browser.


If you find a current class action, then you can contact the lawyers for information.
In particular, you should request a copy of the complaint filed in the lawsuit. See if you fit the description of the class in the complaint. For example, a class might be defined as, “All consumers who used manufactured between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2004.” If you don’t fit the class description, then you can’t join the class.
For example, if your device was manufactured in 2005, then you can’t join this class action, even if your device is still defective.
 Most class actions are “opt out.” This means that you will be covered by the settlement or jury verdict unless you affirmatively opt out.By refusing to act, you become bound by the result of the lawsuit.In an “opt out” class action, you really don’t need to do anything. However, you should still contact the lawyers so that you can be given updates on any settlement.
If the case has already settled, then you might qualify for payment.Contact the lead attorneys on the class action and ask how you can get your portion of the settlement.
 A much smaller number of class actions will require you to “opt in.”In this situation, you will not actually be a member of the class action until you contact the court or the attorneys. Request a claim form.


Generally, you can opt-in to the class action by filling out a claim form.You should fill out the claim form promptly and mail it certified mail, return receipt requested.
Hold onto your copy of the claim form and staple the return receipt to it. The receipt is proof that the right person received your form.
 If no class action has been filed against the medical device manufacturer for the defective product, then you can file your own lawsuit. You do not need to be part of a class action in order to sue someone for harming you.


You should look for a personal injury attorney who can sue the manufacturer of the defective product. To find a personal injury lawyer, see Find a Good Personal Injury Lawyer.
The lawyer might choose to bring your lawsuit as a class action, or the lawyer might decide to file an individual lawsuit. You can discuss with the lawyer which option is best in your situation.

