 Try to find what is preventing you from falling asleep and, if possible, eliminate it. You may need to fix other problems and issues first in order to treat your insomnia. For example:


If anxiety or depression are keeping you awake at night, find what is making you feel anxious or depressed and try to manage that. This might involve speaking with your doctor and taking medication for anxiety or depression.
Your roommate might like to read or work late into the night, and the light he or she uses is keeping you awake. If your roommate is unable or refuses to work in another room, purchase a sleeping mask instead.;
, Try to perform the same activities every night before your bedtime. This means going to bed at the same time every evening and wake up at the same time every morning. You can also incorporate some relaxing activities into your bedtime routine, such as reading or listening to soft music.In this way, your mind will start associating such activities with bedtime and sleep.
 This means that the temperature is to your liking, and that the lighting is dark enough for you to fall asleep.


If your room is too warm, try to cool it down by opening a window, using fewer blankets, or turning a fan or air conditioning.
If your room is too cold, try to wear warmer clothing to sleep or using more blankets.
If you live in an area that is very bright at night, even if you turn off the lights, invest in a sleeping mask that covers your eyes.
 Use your bedroom only for sleeping and rest. This might involve removing distractions, such as computers and televisions, to ensure that you do not use them instead of sleeping. It might also mean that you have to complete your homework (or other work) in another room.


If you live in a studio apartment where everything is in a single room, or if it is not possible to work elsewhere, then do all of your work at your desk, in a library, or some other location. Do not work in your bed, as your subconscious will begin to associate your bed with working instead of sleeping.

