 While the celebrities might look great in their latest get-up, it’s not necessarily a look that will work for you.Remember the low-rise jean fad? If you had a body reminiscent of Christina Aguilera in the early 2000s, the trend may have worked for you. For most everyone though, it was rather unflattering.


Give the fashion mags and blogs a break, and resist the urge to buy the latest trendy item if you don’t see yourself actually wearing it more than a couple times.;
, Setting a limit to prohibit the purchase of too many non-basic items can help you avoid becoming a fashion victim. This will help you avoid being a fashion victim with the added benefit of saving you money. For example, you could set a maximum of $40 per month for the purchase of trendy items.
 You never want to copy someone’s look from head to toe without adding any of your own personal touches. Instead, let the trend inspire you to think of ways to incorporate it into your existing look.


If camo print is trending, you wouldn’t want to dress head to toe in it. Instead, try incorporating a camo jacket with your favorite pair of black skinny jeans and neutral tank top. This is an easy way to take a piece of the latest trend and apply it to your individual style.
 Stick with trends that you feel good wearing and can be comfortable in.


We look best in clothing we feel confident in, so it is always important to make sure you feel comfortable in your clothing. Remember to dress how you want to feel.
Some trends can actually cause damage to your body. Skinny jeans that are too tight can cut off circulation, and high heels worn too long, too often, or in inappropriate settings can cause damage to your feet. Only wear what is right for you, as any of these mistakes can quickly turn you into a fashion victim.
 Come spring, choker necklaces could be a trend long forgotten. If you want to be nice to your wallet and never fall victim to outdated fashion, focus on trends that you know never really go out of style.


For example, almost everyone looks good pairing blue jeans with a white top, and every woman can benefit from a properly fitting black dress for special occasions. These are two outfits you can count on to always be in style.
You should also invest in a good neutral blazer in black, beige, gray, or brown. This piece pairs well with jeans or khakis, and adds a touch of professionalism and class to any outfit.
A pair of comfortable black or nude pumps can be worn with just about anything and look amazing paired with jeans or flouncy skirts. Stylish bags, jewelry, and scarves are always an easy way to complete a timeless yet still trendy look (as well as to stick to your trend budget!).

