 Designate a consistent location that homework will be done. This environment should be free from distractions, so their bedroom may not be the best choice. Make sure that all electronics are turned off or put on silent. Also, be sure that any family members, including younger siblings, give the teenager the quiet time that they need.Doing homework at the kitchen table or a desk in the office or living room will provide them with enough space to complete their work.;
, Children thrive when they have a routine. Pick a time each day that your teenager does homework. You might consider including your teenager in this decision. Estimate the amount of time that they need to complete their homework. Be sure to consider regularly scheduled activities like ball practice or church functions.For example, your teen has baseball practice immediately following school. He doesn’t get home until 5:00. Your family eats dinner at 6:00. So, the best time for him to complete his homework is at 7:00.
 If your teenager has trouble remembering everything that they need to do, make sure that they have the tools that they need to help them remember all of their tasks and assignments. Provide them with a planner, post-it notes, highlighters, or other organizational tools. These tools will also help them manage their time to ensure that they complete their tasks on time.
 Parents often help their children with their homework. However, as your child gets older you may find that they need help with a subject that surpasses your knowledge. If you feel uncomfortable or incapable of providing your teen with assistance on a particular subject, consider hiring a tutor. A tutor can provide your teen extra, one-on-one assistance in a subject to increase their knowledge and help them achieve a good grade. A tutor may also help your child comprehend a subject by teaching them a number of techniques that the teacher has not covered.Ask your child’s teacher for recommendations on a good tutor in your area.
 Get involved in helping your child study and complete their homework. Try to come up with new ways to make learning fun and enjoyable. Learning a variety of ways will often make a new concept “stick”For example, if your teenager is having a hard time understanding geometry but understands basketball, consider taking a geometry lesson to the basketball court. Help your teenager understand different triangles by using your bodies and the basketball hoop to represent the different corners of a triangle. What happens to the triangle if one of you step further away from the basketball hoop?
Watch an interesting historical movie or documentary about a topic that your child is learning in history class.

