 Don't play hard to get and flirt with other guys to get his attention. It'll only make him think you're unavailable. A little chat or smile with another guy would be good enough. This will make him a little jealous and - most likely - want you more.;
, Have conversations about things you two have in common. Look him in the eyes and smile when you talk. If he smiles and makes eye contact with you, this may be a sign that he may be interested in you. Ask him some casual questions, just to know him better. However, don't ask too many! He will probably feel uncomfortable. You don't have to just focus on him - talk a little about yourself as well! If he likes you, he might start listening to your favorite band or have an interest in your hobbies to get your attention.
 Start off mildly and work your way up. For those who are beginners at flirting, make eye contact for a second and smile, then look away slowly. Don't stare for too long, as it will make things really awkward. Try making a little physical contact. Brush by him when you can and let your arm linger for a little bit. You could playfully pat his back and - if you're ready - start to hug him! However, be sure you know him well enough and that it won't be awkward if you hug him.


Making the first move may be different for everyone. Maybe one person wants to just hang out or go on a date. Perhaps another person wants to start becoming boyfriend and girlfriend. This step will focus on choice two. Dress up, but don't try too hard.
Approach him and give him a smile. Ask him if he wants to hang out after school, or go catch a movie. If he agrees, tell him, "Okay, see ya" and give him a smile or a hug, then walk off. If he politely declines, then he probably just wants to be friends. Don't get discouraged, because there are many fish in the sea!

, Tell him you had a great time and that you would like to do it again. If he looks like he had a good time, then this is a good sign. Now face him and look him in the eyes, and say "I really like you, and I was wondering if we could be more than friends." Smile at him and be confident. Try not to be shy. If he says yes, then you just made a move. If he says no, then just be friends. Don't push him into anything!

, Some girls may skip this step, but others may want to try it. When you're about to leave, give him a quick, soft kiss on the cheek and walk off, not looking back. If you're already dating him and you've already kissed him before, move onto the mouth if he looks happy. If he's not ready, don't push it. Give him a hug.

