 If you don't own a blog yet, you need to find the right platform for you. There are so many blogging platforms out in the market to choose from such as WordPress, Blogger, Tumblr, and Medium, Weebly etc. Try one out; if you are not satisfied with its offered features, then you can move to another, there are countless options some are free and some paid.;
, Even if you don't have a passion, writing about your daily life can make for a good read, depending how you word it. If you are going to blog about what you did today, make it interesting. People are looking for a funny story or your opinion on a debatable subject. They may not be as willing to read how you changed a lightbulb today. Using photos can help enhance the reading experience and engage readers more.
 This simply means you need to go through other bloggers' posts, which helps to improve your writing skills and exposes you to new ways of writing. You must always be a student and ready to learn. You can read about topics of your interest., If you are blogging about fashion, travel or food, then you can choose interesting or attractive themes related to this, which helps to attract readers. Try to make a simple, stylish and professional design.
 The very basics of this is knowing which keywords to focus on. These are what people are searching for in the search engines, and how they might find your blog. Some of these keywords get a lot more searches than others get, so it's in your best interest to eventually choose the ones that do get searched for often. Keep in mind that these are often more competitive than ones that are searched for less -- but you might get lucky.
 Choose a big one that will take longer to reach, as well as three to four additional terms you're going to try to rank for. These should all be similar! Then, you're going to include these keywords in each blog post you make in various combinations. Always focus your posts on one term, and include the others only if they make sense. As you focus on these similar keywords the search engines will start to rank you more highly because your blog is tightly focused and relevant to what you're targeting.
 A lot of ranking decisions are based on how many backlinks you have coming into your website. You can get these links by writing articles to submit to directories, writing guest blog posts on other high traffic blogs, using social networking sites, using social bookmarking sites, and buying links (be very careful with this tactic).
 Google seems to favor domains that have had some time to age and that are going to be a good bet for their visitors. Remember -- Google's (and other engines') goal is to provide the best experience possible for the people who search with them. If your blog is going to be a good match for your search terms it will be easier for you to rank and stay there.
 If you are blogging about music, then don't make a post about twilight or something. If you don't stay on topic it will change what visitors think of your blog.
 Make your posts something you can't get on other blogs. Try to change your format. Also try to organize your post. The better your post is organized the better the post will seem. The better your posts seem the better your blog will seem.


Make sure that you're always posting amazing content. The better your content and the more interesting your blog, the more people will link to it. There is nothing better than getting free links just because people liked what you have to say! Keep your mind on the SEO side of things, but also remember that you are ultimately catering to the needs of the people in your niche. If they like you, the search engines will like you.
 When you start only you will know about the blog. Only start promoting your blog after you get about 15 posts or so. If you promote it before people will think your blog isn't good enough. Don't spam your link. There are plenty of ways to promote your blog.


Use different social media platforms.
Add tags to your post. That will make your posts show up in search engines like google.
Add a link to your site on a forum signature. It will be better if the forum and your blog are the same topic. Make sure you post on the forum though.
Exchange links with others sites. Make a blog roll.
 Don't take a break every other week though.
 When readers leave comments, it means they're interested in interacting with you and getting your feedback. If you ignore them, there is a risk that they'll feel unappreciated and will stop reading your work

, This may show the interest of your reader on your post and also helps in building a healthy relationship with other bloggers. Always give a reply to your reader's comment, so, that they cannot feel ignored from your side.
 There are many ways to do this, such as surveys, polls, quizzes and even competitions.

