 Because white spots are also an indication of enamel damage and early stages of tooth decay or can also be produced by fluoride ingestion at an early age (childhood fluorosis), preventing these spots from forming is almost always preventable with regular brushing and flossing.Improving your dental hygiene habits will reduce the likelihood of getting white spots in the future. Some tips to help you have great oral hygiene habits include:


Always brush your teeth after waking up, after eating, and before going to bed.
Check the fluoride content of your toothpaste. You need enough fluoride to reduce acid and balance out your mouth's pH levels, but you don’t want to have so much fluoride that it is damaging. Try to aim for amounts of fluoride between 1,000 and 1,500 ppm unless your dentist says otherwise.
Floss every night. If you have difficulty using standard floss, try using a pre-threaded flosser, instead.
Visit the dentist every six months. Good care at home can prevent most problems, but a dentist can diagnose early signs of plaque buildup and other related issues.
 Certain foods can damage tooth enamel and make the mouth acidic and dry, allowing more bacteria to grow as a result. This can damage the enamel on your teeth and allow harmful bacteria to infiltrate the pores of your teeth, leeching nutrients and minerals from the teeth and causing white spots. Some tips to reduce your intake of these products include:Avoid sugary drinks, especially carbonated drinks like soda. Also be wary of candy and products that contain artificial sweeteners.
If you need to sweeten something, opt for natural alternatives like honey or maple syrup, and use as little as possible.
If you do consume anything that is high in sugar or carbohydrates, be sure to rinse your mouth with water immediately, then brush after about 30 minutes.
 In addition to remineralizing your teeth with home remedies or in-office professional treatments, another great way to prevent white spots is to eat foods that are heavy in teeth strengthening minerals.


By consuming vitamin D- and calcium-rich foods like milk, cheese, and yogurt, your teeth and body will absorb nutrients that help make your teeth strong and prevent white spots.
Also look for foods that are high in magnesium, like dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, fish, soybeans, and avocado, because magnesium helps the body absorb and retain more calcium., Staying hydrated helps your body perform at its best and it may also help prevent white spots. When your mouth is dry, the lack of saliva throws off the pH balance in your mouth and allows bacteria to grow and attack your teeth with their acid.


Try to drink at least eight 8-oz (250-mL) glasses of water daily. Avoid hydrating with liquids like fruit juice, soda, or other beverages. If you do drink one of these damaging liquids, be sure to rinse your mouth with water or brush your teeth afterward.Add a few drops of lemon juice which can help promote saliva flow.
 Two of the most damaging substances you can introduce to your mouth are tobacco and caffeine. Caffeine is extremely acidic and damages the enamel on your teeth, allowing bacteria to enter the pores of your teeth and cause white spots and other decay. Smoking and chewing tobacco increase plaque and tartar build-up on your teeth, which can cause more damaged areas and white spot formation.Tobacco and caffeine will also stain your teeth, and any white spots you currently have will only appear more pronounced against the yellowing enamel.

