 Good writers use clear, concise language. They don't bog down sentences with extra words and long, winding sections. They cut to the chase and make their point in the simplest language possible. Sometimes it's best to break longer sentences into 2-3 smaller ones.



Original Sentence: "The philosophy of Existentialism resists descending into the lofty, theoretical arguments that plagued many early philosophies, and thus gains it’s power."

"Existentialism became powerful because, unlike earlier, more theoretical philosophies, it is grounded and practical."



Original Sentence: "Was the bomb not to ever come to being, America might never have overcome the long, drawn out war in the Pacific."

"Who knows how long the US would have had to fight in the Pacific without the bomb."



Original Sentence: "Wandering in the desolate wilderness, Dave sat on a dusty, crepuscular rock and thought about his past while drinking from his almost empty canteen."

"Tired of aimless wandering, Dave sat on a dusty boulder to rest. He opened his canteen, but there were only a few drops left. Tired and thirsty, his mind drifted to his past."



, People are visual animals - we see things when we read and orient ourselves with images. Give your reader enough specifics to visualize your writing whether you're writing stories, scripts, or speeches. Use 1-2 powerful images or senses to put the reader in your scene, paragraph, or shoes.


I felt tired → "My arms and muscles trembled, and my eyelids fluttered shut no matter how hard I tried to stay awake."Gina is a nice woman. → "Gina was the kind of woman who baked you a plate of cookies (hot, gooey, smelling like home), just because you said you had a rough day."
To him, the city was terrible. → "He couldn't stand the city - the endless lights, the clatter of cars and pavement, the way all eyes turned downward when you looked at them as if you were the ugliest man in Manhattan and not just another stranger."

, Comparing two things, either with a metaphor, simile, or direct comparison, helps your reader make connections and deepens your writing. It gives them something to hold onto that they already understand, which helps them understand your writing. You can even make connections to your own stories, like in the third example here:"In many ways he was like America itself, big and strong, full of good intentions, a roll of fat jiggling at his belly, slow of foot but always plodding along, always there when you needed him, a believer in the virtues of simplicity and directness and hard labor" (The Things They Carried, Tim O'Brien).
"Like the waters of the river, like the motorists on the highway, and like the yellow trains streaking down the Santa Fe tracks, drama, in the shape of exceptional happenings, had never stopped there" (In Cold Blood, Truman Capote).
"Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buendia was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice" (One-Hundred Years of Solitude, Gabriel Garcia Marquez).
“For poems are like rainbows; they escape you quickly" (The Big Sea, Langston Hughes).
 Adverbs, the words that end in -ly and modify actions, are the bane of many great writers. They give a sing-song feel to writing and bog down the meaning of a sentence in useless little modifications. Notice how, in most cases, the adverbs and filler words (like "really" or "very") don't add a lot to the sentences.


"Jaime was really sorry, and ran quickly over to his friend's house just to apologize."
"What's up?" She asked, happily. "Nothing much," he answered tiredly.She picked her face absently and said, "I wanted to talk about something." "I don't have time," he responded curtly.
 Great paragraphs should be self-contained. They have a beginning, middle, and end. Otherwise, they don't actually move the story or essay along. Thought of another way, every paragraph and scene should end in a different place than where it started.Ernest Hemingway was the master of economy. It is hard to find an extra paragraph or scene in any of his short stories or books. Everything adds up.

Great journalism is a good way to see how each smaller part pushes the story forward. Read your favorite newspaper, but stop after every paragraph -- what did it accomplish?
Though not strictly a paragraph, Shakespearean monologues are a masterclass in growth and power in a short span. Listen to Hamlet's famous first monologue -- note how different he is in beginning and end.
 Sometimes, the best way to get your point across is a long, winding sentence that packs in a multitude of meaning. Occasionally, you really do need adverbs and silly filler words to make a point perfectly. A direct point can be better than an indirect comparison. Sometimes a paragraph is there to provide tone, to slow down the pacing, or pause on a beautiful description, even if it "accomplishes" nothing., You may prefer to write a new short scene every day, or work on a long-term, writing project. You might have a daily minimum of one paragraph, or an entire page. But if you take any advice from this page, stick to one important habit: write every single day.


If you can't find room in your schedule, try getting up early or going to bed late, even if you can only spare fifteen minutes.
 Don't be so afraid to write something "bad" that you end up staring at a blank document.Getting anything on the page at all can help you get started. Write about how you're stuck and can't think of something to write, or describe an object in the room in painfully exhaustive detail, or rant about something that irritates you. A few minutes of this will often put you in "writing mode" and lead you to another idea.


Look online, in bookstores, or in libraries for collections of writing prompts. These are designed to give you a starting point to work from, and are often ridiculous to spark your imagination and get you started.
 If you've been writing for a while, chances are good that you keep getting drawn back to a particular style, topic, or format. Practicing a favorite type of writing is a great way to keep yourself motivated, but make an effort to vary your writing exercises once in a while. Deliberately tackling new and difficult challenges is vital for improvement in any field.Try these challenges as exercises, whether or not you're interested in polishing the end result:


If your writing projects or your narrators all sound similar, try a different style. Imitate another author, or combine the styles of two authors.If most of your writing is for a blog, or for one long project, take a break from it. Think of a topic that could never fit into your usual writing project, and write about it. (For a followup challenge, rewrite the piece so it could fit into your project.)

, Invite feedback on your writing, and offer to read other writers' drafts. Welcome honest criticism offered as advice for improvement, but keep your writing away from friends who act dismissive or negative.There's a big difference between useful critique, and disheartening negativity.


Look for online communities such as Scribophile or WritersCafe, or search for a more niche community on a specific type of writing.
Check your local library and community centers for information on local writing clubs.
You could even practice writing on a wiki, such as wikiHow or Wikipedia. This lets you help people as you practice, and might be one of the largest communal writing projects you ever undertake.
 If you have trouble getting around to your writing projects, make a commitment to other people to give yourself external motivation. Get a pen pal to write letters to on a regular schedule, or start a blog with weekly updates. Find a writing contest a few weeks in the future, and promise to submit an entry. Join a writing challenge, whether that's a single writing session with a group of friends, or NaNoWriMo's annual "novel in a month" extravaganza.
 The first draft of a story always has room for improvement, and often ends up looking quite different after a few revisions.Once you've written a piece that attracts your attention, go through the "finished" piece of writing and find sentences, paragraphs, or whole pages you're dissatisfied with. Rewrite a scene from a different character's perspective, try out alternative plot developments, or change the order of events. If you're not sure why you dislike a passage, rewrite it without referring to the original, then see what you like best in each version.


Scrapping a beloved passage and starting again can be incredibly tough, so much so that writers have been phrasing this advice as "murder your darlings" for over a century., Writers have a passion for the written word, and there's no better way to stoke that passion than to read. Read as widely as possible, from magazines to young adult novels to history dissertations, although you don't need to feel pressure to finish everything you pick up.Reading builds vocabulary, teaches grammar, provides inspiration, and shows you what can be done with language. For the beginning writer, reading may be just as important as the actual writing.If you're not sure what to read, ask for recommendations from friends, or visit a library and pick a couple books from each section.
 While you're reading, keep a dictionary and thesaurus on hand, or write down unfamiliar words to look up later. World class writers have argued over whether to use simple words, or employ sesquipedalian verbiage. That's something for you to decide in your own writing, but not before you learn which tools are available.


Dictionary definitions often don't provide an intuitive sense of how to use a word. Search for the word online and read it in context to get a better understanding.
 Sure, there are plenty of famous, excellent books written in non-standard grammar, but learning grammar isn't just about memorizing a set of rules. Studying how a sentence is put together, and how punctuation is used to structure it, gives you the knowledge you need to express yourself the way you intend. If you think this may be a weak point for you, study an English textbook, or find a writing tutor.



Learn how to write without informal grammar if you are not used to formal, written English.
If you have a question about grammar, refer to a grammar book, such as The American Heritage Book of English Usage.
 Just as you change your clothing for the weather and the occasion, you should also change your writing for your audience and your message. Flowery writing, for example, might fit better in a poem than in a status report. Make sure that your word choice and sentence length is not too difficult (or too simplistic) for your audience, if you are addressing a specific group. Avoid specialized jargon when speaking to someone unfamiliar with the topic.
 While thinking about what to write, put down any idea that comes to you, even if it seems far-fetched or unlikely to be successful. One mediocre idea may lead to a better one.
 Find a topic that grabs your attention and thrills you. Your excitement and interest will make it easier for you to keep the project going and keep it to a high standard, and hopefully it will rub off on the reader as well.
 A serious writing project doesn't need to be a full-length book. Crafting a short story can be a difficult and rewarding challenge, and may be a more time-effective way to practice your skills.
 Keep a notebook for writing down observations, overheard conversations, and sudden ideas encountered in your daily life. When you read or hear something that makes you laugh, think, or want to repeat it to someone else, write it down and think about what makes it effective.


You may use this notebook to write down unfamiliar words as well.
 Use whatever technique works best for you, or try out several if you don't have an established process yet. You can make an outline, put a collection of notes on cards and arrange them until they are in order, or draw a tree or map. Your outline may have nothing but a rough order of the events or topics covered, or it may be a more detailed scene-by-scene summary. Building some kind of structure in advance can help keep you going on days when you're feeling low on creativity.There are many types of organizational software for writers, such as Scrivener or TheSage.
It's fine to deviate from your plan, but if you abandon it entirely, stop and consider the reasons behind the chance. Build a new plan to guide you through the altered work, and keep you thinking consciously about how you want to get through it.
 While a work of nonfiction requires you to know your subject, even a fiction book will benefit from research. If your main character is a glassblower, read a book on glassblowing and use the right terminology. If you are writing a book set before you were born, interview people who lived during that time, or who spoke to parents and grandparents who did.


In the case of fiction writing, you may be able to dive in to the first draft before you start your research.
 Try writing without pause for as long as you can. Do not stop to change your word choice or correct your grammar, spelling, or punctuation. This is one of the most common recommendations for making sure that you actually finish what you start.
 Once you have a first draft, reread it and rewrite it. You are looking for errors in grammar and spelling as well as style, content, organization, and coherence. If there are any passages you dislike, get rid of them and write them again from scratch. Critiquing your own work is an important skill, and it takes plenty of practice, just like writing itself..


Give yourself time between writing and editing, if at all possible. It is better to wait a good length of time, but even a short break can give you some of the necessary distance and detachment to edit well.
 Get feedback on your work in progress from interested readers, whether they are friends, fellow writers, or readers of your writing blog. Try to accept criticism without getting angry or upset; even if you don't agree with the specifics, knowing what parts of your work people dislike can be valuable for focusing your editing.
 Don't be afraid to make drastic changes, even cutting whole sections of the project or rewriting it from a different character's perspective. Continue the cycle of feedback and editing as you explore how to perfect your work. If it feels like running in place, remember you are practicing skills that will help you in all your future writing. You can always take a break to write something fun and ridiculous, just to remind yourself that writing can be a blast.

