 This is a precautionary measure if you find signs of irritation on your cat's skin. You'll be less likely to pass germs into any open wounds. If you find ticks, you'll be able to remove them before they can do further harm to your cat.;
, Make sure the fur is glossy and smooth. After your stroke it, it should spring back into place.Make sure the skin is soft and free of blemishes.


Call your vet if you find dandruff, bumps, bald spots, or wounds. Although these symptoms might signal conditions that can be treated with simple lifestyle changes, they might signal something more serious like mange or a hormonal imbalance., Do this especially if you notice your cat scratching more than usual. Use a flea comb for this step.Look for flea droppings. They're small, dark objects that look like grains of sand. You should also look and feel for flea eggs. Because they're white, they can blend in with your cat's skin. Like flea dirt, they feel like grains of sand. Other symptoms include bald spots, skin irritation, and pale lips/gums.If you find one or more fleas, your cat probably has many more. Call your vet as soon as possible to work out a treatment plan.
 This usually isn't a problem for indoor cats, but it's a good idea to check no matter where your cat spends their time. Ticks are very small when they're not gorged with blood. They're brown with teardrop-shaped bodies. When they're full of blood, they look like large gray cysts hanging out of the animal's skin.


If you find a tick unattached to your cat's skin, grab it as quickly as possible with a pair of tweezers. Be careful not to pinch your cat's skin. Kill the tick by drowning it in a small container of rubbing alcohol.
If the tick has its head in your cat's skin, smother the area with petroleum jelly first. This will cut off the tick's source of air and cause it to back its head out. When it does back out, grab it with the tweezers and drown it in the rubbing alcohol. Disinfect the area before proceeding with grooming., Look for any fecal matter that might have gotten matted in with your cat's hair. This is often a problem in older cats and cats with long hair. You should also check for small tan objects that look like grains of rice. This could indicate tapeworm, which requires immediate veterinary attention.If you do find fecal matter in your cat's fur, try removing it with a fine-toothed comb. If this doesn't work—and if your cat doesn't object to getting wet—rinse the area with warm water. If you can't remove the feces through these measures, contact your vet.

