 In most games, there's at least one "no-skill" weapon that lets you kill easily without a lot of skill or know-how. This annoys purists to no end, because you're getting credit for brute force instead of delicate artistry. In Counter-Strike Source, for example, it's the P90 with its 50 clip and spam capability. In Team Fortress 2, it's the Sydney Sleeper or Machina for being able to do significant damage regardless of headshot. Every shooter game has a weapon that's easy to use for kills or exploits a loophole. If somebody complains about these weapons, all the better: get that gun and massacre them in illicit style.;
, On the flip side, if you can't find any no-skill weapons yourself, you can make fun of the people who use this tactic. People who make fun of gamers with no-skill weapons are sometimes called scrubs. A scrub is a species of gamer with a bad attitude who's forgotten how to have fun and is known to be a very sore loser. Scrubs tend to complain a lot — pretty much all the time. They complain because they've established rules of fair-play by themselves and deem everyone not following their rules to be cheating.


As most people know, complaining about why something is unfair quickly gets annoying. If you can do your best scrub impression and complain about a skill being too unbeatable, for example, you're sure to be very annoying.
 Whether it's a fully animated in-game taunt or mic-spam, this one works every time. After any kill, make a gesture that involves a single finger. See that "excellent" body shot? Make sure to wave! Of course, if you're not a fan of irony or subtlety, you can always just get your mic out and obnoxiously yell "GET REKT," "2K00L4U," or "GIT GUD SCRUB." The list goes on. In all caps.
 When a player spawns without weapons or armor, it's sometimes considered polite to give him time to find weapons or armor in order to make the fight "fair." If you come across someone who's just spawned, kill them. No one ever said video games were fair.
 If you want to truly be annoying, know that there's only so far you can go without being really insulting. Let's say, for example, you're playing some koth_lakeside in TF2 and see your teammate standing still. /votekick him for idling instantly. Afterward, his friend complains that his mom was yelling at him and he wasn't really idle. You may already feel like a jerk, so why not finish the job? "Oh I'm sorry.... Here, I can talk to his mom. I've got her on the phone right now!"

, Probably the easiest way to be annoying is to just keep talking. It helps distract other players, and if you are using expletives or saying offensive things, it will really help you maximize how annoying you are. Here are some other surefire microphone strategies to annoy your opponents:


Make "pew pew" noises when you shoot your weapon. Bonus points if your weapon is huge.
Scream into the mic in really tense moments of the game when other gamers are concentrating.
Turn your mic on and keep it on for long periods of time so people can hear your awful background noises.
React sincerely to an insincere insult. If someone says "Shut up. Nobody likes you," an excellent response would be "Thank you for the feedback. I really appreciate it. I'll try to better myself."
Keep saying the same things in chat or in team speak. Over and over and over again.
 Remain in the same spot all the time and wait for enemies to come to you instead of coming to them. A lot of people complain about campers instead of out-gambiting the camper or simply avoiding the area. Campers have a reputation the world over for violating the spirit of video games.
 Traditionally, FPSs are a free-for-all. Shoot everyone and anyone to rack up the most kills. If you want things to get a little weird — and annoying — you can follow around a single (preferably bad) player and only focus on killing them. It doesn't make sense, but that's what it's so deliciously annoying.

