 In the majority of cases, parvovirus is fatal without effective treatment and it is also highly infectious. If the veterinarian advises intravenous fluids are necessary, where possible take that advice because it could save your dog's life. Be aware a dog with parvo will produce large volumes of bloody diarrhea and it can be difficult to cope safely with the volumes involved. Also, if you own multiple dogs and take a sick dog home to nurse, without the proper "barrier" nursing, to prevent accidentally spreading infection on shoes or utensils, then you are putting your other dogs at risk. Veterinary clinics have special isolation facilities, and protocols for dealing with such infections in order to prevent spread.If your dog stayed at the vet, the vet would likely give your dog IV fluids to help rehydrate your dog and medications such as anti-nausea medications to treat the symptoms. Your vet would also be able to continue to analyze your dog's electrolyte and protein levels, providing treatment as needed.She would be able to isolate your dog better than you can do at home, especially if you have other dogs.
Parvo is a viral infection, which is why it is passed so easily and why it is difficult to treat. It is most prevalent in puppies up to 6 months old. The gastrointestinal version affects your dog's digestive tract primarily, leading to dehydration and the dog not be able to take in the nutrition he needs. The other type of parvo affects the heart, and it is not readily treatable at home.;
, You deliver subcutaneous fluids under the skin. IV fluids are better, which are given in a vein, but you will not likely be equipped to provide IV fluids at home. Your dog needs fluids because parvo dehydrates your dog through diarrhea and vomiting, and he may not be able to take them orally at first due to the vomiting.These fluids help with the dehydration. However, in seriously ill animals, their circulation is often so poor that the fluids are poorly absorbed from beneath the skin.


Your vet is the best place to find these types of fluids.
In addition, your vet can give you advice on what type of fluids and how much to administer to your dog.
 You will need a syringe with a 20 gauge needle, though slightly smaller (22 gauge) or slightly larger (18 gauge) needles may be used for differently sized dogs. Ask your vet what the right size is for your dog. You can use a differently sized needle for drawing fluids, say slightly smaller, so you don't inject the fluids with the one you used on the dog. Use a new sterile needle for each injection.
 The fluids will likely be in a plastic bag contained in a larger bag. Tear the larger bag off the fluids. The most common type you'll see is Lactated Ringers Solution (LRS). Sterilize the injection port by using an antiseptic on a cotton ball, and take off the cap. Insert the needle into the injection port. Pull back on the plunger to draw fluids into the syringe. How much you give is based on how much your dog is losing and how much your dog needs over 12 hours, information provided a few steps down.


Throw the needle you're using away when you're done. It shouldn't go back into the fluids.
You may not want to use the fluids again at all. Talk to your vet about whether or not it's appropriate to keep fluids for more than one use.
 You must know your dog's weight before you begin. Weigh your dog if you need to do so. For instance, puppies that weigh 5 pounds or under need 50 to 75 cubic centimeters of fluid every 12 hours. You definitely want to offer fluids more than every 12 hours; these amounts should be spread out over 12 hours. Ask your vet how often you should be giving subcutaneous fluids and how much you should be giving each time.You may need to provide fluids as often as every hour.


Dogs that weigh about 10 pounds need 100 to 150 cubic centimeters every 12 hours, while 20 pound dogs need 150 to 300 cubic centimeters and 40 pound dogs need 200 to 400 cubic centimeters.For 50 pound dogs, give 300 to 500 cubic centimeters ever 12 hours.Keep in mind that these numbers are just estimates. A dog losing extra fluid in the form of sickness or diarrhea requires extra fluids. Be aware that placing large volumes of fluid under the skin can actually damage the skin, and cause it to die off and slough away in a few days time. Again, where possible, go with intravenous fluids.
 Take a moment to calm your dog by petting him and talking gently to him. Have him lay down, and if possible, have someone else hold on to him while you're working so he doesn't run away. Lift the loose skin on your dog's back. Insert the needle into the loose skin only.You can administer the fluids anywhere along the back of the neck or back, as long as there is enough loose skin. Steadily push the plunger in to release the fluid under the skin.
The fluids will make a bump under the skin, but they will be taken into the bloodstream soon as long as the dog is not in shock and has a good circulatory system., While doing so, use your fingers to squeeze around the hole, massaging the area as you do. You don't want the fluids to come back out., Fluids may pool under your dog's skin if you are giving too much. You'll see swelling around the sides of the chests and sometimes in the legs. If that happens, watch your dog until the pools disappear, and then resume giving him liquids, though you should lessen how much you are giving him., Your veterinarian can provide you with drugs to ease the vomiting. Since you can only treat the symptoms of parvo, not the actual disease, this step is one of the most important to provide comfort for your dog.Your dog may also need a medication to control diarrhea.Brace your dog against your body or a wall. Use one arm to hold him.Fill the syringe with the amount recommended on the bottle. Insert it gently between the cheek and teeth.Slowly push in the plunger. Let the medication drain into your dog's mouth., Though antibiotics will not do anything for the parvo, they will stop another infection from taking over. Your doctor can provide you with antibiotics, as well. Follow the directions on the bottle, and give the liquid orally as provided in the previous step., If your dog is particularly severe, your vet may need to provide pain relief, as well. You give this medication the same way as the others as needed., One study found that a using a certain medication regimen at home greatly increased a dog's chances of surviving. The first part of the regimen is giving a strong anti-nausea drug, Maropitant, once a day. The other part of the regimen is having the vet give one dose of long-lasting antibiotic under the skin when the dog is diagnosed (Convenia), and then having the pet parent give subcutaneous fluids 3 times every day. Ask your vet if these drugs are right for your dog., You only give subcutaneous fluids while you are trying to slow down your dog's vomiting. Once your dog is able to keep fluids down, you can use an electrolyte-infused drink, such as Pedialyte, to help your dog get hydrated., These syringes have a stronger, wider tip, so they make it easier to give your dog fluids. You will not put a needle on the end to provide oral fluids.
 Use the syringe to draw up fluids. Stick the syringe in the bottle, and pull back the plunger to the appropriate line.Give 2 to 4 cubic centimeters for each pound your dog weighs per hour., Your dog will likely be weak from parvo, anyway. However, if your dog fights, you will need to hold your dog or have someone hold him for you while you give him oral fluids.Try bracing the dog against your body so that he can't move around as much.Hold him with one arm while you give him the liquid with the other., Start by inserting a finger into the mouth between the cheek and the teeth. Push the syringe gently in. The jaw does not have to be open. Push the plunger down, releasing the liquid into the mouth. The liquid should drain through the teeth., It may be tempting to lift your dog's chin to help the liquid drain to the back of the throat. However, doing so can make your dog breathe in the liquid, causing aspiration., Keep an eye on your dog after giving him liquids. If your dog throws it up, wait until later to try giving oral fluids again., Parvo is extremely contagious, which is one reason it is such a difficult disease. Your dog can remain contagious for as long as 2 months. Make sure to isolate your infected dog from other dogs in the family if possible, and keep him away from public spaces while he is still contagious. Even vaccinated dogs can still get parvo, so it's best to keep all dogs separate.Parvo is mainly passed through feces and fluids passing from one dog to another. It can even be passed by your dog sniffing another dog.If you have other dogs in the house, make sure that your sick dog is using the bathroom in a different area from your other dogs, as your dogs can catch it from the sick dog's feces as long as 2 months after the symptoms have passed., A dog's temperature usually runs between 101 and 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Use a dog's rectal thermometer to take your dog's temperature.Add petroleum jelly to the end. You can use another type of oil, such as baby oil, if you don't have have petroleum jelly. Insert the thermometer into the anus, going in about an inch. Go slowly, and be gentle. Digital thermometers should give you a reading in less than a minute.If your dog is too cold, you may need to warm fluids before giving them under the skin. You may also need to provide a heating pad. Just be sure to provide protection from the heating pad, as your puppy could be burned if he is directly on it. Use a thick towel or blanket between the dog and the heating pad., Once your dog has stopped vomiting and shows an interest in food, start with bland food. Skip the kibble for now. Instead, try very lean ground beef boiled with rice (be sure to skim off any fat) or cottage cheese. Yogurt is also a good option. Ask your vet for other options., Mix 30 parts of water with 1 part bleach. Use that mixture to sanitize hard surfaces in your home, especially ones where your dog has been. That will kill the virus but only on hard surfaces.For other areas, such as carpet and couches, wipe as clean as possible, and then get them steam cleaned. You might also consider quaternary ammonia for cleaning soft surfaces.For outdoor areas, the best you can do is pick up any of your dog's feces and water the yard a bit more often. The dilution can help lower the amount of virus in your yard over time, and the sun will also kill some of it., Once your dog has stopped showing symptoms, give him a bath with antibacterial shampoo. Repeat in a week.Make sure to let the shampoo sit for at least 5 minutes so it can work.Also, ensure you keep your dog warm while bathing by using warm water and warm towels when he gets out of the bathtub.