 Buying makeup is a waste of time if you’re not going to use it. If you’re the kind of person who only wears a little mascara, buying a large quantity of skin products isn’t going to help you. Likewise, if you already own four bright red lipsticks, one more isn’t going to make a difference.Before heading to the store, make a list of products you need or would actually use. Then purchase only these items.
Go through your makeup and check to see what’s already expired. Make a list of any products you need to replenish.;
, Everyone’s coloring is different, and the shade that looks amazing on your best friend might not paint you in the best light. Try going to a department store or specialty makeup store for a color consultation.If you have fair skin, shop for products in soft pink, tawny and beige. Avoid orangey reds.
If you have medium- fair skin, shop for products with yellow and gold undertones.
If you have medium-dark skin, shop for products in browns, like caramel and honey.
If you have dark skin, shop for products in metallic hues, like copper or bronze.
 The best way to avoid wearing too much makeup (or spending too much money on makeup) is to focus on your best features. Play up the features you're most proud of and let the rest of your makeup be a little more natural.If you have amazing eyes, spend your money on eyeliner and eye-shadow.
If your eyelashes are long, buy an eyelash curler and mascara.
If you have killer cheekbones, shop for blush, bronzer, and an illuminator.
If you have a full mouth, shop for lipstick.
 Makeup is ideal for covering up or disguising your flaws. If you’re insecure about something on your face, shop for products that will help downplay that insecurity.If you get bad under-eye circles, invest in a good concealer.
If you have bad skin, invest in a good concealer and foundation.
If you have short or light-colored lashes, look for a mascara that adds length and volume.
If you have thin eyebrows, shop for eyebrow gel and an eyebrow comb.

