 Read a lot to gather knowledge in different areas and do mental exercises to improve your logic and thinking ability. Itachi was a child prodigy and is an incredibly intelligent ninja; if one wishes to emulate his behavior, one must be able to think from an intelligent and analytical perspective.;
, Itachi is lean and trimmed, so one should work on endurance and power (the speed at which one can exert strength) to gain muscle tone and not get bulky.
 Increase your combat skills and ability to deal with dangerous situations more effectively. Itachi uses fighting styles like Judo, kickboxing, and boxing. His strong points are sword fighting, illusions (Itachi uses Sharingan for that, however this eye technique doesn't exist in real life-but there are other ways to manipulate the mind of your opponent) and shuriken accuracy. However, Itachi prefers to use strategy to win a battle.
 Do not hold eye contact with anyone unless you wish to interact with them; just walk past others, as if they were objects with varying velocities. If you sense that you are getting into a conflict with someone, end the interaction quickly and peacefully. Itachi knows when to act and when to stay quiet, so try to emulate his calm nature.
 Avoid wearing baggy pants and clothes with noticeable brand logos. Your outfit as a whole should adhere to an overall theme and should not stand out in vibrancy or design. If you wear glasses or have inadequate eyesight, switch to using contacts. Take care of your image; your hairstyle should be done properly and not detract from your appearance.
 Develop an awareness reflex, which means having a part of your subconscious alert you of when you are unaware of something. This is obviously tricky, but it can be self taught with practice. It's similar to that part of the mind that reminds you to look both ways before crossing the street, or to keep a part of your focus when you are walking on avoiding things that you might trip over. Notice everything around you, any movement, anything.
 Get into the habit of always making a straight face, revealing absolutely no emotion. True calmness reveals little facial expressions other than a straight face. Don't do anything beyond a simple short-lived smile, if you find something very funny.
 Sometimes even walking away can be the best solution; however, be careful on who you turn your back on. Ultimately though, it is always best to avoid the conflict in the first place.

