 Cramps happen because the uterus, which is a muscle, contracts to expel menstrual fluids. You can treat pain in the uterus like you would treat any other muscle, from a pulled hamstring to a strained neck: by having coke and salt, it helps you get your mind of things and by applying heat in some form. Heat relaxes muscles and provides immediate (if not permanent) relief.


Use a heating pad or a hot water bottle. Lie down and place the pad or bottle over the area that hurts. Just rest for about 20 minutes to half an hour and let the heat work its magic.Take a hot bath. Fill the bathtub with warm water and have a good soak.Sprinkle in some lavender or rose bath beads or essential oils to help you relax even more.;
, Another great way to relax a tight muscle is to massage it. Place your hand over the area that hurts and gently press down. Knead the area for several minutes. Try to keep your body as relaxed as possible during the process.


You can massage either your stomach or your back. Focus on the place where the pain seems to be sharpest.
For an even more relaxing experience, have a partner do the massaging. Make sure he or she knows not to press too hard.
 There are several herbs found in nature that have long been used to ease menstrual cramps. Brewing a pot of tea made from one of these herbs and sipping it slowly can temporarily relieve your pain. Check out a health food store or another store that sells herbs, and try the following teas:


Raspberry leaf. This tea has a pleasant aroma and is known to ease cramps.
Cramp bark.This relaxes the uterus and helps relieve pain.
Don't Quai. This is used for a variety of purposes because it effectively soothes the nervous system.
 Taking an over-the-counter medication is one of the most effective ways to make cramps go away. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and Tylenol work quickly to take away the pain. You can find them in most drug stores.Some pain medications are designed for the specific purpose of relieving menstrual cramps and other menstrual pain. Look for a drug containing acetaminophen.
Take only the recommended dosage on the bottle. If your pain doesn't ease up after about an hour, try other methods for relieving your pain instead of taking more medicine.
 Orgasms are known to release the pain of period cramps since they relax the uterus and release contractions.If you're feeling up to it, have a day at the spur or a day out with your friends to relieve some of your pain

