 Like the snap-lock opener, this can opener has stacked, easy grip handles that lock together. To open the handles, press the gray button on the top of the handle.
 To quickly and easily align the cutting wheels with the lip of the lid, look through the opening that rests just above the wheels. The alignment window is a slightly-rounded opening that partially rests over the top of the can, making it easy to see the lid and the top of the can., Use the alignment window as a guide to lock the cutting wheels to the lip of the lid. Position the lip of the can between the cutting wheel on top and the support wheel on the bottom.
 After you have aligned the lip of the lid with the cutting wheels, squeeze the handles together until you hear a loud snap. This means that the device has locked onto the can and the stainless steel wheel has punctured the lid.
 To open the can, hold the handle with one hand and gently turn the knob clockwise with the other. The opener will cut along the top of the can as it twists along. Complete a full rotation to open the lid.
 After completing a full rotation, unlock the can opener from the lid. Press the gray button with your thumb to release the can opener’s grip., The OXO Locking Can Opener with Lid Catch works by opening the lid from the top, leaving a sharp edge. However, it is designed to easily and safely remove the lid after opening so you do not have to touch it.The magnetic portion along the alignment window will hold on to the lid even after you have unlocked the opener. Slowly lift the can opener away from the lid.
 Once you have lifted the opener and the lid away from the can, you can remove the lid by releasing the magnetic hold. Flip the latch that is along the top of the alignment window. Flipping this latch will lift the magnetic potion of the device, causing the lid to drop., Be sure to wipe down the can opener after each use to prevent bacterial build-up and to keep the can opener working efficiently.Use a damp paper towel or washcloth to wipe the stainless steel wheels, the magnetic strip, and any other section that came into contact with food.

