 If you're new to guitar, you need to get a handle on the basic terminology that is used with guitars before you set out to learn chords. You can find simple introductions by doing an online search.


Strings count from the bottom up. The thinnest string is the first string, and the thickest is the sixth string. The first string is high E, the second is B, the third is G, the fourth is D, the fifth is A, and the sixth is low E. You may want to create a mnemonic to help you memorize the names of the strings.
Frets are the metal strips down the neck of your guitar. If you're a right-handed guitarist, the first fret is the furthest to your left. The next closest to you is the second, the next one down the third, and so on down the neck of your guitar.
You also should keep in mind how fingers are typically numbered on chord diagrams. Your index finger will be "1," your middle finger is "2," your ring finger is "3," and your pinkie is "4." Your thumb is not numbered. While this may seem obvious, it can throw you off if you're used to thinking of your thumb as your first finger.;
, You also can purchase an electronic tuner or use audio guides you can find on the internet. Just do a search for "acoustic guitar tuner."








There also are free and paid mobile apps you can download for your phone that will help you tune your guitar. These can be handy if you plan to play or practice your guitar away from home.
Start with the lowest string and tune it first, then move on to the next thickest string, tuning high E last.
With time and practice you'll be able to tune your guitar without assistance, because your ear will be able to distinguish the correct note.
 The third fret of the high E string is a G. This is a root note that gives the chord its "G" character. Pluck the individual string a few times to get used to the sound and make sure it's playing clearly.
 The second fret of the A string is a B, one of the three essential notes for a G major chord. Pluck the individual string a few times, then strum from the fifth string down to the first to get used to how these notes sound together.
 The third fret on the low E string is another G, just as the third fret on the high E was G. This means this is another root note. Strum the string alone, then try strumming all together.
 G major is an open chord, which means any strings not fretted are played openly. With your fingers in position, strum all six strings several times, making sure the sound is clean.








If a string sounds muted, you may need to adjust your fingers. Fret with your fingertips, not the pads of your fingers, and keep your hand curled over the neck so you aren't accidentally touching or muting any of the strings.
 Finding the chord shape requires muscle memory, which you must develop through repetition. Remove your hand from the guitar, then place it back with your fingers in chord position.









If this is the first chord you've learned, have patience. It can be difficult to get used to making chord shapes and you might struggle a little at first, but it will get easier with practice.
If you know other chords, practice transitioning from the G major chord to another so you can get the hang of moving fingers between positions.
If your fingers are having trouble quickly reaching the notes, tilt your guitar's neck up in the air. This angle gives your fingers more room to move.

