 If you don't think that she is worth your respect, then don't write her a phony letter about it.;
, Focus on character traits, not her looks. This list is separate from your letter so that you can refer to it as you write, in case you forget or overlook something while writing.


Things that you respect can be any personal quality or action that is not a physical attribute. Instead of telling her that she has pretty hair or clothes, tell her that you admire her creativity or sense of taste. Instead of telling her that she is a great athlete, tell her you respect her drive and perseverance.
 Examples of categories to include are: personality traits, talents and abilities, and her opinions.
 Tell her who you are, why you are writing, and what you are writing about. Put your personality into it, but don't say anything too serious, like confessing your undying love for her or admitting how much of your day is spent thinking about her. Just stick to what you want her to know, that you respect and admire her, and you want to tell her about it. She will appreciate being seen as an actual person rather than a sought after prize.Image:Write a Letter to a Girl Outlining Your Respect for Her Step 4.jpg
, Take your categories and write one to three sentences for each trait within that category. Give specific examples of her demonstrating these traits, if you can think of any. This will let her know that you pay attention to what she does. If she has ever been particularly nice or helpful to you, or has impacted your life in a major way (not counting losing sleep), this is a good time to mention it. She will be happy that you don't take her for granted.


Do not list examples that may seem stalker-like while you are describing her. Stick to things that are common knowledge, like an achievement that received recognition or something that all of her friends would know. If you admit to knowing something that she doesn't expect you to know, you run the risk of scaring her off.
 The conclusion of your letter should be a short summary of what you respect about her and how it makes you feel. Once again, if your feelings are particularly strong and she does not know it yet, introduce this concept gradually. For the purpose of this letter, downplay strong romantic feeling to "I like and admire you and want to get to know you better" status. Finish with a closing like, "respectfully yours, (your name)".
 All you have to do now is make sure that she gets the letter. The best way to do this is to hand it to her in person. Actually, that is the only way to make sure that she gets it. If you leave it somewhere for her to find, it make get moved or she may ignore or fail to notice it. If you give it to someone else to give to her, they may read it first or just forget to give it to her. Pluck up your courage and just hand her the thing. Barring that, you could mail it to her in theory, but then you would have to explain why you want her mailing address. Good luck and happy writing.

