 It's best to start with hair that is damp, but not soaking wet. Shampoo and condition your hair as usual, then let it air dry or pat it gently with a towel so that it's damp and easy to work with. You can apply a bit of product to help the curls hold if your hair is fine and doesn't tend to hold curl.


If you'd rather start with dry hair, you can spray your hair with water after you set it in curls. Depending on your hair texture, this might result in either a fluffier or glossier curl. Experiment with both methods to find out what's best for your hair and the style you want.;
, It's easier to make sure your hair gets evenly curled by dividing it into at least three sections: two on either side and one in the middle, from your forehead to the nape of your neck. Separate the sections with hair clips.
 If you want big, flowy curls, separate out a larger section of hair. For tighter ringlets, make it a smaller section of hair. You can choose to make all the curls the same size or do a variety of different-sized curls. A standard size to start with would be about 1 inch (2.5 cm).


Use a comb to comb the section out so that it's straight and flat, like a ribbon.
If you want all your curls to be the exact same size, methodically divide the larger sections into smaller sections and rubber band the small sections so that each curl will be exactly the same.
 Take the section of hair you want to curl first and pinch the tip between your forefinger and thumb. Holding the tip securely, wrap the section of hair around your forefinger a couple of times. Gently slip the loop of hair from your finger, keeping the tip tucked inside. Carefully roll the hair up toward the roots until you reach the scalp.


This technique is difficult to master, and it might take a few tries before you're able to roll the section of hair all the way to your scalp without it coming undone. Be sure to keep the tip tucked in - otherwise, when it dries it will stick out at an odd angle.
Don't twist your hair, or you'll end up with frizz instead of shiny ringlets.If it helps, you can hold the tip of the section of hair against a small cylindrical object, like a marker cap, and roll your hair around the object until you reach your scalp before slipping it off.
 Use two bobby pins to pin the curl to your scalp in a cross shape. This will hold the curl securely in place as it dries.
 Keep rolling up sections of your hair in the same way and pinning them against your head with two crossed bobby pins. Continue until all of your hair has been rolled up and pinned.


The hair at the top of your head should be rolled away from your face, toward the back.
The direction in which you roll the hair on the sides and in the back will affect the final look. Experiment with rolling the curls in different directions - pointing either upward or downward - to see what you like best.For a neater final look, roll the curls into rows around your head. You should have 3-4 rows, depending on the size of the curls.
 This probably means you'll have to sleep on them so they have time to get totally dry. If you take them out while they're damp, your hair won't hold the curl. Sleep on a silk pillowcase to make sure your curls don't get crushed when you sleep.
 When they're completely dry, it's time to let them loose. Carefully unpin each curl and watch them unfurl. At this stage the curls will be tight, and your hair will look much shorter than it actually is.
 To keep the curls as curly as possible, use your fingers to gently separate and brush through the curls. If you want to create very loose waves, use a comb or brush to loosen and brush out the curls.


It will be difficult to pull the brush or comb through the curls at first. Work through them gently using your fingers, then use the brush or comb next.
 Add a little serum or mousse to prevent the curls from frizzing and finish your look. Keep it down or pin it back, 40s-style.

