 Tap on the Badoo mobile app’s icon on your home screen or app drawer to open it. The icon is an orange square with a white lowercase “b” in the middle.


If you don’t have Badoo yet on your device, you can get it from iTunes App Store or from Google Play. Just search for the app from your device’s app store, download, and install it. The app is free.
 Tap on “Other options” at the bottom of the screen, select “Sign in,” and then enter your email address, or phone number, and password in the required field. Use the login information you use to log into your Badoo account using a PC browser. When you’re done, tap on “Sign in” to access your account.


If it is your first time to log into your account using the Badoo app, you will be prompted to connect to your Badoo account contacts via other social accounts, and to invite your Facebook friends. Just tap on the “No thanks” button at the bottom of the screen to skip these options.
If you have signed up for a Badoo account using your Facebook account, tap on the “Use Facebook” button instead, and enter your Facebook email address and password to log into your Badoo account.
 Tap on the menu icon at the top left corner of your device screen to display the available tabs on your Badoo profile. You will see the “People nearby,” “Encounters,” “Photo rating” tabs listed under your profile name in a drop-down menu on the left; and “Messages,” “Visitors,” “Liked you, and “Favorites” under the “Your connections” heading on the same menu.


You can access any one of these tabs by tapping on them.
 Tap on “People nearby” in the drop-down menu at the top left corner of the page to view a profile list of Badoo users within and nearby your preferred location. Scroll down the page to view the full list of user profiles in thumbnail images.


You will see different icons listed at the bottom of the user’s profile summary. You can check the user’s profile information, photos, and likes by tapping on the respective icons.
If you tap on the arrow up or down icon at the top right corner of the user’s profile summary, you can view the previous or next user in the list.
 Tap on the profile icon at the bottom left corner of a user’s profile summary to view the full profile information of that user.
 If you want, you can block a user by scrolling down the user’s profile page and tapping on the “Block” button at the bottom of the page.
 Tap on the “like” icon at the bottom of the screen of a user’s profile page to like or make favorite that user.
 Tap on the chat icon at the bottom right corner of a user’s profile page to start chatting with the user. Enter your message in the “Type your message here” field then tap on the right arrow next to the message field to send the user your message.


By tapping on the plus sign on left side of the message field, you can attach an image to your message and send it to the user.
If the user is online at that moment, you will see a green button on the user’s profile image, and you can start chatting with the user instantly. Otherwise, your message will be delivered to him or her, and he or she will view the sent message after logging in.
Remember, you cannot send more than 2 messages if the user does not respond to your message. You’ll be able to send more once the user replies.
 By playing this Encounter game, you will be able to find Badoo users with the same interests as you.


Tap on the “Encounters” tab to begin playing the Encounter game. Here, you can like or dislike a user that appears on your screen by tapping on the love icon or cross icon, respectively, at the bottom of the screen.
Swipe the screen from right to left to view the next user.
 If you rate other users’ photos, they’ll rate your photos in return. To begin, tap on the “Photo rating” tab to view the score of your uploaded photos.


Tap on “Rate other photos” at the bottom of the screen to rate the photos of other Badoo users. If you like a photo of a particular user, tap on the star icon at the bottom to rate it.
 There are four available features under the “Your connections” tab, and these are “Messages,” “Visitors,” “Liked you,” and “Favorites.” The “Your connections” tab can be found in the menu (top-left corner of your Badoo home page).


To view unread messages or previous conversations with Badoo users, tap on “Messages” and select the option from the drop-down menu under the “Message” tab. If you want to delete any messages or conversations from the list, tap on the settings icon and delete the selected item by checking the box next to it.
You can also delete a user from your “Visitors,” “Liked you,” and “Favorites” list by browsing that list. Go to “Your connections,” select a list (Visitors, Liked you, or Favorites), and then tap on the settings icon. Select or deselect a user by tapping on their profile image. When you are done, scroll down the page and tap on “Delete selected” at the bottom to remove the selected users from the particular list you selected.
 To access your Badoo account settings, tap on the menu icon at the top left corner of the screen, and select your profile name.


Select the settings icon at the top right corner of your profile page, and tap on “Account preferences.” Here, you can edit and update your profile, privacy, password, payment, and notification setting.
 Once you’re done using the Badoo app, you should log out to keep your information safe. Tap on your profile image to go to your profile page. Tap the settings icon, select “Account,” and then “Sign out.”

