 When boarding you want to make sure you are always in full control. While you'll bend and lean as you ride, you need to start all of your movements from a strong and athletic position to really act like a snowboarder girl. To do so:


Bend both knees slightly, like a soccer or basketball player in a defensive stance.
Keep your shoulders down and over your feet.
Have your spine straight and your torso upright., Edging is the most important skill for a snowboarder, and it is simply when you dig one edge of the board into the snow, as this is how you turn and control speed. Most of your time going down the mountain will be spent on edge, so get used to this now. To practice the balance needed for edging:


Shift your weight forward, over your toes.
Stand up a bit, like on tip-toes, so that you can feel the heel side of your board picking up.
Hold your balance on the edge as long as you can. Switch sides and try it on your heel edge.
This can be done on flat ground or gentle, beginner slopes. If you're worried about balance, unbuckle your back foot and use it to catch yourself when you fall., Once you're comfortable with some edging it's time to ride. Set up on top of the the beginner slope, which is generally wide, slow, and has a large flat bottom to help you stop slowly. A lot of riders like to sit on the edge and bind in, then stand up with the board facing down the hill. Push down on your front foot, like you were smashing a bug, and let gravity do the rest.


Keep your athletic stance as you head down the mountain. Knees slightly bent, torso straight, head up.
For the first 1-2 runs, don't worry too much about turning. Simply get used to heading down the mountain., As you come down to the end of the mountain, put light pressure on your heel or toe edge. Feel yourself start to turn and slow down. Practice on both edges, using the flatter part near the bottom of the slope for the most comfortable practice.


Get used to both edges. How long does it take to stop when on your heel edge? What about your toe edge?
As you get comfortable, start edging further and further up the mountain. Edging takes you across the slope, naturally slowing you down, and is the building block of sharper turns., Once you feel good edging on both sides, it is time to start turning. As you head down the mountain, lean into the edge you want to turn towards (leaning towards you heel will turn you towards your heel). As you do, rotate your shoulders towards the turn as well, which opens up your body and moves some weight over to the side you're turning.


Start on one side of the mountain and practice heading down diagonally, working on this turn as you feel comfortable. Practice on both sides.
Once you feel comfortable with both sides, try changing direction. Slowly lean off your heel edge and lean towards your toes, rotating your shoulders along with you., As you get more comfortable you'll pick up speed on your turns and stops, quickly shifting from edge to edge. You should be able to zig-zag down the hill eventually, showing that you have the control to turn and stop on a dime.


A full stop is just an extreme "heel-edge." You lean so hard into your heel edge, so quickly, that you whip the board around horizontally. This digs the heel edge of your board into the snow to stop it.
 Very few people look good on their first day of boarding. The sport can be incredibly frustrating if you expect to look like a life-long snow bunny on your first runs. Focus, instead, on board comfort, getting used to basic riding, turning, and stopping so that you can move fluidly anywhere on the mountain. The tricks, speed, and flash will only come after you've mastered these basics.

