 Dressing to the T can give you an enormous confidence boost. Pick an outfit that you know you look good in and that is also comfortable. In general, wear an outfit that is fashionable but isn’t overly glamorous. For instance, wear a tailored blouse and a skirt instead of a low-cut evening dress. If in doubt, dress as though you are going to a job interview.Don’t wear something like a dress with straps that fall down, or extra high heels that you’re not comfortable walking in. You don’t need the anxiety of having a potential wardrobe mishap on top of your nerves about the pageant.
Make sure that your hair and makeup is also foul proof. Don’t use eyeliner that smears or put your hair up in a style that isn’t secure.
 Nothing can make your heart race like being late to something important. Even if you are feeling fine about the interview, if you get there late you may feel flustered and anxious, which will affect your performance and drain your confidence. Make sure to give yourself enough time to get to the interview, and even try to arrive a little early., Before something nerve wracking like an interview, it’s common for your mind to race out of control. Once you arrive and are waiting to go on stage, do something calming like listening to music or doing meditative exercises.Decide what is most relaxing for you. Some prefer to keep to themselves when nervous, while others like the distraction of talking to others.
 In the few minutes before the interview, try to relax. Take deep, slow breaths, thinking about the fact that you are thoroughly prepared for the interview and have done everything you can.You can also try thinking positive and empowering thoughts. Examples of these are: “This interview is going to go well” and “I am an impressive contestant.”

, Right before your interview, you may hear other contestants interviewing and answering questions. Don’t psych yourself out by comparing yourself to them or questioning your interviewing strategy based on their answers. Stay focused on your plan and try to keep a clear head.


Remember that all contestants are usually asked different questions, so don’t obsess about how you would answer one of their questions.