 You should sit down with your teenage driver and outline rules around when they can and cannot use the car. This is especially important if your teen is using the family car or a shared car, as you will need to make sure you and other members of the family have access to the car as well. Make a weekly schedule with your teen so they know when they can have access to the car.For example, you may tell your teen, “You can use the car to drive to hockey practice after school on Mondays and Wednesdays” or “You are allowed to use the car on weekends but you have it back in the garage by 9 pm.”
You may decide to avoid letting your teen drive at night or very late at night, as their risk of an accident goes up once it gets dark. You may set a nightly curfew so your teen brings the car back before dark.
 Let your teen know that as the driver of the car, they are responsible for what happens with the car. This means that if they get a parking ticket, they are responsible for paying for the ticket. If they break a rule of the road and get a ticket or an infraction, they will have to deal with the consequences.You may decide to make your teen pay for any parking tickets as punishment. You may then restrict their access to the car as punishment for an infraction or for breaking a rule of the road. Doing this will ensure your teen understands the importance of safe driving and takes driving seriously.
 You should also talk about whether your teen is responsible for paying for their own gas or if you will split the cost of gas with them. Make sure you address who is responsible for maintaining the car if it breaks down or has an issue. You may decide your teen needs to learn to take care of the car and suggest they bring the car in for maintenance on a regular basis.For example, you and your teen may come to an agreement where they pay for their own gas and you help them cover the cost of maintaining the car.
 Before you let your teen drive the family car, you should make sure they are covered by the insurance on the car. You may add their name to the insurance so they covered in the event of an accident. If your teen is using their own car, make sure it is insured before they start driving.You and your teen may also discuss who will be responsible for the insurance payments. You may offer to split the cost with your teen or require them to pay for insurance on their own as part of the rules for using the car.

