 Dogs react differently from other animals, humans included, in that it is the liver rather than the lungs that is affected by anaphylactic shock.This results in gastro-intestinal symptoms.Symptoms usually include:Sudden diarrhea, defecation, urination
Vomiting
Itchiness (pruritus) and hives (urticaria)
Drooling excessively (hypersalivation)
Weakness
Difficulties with breathing (shallow, rapid), stridor (harsh breathing sounds)
Gums turning paler
Overly excited or lethargic
Elevated heart rate (tachycardia) and poor pulse
Cold limbs
Seizures
Unconsciousness and ultimately coma and death if left untreated.;
, Tell the veterinarian what has happened, let them know that you are bringing in your dog immediately and follow any instructions given to you over the phone.
 There is very little time--your dog needs immediate emergency veterinary attention, including intravenous injections of epinephrine (adrenalin) to counteract the reaction.You will not have what is needed to treat anaphylactic shock in your home.
 Grab a neighbor if nobody else is at home. While getting to the vet's, try to do the following:


Keep your dog calm and reassured. Do not play radio or music in the car at a loud volume. Speak soothingly; try really hard not to convey your own panic to the dog.
If your dog is still able to move, let your dog find his own most comfortable position--likely he will adjust to the position that helps him breathe as much as possible.Cover your dog in something warm such as a blanket. Do not wrap it around him or distress him by fiddling, shifting him, disturbing him in any way.
Keep your dog's airway clear. This is especially important if he falls unconscious.

Epinephrine will be given to increase the heart rate.
Other drugs may be given, according to the vet's discretion. Oxygen may be given also.
Antibiotics are often given after rescuing a dog from an episode of anaphylactic shock, to prevent the chance of a secondary bacterial infection.
 The vet staff will continue to monitor his progress with blood samples, etc. Your dog will only be allowed home when he can urinate properly.