 At its young age, your puppy should be exercising regularly and consistently, but not too vigorously. Exercise provides mental stimulation and helps your dog avoid arthritis and joint problems later in life, and will usually result in calmer behavior afterwards. Ideally, your dog should be getting 5 minutes of low-impact exercise for each month of age, twice a day (i.e. a 3 month old dog will need 15 minutes of exercise, twice a day).Low-impact exercise may include going for short walks, playing in the yard, or supervised swimming.
 Your puppy's restlessness may be due to boredom, so try playing games with it to keep it occupied. Basic games like tug of war, fetch, and hide and seek are simple enough to play with a puppy. To play hide and seek, for instance, tell your puppy to sit and stay, show it a treat, then hide in another room and call it to you. The game relies on and improves your puppy's sense of smell and develops its ability to come when called.
 At around 12-16 weeks old, try teaching your puppy basic commands using the correction and reward method. Correction should only involve speaking firmly (never physical punishment or yelling) and rewards should be anything that your puppy enjoys (e.g. treats, favorite toys). Initial training should happen in short, 10-15 minute sessions and be an enjoyable process for you and your puppy.Visit the American Kennel Club website at http://www.akc.org/content/dog-training/articles/teach-your-puppy-these-5-basic-commands/ for a detailed guide and instructional videos on how to teach your puppy five basic commands:"Sit”,"Stay", "Lay down”, ”Heel”, and "Come here”.
 Grooming your puppy from an early age is important to get it used to being handled (as it will be by veterinarians and groomers in the future, for instance). It also keeps your puppy clean and helps to forge a bond with its owner(s). Grooming can include baths, brushing, nail trimming, and ear cleaning, and it should happen in some form as often as once a day., Socialization shapes and improves your dog's temperament, and is a positive way for it to exert energy and build trust and respect for people. Socialization with other dogs is just as important, and your puppy's early experiences will shape its social skills as a grown dog. Invite friends over with their pets for "puppy play dates", and when your puppy is older than three months, bring it out for walks in the park to meet new people and animals.Having your restless puppy socialize with other people can be an excellent opportunity to take a break (e.g. having friends or family play with it or take it for a walk).

