 Condoms can become brittle and more likely to break if you don’t store them correctly. Condoms that are exposed to heat or light are more likely to tear.Don’t keep condoms in your back pocket, wallet, or glovebox. If you think you may get lucky, put a couple in your wallet or car right before you hit the town. Don’t leave them there for days or weeks.
Store condoms in a cool, dry place, away from direct sunlight.
Keep condoms in their wrappers until you’re ready to use them.;
, Before you purchase condoms, check the expiration date printed on the box. You should also double check the date stamped on the wrapper before you use it. If it’s expired, toss it out. Never use an expired condom. It could tear or fail.









Check out the wrapper for any signs of obvious rips or tears. If the package is torn or ripped, toss the condom out and use a new one.
If the condom is sticky, brittle, or looks discolored, toss it out and use a new one., Men produce fluid known as pre-ejaculate (“pre-cum”) that can transmit STDs and, in some cases, contains sperm that can lead to pregnancy (though this is unlikely). Before you play, wrap it up.You should also put on a condom before oral sex, anal sex, or oral-anal contact. You can contract an STD from oral sex, so it's important to still use a condom for these activities. A condom can be cut open to cover a woman's vulva during oral sex or to cover the anus during oral-anal contact.
You may also want to put on a condom before mutual masturbation. This will keep fluids from getting on your hands that could easily be transmitted to your partner's genitals or mouth.
If you are using a sex toy, use a condom on the toy as well. The materials used to make some of the toys are not always safe to use in your body (like plastics containing phthalates). It can be hard to keep toys clean, meaning bacteria can build up, especially on toys made of porous materials.
 Push the condom away from the edge you plan to tear, and use the easy-tear edges. These are the zig-zag edges on either side of the wrapper that are designed to tear apart quickly and easily.










Don't get carried away in your passion. Don't shred open the foil, and stay away from scissors, teeth, machetes, or any other sharp instrument to open a condom wrapper, or you could tear the condom itself! A torn condom won’t protect against pregnancy or STDs.If it's your last condom and you destroy it, party's over!

, This can be difficult to do, particularly if you’re in the dark. However, checking by sight is the safest way to determine which way the condom is rolled, so you don't risk unrolling it too far or tearing it with your fingers. If the condom is right-side-out, there will be a lip or rim on the edge. If it's inside-out, the edge will be smooth. You can use your fingers to help you:









Place the condom on your thumb, but don't unroll it. Let it balance there like a little hat.
Run your pointer finger down the side of the condom, from the tip to the edge.
If your finger catches on the rim, it is right-side-out. If your finger slides smoothly off the rim, then it is inside-out.
If the condom is inside out, hold the rim of the condom with the inside-out tip pointing towards your mouth. Blow on the tip to invert it and turn it right-side-out.
Cautionary tale: don't unroll the condom, as unraveling it will reduce the condom's efficacy—and make it frustratingly difficult to put on.
 This reservoir should already be on the outer tip of the condom, but it can sometimes become inverted during packaging. Make sure the reservoir is oriented so that the rest of the condom rolls away from it.
 Consider placing a small drop of water-based lubricant inside the reservoir. This can make the condom easier to apply, especially if you are uncircumcised.Make sure this is a very small drop, as you don’t want to compete with the sperm for space inside the reservoir tip.




Do not apply lotion, baby oil, petroleum jelly, or oil-based lube, as it will degrade and weaken the latex., A condom should always fit snugly over a penis, leaving no tight or baggy spots. If rolled over a penis that is not yet fully erect, it will fit awkwardly and be more likely to fall off or tear during sex.The condom should go from the package to your genitals relatively quickly. Don't unwrap the condom until you are fully erect and ready to use it. Never try to reuse a condom.
 This eliminates the possibility of creating an air pocket inside the condom when it is worn, reducing the chance of breakage and providing the semen with a place to go during ejaculation., The condom should easily unroll down the length of the shaft. If it turns out that you are trying to put the condom on backwards, throw it away and start over.An erect penis produces fluid prior to ejaculation (called “pre-cum”) that can contain sperm. If a condom has been exposed to this fluid, flipping it over and re-applying it may cause pregnancy and









Pinching the reservoir shut with one hand, place the condom against the tip of the erect penis. With your other hand, push your pubic hair out of the way if necessary.
Then, gently roll the condom down the entire shaft of the penis, smoothing out any air bubbles that may appear.
Follow these same steps for putting a condom on a sex toy.
 Sexual lubrication decreases the risk of damage to not only the condom, but also reduces friction and increases pleasure for those having sex. Some lubricants even contain spermicides that can help reduce the risk of pregnancy. However, spermicides can increase the risk of transmitting an STD. If your condom isn’t already lubricated, apply it to both the condom and the other partner, particularly if you are engaging in anal sex.



Do not over-apply lube, as too much may cause the condom to fall off and friction is necessary for stimulation.
Again, Never apply an oil- or petroleum-based lubricant to a latex condom, as these can cause it to deteriorate.Water- and silicon-based lubricants are both safe to use with latex, but water-based lube washes off more easily and won’t stain your sheets.
 If a condom breaks or comes off during sex, replace it immediately and consider using emergency contraception such as the emergency contraception pill.An emergency contraception pill (sometimes called the morning-after pill) prevents pregnancy before it happens by delaying ovulation or blocking fertilization; it is not an "abortion pill.", If switching from anal to vaginal sex, for example, switch condoms to reduce the risk of infection. For example, e. coli from the rectum can cause bladder infectionsor a severe vaginal infection. If the penis goes from anus to mouth, that can cause a serious infection in the stomach.



You should also replace the condom if you are using it on a sex toy that you’re sharing between partners. Basically, if the condom has your fluids in or on it, change it out before sharing., Grasp the bottom of the condom with your hand and withdraw, preventing the condom from slipping off or spilling. Do not allow the penis to go flaccid within the condom before withdrawal, as this can cause the condom to fall off and remain inside the partner.
 Tie the open end in a knot to prevent spillage, wrap it in toilet paper or tissue, and throw it in a trash can.










Don’t flush condoms down the toilet. Most septic systems can’t handle them, and they may clog up the toilet.