 The goal of this type of mindfulness meditation is to train your mind in kindness and compassion.You will try to develop feeling of loving kindness towards:Yourself
A respected, beloved person – i.e. a spiritual teacher
A dearly beloved (it is easiest to start with someone you are not sexually attracted to)
A neutral person who you have no special feeling towards
A difficult person

, Once you are in a focused, contemplative state, you will work on sending feelings of love and happiness first to yourself, then to each of the other four people in turn.
 There are three main techniques to inspire the proper emotions within you:Mantras – As you think of yourself, then the other four people, repeat an internalized phrase or mantra, such as: "May I be well and happy. May I be peaceful and calm. May I be protected from dangers. May my mind be free from hatred. May my heart be filled with love. May I be well and happy." Visualization - Create a mental image of yourself or the person you are considering. See them smiling joyously.
Reflection – Think of the good qualities or actions of the person you are considering.
 The emotion is the key, not the device you use to evoke it. When the feeling of loving-kindness arises, concentrate on that feeling. However, if the feeling fades, you may return to the device you used to evoke it., Project your feelings of loving-kindness to the four points of the compass. It may help to think of people you know in cities in each direction that you can direct your love towards. The ultimate goal is to not have to direct your love in this way, but rather to simply radiate feelings of unconditional universal love in all directions.It may help to use a mantra to direct you love outwards, such as:

May all beings be safe, happy, healthy, live joyously…..
May all living beings be safe, happy, healthy, live joyously…..
May all breathing beings be safe, happy, healthy, live joyously…..
May all individuals be safe, happy, healthy, live joyously…..
May all beings in existence be safe, happy, healthy, live joyously…



