 Your team will love you for being a great healer, and the enemy team will want to melt your face at every opportunity possible. This is why it is very, very important that you stay at a safe range. This allows you to toss out heals from a safe distance, keeping your teammates alive while staying well away from the enemy team. In the event that the enemy team dives to focus you down, well, they’ve just walked right into the gaping jaws of your waiting teammates.


This is also why it can be worth picking talents that increase your survivability. If the enemy team decides to focus you down, they will be in for a nasty surprise when they discover that their risky gambit has been shut down because you’ve got a trick up your sleeve to keep you alive. Talents like Spell Shield, Stoneskin, Ice Block, Imposing Presence, and other survival-oriented talents thus come highly recommended against enemy teams with a high damage output.;
, All support classes have talents that greatly impact their non-healing role on the battlefield. These shiny, interesting talents have their place, but not for dedicated healers. If you want to be a good healer, stick to picking talents that improve your ability to heal allies. Leave the killing to the experts and focus on keeping your team alive.


If you have more than one support on your team who can help share the burden of healing, you could explore other talents that add to your utility in the game. If you are the sole support in your team, however, then these healing-oriented talents can help keep your team alive.
The exception to this rule is when you notice that the enemy team is hurting you more than you’d like. Sacrificing a healing talent or two will be worth it if doing so means you stay alive long enough to keep your team supported.
 Watch the flow of battle, and heal whoever is being focused down by the enemy team. For example, your team’s warrior could be taking the hits and needing your heals, or the enemy team could be ignoring your tank and is pushing past him to take down your team’s assassin. Time and practice will teach you when to chuck out those crucial heals, but it’s always a good idea to heal whoever’s taking the hard hits as you see them coming.


This is especially true for heroes that have heals with relatively long cooldown times, like Uther, Rhegar, and Tyrande. The flow of battle could shift in as little as two, three seconds, and the last thing you want to do is watch in horror as your team’s assassin is shot down because you healed the tank, which the enemy is now ignoring.
The hero being hit with a disable is a good sign of someone being focused down by the enemy team. People tend to focus their attention on whoever is slowed, stunned, or rooted, giving you a very visible sign of the guy or gal who will most likely need your precious heals.
 Mana is the lifeblood of healers. If you run out of mana, you will not be able to keep your team topped up. On the other hand, holding back on heals will leave your injured allies weak and vulnerable. They will then be more likely to perish if they get caught in a surprise attack or get hit by a global spell. So at the end of the day, it all boils down to your judgment on when to go whole-hog with heals or to hold back and wait until they are needed the most.Some heroes, like Kharazim and Brightwing, can still heal even when they’re completely out of mana. Not as quickly or as effectively, but they can still keep their teammates topped up without spending mana.
It may sometimes be a smarter idea to just teleport back to your base to quickly recover both health and mana. This is especially important when objectives are about to spawn and your healing fountain is still cooling down. Better to be a few seconds late with full health and mana than early with half your health and barely any mana left to do anything.
 Just because you’re a healer does not mean that you should ignore your other abilities. Supportive buffs, offensive debuffs, scouting abilities—these are absolutely great when you use them at the right moments. Granted they won’t be as effective if they’re not talented, but they can still help depending on the situation.
 One last thing: try not to block your allies whenever possible. You don’t want to kill your teammate because you were blocking his escape route, which is an annoyingly common occurrence when fighting in tight quarters. This is why you should aim to position yourself off to the side of your teammates during a major engagement. This will give both you and your allies a straight path of escape if you find yourselves in a bad situation.

