 It’s no surprise that coffee contains caffeine that will help you feel more alert, but overindulging in caffeine can make you feel sluggish and drowsy. To feel more alert without being too jittery or suffering from sleeplessness, restrict your intake to 2 to 3 cups per day.People react differently to caffeine, so cut back if you start feeling nervous, experience stomach upset, or think the coffee might be disturbing your sleep.Research indicates that up to 400 milligrams of coffee per day, which is equivalent to about 4 cups of coffee, is safe for healthy adults.When you drink coffee, stay away from sugary options that will leave you feeling sluggish and out of it when the sugar high is over.;
, Dehydration can cause you to feel draggy and less alert, so drink water throughout the day to remain hydrated and more aware of your surroundings.If you feel less alert, try to drink one to two glasses of water right away.
Pass up sugary drinks such as sodas, energy beverages, and sweet juices that will cause an energy crash soon after consuming.
 When you take deep breaths, you lower your heart rate and blood pressure and improve your circulation. This will increase your energy level and mental focus so you can be more alert. Try this basic exercise you can perform anywhere:Sit up straight. Place one hand on your stomach, just beneath your ribs. Place your other hand on your chest. Try to inhale through your nose. You should feel your stomach pushing your hand outward. Try to keep your chest from moving. Now, pretend you are whistling and breathe out while pursing your lips. Perform 10 repetitions as needed.
 Your ballet instructor was right when he or she emphasized the importance of excellent posture. Slouching and adopting poor posture can cause fatigue and make you less alert.


If you are seated, make sure your shoulders are back, your eyes are facing straight ahead, and your butt is touching the back of the chair. Try not to hunch over your desk or computer., If you are feeling groggy and less than alert, try taking a quick 10 to 20 minute power nap.A short nap won’t negatively impact your sleep schedule that night, and you should wake up feeling more alert.
If you have trouble napping, just rest with your eyes closed for 10 minutes. You can still enjoy the benefits of a power nap.
 If you are having a hard time being alert, try chewing a piece of gum. Some research indicates that this can help you feel more awake and energized., If you are at home or driving and need to feel more alert, turn on your music and sing along.Singing forces you to manage your breathing, while providing a boost of energy.
This exercise might not be appropriate for a workplace environment, so wait till you are in a place where people won’t file a noise complaint.
 Essential oils are often used to provide health and mood benefits, and lemon oil is one essential oil that leaves people feeling more alert and energized. Carry lemon oil with you, and take a whiff when you need a quick pick me up.You can usually find lemon oil in health food stores or purchase it online.
 You probably already know that laughter can relieve stress, but it can also increase your alertness.When you want to feel more alert, watch a funny video or spend some time with a friend who makes you giggle.
 While warm showers or baths are relaxing, they can make you feel sleepy and snuggly rather than alert. To combat this, opt for a bracing 3-minute cold shower instead.You will immediately feel more alert and aware.

