 Unemployment benefits are not available to everyone who loses a job. Those fired for cause or who quit because they don't like their job are ineligible. Acceptable reasons include:


Being laid off
Losing a job because of downsizing
Quitting because of harassment or significant family responsibilities;
, You must meet your state's "base pay" requirements, which ultimately determine the amount and duration of your unemployment insurance benefits. Each state computes this differently, though most will look at your earnings over the last 12 months that you worked.


Some states will set a flat dollar amount for qualification. For example, you should have made at least $2,500 over the past 12 months in order to qualify.Other states will set a minimum based on your highest paying quarters. For example, a state may set a flat dollar amount that you must have earned in your highest quarters.A state may also combine this calculation method with a requirement for a certain amount earned over the entire 12 month base period. For example, a state may require that you have earned at least $2,000 in your highest earning quarter, and also require that you have earned 150% of that ($3,000) over the entire 12 months.
Another popular method is to require that you have earned a certain amount based on a multiple of your weekly unemployment insurance benefit. In these cases, states will calculate your minimum payment based on your highest paying quarters. Then, they will require that you have made some multiple (usually 40 times) that minimum weekly payment. For example, if you qualify for $150 a week based on your highest paying quarter, then you will need to have made at least $6,000 over the entire 12 month period to qualify for any benefit., Unemployment benefits are available only for those lawfully living in the United States and who have proper work authorization at the time they claim unemployment benefits. You are eligible if:


You are a United States citizen.
You reside in the United States as a lawful permanent resident.You permanently reside in the Unites States “under the color of law,” which typically means that Congress has enacted a law allowing you to be in the country during the base period., Once you receive your denial notice, read it carefully. In most cases you will be denied for not meeting one or more of the eligibility requirements outlined in Part 1.
 Each state has its own appeal process. However, the two most common ways to appeal are to fill out a form or to draft a letter.


An appeal form may be included with the denial letter. If not, contact your state's unemployment agency, at the phone number or address listed in the denial letter.
If you have to submit an appeal by letter, then you should keep your appeal simple. You do not want to say anything that could hurt your case.
An acceptable letter would state: "I am appealing 's decision to deny me unemployment insurance benefits. I believe the agency made a mistake and that I am entitled to benefits under the law." Also include your full name, telephone number, social security number, and your unemployment insurance claim number (if provided).
 You should appeal as soon as possible. States have a statute of limitations period for appealing. Though you may be very emotional at losing a job and being denied benefits, you must nevertheless meet the filing deadline or else your appeal could be dismissed.


In California, you have 20 calendar days from the mailing date of the denial letter.In Connecticut you have 21 days,and in Maryland you only have 15 days from the date the decision was mailed., A critical piece of information may be your insurance file. Some states maintain a file, which you can ask to see.


The file may contain statements from your employer, for example, detailing why you were laid off. The information may be unflattering and difficult to read. Nevertheless, you will want to know what your employer will claim at the hearing.
Ask for the file as soon as you receive your denial letter. You want to give yourself enough time to read it so that you can know what kind of evidence you need.
 At the hearing you have the opportunity to present evidence to support your claim that you are entitled to unemployment insurance benefits. You can also rebut any claim made by your employer. Review the denial letter and locate the grounds for denial. Then gather documents and contact witnesses who can support you.


For example, if you were denied benefits because you allegedly failed to meet the earnings requirement, then you should bring pay stubs to support your claim.
If you were denied because you quit your job for unacceptable reasons, then you could invite a former co-worker to testify who can support your claim that you left because of ongoing sexual harassment.
If you want a witness to appear, be sure to subpoena him or her. Subpoenas should be available from your state’s unemployment insurance agency., Agencies base their decision to deny benefits in part on rules and other cases that define key terms. For example, if the state agency determines that you were fired for "misconduct," then you will want to know what qualifies as "misconduct."


The agency may tell you upfront how it defines certain terms. For example, Michigan defines “misconduct” as “willful or wanton disregard of the employer’s interest, or negligence of such seriousness as to imply disregard of the employer’s interest.” Nevertheless, you will want to read the facts of different cases to provide context and detail as to precisely what conduct rises to the level of “wanton disregard” or “negligence.”
Not every state publishes its decisions or rules. Visit your state agency's website and look for a link.
 Losing a job is incredibly stressful, and being denied unemployment compensation only compounds the stress. An attorney can ease the process of preparing for the hearing. If costs are a concern, seek out low-cost alternatives:


Contact your local bar association and ask about pro bono representation. Some attorneys may be willing to represent you for free.
Contact local legal services organizations. Many large cities have organizations that will offer free assistance. In Washington, D.C., these organizations include Workers Rights Clinic. Other organizations include the Employment Justice Center.
Some states provide advocates who will work for free. In Michigan, both employees and employers can seek the free assistance of an advocate.
 Depending on your state, unemployment insurance appeals will be conducted either in person or by telephone. For instance, Texas holds appeal hearings by telephone. Either way, an administrative law judge or representative from your state unemployment insurance agency will conduct the hearing.


The hearing will probably be recorded in order to make a record.
The agency representative will open with introductory remarks.
You should give yourself plenty of time to get to the hearing. If you fail to attend, then your appeal will probably be denied and you will not be allowed to refile your appeal.
 You will be asked questions related to your insurance claim. This is your opportunity to explain why you are entitled to unemployment insurance benefits and to present evidence.


Your employer may also attend the hearing and ask you questions. Try to remain calm and professional regardless of how angry you feel.
If you have an attorney, practice being asked tough questions about your job performance. Even a few practice runs will make the actual experience of being examined less surprising.
 You also can present the testimony of other witnesses, as well as cross-examine any witnesses your employer offers.


Witnesses must have first-hand knowledge of any event they testify about. If someone witnessed harassment, be sure to call that person as a witness. A different co-worker cannot testify as to what she heard someone else tell her.
 Your state agency will send you a decision after the hearing. The decision will state the facts found as well as the basis for the decision.


If you lose, you may appeal again. The deadline and rules regarding further appeals will vary by state but should be included in your letter.
If not, contact the agency at the phone number or email address listed.

