 This will help them to grow as a person, as if they ever experience racist behaviors as a child they would understand that it is inappropriate; however if they didn't know what racism is and they witness racist behaviors, they may mimic it and cause offence to others.


If you try to hide the subject of race, it won't stop children from noticing. However, it may lead them to think that there is something shameful about the topic., Instead, consider them teachable moments. If your child asks about race, says something racist, or asks about something racist they heard, this is an opportunity to teach them.It's okay to say "I'm not sure" or "Let me take some time to think about that."

, You can help them learn not to believe them by teaching them to think critically and question the messages they hear.


Is it fair that the villain Jafar looks more stereotypically Arab than the hero Aladdin, and how might people who look "stereotypically Arab" feel about that?
If Asians are left out of movies, could they be left out on the playground too?
How could your child be a good helper?

, Teaching your children about racism through stories about people who fought against it, such as Rosa Parks, Malcolm X, Cesar Chavez, and more can help your child to understand more about racism and how times have changed because people have stood up for what they believed in.


This can also help your child to learn how to have empathy, an important skill for children to develop.
 Children usually mistake racism for being just about skin color, however that isn't the case as racism can be about race, hair color, nose shape, hair texture, etc.


Ensure that your child understands that racism is bad no matter what, whether it's about someone's skin tone or the flatness of their nose.
 If you are worried about using the wrong words when explaining to your child about racism, or if you are bad at explaining things then watching a video would not only be helpful to you, but it would also help your child to visually experience what racism is.


Visually experiencing something will help your child to spot when someone is being racist and this will allow your child to evaluate the situation and put a stop to it.
 Make sure your child knows that any type of discrimination is hurtful and wrong, even if it was meant as a 'joke'.


Teaching your child to stand up for victims of racist comments is helping them to understand what behavior is acceptable and what behavior isn't.
 After hearing the terrible things that have happened in history, children will most likely be upset. These conversations can be painful and messy--which also means that your child will learn and grow a lot.Explain that because of their privilege, people listen to them more. They can use this to defend people of color from racism. Turn the conversation into a positive message about how they can stand up for others.Encourage them to listen to people of color if they say that something is racist or hurting them. Listening matters, and it makes the difference between a "white knight" who rushes in to wildly defend others, and a good ally.
Explain that children of color can speak for themselves, and should have this opportunity. If one of their friends is having trouble doing this, suggest that the child help their friend brainstorm strategies for speaking up, and that they have their friend's back., Can they intervene using their words? When should they get help from an adult (and what do they do if the adult ignores the problem)? You can even role-play if they are interested. Discussing clear strategies will help your child know what to do when a situation arises.


If your child does this, tell them how proud you are.