 There are a variety of companies that cater specifically to providing students with discount travel services. These websites work a lot like traditional booking sites, but cater to the needs of students. Try visiting the websites of:


StudentUniverse
STA Travel
Generation Fly. This is a program run by the airline Lufthansa.;
, Some major booking websites provide discounts to students. These discounts can range from a few dollars to possibly hundreds, depending on what you are booking. Make sure to review all your booking options before committing to one website.


Check websites like Hotels.com and CheapOair.com
Student discounts on major booking websites may only be available seasonally (like during the winter or summer). Check each website to see if they offer seasonal discounts., While some websites won’t have specific student discount programs, they may have discount codes that students can use. By searching the internet for discount codes, you may be able to save yourself some money. To find discount codes, visit websites like:


Groupon
Retailmenot
Couponcabin, Depending on the activity you’re in engaged in, you may be able to purchase passes or tickets that are discounted for students. Student passes are available on busing lines, rail travel, air fare, and more.


Most public transportation systems sell discounted tickets to students. Inquire about them if you don’t see them advertised.
If you’re traveling by rail in Europe, you may be able to buy Youth Passes. These passes will allow you to travel via rail at a discounted price. They’re only available if you are between the ages of 16 and 25 and only apply to second class fare., There are a variety of student discount cards, like the Student Advantage Card, available domestically and internationally. By using these cards, you’ll be able to get discounts on a broad range of items.The usefulness of specific discount cards might vary on region, so do some research to see if a certain card will benefit you.
 One of the best ways to get student discounts while traveling is to carry the ID card issued by your institution. Most businesses and organizations will honor student discounts if you present your student ID.


If you’ve lost your student ID card, contact the appropriate department at your institution to request another., International cards are a great option if you plan to travel outside your home country. Not only will they verify your status as a student, but they'll help you gain access to a wide variety of discounts.


Consider the International Student Identity Card and the International Youth Travel Card.
Visit www.isic.org for more information on the cards.
You can order your card online or visit an ISIC office in your home country., Depending on where you’re traveling to or for what purpose, you may be able to apply for assistance. If you’re traveling for academic purposes, on mission, or for charitable purposes, certain organizations may provide you with aid. Contact:


The Smithsonian Institution for aid if you’re traveling on research or for academic purposes.
Student Youth Travel.
MissionFinder.org., If your travel is connected to your studies, such as if you are conducting research, there might be money available from your college or university. This could substantially lower the cost of your trip.


Contact your college or university’s global outreach office if you’re traveling internationally for humanitarian or charity work.
Ask your student government representative about the availability of travel assistance for research or competitions.
If you’re a graduate student, ask your department chair or advisor about the availability of travel or research grants., Depending on where you’re going and how many people you’re traveling with, you may be able to secure a discount. While such discounts may not always be possible, it’s worth asking before you book your trip.


If you’re booking through a travel agent or a third-party organizer, let them know you’re a student and tell them how many people you’re traveling with.
If you’re traveling with 8 or more people, you may be able to secure discounts greater than 10% on lodging and activities.