 It is the White shopping bag with the colored play icon on it.;
, Tap on the search icon at the top, and type “JuiceDefender Ultimate” in the search bar. Tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 You will be taken to the app’s information page.
 On the information page, you will find a green button that shows how much the app costs. Tap on it, and press the “Accept” button at the permissions section. Now you can tap the “Buy” button, and the Play Store will access your registered credit or debit card.


You may need to input the security digits on your chosen card to finalize the purchase.
The app will then begin downloading and installing. You will know that the download is complete when the progress bar reaches 100%.
 When the app has finished installing, the green price button will be replaced with the “Open” button. Tap on it to launch the app.
 When the app first launches, you will be greeted with an introductory screen that tells you what JuiceDefender can do. As you scroll down, you will see features that you can enable or disable with a top of the switch.
 After the intro screen, you will be taken to the Status tab by default, where you can find “Enabled” and “Disabled” under JuiceDefender. Tap on “Enabled,” and the icon will turn green.


You have now successfully enabled the app. Now, you must configure the features you want.
 Under “Profile,” which is the second header under the Status tab, you will see five choices. Choose the profile that you want.


Balanced — This is the default profile and is recommended for any user
Aggressive — This profile will streamline the device’s power usage, and keep connectivity functional while improving battery life. It may disable some apps from running, which you can whitelist after tapping “Confirm.”
Extreme — This profile completely disables connectivity for the best battery life your can achieve. You can whitelist apps from the list when you tap on “Confirm.”
Customize — This profile will let you configure various settings for a way to save battery based on your specific preferences.
Advanced — This will give you access to all the features of JuiceDefender to help you achieve the most optimized battery savings based on your preferences.
 When the app is running, you will be notified by the icon in the upper left corner of your status bar. You can turn this off by scrolling down and tapping on “Disabled” under the Notification header in the Status tab. It will then warn you that Android may force close the app in low-memory situations.
 This setting will let you configure what tapping the notification icon will do. Tap on “Quickbox,” “Quick enable,” or “Quick disable.”

, Under “Activity log,” you will see a condensed account of the activities done with JuiceDefender so you can keep track of your changes. Tap on “Full log” to access a comprehensive wall of text telling you more details about your activities with the app.
 Now that you’ve chosen a profile for JuiceDefender to use, you can add widgets to help you monitor the status of the app. Tap on the home button to bring you back to your home screen, then tap and hold a blank area in your home screen to open up the customization window.


Tap on “Widgets,” and scroll down the list to select JuiceDefender. Choose a JuiceDefender widget (JuiceDefender or Toggle Mobile Data); the area it takes up on your homescreen grid is indicated by the numbers at the bottom of the widget name.
 The widgets won’t always fit flush with your home screen after adding then. Tap and hold the widget and tap on “Resize” on the window that comes up. Drag the circular handles around the widget to enlarge or reduce the size of the widget to your liking.


Sometimes you will want to move the widget. To do this, tap and hold the widget until you feel a slight vibration, and drag the widget to the desired location. Let go of the widget to secure it in place.
 The function of the widget will differ depending on whether you selected to have the JuiceDefender widget on your home screen or the Toggle Mobile Data widget.


If you selected the JuiceDefender widget, this gives you information on the status of the app, battery life multiplier, the connectivity status of mobile and Wi-Fi connections. Tapping on the widget will open the Quickbox, which will let you temporarily enable or disable a connection by tapping the first choice (which is either “Disable connection.” or “Enable conn.”). You can also easily open JuiceDefender by tapping on “Open JD” at the bottom of the Quickbox, and to temporarily disable battery saving, you can tap on “Disable JD” beside it.
For Toggle Mobile Data, this widget will allow you to force disable or enable mobile data on your mobile network. It gives you an easy avenue to acquire an Internet connection on the go. Just make sure to disable the data again if you wish to conserve your monthly data allocation.

