 Being a sniper is mostly for people who are scared of being in the action (or people who have the patience and skill to do it effectively in big games, in small games snipers are not effective). Most normal people are not snipers and they just play paintball normally. But if you want to become a real paintball sniper then you are at the right place. Actual snipers can take days to move in to their targets, and find the perfect position. In a 10 minute paintball game, this isn't going to be practical. Instead, consider simply playing as a marksman, and taking long distance shots, while being at the front line. However, in larger scenario games, playing as a sniper can be a vital role, and prove to be a very fun experience.;
,,,,,, When moving, keep your profile as low to as possible, by pulling your marker in towards you so that the barrel is pointing away from you, and the rest of the gun is tucked next to your stomach. Keep your head up to look for targets, and take your step at a slow cadence.
 The less movement and work you have to do, the better off you are. Places that intersect or parallel well traveled paths, open fields, and villages or bunkers is going to be the best chance you'll have at bringing in a target. Also remember that unlike a real rifle, your range is going to be limited to a very short distance, at maximum 60 yards (54.9 m). Also try find places that are up high. Having the high ground is always a good tactic.
 Human shapes naturally draw the eyes towards you. Choose areas where there is a lack of light coming in, such as bushes, ridges, or areas where there are lots of fallen leaves or trees. Choose your camouflage according to the area, and the season as well. Laying down will decrease your silhouette.
 Take your time to set yourself up and get comfy. In longer scenario paintball games, you could be waiting from an hour to a half an hour. Depending on the type of game, paintball sniping may not be practical due to time constraints.
 Look for markers from which to judge distance, and base your shots. Remember once again, that a paintball is not like a real bullet, and has a very short range. This range is also severely effected by the wind, and if you are using the Co2, how cold or warm the CO2 is. Once again, time constraints come in to play here. If you are in a short match, then this may not be practical.
 25% works a general rule, because in short games (5-15 minutes) sniping is not going to be practical, so moving every couple of minutes would be normal anyway. In longer scenario games, if the enemy hasn't advanced to the position you are working at, chances are they won't advance through that position at all. Remember to move quietly!

, Do not fire unless you are in range or your target sees you and shoots first. Because if your paint balls do not make it to your target, that will give away your position and that person could get away or come after you.
 To do this, move your sight or scope over your target, and attempt to center the sights over the target's body, as this is the biggest mass and most easy to hit. If you think you have a good shot and a good line of sight, put your hand on the Marker's trigger/lever and squeeze it to fire off a paintball.
 To aim again, look to where your ball went. If it curved left or right, it is possible you had either a spike in wind speed or Co2 velocity. In this case, adjust for wind, and take another shot.
