 Although milk, cheese and yogurt do have a large amount of calcium, there are other foods that can provide calcium as well. Children who are allergic to milk can consume fortified beverages and foods as alternatives that will offer an adequate amount of calcium.


Calcium is an essential mineral to children's and adult's bone health. Food manufacturers are now adding this mineral to many foods including a variety of beverages.Common calcium-fortified foods include: orange juice, soy milk, dry cereals, almond milk, breads, oatmeal and tofu. Orange juice and non-dairy milk can have anywhere from 200–400 mg of calcium per serving.
Note that the bioavailability of calcium in these foods (how well your body absorbs the added calcium) varies greatly. For example, the calcium in orange juice is absorbed well. Whereas the calcium in soy milk settles to the bottom, so its recommended to shake up your soy milk before serving.;
, It's best to try to spread out your child's calcium intake over the entire day. A little calcium at each meal makes it easier to meet the recommended intake of 1,000–1,300 mg daily.Start your child's day off with a calcium-rich breakfast.


In lieu of the typical cereal and cow's milk breakfast, swap over to some common fortified foods for breakfast. Combining a few of these can help your child get in a decent dose of calcium early in the morning.
If your child enjoys cereal and milk, look for a cereal that's fortified with calcium. Read over the nutrition label and find the percentage of calcium in a single serving of the cereal. It should have at least 10–15% of your child's calcium needs. Cereals can have anywhere 200–1,000 mg of calcium per serving.
Serve your child's cereal with fortified soy or almond milk. Remember, thoroughly shake up these non-dairy milks to ensure you're getting the full dose of calcium.
 Depending on the age of your child and her taste preferences, you can try serving her some dark greens and other calcium-rich vegetables. These foods in particular are fairly high in calcium and can help your child reach her daily needs.


Greens and lettuces that are highest in calcium are: collard greens, kale, and mustard greens. Other vegetables include broccoli, broccoli rabe and bok choy.Vegetables aren't overly high in calcium but can have anywhere from 50–350 mg of calcium per serving.
Although there are other vegetables that are high in calcium as well (like beets, rhubarb and spinach), the calcium in these particular vegetables is not well absorbed.
Serve salads with dinner to help your child get in more dark greens. You can also make sure to serve broccoli or bok choy with dinner as well. If your child packs lunch, consider blanching broccoli to be served with a ranch dip as a side.
 A vegetarian source of calcium can be found in soy foods, tofu and tempeh (fermented soy beans). These items can replace meat in meals or served alongside another protein source for an added hit to calcium.Tofu can have 200–400 mg of calcium per serving. Tempeh can have about 180–200 mg of calcium per serving. If paired with other calcium-rich foods (like broccoli or bok choy) your child will get a fairly high-calcium meal.
Give these vegetarian protein sources a try. Both tofu and tempeh can be sautéed, baked, stir-fried or even crumbled into casserole dishes. They have a mild flavor and are generally well-liked by children.
 If your child enjoys the occasional tuna salad sandwich, this might be a good way to increase his overall calcium intake. Both canned fish and some fresh or frozen fish contain a decent amount of calcium.Canned tuna or salmon can have anywhere from 35–250 mg of calcium per serving. In addition, cod, herring and trout have about 20 mg of calcium per serving.
Try making tuna or salmon salad sandwiches or wraps for your child's lunch (served with some dark greens on fortified bread can increase the overall calcium content) or have fish a few times a week with dinner.
 A great way to add more calcium to your child's diet is through almonds. These nuts are not overly high in calcium, but can be added to snacks or meals to boost their calcium content.Per serving of 1 oz, almonds contain about 70–80 mg of calcium. Other nut varieties do have some calcium, but it's very minimal.
Make your own trail mix with almonds and dried fruit for your child to bring in her lunch box or have as an afternoon snack. You can also serve chopped almonds on top of salads to add a little crunch and hit of calcium.
 Adequate consumption of Vitamin D is also essential to bone health.


Children need adequate amounts of both calcium and Vitamin D. These nutrients work together to help children build strong and dense bones when they're young. Adequate amounts of calcium alone is not enough for proper bone health.Children need about 400–800 IU of Vitamin D each day.Although this is a fairly low dosage, even kids who play outside regularly are showing signs of deficiency.
Food sources of Vitamin D include: egg yolks, fatty fish (like salmon and tuna) and fortified foods (like orange juice, soy milk and cereals). You can also get some Vitamin D naturally as you sit in the sun.
Unfortunately, there are not many food sources of Vitamin D. In addition, if you're putting sunscreen on your child, that doesn't allow his skin to make Vitamin D when he is exposed to sunlight. Talk to your doctor about giving your child a low-dose Vitamin D supplement to help ensure he is getting adequate amounts.
Your doctor may also recommend about 10 minutes of sun exposure without sunscreen three times a week to help make Vitamin D naturally.
 Magnesium has also been associated with bone maintenance for adults; however, recent studies show that adequate intakes of magnesium are equally important for bone growth in children.A recent study showed that children's magnesium intake was directly linked to how much bone they developed as they aged. Lower intakes were associated with lower bone densities.
Average daily recommendations are as follows: Birth to 6 months: 30 mg; 7–12 months: 75 mg; 1 – 3 years: 80 mg; 4 – 8 years: 130 mg; 9 – 13 years: 240 mg; boys 14 – 18: 410 mg; girls 14 – 18: 360 mg.In general, a well-balanced and nutritious diet will provide adequate amounts of magnesium. Specific foods that contain magnesium include: nuts, spinach, fortified cereals, soy milk and soy products, black beans, fortified bread, avocado and potatoes.
 Another essential mineral to a child's bone growth and development is phosphorus. Although a nutritious diet should provide adequate phosphorus, ensure your child is getting enough through their diet.When children do not have a balanced or varied diet, they might not be consuming adequate phosphorus. Studies have shown that low levels of phosphorus have been associated with poor growth and poor bone and tooth development.Children under 10 years old need about 500 mg of phosphorus each day. Children over 10 need about 1300 mg of phosphorus daily.
Foods that have relatively high levels of phosphorus include: protein foods (like poultry, beef or pork), nuts, dairy products, beans, lentils and whole grains.
 This essential vitamin also plays an important role in the growth of bones in children.


Vitamin A specifically is responsible for cells to be able to divide or replicate properly. Skeletal cells in children are dividing and replicating fast as children grow, build and develop bone tissue.Children need about 400–600 mg of Vitamin A each day. Younger children under 10 need the lower amount — as they get older they need slightly larger amounts each day.Vitamin A is found in a large variety of foods including: sweet potatoes, carrots, pumpkin, spinach, cantaloupe, red peppers, fish, liver, mangoes, apricots, broccoli and fortified cereals.
 In addition to other nutrients, Vitamin C is key for a child's bone health.


Although you may commonly think of bones being made fully of calcium, the main protein found in bone is collagen. Vitamin C is essential for the production and maintenance of collagen.
Recommended daily doses for children are as follows: Birth to 6 months: 40 mg; 7 – 12 months: 50 mg; 1 – 3 years: 15 mg; 4 – 8 years: 25 mg; 9 – 13 years: 45 mg; boys 14 – 18 years: 75 mg; girls 14 – 18 years: 65 mg.Foods that are particularly high in Vitamin C include: citrus fruits (like oranges, grapefruit and their juices), kiwi, red and green bell peppers, berries, tomatoes and melons.
 There are many nutrients that are needed to help kids develop strong and healthy bones. Even with a milk allergy, the best way to get all these nutrients is through a balanced and varied diet.A balanced diet for kids means that they're eating foods from every food group (except dairy foods) each day. In addition, you should help them focus on foods that will replace the calcium-rich foods from the dairy group.Kids should be eating foods from the protein group, vegetable group, fruit group and from the grains group every day.
It's also important for children to eat a large variety of foods. Offering them different types of fruits, vegetables and protein sources will help ensure they get adequate amounts of essential nutrients.
 Many children do struggle to get in adequate amounts of calcium each day - regardless of whether or not they have a milk allergy. Many health professionals are stressing the importance of limiting some food choices to ensure kids do get adequate calcium daily.


Health and nutrition professionals are noticing that children's calcium levels are decreasing overall. The reasoning behind this is that there has been an increase in the amount sodas, energy drinks and sports drinks that kid's are drinking.This is replacing the calcium-rich beverages in children's diets.
Encourage your child to stick to water and calcium-fortified beverages like 100% orange juice, soy milk or almond milk. Aim for at least 40–60 oz of water daily plus a glass or two of fortified beverages.
Have your child avoid or restrict how often she drinks beverages like soda, tea, fruit drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks or coffees.
 Following a lower sodium diet isn't just for those with high blood pressure. Sodium and calcium have a unique relationship in the body making it important for children to also follow a moderate to low sodium diet.


Calcium and sodium share the same transport pathway in the body. When children have increased sodium levels from their diet, they excrete more calcium in their urine. This decreases how much calcium can be absorbed by the body.Children's main source of sodium is from processed foods, fast foods and other restaurant foods. Help your child limit their intake of foods like: chips, crackers, snack cakes, fast food, fried foods and pizza.
Have your child focus on less processed, more whole foods. For example, instead of crackers as a snack, have them go for an apple with all natural peanut butter.
 Although a balanced diet high in calcium and Vitamin D (and other nutrients) is essential for healthy bone growth in children, it's also important to encourage activity. Both strength training and cardio are essential for a child's healthy bone growth.Regular physical activity can help increase bone growth in children. In addition, it helps set up good behaviors long-term. Physical activity, especially weight bearing and strength training exercises, help maintain bone mass as an adult.
Children should be active for at least an hour daily. Make sure they're doing a lot of aerobic exercises during these 60 minutes. Playing outside games, playing sports, riding bikes or hiking with the family all count towards this hour.
Exercises like walking, running and dancing are all considered weight-bearing exercises. Encourage your child to participate in these daily to help build his bones as he gets older.

