


Draining the fluid will go much faster when the fluid is at least warm.
Be careful working around hot vehicle components, especially the exhaust system.;
, Place the vehicle in park, set the parking brake and chock the rear wheels before raising the vehicle.
, Jack stands allow for much easier access to the relevant components. Jack stands are also much more reliable.
 There are many types of fluid and some manufacturers even require brand specific fluid. Consult your owner’s manual and an automotive parts professional to ensure you have the correct fluid and parts before you begin.
 Position a large drain pan under the transmission oil pan and try not to spill any fluid. Keeping the area under your vehicle clean will help you stay clean.


Look for a drain plug. The drain plug will usually be a standard threaded plug located in one corner of the transmission oil pan. Remove the plug and allow the fluid to drain, then reinstall the drain plug.
If there is no drain plug, draining the fluid will be a little more tricky. Loosen all the bolts on the transmission oil pan and then completely remove the bolts from one side. This will allow the side or corner of the pan to drop enough so that the fluid will run out.
After the fluid has drained fully remove all the bolts and make note of their location. Remove the transmission oil pan. It may need to be tapped loose with a rubber hammer.
 Look for anything that seems out of place like sediment or large pieces of metal in the fluid. This could be indicative of a larger problem, so if you find anything, consult a transmission expert immediately. It is also a good idea to measure the amount of fluid drained because this will give you a good estimate on how much fluid to replace.
 Automatic transmissions are very sensitive to dirt and foreign matter. Use a degreaser to clean the outside of the pan and brake cleaner to clean the inside and the gasket mating surfaces.


Carefully remove all the gasket material from the transmission oil pan and the mating surface on the transmission. A razor blade may be helpful.
Most transmissions have a magnet in the pan to catch small metal particles. Be sure to clean and reinstall the magnet.
Clean the bolts that secure the oil pan to the transmission.
 Most automatic transmissions have a filter that traps debris in the system and changing this filter is part of a complete service. Most transmission filters are located on the bottom of the valve body and are clearly visible once the transmission oil pan has been removed. Look for the white or yellow plastic mesh on the bottom of the filter.

Some filters merely snap into place or are held on by clips. Pay attention to the location and orientation of the clips. It may be helpful to take a picture before removing to use as a reference.
Other filters are held in place by bolts that can vary in length. It is imperative these bolts are reinstalled in their correct locations.


Other transmissions employ external spin-on filters that resemble engine oil filters. Remove the filter with oil filter pliers and simply tighten the new one by hand.
Apply a little clean transmission fluid on any o-rings or seals on the filter as this will make installation much easier.
 Work cleanly, slowly and carefully and this will be easy.


Apply a light coat of high-tack gasket sealant to the transmission oil pan and then carefully place the gasket on the pan, lining up the holes on the gasket with the holes on the pan. Allow the sealant to set-up a few minutes so the gasket won't shift during installation. RTV silicone is NOT recommended for this application.
Carefully reinstall the transmission pan on the transmission and reinstall the bolts. Tighten the bolts in accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
 Remove the jackstands and lower the vehicle.
 Typically the transmission dipstick is red in color, while the engine oil dipstick is yellow but always refer to your owner’s manual. The dipstick tube usually doubles as the fill port. Slowly refill the transmission fluid, checking the level often to avoid overfilling. A long funnel will make this easier.
 Let the engine idle for a few minutes and look for leaks. It is a good idea to move the selector lever through all positions as well.
 Refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual for exact instructions on how to check the fluid level. This is very important because some vehicles require you to check the transmission fluid with the engine running and others do not. Following the wrong procedure may result in an inaccurate dipstick reading. Ensure you’re using the right procedure and the level is correct and you’re all done!

