 Each expansion has its own max level enchantments (enchants, for short). You’ll want to concentrate on these and on cosmetic enchants. Max level enchants are those which max level characters use to enhance their gear. Cosmetic enchants change the appearance of gear. It’s best to concentrate on these two types because they are in the most demand. To find out the current max level enchants, open your Professions tab, click on “Enchanting,” and sort by “Level, descending.” The top listed recipes will be max level enchantments.
 You’ll note that the max level enchants for each expansion use similar materials—that’s because new materials will be introduced during the expansion as well. Make a list of the materials used to create this expansion’s max level enchantments. The materials you’ll need are listed in the recipes in your Professions tab, which can be opened by hitting “K.”, Most materials for creating enchantments will be obtainable through disenchanting pieces of gear and weapons that you obtain from questing or drops. However, some may require purchase from special vendors or from other crafters. The easiest way to determine the source of a material is to look it up on the official Blizzard website., In order to maximize your profits, you’ll want to get your materials as cheaply as possible. The easiest and cheapest way to gather materials is to disenchant the gear and weapons you don’t need. These may come from quest rewards, gear you’ve replaced with higher level gear, and items you gather from monsters that doesn’t outlevel your current gear. Open your Professions tab, select the item, and then select “Disenchant.” You’ll receive enchanting materials in exchange for destroying the item., You may find that you don’t have enough materials from disenchanting the gear you’ve gathered. That’s okay. Many players list gear and weapons they don’t need on the Auction House for very low prices. Head to a major city and visit an Auction House. There, browse current expansion armor and weapons by price. By now, you should have a good idea of what to expect from different types of gear, so you can purchase gear at low prices that will provide you with the materials you need., If there are additional materials you require, whether from vendors or other crafters, now is the time to purchase them. Take a look at the materials you’ve already gathered and cross reference them with the recipes in your Professions tab. That way, you’ll be able to purchase just enough of what you need to complete some items to sell., You’ll only want to make a couple of each enchantment to begin, because you want to see which sell the fastest and for the best prices, since they use similar materials to create. For example, you may find a particular enchantment is popular with tank characters and is priced more highly as a result—but they don’t sell as quickly, because there aren’t as many players choosing to tank versus DPS., Go to a major city and visit the Auction House. Click the auctioneer to open the Auction House menu. Before placing your items for sale, use the search function in the menu to search each enchantment and sort by lowest price. As long as the lowest price still nets you a profit, post your items for 1 copper lower than that price. Do this by opening the Sell tab in the Auction House user interface and right-clicking the item you wish to sell. Enter the desired sell price and the amount of time you want the auction to be active (12–48 hours).

If you’re going to be checking frequently, 12 hours is best because you can adjust prices accordingly if the item doesn’t sell. If you’re about to log off, set the time longer so the item stays up for the maximum amount of time.
If someone purchases your item, you’ll receive mail containing your gold.
 In addition to placing items on the Auction House, use your time in major cities (for example, if you’re waiting for a group to form for a raid or other activity) to sell your wares in trade chat. Click in the chat pane entry field at the bottom and type “/trade” with a space after. Any text you enter after this point will be displayed for those watching trade chat. You can then list the items you have for sale, along with (if you can afford it) a discount price lower than items on the Auction House. You can also offer to make other enchantments for which you have the materials. If a player takes you up on it, join a group with them and choose a place to meet. Create the enchantment they’ve requested, and right-click on the player to open a trade window. They’ll add gold and you can add your enchantment.