 Don't just look at your room and sulk, that won't get it clean. Think of how wonderful it would be waking up and walking through your clean room or finding your item that you need in a snap of a finger!


What's so messy about it? Look for the big things first. Realizing what makes your room messy in the first place is a very good start because it helps to cleaning it right. Now you got the main things out, you are ready to start cleaning.;
, You're probably left with a lot of clothing, toys, etc. You didn't really do much but clear out the hardest parts. Take your dirty clothing off the floor and put them in a container, or, if you have one, a laundry basket. Take your clean clothing and pile them up somewhere else. Also, don't just leave your dirty clothes in the hamper, make sure they actually get washed! If you have any empty clothes hangers laying around, put them into your closet.
 If you are still young, and reading this guide and have toys, then take your toys and think. Do you want them anymore? Are they in good enough shape to donate? Put your toys into 3 piles: Toys to keep in your room, toys to throw out, and toys to donate. Now keep your piles out of your room and away for now. Again, we will go back to that later.
 A common thing in messy rooms are dirty dishes. You probably have glasses laying around with a little sour milk still on the bottom, and plates with sauce all over them. Go to the "Tips" Section if you have ants, roaches, or any insect in your room. Anyway, take your dishes down and wash them or put them in the dishwasher. Make sure you do it well, and remember to put them back in the cabinet for the next family member or guest to use. Take a sponge and wipe away any glass marks (from not using a coaster) or spills from food and drink. Good! You got the grossest part of cleaning your room done. Now down to the next step.
 If you never do crafts, skip this step. Crafty stuff includes paper, stationery (pens, pencils, scissors, rulers), and things you'd use for creative hobbies. If you're a really crafty person, buy some drawers specifically for craft materials.
 Make sure you get rid of any "Dog-ears" (folds in the corners of the page) and put them in a bookcase or shelf. If you don't have one, put them to the side for later (where you put your toys and clothing).


If you want your room to look really tidy, then rearrange your books from smallest to largest, alphabetically, etc.
 Do the same for the rest of the television. Keep the remote somewhere where you'll remember.
 Do this neatly! Then take the toys you put aside and arrange them in your room as you'd like. Keep the donating toy pile for tomorrow, unless you did this early in the day. The books can stay until you have a place to put them.
 A full laundry basket can be an eyesore to your goal to clean your room.
, If they don't shut, rearrange as necessary.
 For example: important papers go to one side, art supplies may go to another, accessories in another, and then trash obviously goes into the trash.
 Let it air dry, or wipe it down with a clean rag or paper towel.
, You should be doing this at least weekly, for the sake of the pet's health.


If you have fish, make sure the water is clean. If it isn't, read How to Clean a Fish Tank. Once it's clean, feed them. Make sure they are healthy.
If you have bird(s),take them out for a little. Take out their newspapers from the bottom (Or sand if you use that) and throw them out and replace them. if your cage still smells, take your sponge again and wipe the cage inside and out. Put any bird toys back in and place your birds in, with it. Now you have a clean bird cage!
If you have a reptile, (Iguana, Turtle, Snake, etc.) clean any feces out. If you have a turtle, then follow How to Clean a Turtle Tank.
You may even have a rabbit. Follow this article in that case: How to Clean a Rabbit Cage.
 If you were following the steps outlined, there shouldn't be much on your bed. Read How to Make Your Bed.
 If you have Venetian blinds, dust them. If curtains are dirty, wash them.
 Empty the garbage bin and take out trash bags. Then if you want, you can spray air freshener in the room to make it fresh.
 Sit back, relax, and praise yourself for the work you've done. Remember to keep your room as clean as possible for as long as possible, because you don't want to do it all over again!

