 You'll need to be using a computer or device that is currently connected to the network. It is best to use a computer that is connected to the router via Ethernet, as wireless devices will lose connection when the router updates with new information.;
, This is the default address for most D-Link routers.
 This is another common address for routers.
 This hostname will work for many newer D-Link routers., If you still can't get to the router login screen, you can use a computer to look up the router address:


Windows - Right-click the Network icon in the System Tray. Click "Open Network and Sharing Center." Click the "Connections" link for your active connection at the top of the window. Click the "Details..." button. Copy the "IPv4 Default Gateway" address. This is the router's address.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select System Preferences. Click the Network option. Select your active network connection. Click the "Advanced..." button. Click the "TCP/IP" tab. Copy the "Router" address.
 This is the most common default username for D-Link routers.
 Many D-Link routers don't have a password assigned.
 If a blank password doesn't work, try "admin.", If a combination of "admin" and blank passwords doesn't work, visit www.routerpasswords.com and select "D-Link" from the menu. Find your router model in the list and enter the username and password displayed.
 If none of the default login usernames and passwords work, press and hold the Reset button on the back of the router for about thirty seconds. The router will then reboot, which may take a minute. Once reset, you'll be able to use the default information to log in.
 If you don't see this tab, click the Setup tab and then click "Wireless Settings" in the left menu.
, Unless you are specifically trying to connect older devices that don't support WPA2, you should always be using this security method. It is the most secure way to protect your network.
, Make sure that the password does not contain any dictionary words and is not easy to guess. This is especially important in crowded areas.
,, Once you've changed the password, any wireless devices will be disconnected and will require the new password in order to reconnect.

