 One thing that distinguishes a palm tree from other tree varieties is its unbranched stem with leaf tufts either on the end or on each side of the stem known as fronds. These bushy, often large, leaves on the stem are a most common identifier. , The best way to begin classifying your palm tree is based on the fronds. Feather-like fronds (pinnate) are found on some of the most popular and common palm tree types like the Areca Palm, Coconut Palm, Queen Palm, and Date Palm. If the tree has fan-like leaves, the most common are the Bismarck Palm, Mexican Fan Palm, and Windmill Palm. Both types of frond can range from green to blue-green to silvery. , Palm trees are commonly associated with tropics, but not for the fruit they bear. Coconuts, acai berries, and betel nuts are all from palm trees, so if you find these fruit, you can be sure you've found a palm tree. , Palms have either a solitary or multi-trunk, which appears like a cluster of trunks woven together. Typically multi-trunk palms are shorter and have a longer maturation period. Common multi-trunk varieties are the Needle Palm, Lady Palm, Areca Palm. These often appear more like shrubs than tall slender trees. Coconut or Date Palms are single trunk and much taller than the shorter, shrub variety. The surface of these trunks vary, too. Some are smooth whereas others are more layered. Most palm trees have straight trunks but other common varieties like the Coconut Palm have tapered trunks.
 Palm trees are distinguished by very discreet flowers that are usually yellowish-green to light green and generally grow in clusters along the stems. They are generally not very vibrant or flashy but if you find.


Some common distinguishable flowers include: the Areca Palm with bright yellow flowers, the Bottle Palm with small white flowers, and the Coconut Palm with sweet-scented yellow flowers. , Once you've narrowed down other distinguishing marks like the fronds and trunk, you can use the size of the tree to further narrow down the possibilities. There are some dwarf varieties that only reach 10 feet while others can grow as large as 100 feet. In order to distinguish from one variety to another, the tree will need to be mature. When palm trees are only a few months old they all virtually look the same. 