 Whatever it is that is bothering you, distracting you, or stressing you out, put it somewhere out of the way for a while and ignore it.


If you just got home from work, hide your laptop, your phone, those bills that are overdue, and all the other things that you associate with working. If you just broke up with someone, clear out all the things that remind you of that person. Make it too difficult to think about the things that are bothering you.
For many people who struggle with general anxiety, avoiding television or internet news feeds can help, since the news is often sensationalized to capitalize on your worries., Spending time in a park, the woods, around a lake, or in a nearby meadow can help ground you to your surroundings, keeping your mind off troubling things. In addition to benefits to your physical health, spending time outdoors has been shown to improve concentration and increase reported levels of happiness.It's important that you don't allow your time outdoors to become a place to dwell on the issues that are bothering you. During your hikes, pause to notice the texture of the grass or the changing light on a tree or mountain, the ripples of a lake. Sets of serenity can be built in our minds and they are places where we can go more simply in our minds. Remember this.
If you find it hard to focus on your surroundings and your mind wanders back to your troubles, consider setting out on your walk or hike with a specific purpose in mind, such as collecting interesting seed pods, identifying various types of birds, or tracking wildlife. Having a task to do can help refocus your attention.
 Music is a great way to just let loose and dance, or meditate and relax. Whatever style of music you favor, listening actively can help clear your mind and leave you feeling refreshed.


Music with slow, methodical beats can put you in a meditative state and has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety much like hypnosis and meditation.Alternately, if you don't want to relax but still need a distraction, try listening to music with complicated lyrics that you'll have to follow closely. Staying closely engaged will help to keep your mind off other things. Check out Leonard Cohen, Patty Smith, Bill Callahan, or Vic Chesnutt.

