 No matter which method a potential volunteer uses to contact you, always respond within 24 hours. The longer it takes you to get back to someone, the less likely they are to remain interested.
 Even if you are desperate for help, a "warm body" or "butt in a chair" won't solve your problems. Use people who are genuinely committed to helping. While not all volunteer positions require a screening process, consider treating it more like a job application when recruiting for the following roles:


Volunteers who interact with community members will be seen as representatives of your organization and should match your organization's values. Criminal background checks are recommended if they will be interacting with vulnerable populations.
Volunteers who will be operating machinery or handling money should undergo a criminal background check and receive supervised training.
 Invite people interested in volunteering to an orientation and "meet the team" gathering with food included. One of the best ways to make a good first impression is to give your applicants a free meal or snacks., If you are looking for committed, long-term volunteers, you may wish to have them sign a contract before they begin, committing them to a certain length of time. The goal is not to punish an unpaid volunteer if they leave, but to make it clear that it is the volunteer's responsibility to recruit her replacement.If a volunteer is not certain about their commitment yet, allow her to show up to one or two sessions before making a decision.
 Allow volunteers to set their own hours, within the limits of your program. If you discover that a volunteer has a skill your organization could use, give him the chance to use it even if this is not part of your original plan. For example, a volunteer may help update your organization's website or play music at your organization's social gathering.
 Your first batch of volunteers can transform into a powerful recruiting tool. When the next volunteer project comes up, ask your current and former volunteers to spread the word to their friends and community members with similar interests. Thank each volunteer for her service individually if possible, to build commitment and positive associations with your organization.

