 Yes, in order for smokers to boycott, they must first quit. The tobacco companies will lose revenue if no one buys their products, thus taking away more and more of their power and advertising money. If you think "this store already bought them", if you buy cigarettes from them, they will run out faster and have to buy more cigarettes sooner, and you might look like an addict to them.;
, Write a petition to ban smoking in the workplace, or where food is being served, or in the parks, or wherever you feel smoking should be banned that it hasn't yet. Or for more taxes on cigarettes. Since 90% of smokers started before age 21, raising the legal age limit for purchasing cigarettes would make sure people are more mature before they can make the decision of whether to start smoking or not. Or, if your state has already made a lot of progress to stop smoking, petition to ban smoking in at least some parts on the streets and in public - completely taking away the risk of secondhand smoke, which kills 3,400 people a year from lung cancer, over 20,000 with heart disease and causes illness in many more. If smoking is banned in restaurants, for example, smokers will just sit outside on a bench, smoke, and usually litter their butts even if an ashtray is within arm's reach. Have friends or family sit outside libraries, or post offices, and have the petition signed by hundreds of people. Make sure that this put on the ballot of the next election.
 Even if they have the same amount of people as signers for a petition, protests can be more convincing.
 Create a blog, write to newspapers, talk to your local TV news stations. Dissuade others from patronizing movies that contain smoking of any kind. Send emails to each production company. Never buy movies containing smoking.
 Big Tobacco scares restaurant owners into thinking they will lose revenue if smoking is banned there, so that they are reluctant to ban it, but the tobacco industry only does it because they want their products to be able to be consumed anywhere. In fact, most profits actually go up once smoking is banned, and the place is healthier, so it would be hard to reverse the ban later. Go to the restaurant or bar, be a customer, and tell them you couldn't stand the smoke there before and wouldn't have been a customer now if smoking wasn't banned there.
, Convince them to either not start smoking, or to quit if they already smoke. If you are really feeling brave, carry nicotine gum and hand it to every smoker you see. The vast majority of smokers want to quit, and they would be more than happy to try out nicotine gum that they got for free, what have they got to lose? Maybe hand them a few packs so they don't run out and start smoking again.

