 By and large, the healthy, balanced diet you should strive to achieve for overall health is also what is needed for a healthy brain that is better primed to encode memories. Eat plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables, add in lean proteins and whole grains, and cut back on saturated fats, sodium, and sugars.


Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, soybeans, and walnuts, seem to be particularly beneficial to the brain and thus memory-building.There are omega-3 and other nutritional supplements marketed as good for the brain and memory. These are an option, but it is usually considered better to get your vitamins and nutrients through food.
Drink plenty of water as well. Dehydration negatively impacts the brain along with the rest of the body.
 In the same way that a healthy body fosters a healthy mind and therefore healthy memory abilities, unhealthiness and illness can hamper your short term memory.


Any circulatory problem that affects blood flow to the brain -- high blood pressure, for instance -- can have a negative effect on short term memory. But other conditions like diabetes, thyroid problems, cancers, and so on can likewise have an impact.Depression can also negatively impact memory abilities, particularly because it can impede your ability to focus.
Some medications are known to have short term memory problems as part of their side-effects. If a person finds out that their medication is a factor in memory issues, they can always talk to their doctor about it.
Practically anyone who thinks they may have short term memory problems worries about Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia. Short term memory loss is indeed one of the first signs of Alzheimer's, but the significant majority of people with short term memory problems do not have that condition.Even if you do have the misfortune of finding out you have some form of dementia, nourishing and exercising your brain and body, and working with your medical team to develop the best regimen of medications for your specific case, offers the best chance to delay onset of the disease.
 A nightly pattern of 7-9 hours of sleep each night will allow your brain and body to adequately rest and recharge.There is some thought that “sleeping on a memory” -- focusing on something you want to remember before falling asleep -- can help firmly establish it in your mind. The brain continues to work even while you sleep.
 Regular exercise, even as simple as walking, increases blood flow to the brain, thereby supplying it with more of the oxygen and nutrients it needs to be healthy, strong, and more capable of increase in short term memory.Walking in particular is a good activity for establishing a memory because it gives you time to focus on the memory while also benefiting from the increased blood flow.

