 You can paint mandalas on stones with many different types of paint. The most important factor is viscosity. Try acrylic paint, as it is a readily available and inexpensive. Whatever type of paint you get, you will likely need to water it down in order for the paint to settle into perfectly round dots on your stone.Swing by your local home improvement store and find the paint counter. Ask for a sample of whatever color you want. If you have the choice, go for oil-based paint, as it will be more durable. Latex-based paints, on the other hand, will dry more quickly.These paints will be inexpensive in a sample portion, which is more than enough to paint a handful of rocks. (There may even be some "oops" samples to choose from for especially cheap.)
There is no need to use high quality paints available from art suppliers. For one, many of the highest quality paints will be especially thick, and are not ideal for this type of project.
Grab some transparent spray paint as well, to seal the surface of the stone after you paint your mandala.;
, You want it thick enough to avoid dripping off of your brush, but thin enough to expand into a flattened orb once deposited on your stone. Test the viscosity of your paint by depositing a small drop onto a piece of paper with your brush.Keep adding water in small amounts until the drop forms a small rounded circle on the paper. If the paint is entirely absorbed by the paper, it is too wet. In this case, add fresh paint to your mixture.
Get acrylic paint online or from any art supply store.
 You can create multiple shades of one color yourself. This is a great way to create a custom color gradient for your mandala. To do so, select a darkly colored paint that you find especially attractive. For instance, choose a dark purple, maroon, or deep green. Get the same type of paint in white as well. With these two paints alone, you can create a whole gradient with which you can paint a mesmerizing mandala!Pour out a few different equally-sized portions of your dark color. Leaving one portion as it as, add one drop to one portion, two drops to the next, and so on, until you have as many different shades of the color as you want to include in your mandala.
 The type of paintbrush you use is more important than you might expect. Opt for a round, pointed brush that has synthetic bristles. Synthetic bristles are ideal because they are stiff enough to allow you to apply fine details with great control. Usually, synthetic bristles will be yellow or white. Be sure to get a few different sizes, particularly 0, 1, and 2.Synthetic-bristled brushes are designed to be used with acrylic paint.
Avoid using brushes with animal-hair bristles. Their bristles will be too soft or fringy for fine details or small dots.
Inspect the bristles of a brush carefully before purchasing. Do not purchase a brush that has any bristles stuck together.
 High quality paintbrushes can be expensive, and are often not readily available. However, you may already have other tools that are perfect for painting mandalas. For instance, try using a nail art brush. In particular, dotting tools meant for use decorating fingernails can turn you into a dot-applying mandala master in no time., Get used to the size of dots that each of your brushes make when loaded with a certain amount of paint. Softly touch the tip of a brush wet with paint to a practice stone where you want a dot. The paint will transfer from your brush to the stone, settling into a raised, rounded dot of paint.The larger the head of the brush, the larger the corresponding dot. You can also adjust the size of the dot by allowing the brush to soak up a bit more or a bit less paint.
 Go somewhere you know there will be plenty of stones. While a rocky beach is the obvious option, stream beds and rocky trails are also great options. Look for stones that are round and flattened, like thick miniature pancakes. The smoother the better.Rocks found in moving bodies of water may be best, as they are most likely to have smooth surfaces.
You can also buy stones at most art supplies or crafting stores, or online. This approach offers stones that have flawless, artificially smoothed surfaces.
The size of the stone you choose is entirely up to you. As a default, go with a stone that fits comfortably in the palm of your hand. This size is ideal if you're hoping to meditate with your stone.
 Before you begin painting, wash your stones with warm soapy water. Ensure there is no debris or imperfections that might allow paint to sink into the stone or run down a crack or crevice. If you find any small imperfections, switch stones., You may want to apply a layer of clear varnish once the stone is clean and dry. An undercoat of varnish is not vital, though it will make it easier to paint consistent dots on the stone. It’s likely worth it, as adding a layer of varnish can be done quickly and easily., Starting with a dark base layer will help the other colors of your mandala stand out. You can paint a base in whatever shape you choose. A circle may be the easiest, though a circle with a rippled or pointy edge may also look especially good. It’s also up to you how much of the top surface of the stone you cover in a base layer.A good benchmark is about the middle 2/3 of the stone, meaning you’ll leave about 15% of the stone’s surface diameter unpainted all around the base layer.
 Allow the base layer to fully dry before beginning to apply dots. On many mandala stones, this central dot is the largest. Its size is up to you, though a large center dot is likely the easiest way to start a mandala design. If you want a larger central dot, paint a miniature circle in the exact center of the stone, right in the middle of the base layer you’ve already painted.White is a great color for your center dot. You’ll likely want to prominently feature whichever color you have in the middle, in part because it will stand out particularly well.
 Decide on the size of dot you want for the first circle of dots and load the corresponding brush with the same color paint. Touch the tip of the brush to the stone near the edge of the central circle, but not touching it. Apply the next dot on the opposite side of the circle. Then add a dot midway between these dots on either side, so you have four dots equally spaced around the center circle. The goal is applying dots that are the same size, and evenly spaced from one another.Split the distance between dots again. After one or two more rounds of this, you’ll likely simply be filling the only remaining spaces with dots.
 Choose a different color for your second row of dots, perhaps one shade darker of the same color. Place this row of dots outside of the preceding row, but slightly nestled into the indentations made by the earlier row. Leave a bit more space between individual dots in this row.It’s best to start with the lighter colors in your color gradient on the inside of the mandala, using darker colors nearer the edges of the stone.
Make larger, darker dots in each row for a proven pattern. You can vary this approach however you’d like, though this approach is the easiest way to start painting mandalas. Don’t forget to also leave larger gaps between individual dots in each row.
 The final row that fits within the darker base layer should be composed to dots that almost reach the edge of the layer. If you need to add a bit of dark paint, don’t hesitate to do so. Try to maintain the original shape of the base layer, but a bit of fluctuations is alright., Your last row of dots will look best if they are painted half on the base layer and half off of it, covering a small portion of the bare stone. As was the case with all of the previous rows, these dots should nestle into the spaces between but outside of the dots in the preceding row., For each row beside the smallest (which is already white dots) and the largest (with dots straddling the outer edge of the base layer), fill in the empty spaces between dots with tiny white dots. Use your smallest brush to do so., Consider painting dots on top of the colored dots you already have. Use the shade of the previous row for these additional dots on top of the colored rows. This will amplify the aesthetic effect achieved by using a color gradient.Add a drop of paint to each shade if the contrast between shades is hard to see in dots painted on top of one another.
 You can get creative with the exterior edge of the mandala however you’d like. One great option is adding mid-sized white dots between the dots of the final colored row. Then add white dots in decreasing size emanating out from these white dots and down the side of your mandala., Add more dots however you wish. You’re not done until you want to be. You can continue adding smaller and smaller dots on top of dots. Or, add more strips of dots of whatever color that decrease in size from the edge of the mandala down and around the edges of the stone. Once you’re happy with your mandala stone, spray it with transparent spray paint to help maintain your dots.