 The amount of your rest you get may not seem immediately related to your ability to resist the sensation of information overload, but getting enough sleep is vital to your ability to process information efficiently. Further, getting sufficient rest decreases the likelihood you will experience the feeling of being overwhelmed, regardless of what your day holds.The perfect amount of sleep varies for different people. If possible, go to bed while allowing for eight hours of sleep before you get up. If you repeatedly wake up without an alarm after six or seven hours of sleep, this amount of time is likely sufficient.
Help yourself get to bed by developing healthy sleep habits, including minimizing screen use in the evening and avoiding caffeine later in the day.
 Important personal discussions that will engage you emotionally, and potentially upset, surprise, or sadden you should be avoided right before bed. While it’s important to have these types of conversations if you or someone you love feels it is necessary to do so, try to avoid having important conversations in the bedroom.This can be challenging, as many people’s best chance to speak with their partners often occurs right before bed.
To prevent new, potentially significant issues from coming up in the evening, establish a policy with whomever you spend your evenings not to begin potentially serious conversations with in the hour or two preceding your usual bedtime.
If you and yours can’t help yourselves from talking to one another excitedly, consider implementing a silent wind down period before actually going to bed. They may sound like overkill, but policies such as these can greatly enhance the quality of your rest.
 Starting the day relaxed and ready to go will greatly enhance your ability to deal with stress – including the stress associated with the inevitable onslaught of information endemic to contemporary life. Meditation exercises, journaling, or gentle physical exercises, for instance, are a healthy and empowering way to greet the day.Spend five minutes lying in bed and picture yourself rising, preparing for the day, and stepping out into the world ready and capable of handling whatever you encounter. If concerns rise up in your mind, immediately picture yourself dealing with them, without thinking about the specifics.
 The act of writing out your thoughts and feelings on paper can have a significantly positive effect on your ability to center yourself and clear your mind. Not only will your thoughts become more organized, they will have a tangible existence in your journal, which may allow you to quit revisiting them in your mind.Further, the act of writing will help you remove some of the mental detritus that’s floating around your mind by helping you focus on those things that are worth addressing further while pushing away the rest.
 Stated simply, getting a bit of exercise – including just a moderate walk – will help your mind and be resist becoming overwhelmed for the rest of the day. As you walk, you take in all sorts of information – sights, scents, temperature changes – but they’re pieces of information that your body craves. More tangibly, the increase in your blood’s circulation will help get your body physically engaged and ready to tackle the day’s tasks.

Exercise more heavily after work if you had a particularly overwhelming day. Exercise immediately reduces stress by improving your breathing, diminishing the physical symptoms of feeling overwhelmed, and increasing the supply of relaxing neurotransmitters to your brain.
 Resist the inclination to hole up when you’re feeling overwhelmed. Your friends and family in particular will can offer an incredible source of support just by offering their ears. The opportunity to simply express your thoughts and feelings will go a long way in helping you process the information and sentiments you may be struggling with.Know that friends and family members are much more likely to be humbled by your willingness to speak with them than they are to be feel burdened. Don’t hesitate to open up.
 If you continue to struggle with the feeling that you’re overwhelmed by the amount of information you encounter in your daily life, get help from a mental health professional. Professional psychologists can help you learn to prevent and address stress, not to mention adjust your lifestyle to one that may help you feel overwhelmed less often.