 The health benefits of chia seeds are sometimes over-reported in news or personal anecdotes, but it is true that they are high-energy foods (partially due to the high fat content) and are good sources of some nutrients. One ounce (30 mL or 2 tbsp) of dry chia seeds contains about 138 calories (138 kcal), 5 grams (g) of protein, 9g of fat, and 10g of fiber.They provide significant amounts of useful calcium, magnesium, and potassium, even in small servings. They are most likely good sources of antioxidants and mediocre sources of (digestible) Omega-3 fatty acids, both of which may have beneficial health effects., Claims about weight loss, improved heart health, and improved athletic performance have not yet been verified by scientific studies. More than one study has failed to find any benefits of this type from adding chia seed to your diet.This does not mean that chia seeds are not a healthy food, but don't expect it to change your health or fitness drastically without making other changes to your diet or exercise routine.
 Chia seeds are high in fat and calories compared to their size, and can provide significant nutritious benefit even in small servings. The large amounts of fiber they contain may cause digestive issues if eaten in large quantities. While there is no "official" recommended serving size, you may wish to limit yourself to 1 or 2 ounces (30–60mL or 2–4 tbsp) of chia seeds each day, especially when you are adding them to your diet for the first time., Chia seeds are relatively bland, with little flavor of their own. When combined with liquids, they take on a gelatinous texture which some people enjoy but other find unpleasant. Fortunately, these qualities make them easy to mix them into other foods. You may eat chia seeds dry, stirred into other foods, or cooked into other foods. None of these methods provide significantly more nutritious benefits than others.


If eaten plain, chia seeds will actually start to combine with the saliva in your mouth and begin taking on their trademark gel-like consistency.
 Even though these seeds are the same type used in "chia pets" and other gardening applications, it's best to consume chia seeds that are packaged and sold for the purpose of consumption. If you do eat chia seeds intended for planting, make sure they were organically grown, without pesticides or other substances that could make them unsafe for human consumption.


Chia seeds can be bought in the bulk section or supplement section at most health food stores, or online.
While chia seeds are often expensive compared to other seeds, keep in mind that a large bag should last a long time if you stick to one or two small daily servings as described above.
 If you have renal failure, or any medical issue that affects the functioning of your kidneys, avoid chia seeds or eat them only in amounts recommended by your nutritionist or doctor. Their high plant protein content produces more waste than other protein sources, which impaired kidneys may not be able to deal with. The high phosphorus and potassium content can also cause itchy skin, irregular heart beat, or muscle weakness if they are not successfully processed.