 Look at what you have that a girl could want. From good looks to a nice cash flow or a good car, you could be used for any number of things. You can also be used for your clout, whether it's being a big name on a small campus or even becoming moderately famous.Of course, you don't have to be a big deal to be used. You can be taken advantage of no matter who you are. For instance, if the relationship is always one-sided, such as you're always driving her everywhere, you could be being taken advantage of.;
, See if she only seems interested in going out with you if you take her somewhere nice. Watch if she just wants to just go somewhere where she can be seen with you.. She could also be just hanging around to meet certain co-workers. Keep an eye out if she's more interested in that than in just spending time with you.She could also be looking for a free ride, literally, or just someone who will be there when she needs something.
 That is, some women may use you by only calling when they want something. Maybe they want you to fix something or pick up something for them. Pay attention to when women call and how they talk on the phone with you. If she only calls every few weeks and seems to want a favor each time, she may not be that into you., If she only wants to chat you up at work, she may just be using you to get ahead. You can check by asking her out on a date, but be careful, since work relationships can be tricky. Similarly, if she works somewhere else but only calls you at work to ask work questions, she could just be using you., Some people may assume that men should still pay for everything. However, that's usually not a true statement anymore. If she never even offers to pay for anything, even if you refuse, she could be using you., That is, when you talk on the phone or get together, see if she only talks about herself. If she doesn't take the time to listen to what's going in with you, then she's probably not in it for the long haul., That is, maybe she will only do things she wants to do. Alternatively, maybe she'll call only when something is going on in town, such as a big concert or a new club opening, that she wants you to pay for.She may also be hesitant to hang out when you suggest something, but eager when she wants to go somewhere., If she's always trying to keep her options open, rather than committing to plans with you, she could be just wanting to play the field. However, she also could just be stringing you along., If she's only calling late, say after 10 or 11 pm, she may just want to have sex with you. You do have to take her schedule into consideration; she may be calling late because that's when she gets out of class or off work. Of course, if you're both open to that type of relationship, it's fine. However, if you want more than that, you may need to end it., Everyone does something wrong sometimes. You apologize and move on. However, if she never seems to want to apologize, that's likely a sign she doesn't care about the relationship. She may even use tears to move the situation along without her having to admit she was wrong.Of course, apologizing goes both ways. You have to be willing to apologize in a relationship, too.
 If she's proud to be in the relationship, she'll be happy to call you her boyfriend. However, if she doesn't want to acknowledge you publicly, she may be using you, especially if you've talked about being exclusive in private., Meaning, see if she actually wants you to meet her friends and family. If she deflects questions about getting together with her friends, she may be using you. A person who is excited to be in an honest relationship will likely want you to meet the other people she cares about., That is, does she suddenly drop off the map if you're low on cash. Do you know see her if your car is in for repairs and you sometimes give her a ride? If you notice she's only around when you have something material to offer, she's likely using you.Similarly, if she's all sweetness and light when she's asking for something but then turns mean once she gets it, she may just be using you., For instance, if she's constantly cancelling plans, she doesn't value your time. Everyone has to cancel sometimes, but if she is always bowing out at the last minute, that could be a sign she's not into you. Similarly, if she constantly wants you to change what other plans you have, she's saying she doesn't care about what you value., Think about what you want to say beforehand, and remember to include specific examples of how you think she is using you.Don't be angry or antagonistic. Try to keep the conversation polite and calm. Ask her what she thinks about the situation.Be ready for some anger. If the person is using you, she'll likely deny it and be angry about it. If she feels like she's not using you, she'll likely be angry at the accusation., Ask her what she needs and expects from a relationship. Present what you need and expect from a relationship. Negotiate from there how the relationship can move forward.
 You can only have one of two outcomes with this situation. Either you will need to work out a way to create a new type of relationship, or you will need to end it altogether.