 It is best to place all of the required materials on your desk, table, or wherever you plan to work. Below is what you will need to make and fly your kite:


8.5” x 11” sheet of printing paper, construction paper, or card stock
A thin wooden stick or bamboo skewer
Tape
Lightweight string
Lightweight ribbon
Pencil
Scissors
Hole punch (optional)
A nice breeze or light wind (6-15 mph)

, Place your paper in front of you in a horizontal position with the long sides at the top and bottom. Fold your paper in half so that the fold (seam) is on the left side., Use your pencil to make a dot at the very top of the folded paper, about 1.5” to 2” from the fold, depending on your desired wing size. Make another dot at the very bottom of the folded paper, about 1.5” to 2” from the opening. Imagine or draw a line that connects the two dots.


Delta kites were first created in the 1940s by Wilbur Green and were designed with wings that fly well in lighter winds.
 Fold the paper along the line that you just made or imagined. Turn the paper over and fold that side exactly as you did in step 3. Be sure both sides are exactly the same. Use your tape to secure the folded sides along the middle seam. You should already see your kite taking shape.
 Place your thin wooden stick or bamboo skewer horizontally across the widest part of the wings. This section of the kite is also called the sail. Use tape to secure the stick into place. Be sure that your stick is not longer than the width of the kite. If it is, carefully use your scissors to shorten the stick., Draw a dot about a third of the way down the spine of your kite and about half an inch from the edge. Place tape over this dot and make sure the piece of tape is long enough to cover both sides. Use your hole punch to make a hole over the dot. This hole is the attachment point for the string.


The hole will be located at the narrow end of the flap, which is towards the top of the kite.
If you do not have a hole punch, you can carefully use scissors to create the hole.
The purpose of the tape is to reinforce the hole so that it does not tear later.
 Insert your kite string through the hole that you created and tie the string with a gentle, but tightly secured knot. You can create a handle for your string with a wide stick or any tube shaped item. A handle makes it easy for you to reel in or extend your kite, and also prevents your kite from flying away.


The string is also called the flying line.
 Tape lightweight ribbon at the very bottom of your kite on the same side as the stick. Your tail can be as long as you desire. You can start out with a long tail and cut it shorter if your kite is unable to fly.The tail is important because it balances your kite while in flight and prevents it from flipping and nose-diving to the ground.
Some tails are 3 feet or shorter, and some are 15 feet or longer.
The length of the tail will be determined by the weight of the ribbon.

