 Many people are, but the older the person you are trying to find, the less likely they will even have a Facebook account.


In a case like that, you might want to see if she has a younger relative who would be more likely to have an account.
If you are looking for a girlfriend from 15 years ago, and she had a toddler at the time, it’s a lot more likely that the child could have an account than her.
 If you're trying to stalk, get revenge, or otherwise lash out at your ex, or if you have reason to believe the contact will not be desired, STOP.


Will your current girlfriend or spouse, if you have one, appreciate you linking to an old girlfriend? Sometimes it can be better off leaving well enough alone. There’s a reason it didn’t work out the first time.
If your reasons are harmless or positive, there’s nothing wrong with re-establishing an old friendship. But take some time to figure out why you are trying to do it.
 Has she married? What’s her new last name? There are different ways you can find out this information.


Mutual friends may know if she has a new last name. Alumni lists on school websites sometimes list a person’s new last name with their maiden name.
By Googling her maiden name, you might come up with her new name if she’s used both together (which people sometimes do, including on Facebook).
 There are many social media sites in addition to Facebook. So if you can’t find her there (or maybe she’s used her privacy setting so a stranger can’t find her profile), you might find her through another site.


LinkedIn is a social media site that people use for professional connections. Some people who aren’t on Facebook are on LinkedIn. You could also try Instagram.
Some women are on Pinterest, where they share pins of things like recipes and inspirational sayings. You could look for her there.
 Sometimes people list these things on their profile pages, so you can find them that way.


You could look up her phone number first on any number of free Internet search services for finding phone numbers if you don’t remember it or think it’s changed.
Some of the Internet search services for looking up phone numbers will link her maiden name to any married name too. They often list all of the past names a person has used. 