 Your partner may make several different facial expressions involving his/her eyes, lips, and mouth that will key you in to their mood or any signs of conflict.Licking of the lips shows that your partner might be nervous or desiring something.
Lifting of the eyebrows depends on the context, but could show your partner is surprised, uncomfortable, or skeptical about something. If your partner raises his/her eyebrows quickly and smiles at the same time, it could be a sign of attraction.
Smiling without crinkles around the eyes is more of a fake smile and could mean your partner isn't really happy about something.
Clenching the jaw, rubbing the neck, or furrowing the brow could mean your partner is stressed about something.;
, Maintaining eye contact is a sign of interest, connection, and intimacy. If your partner’s eyes dart around the room or behind you, he/she might be preoccupied with something else other than what you’re saying. Darting eyes can also mean your partner is anxious.Keep in mind people know they have a tendency to shift their gaze when they feel anxious, so your partner may overcompensate by trying to keep their gaze fixed on you and blank. Your partner may also rub his eyes or touch his face near his eyes when anxious.Your partner may also scan your body with his/her eyes. This is very clearly a sign of attraction and interest, particularly if he/she doesn't look away when you notice the scanning., Clenched fists and crossed arms may mean your partner is getting defensive about something. Pay attention to this particularly if you're arguing or if you're asking your partner to do something. However, if your partner’s arms are just lightly crossed or folded across his or her stomach, like when he or she is sitting, then your partner may actually be relaxed.If your partner holds out his or her hands with the palms facing upward or outward, he/she is probably feeling relaxed, willing to communicate, and open.
If your partner stands with his/her feet shoulder-width apart, stands up straight, and has an open posture, they’re demonstrating more confidence and power. Similarly, if your partner stands with his/her hands on the hips, he or she is probably feeling more self-confident.If your partner stands slumped down, legs crossed, and hands in his pockets, your partner is likely feeling tense, sad, or embarrassed about something., A confident and relaxed sitting posture is one where your partner is leaning back with his or her legs unfolded and slightly open. If your partner is feeling more insecure, he or she will likely have his or her arms and legs folded in.

The most common sitting positions you can watch out for are:Sitting with legs splayed open show confidence and possible sexual attraction.
Sitting with legs tightly crossed indicates that someone is closed off, nervous, or unreceptive.
Crossed ankles may indicate that your partner is calm.
 See if your partner fidgets while sitting or standing. Also pay attention to any fiddling of the hands or other objects. This behavior could be a sign of anxiety, boredom, or irritation., If your partner tilts his or her head, then your partner is showing increased interest in you and what you're saying. If you notice your partner touching his or her face or playing with his or her hair, it could be that your partner is feeling comfortable.If you see your partner covering up his or her face or holding his or her head in his or her hands, then it may be that your partner is embarrassed or stressed.

