 The one that came with your operating system is likely highly targeted by spammers. Certain email clients, such as Gmail and Outlook, are more secure than others.


Gmail automatically filters most spam, but if something makes it past the filter you’ll want to select the “Report Spam” option.
Outlook also filters spam, but you can increase its effectiveness under Tools > Junk Email Protection. Here you can increase the level of protection and specify “Safe Domains” and “Blocked Senders”.
 Spammers can send a different graphic to each person they email. If your computer loads that graphic from their server, they now know your address is working, and they learn your IP address and what browser and operating system you use. Your goal is to keep information out of spammers’ hands.


To do this in Gmail, click the gear icon at the top right and select “Settings”. Under the “General” tab you’ll see an “Images” section—check the box labeled “Ask before displaying external images”. Scroll to the bottom of the screen and select “Save Changes”. (This is not the default setting.)
To do this in Outlook on a Mac, select the “Outlook” menu at the top, then select Preferences > Reading. Under “Automatically download pictures from the internet”, select “Never”. (This is the default—it should already be set to “Never” if you haven’t previously changed it, but it’s always good to check!)
To do this in Outlook on a PC, select the “File” menu at the top, then select Options > Trust Center. Under the “Microsoft Outlook Trust Center” menu, select “Trust Center Settings”. Uncheck the box labeled “Don’t download pictures automatically in HTML e-mail messages or RSS items”. (Again, this is the default setting, but it’s always good to check!)

, Email clients that show you the message without making you click them are essentially "reading" your email for you. This automatically lets the spammers know your address is good if they’ve added an image or requested a read receipt.


To do this in Gmail, click the gear icon at the top right and select “Settings”. Under the “General” tab you’ll see a “Snippets” section—check the box labeled “No Snippets”. Scroll to the bottom of the screen and select “Save Changes”. (This is not the default setting.)
In Outlook, select the “View” menu at the top, then select Reading Pane > Hidden. (By default, the reading pane is enabled.)

