 It should be longer than what would make a tight fit; the extra will be used for the base of the flower. Also: It's much easier to trim it down than to add more.









When you have the right length, cut off 1/3 of the width. It'll be far too wide if you don't. Fold this piece in half. Wrap it around your finger -- if you have about 3/4" (1.9 cm) extra, you're golden.
 Place it on the edge of the tape, wrap it around your finger, and fold it over the other edge of the tape. Cinch it up so that the ring doesn't cut off your circulate but won't fall off, either.
 You know that 3/4" you had that was just sealed? That's going to be your stem. If you fold in it half, you'll see it start to resemble just that.









When you fold it, you might notice that it intrudes into the diameter of the ring. Place your finger back in the ring and make sure there's still enough space for it to be worn.
 Using the 1/3 of the width of the duct tape you cut off originally, wrap the fold up, around and around, sealing the fold into a tube (stem-like) shape.
 Cut pieces (25-30) of duct tape that are 2" (5 cm) long. With standard issue duct tape, this should be a square. For the best look, use pieces of varying colors or patterns.









Take your square and, wrong side facing toward you, fold up the bottom right hand corner so the sticky side forms a capital "L." In other words, fold the corner almost to the other corner, but not quite.
Take the top left corner and fold it over, so you have a triangle of color and below it a stripe of stickiness.
Wrap it around your stem. If the stripe of stickiness is too wide, cut off a bit now. That's your first petal!

, As you add petal after petal, be sure the tips of each petal don't match up -- the points should be on all sides of the flower. It needs to grow uniformly.









Put it on your finger from time to time; you'll need to check that the band is still big enough (the petals may detract from the original size of the band). Fluff out the petals a bit by squeezing them lightly.

