 Go to http://www.x-rates.com/table/ in your browser. This will display the current conversion rates from USD to other popular currencies.

You can also change the default currency from dollars to anything else by clicking the USD - US Dollar box on the left side of the page and then selecting a different currency.
 Click the URL in your browser's address bar to select it, then press Ctrl+C to copy the URL., It's a green app with a white "X" on it., You'll find this option in the upper-left side of the window., It's near the top-middle of the Excel window., This option is in the upper-left side of the Excel window., To do this:

Delete the URL in the "Address:" field.
Click the "Address:" field.
Press Ctrl+V.
Click Go.
 There are two tables--a top 10 currency table and a comprehensive currency table--with yellow right-facing arrows in their top-left corners on this page. Click an arrow to cause a checkmark





to appear in its place., This button is at the bottom of the page., This will insert the chart's values in your Excel sheet; you'll see the currency name in the "A" column, the currency conversion value in the "B" column, and the inverse currency conversion in the "C" column.

Your baseline currency (e.g., the one you're converting from) will appear at the top of the chart.
 In a new column (e.g., the "E" column), enter the currency value you want to convert from.

For example: if you're converting from dollars to euros, you might type "123" into E1 to signify $123.
 In the cell immediately to the right of the currency data you just entered, type in the following formula: =.

For example: if the conversion rate for dollars to euros is in the D4 cell, you would type =D4 into F1 and press ↵ Enter.
 In the cell immediately to the right of the conversion rate cell, multiply the first currency and the exchange rate together with the following formula: =*. Doing so will display the converted currency value.

In keeping with the previous example: for dollars to euros, you would type =E1*F1 into the G1 cell and press ↵ Enter.
 In order to keep the values as up-to-date as possible, you'll need to update your currency converter:

Click the Data tab.
Click the Connections button at the top of the "Connections" group of options.
Click Refresh.
Click Close.

