 Avoid scratching as much as possible. Scratching your skin can exacerbate symptoms, or cause other problems, including a skin infection.Keeping your nails trimmed may help you avoid scratching.Consider wearing gloves at night and while you sleep to help keep you from scratching.;
, Moisturize the skin on your hands and feet before you go to bed to help minimize itching or prevent it. You can help bolster your moisturizing by using a humidifier in your room,Apply moisturizer to your skin at least once a day. The best time to apply is after a shower or bath while your skin is still damp.Concentrate the moisturizer on the areas that itch the most both after your shower and before bed.Make sure to use unscented and uncolored moisturizers that will not irritate your skin.Keeping a humidifier in your bedroom can ensure that the air is moist and won’t dry out your skin and make you want to itch while you’re sleeping.Avoid temperature extremes which can dry out skin.
 Taking a bath in lukewarm water can soothe itchy skin and help decrease inflammation. You may want to consider adding a colloidal oatmeal preparation to help further soothe your skin.Sprinkle water with baking soda, uncooked oatmeal or colloidal oatmeal, all of which can help calm your skin.Stay in the bathtub for only 10-15 minutes. When you soak in the bath for too long, your skin can get dried out, which in turn could cause it to itch more.
Make sure that the water is lukewarm rather than hot. Hot water can remove the natural oils from your skin, causing your skin to become dry and even itchier.
After taking a bath, rub lotion on your skin before fully drying off, concentrating on your hands and feet. Doing this will lock the moisture from your bath into your skin, keeping your skin hydrated and less likely to become itchy.
 Place a cold, cool, or wet compress on your hands and feet when you go to bed. Cold packs or compresses can help relieve itching and inflammation associated with pruritis by constricting blood flow and cooling the skin.You can place a cold compress on your rashes intermittently for 10 to 15 minutes or until you fall asleep.If you don’t have an ice pack, you can use a bag of frozen vegetables for the same effect.
Do not let the ice rest directly on your skin. Make sure to wrap the ice or ice pack in a cloth. If ice is left to rest on your skin too long, it may cause frostbite.
 Prevent and relieve itching by wearing pajamas that won’t irritate your skin. These garments can also serve to protect your skin against further scratching.


Wear cool, loose, smooth textured pajamas made out of cotton or merino wool to keep yourself from scratching and prevent excess sweating.Cotton clothing is good because it lets air pass through the fabric and is soft to the touch.Consider wearing socks and gloves to help prevent scratching.
 Sleep in a bedroom that is comfortable, cool, and well ventilated. By controlling factors such as the temperature and darkness, having comfortable bedding, and keeping air circulating, you may help prevent your hands and feet from itching.Set temperature in bedroom to between 60-75 degrees for optimal sleeping conditions.Use a fan to keep air circulating or open a window.Sleep in comfortable, natural fiber sheets, such as cotton., When you have dry, itchy hands and feet, you may be at a higher risk of getting a superficial superficial skin infection, also known as cellulitis. If you notice any of the following symptoms, call your doctor right away:Redness
Swelling
Pain and/or tenderness
Skin that feels warm to the touch
Fever
Red spots, dimpling, and/or blisters

