 Think about why you're calling, and the best-case response you want from Amazon. Maybe you want to return an item, need a refund, or think you deserve store credit for mistreatment or mistakes. No matter what, have a clear idea of why you're calling beforehand to get the best responses.Clear, calm, and direct questions are your best response. Let Amazon know exactly why you're calling or emailing, and what you think the best solution is to the problem at hand., The more information you have, the easier it will be to resolve your dispute in a beneficial manner. Before calling, emailing, or starting an argument, round up all of your information on the sale and review it to make sure you have all of your facts straight.If you've needed to call multiple times, get the name of the operator and the tracking number for your complaint -- this can save you a lot of time when you need to call back.
 Telling someone that they are wrong is a good way to turn a discussion into an argument. It also allows them, quite legitimately, to argue back that they are perfectly "in the right" legally by ignoring your dispute. Instead, find a way to frame your argument into one of fairness -- where both parties, including Amazon, benefit.


"I am a long time customer, and I only think it is fair we find a way to make sure this transaction goes as planned."
"I understand that there have been some technical difficulties -- I'm not trying to blame you! I just want to find a way for both of us to honor our ends of the deal.", If you're getting nowhere with the current representative, kindly ask if you can talk to their manager. Something like, "I'm sorry, but I think I need to talk to someone else who can more directly help me," is a good way to bring up the conversation. In general, if you're looking for store credit or a high-priced refund, you'll need to go up to a manager.
 It is so easy to get angry, yell, or become a bully. But you must always remember that, in most cases, Amazon is not really required to help you out. When they do help resolve issues, it is because they want to keep your business and respect you as a customer. This won't happen if you anger the representative on the phone. Good phrases to remember, and even repeat, include:


"I know this isn't your fault, I just want to find a way to resolve this fairly."
"Thank you so much for your help so far, I know this wasn't your issue or mistake."
"I know this was just an accident, I'm just hoping to find a way we can make sure things end."
"I really enjoy using Amazon, which is why I'm confident we can find a way to fix this issue."