 They are actually meant for storing office supplies, but they work great for earrings! You will typically find them in the storage section or office supply section. If you'd like, you can line the bottom of each drawer with a piece of foam. This way, you can poke your earrings into the foam to keep them in place.Choose a small one that is about 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) tall.
Don't like the color? Pull the drawers out, and spray paint it! You can also decorate the box with glitter glue pens and/or pretty rhinestones.
Store each type of earring in a different drawer. For example, you could keep all of your stud or post earrings in one drawer, and all of your hook earrings in another.;
, It won't work well for large, statement, or giant hoop earrings, but it's perfect for smaller earrings, including studs. You can keep the tray out on top of your dresser/counter, or you can store it in a drawer., This will work best for stud earrings, but it might also work for hook earrings. Also, buttons with two holes will work better than those with four. Once you have your earrings in the buttons, you can keep them in a box, dish, or drawer.Avoid coat buttons or buttons that have a single loop in the back.
 Store each pair of earrings in each compartment.


If you'd like, you can spray paint the box a different color, or decorate it with stickers.
 Use a thick, sturdy ribbon, such as grosgrain. It will last longer and will be less likely to tear or run.Something that is between 1 and 2 inches (2.54 and 5.08 centimeters) will work the best.


Store the ribbon in a box or drawer, or hang it on your wall with a thumb tack or pushpin.
 Get a piece of plastic canvas from the craft store, and cut it down to the size you want. Poke your stud earrings through it, then put it into your jewelry box or drawer.Weave ribbon around the edges of your plastic canvas to make it fancier. You can use a simple straight stitch or a blanket stitch.
 Cut the top and side off of an egg carton, then paint the carton your favorite color and let it dry. Fill each ear with a pair of earrings.You can use spray paint or acrylic paint for this.
You can decorate the egg carton further with glitter glue, rhinestones, and ribbon.

