 Though itself just a symptom, you can recognize pink eye by the variety of different effects it has on your eyes. You may experience pink eye symptoms in one eye or both, and they commonly include:Itching or burning sensations
Excessive tearing
The sensation of grittiness in your eyes
Discharge
Eyelid swelling
Pinkish discoloration to the sclera (white portion of your eye)
Light sensitivity;
, “Allergic conjunctivitis” (actually allergic keratitis) mimics the symptoms of pink eye. However, the symptoms are simply related to exposure to an allergen rather than a bacterial or viral infection (which are the primary causes of pink eye).You may also notice temporary runny nose and sneezing while exposed to the allergen that subsides within several hours of removing the substance from your surrounding area.


In the case of allergies, symptoms will likely be most pronounced during spring and fall when pollen counts are highest. Other common allergens include cat or dog dander.Seasonal allergies rarely require medical intervention. Try taking an over-the-counter (OTC) allergy medication as directed by the manufacturer.
 If you’ve recently been exposed to higher than normal amounts of noxious chemicals (such as air pollution or chlorine in a swimming pool), then this can irritate your eyes in a way that mimics pink eye as well.If the removing your exposure to the irritant doesn’t stop the pink eye symptoms within 24 to 36 hours, then you should see your doctor.


If the irritant is an industrial chemical or cleaner, then you should immediately flush your eyes with a sterile solution for at least fifteen minutes while rotating your eyes to flush around your entire eyeball.You can call the Poison Control Center at (800) 222-1222 for more information regarding dangerous chemical exposure to your eyes.
 If — based on the previous criteria — you’re fairly certain that you have pink eye, you should consult your physician for a precise diagnosis. In addition to clarifying your diagnosis, your doctor will also determine the best treatment regimen for your case. Bacterial conjunctivitis will require a different treatment plan than viral conjunctivitis, for instance., While typically reserved for severe cases or those that haven’t responded to other treatment options, you doctor may also ask you to submit to diagnostic testing to determine the exact strain of bacteria causing your pink eye. This will commonly include an eye exam and possibly even samples swabbed from your infected eye for analysis in a lab.Your doctor may also run these tests if she suspects that the pink eye has been caused by a sexually transmitted infection (STI) such as chlamydia or gonorrhea.If your doctor determines that your pink eye is due to allergic conjunctivitis, but you don’t know what it is you’re allergic to, then she may recommend allergy testing. This will help you determine the allergens to which you should avoid exposure.Though rare, another diagnostic technique is a conjunctival incisional biopsy, which removes a small amount of tissue from the conjunctiva for microscopic examination.This will only be if your doctor suspects a tumor or a granulomatous disease, which affects your immune system’s ability to fight off certain bacteria and fungi.
 If your doctor determines that your pink eye is due to a viral infection, then he will most likely tell you simply to be patient. Your immune system will fight off the virus, and your symptoms will clear up on their own.This form of pink eye usually occurs in association with other cold or flu symptoms.In select cases (if your physician diagnoses the herpes virus as the source of your viral conjunctivitis, for instance), your doctor may prescribe an antiviral ointment or eyedrops such as acyclovir ointment or ganciclovir gel.These prescriptions will stop the virus from multiplying and potentially causing further damage to your eye(s).
 Many minor cases of bacterial pink eye can clear on their own within a week or two. However, your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic to help clear the infection sooner and reduce the amount of time that you’re contagious.A wide assortment of antibiotic eyedrops are available for prescription, and your doctor will determine the best option based on several guidelines, including:


Allergies you have to any medications.
Your case history (whether or not pink eye infection has been chronic).
The exact bacteria responsible for the infection.
 If your doctor prescribes either antiviral or antibiotic eyedrops, then ensure you take the entire course of the prescription. Your symptoms may subside after only several days, but you should still take the medication exactly as directed. If you stop early, you’re more likely to experience a recurrence in the infection, and you can also help breed resistant strains of the infection.Contact your doctor immediately if you have an allergic reaction to your prescription, such as a rash, hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, or swelling of your face, throat, eyes, or tongue.
 The infections responsible for pink eye are highly infectious. To prevent spreading them to others (or even reinfecting yourself in the case of bacterial conjunctivitis), you should take several preventative measures. Most importantly, wash your hands regularly with warm, soapy water.You can also keep alcohol-based sanitizers around for your hands when soap isn’t available. Use a hand sanitizer that is at least a 60 percent alcohol solution., Though your eyes may itch or feel gritty while you have pink eye, do your best not to touch or rub them.This transfers the virus/bacteria to your hands and everything else you touch after. Even if you don’t have pink eye, touching your eyes vastly increases your risk of accidentally introducing the infection to your eyes.


When you do have to touch your eyes, such as when cleaning away the discharge from pink eye, thoroughly wash your hands both before and after you do and always use a clean washcloth if possible.
 You should wash any item that touches your face while you’re sick—towels, washcloths, sheets, pillowcases, etc.—in hot water and detergent.This will ensure that you kill any of the virus/bacteria present and prevent it from spreading to others and/or reinfecting yourself.


You should also avoid sharing these items — or other shareable items such as eye makeup, make-up brushes, etc. — with anyone who is sick and/or while you are sick., Contact lenses are a very inviting environment for the types of bacteria that can cause pink eye. Make sure that you consistently wash and store your contacts as directed by your eye-care professional.These steps are specifically designed to help avoid eye infections.


You should also throw away any disposable lenses you used while you had pink eye, as well as the lens case you used. For extended-wear lenses, clean them as directed.