 Telling someone that you are having an asthma attack is a good idea, just in case you need to go to the hospital. You may also feel less anxious if you know that that person is going to be by your side until the attack is over.If you are out in public by yourself, then you will need to ask a stranger. Try saying something like, “I am having an asthma attack, but I don’t have my inhaler. Would you mind sitting with me until my breathing goes back to normal?”

, Drinking one to two cups of caffeinated coffee or tea may help your body fight off an asthma attack as well. Your body will turn the caffeine into theophylline, which is an active ingredient in some asthma medicines.The warmth of the liquid will also help to break up phlegm and mucus, which may make breathing easier.


Do not drink more than two cups of coffee or your heartbeat may become rapid.
 Pressing on lung acupressure points may help to relax your muscles and get your breathing back under control. Apply gentle pressure to the area in the front of your shoulders, just above your armpits. Press on one shoulder at a time for the same amount of time on each side.


If you have someone nearby who can help you, there is also a pressure point on the inner part of your shoulder blade, just about an inch below the upper tip. Ask a friend to press on these pressure points for a few minutes to help relieve your asthma attack.
 Steam can open up your breathing passages and make breathing easier. If you are at home, then turn the shower on hot and sit in the bathroom with the door closed for about 10-15 minutes. Breathing in the steam may help ease your breathing.You can also turn on a humidifier if you have one, or fill your bathroom sink with hot water and lean over it with a towel over your head to capture the steam.
 Sometimes a change of location may be what you need to reduce stress and help you get your breathing under control. The change of scenery might help you to relax and get your breathing back under control.For example, if you are at home, try moving from the kitchen to the living room. If you are out in public, try going into the restroom for a few minutes or go outside.

