 Auditory learners learn by hearing and listening. Auditory learners are able to understand, analyze, and remember information after they have heard it.Auditory learners use language to learn. They can follow oral directions well, prefer listening to lectures, enjoy participating in discussions, and do well working in cooperative groups.
 One useful way for auditory learners to cement what they have just learned is to teach it to someone else. By teaching a topic you have just learned to someone else, you are able to talk through the problem by identifying the key points that someone else would have to know to learn it as well.


Ask a friend if you can talk to them about a topic that you just learned about. If they are familiar with the topic, ask them to pretend that they have no prior knowledge of the topic. The questions that they ask you about a topic will help you to think through what you have just learned.
 Auditory learners listen carefully to what someone else is saying when they are learning about a topic. For example, they tend to do well in lecture style classrooms and learning environments. Auditory learners can benefit from seeking out audio information to learn.


Many universities will post lectures online for the public to enjoy. These are great sources of information from world-class experts and are free to listen to. Podcasts are also becoming increasingly available for people with smartphones and Internet access.
Look at your local library for tapes and CDs that relate to a topic you want to learn. Audiobooks are also a great option for auditory learners.
 Repetition is an important factor in memorization. Repeating key pieces of information out loud, either with flashcards or using memory recall, allows learners to process information that they have already learned and commit it to memory.


Many auditory learners find themselves talking to themselves or mouthing words when they are processing information. If you find yourself doing this, make sure you are in an environment where you won’t disturb other learners.
Mnemonic devices are memory aids that help auditory learners retain information. They can be very helpful when learning scientific concepts., Collaboration is a learning style that all learners can benefit from. Auditory learners do particularly well with collaborative groups because they are able to talk out problems and listen to others’ contributions.


Form a study group with other people who are interested the same topic as you. This does not have to be limited to a school environment. If you are interested in learning how to knit or sew, join a crafting group where other beginners can practice their skills with more experienced crafters.

