 If you wait until your baby is sleepy to start the routine, then your baby will be overtired by the time they are ready for bed. At nap times and bedtime, babies have a "sleep window" when they are just starting to get tired, but are not so tired that they've become irritable. Once your baby passes their “sleep window,” their body begins to produce cortisol, which is a stress hormone that will make it more difficult for them to fall asleep and to stay asleep.Every baby is different, but if your baby is over 4 months old, they might be ready to sleep anywhere between 5 and 7:30pm.
Note that newborns don’t have a scheduled bedtime since they are still developing circadian rhythms. Until your baby is a few months old, it won’t be necessary to establish a night time routine.
 This is not necessarily a mandatory step, but many parents use a nightly bath as a way to help their babies understand that they are getting ready for bed.A warm bath is relaxing and also a good bonding experience for you and your baby.
 Giving your baby a massage will help them relax even more and is a great way to bond with your baby. You can use baby lotion or baby oil, and massage your baby’s arms, legs, belly, and neck for 10 to 15 minutes after bath time.Massage their legs by gently wrapping your hand around their thigh and then sliding your hand down from the thigh to the ankle. Repeat this on the other leg.
Use a gentle clockwise motion with your fingertips to massage their belly.
You can massage baby's arms using the same technique used for the legs. Wrap your hand around your baby’s upper arm and then slide your hand down to their wrist. Repeat on the other arm.
To massage your baby’s neck, support your baby’s head and upper body in one hand. With the other hand, place your thumb on one side of your baby’s neck, and then wrap your hand under baby’s neck and place your index finger and middle finger on the other side. Use your fingers to gently massage in a circular motion.
 If you have a brand new baby, you may choose to swaddle your baby as this is very soothing for infants. If your baby is older than two months, you should dress them in pajamas based on the temperature. If it is during the warm summer months (over 75 degrees Fahrenheit or 23 C) then your baby probably only needs one layer of clothing. If it is under 75F (23 C) then your baby may need a few more layers to stay warm.A good rule of thumb is that your baby should be dressed in one layer more than you need to be comfortable in the room., Dimming the lights will signal to your baby that it’s time to sleep. You can do this by turning on a soft lamp in your baby’s nursery. If you have an overhead light with a dimmer switch, simply turn the lights down low enough so that your baby will relax, but high enough so that you can still read a book and move around without hurting yourself.When you leave the room, turn the light all the way off so the room is dark enough for your baby to stay asleep.
 Hearing your soft, relaxed voice will be soothing and relaxing for your baby. Try to speak softly and slowly so that your baby will begin to get drowsy.Alternatively, you can also just talk to your baby. For example, tell them about your day. Especially with very young babies, it doesn’t matter much what you are saying. Hearing your voice will be comforting and relaxing.
 Classical music such as baroque or nature sounds can be very relaxing and help to make your baby’s nursery a soothing sanctuary. There are several sleep apps to help babies sleep such as Baby Snooze, Baby Shusher or Lullaby for Babies.Turn on some soothing music in your baby’s room before you put your baby to bed., If you have been co-sleeping with your baby, or if they have been sleeping in the same room with you, it could be a bit distressing for your baby to sleep alone in the nursery at first (depending on the child). You can help ease your baby into sleeping in the nursery by beginning with just one nap alone in the nursery each day. Gradually increase the number of naps your baby takes alone until they are able to sleep at night in the nursery.It can be hard for a parent to be away from their baby. Try to remind yourself that it is healthy for both of you if you are able to spend a bit of time out of each other’s sight. This will also help your baby learn to fall asleep without you there.

