 Once you make the fondant, it will need to rest for about eight hours. Make sure you give yourself plenty of time to make the fondant in advance of making the cake. For the fondant, you will need the following supplies:


Large mixing bowl
Small saucepan
Mixing spoon
Plastic wrap
Large sealable plastic bag;
, Sift the powdered sugar into a large bowl. Sifting will remove lumps and make the job of forming a smooth fondant much easier. Use your finger or a spoon to make a well in the center of the sugar for the wet ingredients.If you don’t have a sifter, put the sugar in the bowl and whisk it to remove lumps.
 Pour the cold water into a small saucepan and sprinkle the gelatin over the water. Set it aside for five minutes to give the gelatin time to soften.After five minutes, heat the gelatin and water over low heat, stirring until the gelatin is fully dissolved.
Once dissolved, remove the gelatin from the heat.
 Add the glucose and glycerine to the gelatin mixture and stir to fully combine. Finally, add the almond extract and stir to incorporate.You can add any extract you like for flavor in place of the almond extract. Be sure to use clear extracts, because colored flavorings (like vanilla) will color the fondant, which needs to be white for Hello Kitty.
 Pour the gelatin mixture into the well in the center of the sugar. Stir to incorporate all the sugar. Turn the dough out onto a flat surface covered with a dusting of powdered sugar.Knead the fondant with your hands until it becomes a stiff dough.
If the fondant becomes too sticky, sprinkle it with a dusting of powdered sugar.
 Roll the fondant into a ball and wrap it tightly in a layer of plastic wrap. Then transfer the wrapped fondant to a sealable plastic bag. Push out all the air and seal the bag.


Set the fondant aside on the counter and let it rest for about eight hours.
The cornstarch called for in this recipe will be used when you roll out the fondant.
 Set your oven to 350ºF (177ºC) and get the tools and equipment to make your Hello Kitty cake. To make the cake and frosting, you'll need:


Sifter
Small, medium, and large mixing bowls
Hand mixer
Two eight-inch round cake pans, greased
Two wire cooling racks
Large knife
Frosting knife
Rolling pin
Piping bag with round tip

, Sift the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt into a large mixing bowl. If you don’t have a sifter, combine the ingredients in the bowl and whisk them together.Incorporating air into the dry ingredients by sifting will help ensure the cake turns out light and fluffy.
 Pour the butter, milk, and vanilla directly into the bowl with the dry ingredients. Mix the ingredients with the hand mixer until they begin to incorporate, then increase the speed to medium and beat everything for about four minutes.


To turn this vanilla recipe into a chocolate cake, beat in ¼ cup each of cocoa powder (30 g), sugar (56 g), and sour cream (58 g)., Crack the eggs separately into a small mixing bowl. Then add the eggs to the batter and beat all the ingredients on medium speed for another three minutes.


It’s always good to crack eggs into a separate bowl first, because that way you can retrieve any shells that fall in before they get lost in the batter.
 Divide the batter evenly between the two cake pans. Bake the cakes for 30 to 35 minutes. The cakes are done when a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean.Transfer the cakes to the wire cooling racks, letting them cool in the pans for 10 minutes.
 Once the cakes have had time to cool in the pans, they will start to pull away from the sides, making it easier to get them out. After 10 minutes, turn the cakes out onto the cooling racks and let them cool to room temperature, about 1.5 hours.


Once the cakes have cooled fully, you can frost and decorate your Hello Kitty cake.
 In a medium mixing bowl, combine the powdered sugar, butter, milk, and vanilla. Beat all the ingredients on medium speed for about three to four minutes, until the frosting becomes smooth, fluffy, and light.If the frosting isn't spreadable, add another tablespoon (15 ml) of milk and beat to incorporate.
 Separate about one-quarter of the frosting into a small bowl. Add 10 drops of black food coloring to the small portion and whisk to fully combine. If necessary, add another 10 drops until you have frosting that’s a deep and rich black.


The black frosting will be used to create the outline around Hello Kitty’s face and nose. The white frosting will be used as glue to keep different parts of the cake together.
 To turn your two round cakes into the wide and elongated Hello Kitty face, you need to cut the two cakes and wedge them together. Use your eye to draw an imaginary line down the center of one cake. Now move over by one inch (2.5 cm) and cut the cake in half an inch off center.You should now have two uneven cake halves, with one about five inches wide and the other three inches.
Repeat with the other cake. Set aside the two smaller cake wedges.
 Use a frosting knife to coat the cut edge of one of the large cake wedges. Orient the other large cake wedge so the cut edges are facing each other. Gently press the two cake wedges together, using the frosting to hold them together.


Use a knife to cut and smooth the face if there are any areas where the cakes are joined unevenly. You want a nice, smooth, rounded rectangular shape for the Hello Kitty cake.
Orient the cake so the rounded rectangle is widthwise in front of you.
 Use the two smaller wedges of cake to create the ears. With a knife cut out two equilateral triangles from the leftover cake, each with a two-inch (5-cm) base, and a height of two inches (5 cm).Round out the bases of the triangles in an inward direction so the ears will join with the face smoothly.
Reserve the leftover cake for cake pops or some other recipe

, Cover the rounded base of each ear with a layer of frosting. Attach one ear to the top left corner of the cake, and the second ear to the top right corner.


Once the ears are attached, you have the basic Hello Kitty face shape in place, and can move on to decorating.
 Use a frosting knife to cover the entire top and sides of the cake with a generous layer of frosting.Frost the ears gently so they don’t get knocked out of place.


The frosting should be smooth and even, but it doesn’t have to be perfect, as it will be covered in fondant.
 Dust a flat work surface and your rolling pin with cornstarch. Turn the fondant out onto the covered surface and roll it out in a rectangular shape. Continue rolling until the fondant is flat and even, and about one-quarter inch (6.4 mm) thick.Dust your work surface and rolling pin with more cornstarch as necessary if the fondant sticks while you're rolling it.
 Gently peel the fondant off the work surface and center it over the cake. Place the fondant down on top of the cake, letting the excess spill over the sides. Dust your hands with some cornstarch, and gently mold the fondant to the cake.Start at the top center of the cake, and slowly work your way outward, molding the fondant to the cake as you go. Be careful when molding the fondant around the ears, as they may get knocked out of place.
Last, gently press the fondant around the base of the cake. Use a knife or pizza cutter to trim off the excess fondant, following the shape of the cake.
 Because Hello Kitty is a cartoon character, her face is always outlined in black. Take the black frosting and transfer it to your piping bag. Fit the bag with a round tip. Starting at the out corner of the left ear, pipe a continuous line of frosting all the way around the edge of the cake to outline the face.When you get back to the corner of the ear where you started, continue the rounded outline of the face for a half-inch (1.3 cm) past the starting point.
 Use your eye to locate the center of the cake. Orient the yellow jelly bean so it’s horizontal, and dip one side into the leftover white frosting. Press the jelly bean into the fondant, an inch (2.5 cm) below the center point of the cake.


With your piping bag, pipe a thin line of black frosting around the yellow jelly bean to outline the nose.
 To create the eyes, dip one side of each black jelly bean into the white frosting. Position the jelly beans vertically. Place one jelly bean on either side of the nose, in between the nose and the outer edge of the cheek, and with the bottom tip of the jelly bean at the height of the top of the nose.


Gently press the jelly beans into the fondant to secure the eyes in place.
 Cut six three-inch strips of black rope licorice. Place three whiskers on either side of the face. Use your finger or a knife to paint a small amount of white frosting onto the bottom quarter of each strip. Position the whiskers so they're half on the cake and half hanging off.


On either side of the face, there should be one whisker at the height of the top of the eye, one at the height of the bottom of the eye, and one at the height of the bottom of the nose.
 Cut a three-inch (7.6-cm) strip off the fruit tape. Wrap the remaining tape into a loop that’s about five inches (12.7 cm) long. Use the three-inch strip to wrap the center of the bow and hold the loops together. Use your finger to spread some frosting on the inside edge of the center wrap so it will stick to itself.Spread a layer of frosting on one side of the bow and gently press it into place on the cake. Position the bow on a diagonal below the right ear, following the curve of the face.
 Once you add the final touch with the bow, the Hello Kitty cake is ready to serve. Depending on the size of the slices, this cake can serve eight to 12 people.

