 Try acting like Naruto to get into character, and consider dressing like him if possible.Be sure to wear running shoes. Choose a smooth surface to run along—a space without a lot of obstacles for you to trip over.;
, People usually run with their arms and legs pumping in unison to make each step more powerful. In the Naruto series, characters often have their hands and arms straight out behind them to decrease air resistance. They have been training for years to increase their leg strength, so they do not need the extra power given by thrusting. You can imitate this run, but you won't be able to do it as well as Naruto: a non-existent power (called Chakara in the series) is used to increase their leg strength to make this running style effective. To visually imitate Naruto's ninja run, you just need to lean forward while running and hold your arms straight out behind your torso.
 Step forward with your right foot, position your arms straight out behind you, and slightly bend your knees. Look forward and focus on where you want to run.
 Bend your knees and tilt your whole torso forward. In theory, this gives your enemies a smaller target to notice or hit with ranged weaponry. Keep your head up by bending your neck so you can see where you're running.


Tilt forward about 30 to 40 degrees. Don't lean too far, or you'll run the risk of falling on your face.
Imagine that you're running in a race and you're about to break through the finish line's banner. Your chest and torso should break through the ribbon, not your arms.
 Keep them outstretched as you run, even though it may be hard to do so. Turn your palms so that they are facing up. In theory, this all done to reduce air resistance and help you run faster.Don't swing your arms or move them around. Keep them loose enough that you can focus on your feet, but rigid enough that they don't flop as you run. If you tense up your arms, you will lose concentration.
Try letting your arms lie at their sides and run. If you can hold your arms completely loose and run fast enough, they may just naturally fly out behind you.
 Sprint forward with your arms hanging loosely behind your body. Naruto-style running uses different leg muscles than normal running, so it will probably be hard at first. Keep practicing to get faster. Running this way also takes more stamina than normal running, so don't expect to do it for very long at first.


Start with a slow pace, running slightly normally but leaning your upper body forward. Over time, you can increase your pace and let your arms fly behind you.
 When you run ducking down with your arms behind you, you'll go flying forward with one wrong step. Make sure to balance your weight throughout your whole body. Keep your head up and use your arms to balance yourself as you lean forward. Always look where you're going, and try not to fall.

