 Where most meditations fail is because the motivation is absent. Often people will try to meditate without motivation and it invariably stays dry and uninteresting. Simple ways to build motivation include reflecting on the benefits of meditation, such as the sense of ease and rejuvenation, or recollect on an inspiring person who has good qualities.


The motivation and inspiration serves as a "glue" to keep things together, so it can be very hard to meditate without it.;
, To keep your meditation together so it centers more easily, use ground-rules such as determining to stay in the present moment or to stay with your area of focus. What keeps your mind on the object (such as the breath) is a deep sense of affection for it, so an important ground-rule is always to respect your meditation practice as well as those who teach and inspire you.


A good trick is to relinquish the distracting thoughts or all your worries and tiredness from the day as a gift to your meditation, which properly speaking is a gift to yourself while you relax. You can visualise putting them in a box and gift wrapping it, or imagine putting them away in a filing cabinet so you can close the door on it, but pull it back out when you need it later.
 Meditations such as loving kindness and compassion not only shape the mind itself, but also train you to shape your experience. This is so when you see the mind drifting off, or some unresolved issues rear their ugly head, you have a skilled way to resolve them or move around them.
 Stand with your feet shoulder width apart, feet at a comfortable angle. Stand with your hands at a comfortable, well balanced position. Now close your eyes and relax, and stay in the position for at least 5 minutes while watching your breath. This standing meditation can teach you a lot about centering, since you will fall over very quickly if you are not aware and able to let the body look after itself.


This shows that your meditation will "fall over" and not go very deep if you try to stay still. This control actually will make you struggle and wobble even more! You have to step back and allow the body balance itself - which it does all the time.
 In most cases, deep meditation can require a good few hours before the foundation is laid down, certainly there are times the mind will settle and center very quickly, but these can be quite rare and something the mind does on its own so its not something you can repeat easily.


It also takes a long time to develop the skills to 'drive' yourself into deeper states, so its generally best to let the mind find its own levels. Going on meditation retreats can be a great experience and opportunity to develop that experience.
 Let the body just be the body, feelings just feelings and sounds just be sounds. Spend your time preparing your meditation, then be kind to it by letting it relax on its own time.


This is part of the process that makes meditation so fascinating. To center the mind, the body gradually fades away because its no longer as important - it's not in any stressful situation so its not calling your attention to it. You can begin by paying attention to the body's needs at the beginning, then when its settled you can place more interest in your meditation object.
 Essentially, this means you have the reflection that if you don't stay with your meditation object so your mind can relax and settle, you will either feel tired, get frustrated or get bored as if your time is not being productive. The beauty of the mind is it very easily looks after itself so it does not need to be interacted with. This in many ways makes meditation much easier because its far less work.
 This may same contradictory, but what basically happens is this additional activity - the trying or the intention to center - will actually get in the way because it has created additional activities in the mind and you can often try to measure your progress to see how centered you are. This basically un-does all your good work so far. To center, you have to go the other way and reduce the activities.


This is actually an extension of the experiment above - if you try to keep your body still, it will move, if you try to keep your mind centered, it will go all over the place.
 The centered mind is just like a flower, it is quite soft, delicate and fragile - it's easy to knock it around at the early and intermediate stages. So the things that knock it around have to be allowed to fade away first because that centered, unified mind on its own will never be able to overpower all the stuff that goes on that we constantly engage with. When they have completely faded away, then the centered mind becomes the strongest thing and can last a long time as a beautiful, stable and enriching life experience.

