 For an example...



0 Points: The gossiper gets 0 (zero) points if... A) She/He is reporting a story that is as over as Britney and Justin Timberlake B) has repeated a gossip story told by another member of the clique and has not provided new information, or a correction to the previously reported gossip, or C) the gossip sounds highly unlikely and/or is verified untrue.

1-3 Points: The gossiper can receive between 1 (one) and 3 (three) points if A) She/He has re-reported a previously gossiped story, providing new details or corrections to the story (Exceptions: If the gossip is something very juicy, and corrections are provided, the gossiper can and should get 3 points and above. The maximum of points can be decided by the alpha and/or the rest of the clique. Smaller stories, though, can receive between 1-3). The gossiper can get between 1-3 points also if B)Its gossip about someone younger and otherwise not important to them C) If its gossip scarcely heard around school, but isn't a big deal or D) The gossip is highly untrue or unlikely but was funny.

3-6 Points: The gossiper can receive gossip points between 3 (three) and 6 (six) if A) The gossip is a minor story about someone who is B-List status and higher, B) The gossip is an interesting/humorous minor secret/story about the gossiper his or herself ("Minor" story examples are things like new diets the gossiper may have started, or how they talked to a super hot guy the other day. The story, though, must be a little bit more interesting than "Yesterday, I bought new undies from Victoria's Secret) C) If the story's likeliness is in question, but seems likely and is funny/about something of equal or higher status or D) is a complaint about another member or friend of the Clique- after all, complaints lead to cat fights, and that's worth 10 gossip points (Or more!)

6-8 Points: The gossiper can receive gossip points between 6 (six) and 8 (eight) if A) It's a juicy story about someone of lower status/unimportant to the clique, B) Its about a hookup with a crush or boy/girlfriend (More points may need to be awarded if the hookup went past the run of the mill making out), C) The gossip is a correction or more informed report of 'good' gossip that had previously been reported or D) Juicy gossip that isn't exactly 10-worthy.

8-10: The gossiper can receive between 8 (eight) and 10 (ten) points if the story is juicy, detailed, and verified true, or highly likely.

10+: You just know when a piece of gossip deserves 10+;
, So if Sally-Jane where to report that B-lister Becca Anne Smithy had her you-know-what and walked around with bloody pants all day four days ago, but Mimi Mindly and just about 50% of your grade had reported it to you the day it happened, Sally-Jane could have potentially received 5 points, but because she consistently reports untrue things and is very late with her gossip, she gets a 3, instead. If someone reports gossip promptly, the gossip turns out to be true most of the time, and consistently updates previous gossip reported incorrectly, then feel free to award an extra point!

, Everyone gossips, but do so with your friends in private. Just like the PC, gossip when you guys are carpooling together in the morning, or if you must do so at lunch, assume a ' gossip position' and speak in hushed tones. Also, gossip all together! If Marilyn and Gabby gossip while walking to class and both end up getting 6 points, then later the rest of the clique has no idea why, explaining the story may make the other girls feel left out, and also, doing so together gives everyone a fair chance to get their points. What if Bethy-Lou knew the story Gabby reported to Marilyn hours before Gabby did? Would it be fair, then, for Gabby to get the point? No it wouldn't, and tiffs like that can be avoided if gossiping is done together!

