 Pour the half-and-half into a saucepan, then stir in the sugar and the salt. Heat the mixture over medium heat until the sugar dissolves completely, and the temperature reaches 175°F (80°C).


Use a candy thermometer to gauge the temperature.;
, If you have not already done so, crack open and separate the eggs, then beat the yolks with a whisk until they turn light and creamy. Slowly pour ½ cup (120 milliliters) of the half-and-half mixture until the beaten eggs while whisking. This is known as "tempering" the eggs, and prevents them from scrambling.


Discard the egg whites, or save them for another recipe.
 Be sure to pour the egg mixture slowly, and to whisk the half-and-half mixture as you pour. This will prevent the eggs from cooking too fast and scrambling.
 This will take about 5 minutes. The custard is ready when it has become thick enough to coat the back of a metal spoon and reaches 160°F (72°C).
 Fill a sink with ice, then place a bowl inside of it. Set a fine, mesh strainer on top of the bowl, then pour the custard through it. Discard anything caught in the strainer, then stir the custard as it cools.


The ice should be level with the custard in the bowl. Do not let any ice get inside of the custard.
Make sure that the bowl is large enough to hold the heavy whipping cream as well. You will be mixing everything in this bowl once the mixture cools.
 Once the custard has cooled, take the bowl out of the ice bath, and stir in the heavy whipping cream and vanilla extract. You can do this using a whisk or rubber spatula.
 It would be better if you chilled it overnight, however. Be sure to press the plastic wrap right against the surface of the custard. This will prevent a skin from forming on top.
 Peel and slice the peaches first, then put them into a blender or food processor. Purée them until you get the consistency you want. The longer you purée them for, the smoother your ice cream will be.


If you can't get any fresh peaches, you can use 4 cups (900 grams) of frozen, unsweetened peach slices instead.Let the peaches thaw first; this will make it easier to mix them into the custard.
 You can do this using a rubber spatula or a whisk. Keep stirring until the color is even, and there are no streaks or swirls.
 Fill your ice cream maker two-thirds of the way with the mixture, then freeze the ice cream according to manufacturer's directions. Keep the rest of the mixture in the fridge while you are freezing your current batch. As you finish freezing each batch, put it into a freezer-safe container, and store it in the fridge.If you don't have an ice cream maker, pour the ice cream mixture into a shallow cake or loaf pan, and freeze it for 45 minutes. Stir the ice cream well, making sure to break up any ice crystals. After that, freeze the ice cream for 2 to 4 hours, stirring it every 30 minutes., Once the ice cream comes out of the ice cream maker, it is ready to serve as a soft-serve type of ice cream. If you want the ice cream to be more firm, you will need to leave it in the freezer for 2 to 4 hours.Even if you are not using an ice cream maker, you might want to do this as well. Keep your ice cream covered as it freezes to prevent ice crystals from forming.

