 Compile a list of both easy and difficult tasks. Note emails that you need to return, forms to be submitted, meetings to attend, and any other things you need to complete by the end of the day., Place the most important tasks at the beginning of your list and the least important at the end. If you find any tasks that seem inconsequential or unnecessary, get rid of them. Don't waste your time with "fluff" work. It will only hurt your productivity. , Getting organized is the first step to a really productive day. The main steps are decluttering, strategically organizing forms and information, and maintaining that organization.


First, get rid of anything you don't need while you're at work. Knick knacks and family photos are ok, but anything else should be put in another room. You need to create a clean space free of distractions.
Second, determine what forms or information (e.g., business cards, standard forms, email lists, payroll logs, or data reports) you need to have readily available. Purchase folders and place each kind of information in the same place. This way you'll know where to find it in the future.
Third, at the end of every day, do some basic maintenance to your organization system. Make sure all forms are put away properly. This way when you arrive in the morning, you won't be confronted with a mess., Delegate tasks. Break up complex assignments into manageable parts and then assign those parts to individual members of your team. Don't waste days to complete a task that a small group can accomplish in a couple of hours.Remember that it's okay to say "no" to additional responsibilities. If someone asks you to help on a project that you just don't have time for this week, explain that you'd usually be happy to help but you have a deadline for school that you can't miss.
 If you choose to, emphasize how your proposed plans will help you gain valuable skills or qualify you for a promotion. Sell her on your education plans. If your boss gets onboard, it will be easier to navigate between school and work. She might even be able to help you adjust your work hours when necessary to accommodate school work.You'll need to weigh the pros and cons of talking to your boss. Some bosses won't find your education advantageous to them or their operation.

