 You can use your food processor to grind the oatmeal and puree and blend baby food from jars. But you can also serve your baby nutritious home made food using the food processor and be assured you are feeding your baby healthy, non processed food as well as saving some money.


According to Dr. Alan Greene, a clinical professor of Pediatrics at Stanford School of Medicine, most babies will have good food habits when they eat natural foods, as they are usually less sweet and salty than processed foods.;
, Solid food such as hard pieces of fruit and vegetables can lead to choking when given to babies, since most babies have not yet developed better eating skillsand lack the ability to chew and swallow well. Make sure your pureed food is ready to swallow and moist so it does not require your baby to chew it., Just make sure that you really grind and cut the food into small pieces to avoid any choking hazards for your baby.
 Use about ¼ cup of oats, since most babies usually consume small amounts of food at one time and you want to avoid wasting any of the oats.
 Grind for fifteen to thirty seconds or until the oats are finely ground, forming a soft powder that looks easy for your baby to swallow.


If you do not have access to a food processor or grinder, you can also buy powdered oats.
 The size of the pot should fit the amount of oats you are going to cook.
 Use this ratio: ¼ cup of oats for one cup of water.


You can also add milk for flavouring if you prefer. You can add ½ cup of milk and ½ cup of water or just add 1 cup of milk, depending on the desire consistency and taste.
 Stir the mixture constantly, as this will prevent the oats from sticking.
 Set the stove temperature to medium heat.
 Stir it continually until the mixture is thick and creamy.


Check after five to ten minutes to see if the liquid (milk or water) has been absorbed by the oats. The oats should appear expanded or plumped up.
Once they look done, turn off the stove and place the cooked oats in a bowl.
 You can do this by dabbing a small amount of food inside your wrist, which is the thinnest skin on your hand. The temperature should be warm but not too hot.
 For example, apple or carrot. You can also mash up food using a fork, such as ripe bananas or boiled potatoes., You can sprinkle about ½ of ground cinnamon into the oats to add more flavor.


Make sure your baby is old enough to digest cinnamon and other natural ingredients. Usually when your baby is starting to eat solids at around four to six months old, they can also eat natural flavoring. Feeding most babies natural flavors too early can cause an allergy or diarrhea., These can cause allergic reaction.


Symptoms like rashes, trouble breathing, low blood pressure, rapid heartbeat, and vomiting may occur if your baby is allergic to these foods.
 Prepare one-ingredient baby food daily at first, and then wait four days to introduce a new food. Never combine food for your baby to avoid unnecessary allergies.For example, introduce oatmeal for now before introducing other ingredient to be combined with it like fruits or natural flavoring.
 You can add other ingredients to the oats like maple syrup and raisins. If your baby loves berries, you can also add in some of these fruits.


Never add honey to your baby’s oatmeal, especially if your baby is below one year old. Honey cannot be given to babies under the 12 months of age as there are bacteria that contaminate the honey.
As well, avoiding honey can reduce the risk of infant botulism, a weakness in muscle among infants., Always throw away any unconsumed food. Leftovers can be contaminated and if eaten, can lead to sickness or poison your baby.

