 The American Racing Pigeon Union (ARPU) is the national organization for pigeon racing. They have hundreds of affiliated clubs around the United States. Most homing pigeons, when purchased from an American breeder, will come banded with an ARPU band. Use the ARPU’s “Find a Club” link on their website to locate the nearest club to you.The ARPU has a number of different memberships available, including junior memberships (for kids under 18), family memberships, and memberships for people interested in pigeon racing, but unable to participate.You will have to be an active member of the ARPU before you can join a local club.
 Using your local club’s website, Facebook page, or newsletter, you can determine when that club will be hosting races throughout the year. Races are normally divided between “young birds” and “old birds”.


You may also want to consider attending the American Racing Pigeon Union’s annual convention, if you have the time and funds. The ARPU’s convention is held in a different location each year.The convention usually includes a race.
 The ARPU offers a “Help-a-Beginner” Program which is for those who have only flown in one racing season and would like some assistance or advice on how to be a better pigeon racer. Beginners are matched with mentors and breeders and work together throughout the season., Once you’re a member of a local club, you’ll be able to enter your pigeons in races. Check with your club to determine the best race for beginners - which would usually be a shorter race. Try racing different pigeons in different races to see how they perform.


Note that the “Help-a-Beginner” program doesn’t allow beginners who have raced more than one season to participate. Therefore, if you’re interested in this program make sure to apply after your first racing season., Pigeons race from a specific location (as determined by the race organizers) to their home loft (i.e. your house). The organization will determine the actual distance between the release point and your home loft, and that distance, plus the time the pigeon took to travel, will be used to calculate speed.And the fastest pigeon wins!

