 If you are being investigated for a crime, or if you have been charged with one, you need to seek immediate assistance from a qualified criminal defense lawyer. Do not talk to law enforcement or anyone else until you hire someone. A criminal defense lawyer will be able to navigate the legal process and help you make your mistaken identity defense.


You may not know that you are being investigated for a crime until you hear that your friends and family are being interviewed by law enforcement. In addition, if law enforcement comes to ask you questions, do not answer and tell them you would like to speak with a lawyer before continuing.
If you have been charged with a crime you will know. At that point you will have most likely been arrested and/or cited.;
, You are entitled to legal help if you are facing time in jail. Accordingly, states must offer you a public defender in a criminal case. You should ask the judge for a public defender when you attend your first court hearing. To qualify for a public defender, you must be low income. You will have to fill out an application reporting your finances.You don’t really get to choose your public defender. Instead, someone will be assigned to you. If you don’t get along with your public defender, then you can complain to the defender’s office. However, because public defenders are so busy, you might not get another one assigned to your case.
 If you think you have the funds or property available to hire a criminal defense lawyer, start by asking friends and family for recommendations. You will often know someone who has a friend that practices law. In addition, your friends and family may be able to ask around the community. These types of connections can help you find a trusted lawyer in the community.


Most lawyers rely on these recommendations for business. Therefore, if someone likes a lawyer enough to recommend them, they are probably a good candidate.
 In some circumstances, your friends and family may know lawyers, but not any criminal defense lawyers. If this happens, ask for the general lawyer's contact information. Reach out to them and ask if they can make any referrals to a criminal defense lawyer. These referrals are priceless and can help you get a meeting with a quality lawyer.


The legal community is small and tight-knit. Lawyers will usually know someone they trust that practices in the area where you need help.
 If you are not having luck getting recommendations or referrals, use the free services offered by your state's bar association. In every state, the bar association runs a lawyer referral service, which people can use to find qualified legal help. After answering a few general questions about your legal problem, you will be put in contact with various qualified lawyers in your area.
 Once you have a list of three or four choices, contact them and set up a time to meet. These initial consultations give both you and the lawyer a chance to feel out the possible relationship. The lawyer will assess your legal case and their ability to help in some way. You will use the meeting to assess your ability to work with the lawyer or an extended period of time.


When you set up the initial consultations, make sure you ask about fees. Some lawyers will offer you a chance to talk for free, while others may charge a small fee.
 For your consultation, the lawyer might want to see documents related to your case. You should be told what documents to find when you schedule your consultation.For example, you might need:


A copy of any police report
A copy of the criminal complaint against you
A written narrative of what you remember about the night in question

, Lawyers are busy, so you should do everything possible to get to the office on time. Call if you are going to be late. Tell the secretary when you think you will arrive. In some circumstances, the lawyer may have to reschedule.


When you arrive, check in and wait for the lawyer to get you. make sure you bring all of your documents with you.
 At the consultation, the lawyer will ask that you describe your case. There should also be time for you to ask questions. Write down the questions ahead of time. One thing you want to know is how the attorney will handle your mistaken identity defense.


Ask what witnesses or information you will need for your defense.
Have the lawyer tell you how often they have raised the mistaken identity defense. Once? Multiple times? Also, ask how well it has worked. Did the lawyer’s client win using a mistaken identity defense?
Ask what other defenses you might have.
Have the lawyer explain the likely outcome of your case., You shouldn’t leave the lawyer’s office without knowing how they will charge you. Generally, criminal defense lawyers charge clients by the hour or by using a fixed fee. With that said, lawyers have the flexibility to charge you in any number of ways. The method they choose will depend on their preference and your ability to pay.


For example, if a lawyer charges an hourly fee, it will usually be between $125 and $400 per hour. In addition, the lawyer will usually charge in fifteen minute increments.
If the lawyer uses fixed fees, they will charge you based on the services you need. For example, the lawyer might charge $500 to defend you at an arraignment and $1,500 to file a pretrial motion on your behalf. Criminal defense lawyers like their fees up front so they know they will get paid.
Also, ask about payment plans. You might not have all of the money right up front. However, the lawyer could spread out a fixed-fee payment over many months. In addition, the lawyer may accept property in lieu of cash. In this scenario, you would offer property you own (e.g., houses, cars, paintings) for the lawyers services., After you have met with all of the lawyers, you should compare them. You want to hire someone you feel comfortable with. Take some time to sit down and analyze each lawyer. Consider the following:


Did you feel comfortable asking questions? If not, then the lawyer might not be right for you.
Did the lawyer explain things in an understandable way? You want to stay involved in your defense, so you should go with a lawyer who explains complex issues in a simple way.Are the fees reasonable? You shouldn’t hire a lawyer if you can’t pay their fee.
What is your gut telling you? No one can tell you which lawyer is best for you. If none felt right, then get more referrals and meet with them.
 Once you know which lawyer you want to hire, you should call and tell them. The lawyer will then send you a “retainer agreement” or “engagement letter.” This letter spells out what the lawyer will do for you and how much you will have to pay.You should sign the letter and send it back to the lawyer. Keep a copy for your own records.
 Consumer lawyers defend people against unlawful debt collection practices. Unlike criminal mistaken identity cases, you will know if you have an issue as soon as debt collectors start contacting you about a debt that is not yours. Before you hire a lawyer, talk with the debt collector that is contacting you. let them know that you are not the person they are looking for and that they have mistaken you for someone else. Check to make sure they have the name, contact information, and even the social security number correct. Most of the time, you and the debt collector will be able to resolve the issue quickly and painlessly.


However, if the debt collector refuses to stop contacting you, consider talking with a lawyer. A consumer lawyer will be able to assess your situation and the debt collector's practices. Based on this information, the lawyer should be able to help you assert a mistaken identity defense during litigation.
 Using friend and family recommendations, lawyer referrals, and state bar services, make a list of qualified consumer lawyers in your area. At this point, keep track of every lawyer you hear about. Make sure you have the lawyer's name, email address, phone number, and physical address.
 Take your big list and work on narrowing it down. You will not have enough time to discuss your case with every person on your list. Instead, find the lawyers who best fit your needs. The easiest way to do this is to call the lawyer's office. When you call, ask what a normal hourly fee would be and whether they handle consumer cases involving mistaken identities.


If the lawyer's fees are in your price range and they handle cases of mistaken identities, keep them on your short list.
 After gathering a list of names, you should go through and check each lawyer’s background. You can do all of this preliminary research on the Internet. For example, make sure to do the following:


Look at the lawyer’s website. Check for their expertise and how professional the website appears. Someone with a sloppy website might not be a careful lawyer.
Search online reviews. Many websites now post reviews—Avvo, Yelp, Google. Take these reviews with a grain of salt. However, if you notice common complaints (such as the lawyer never returns phone calls), then you should steer clear of that lawyer.
Research the lawyer’s disciplinary history. Each state has a board that investigates ethical complaints against lawyers.You should find your state’s website and search for the lawyer’s disciplinary history. A notation should appear if the lawyer has been disciplined.
 Once you have a list of lawyers, you should call two or three that look good to you. You probably don’t have time for more. Ask if you can schedule a consultation and ask how much the lawyer charges.Many lawyers now offer free consultations. Others will charge a small fee. You should call ahead of time to check.
Also ask how you should pay. You don’t want to show up with only cash when the lawyer’s office doesn’t take cash.
 When you meet with each lawyer, come prepared and consider taking notes. You will be ale to use these notes when it comes time to compare the lawyers you meet with. When you talk with each lawyer be honest and open. The lawyer will not be able to help you unless you tell them what you are dealing with. Keep in mind that any conversation you have with your lawyer is most likely protected by an attorney-client privilege.


Don't be afraid to ask your lawyer questions. The initial consultation is not a one-way street. For example, if you do not understand how the lawyer plans to attack your case, ask them. Will they write the debt collector a letter? Will they file a lawsuit? Make sure you know the answers to these things before you hire someone., Make copies of every document you have relating to the case.The lawyer will want to look at them and they will help provide a full picture of what you are dealing with. In a consumer case of mistaken identity, some of the most common documents you might have include:


Mailings from debt collectors.
Notes from your conversations with the debt collector, which should include when you talked, how long you talked, what you talked about, and what the outcome of those conversations were. For example, if the debt collector agreed that you are most likely not the person of interest, write this down.
 When you go in to a lawyer's office for an initial consultation, you are not just assessing your fit with the individual lawyer. You also need to make sure the lawyer's staff will be able to assist you. For example, consider whether the lawyer will have other people helping on your case. Does the lawyer have a law clerk or an associate? Are there paralegals in the office?


One of the most important things to look at is the lawyer's administrative staff. For example, does the lawyer have someone available to answer your calls when the lawyer is unable to do so themselves? Did the receptionist return your call in a timely manner? Were people friendly? All of these things are important when hiring a lawyer.
 In consumer cases regarding mistaken identities, a lawyer will generally work with the debt collector to have the debt discharged. If the debt collector continues their collection activities, the lawyer may file a lawsuit on your behalf to make them stop. Until the lawyer files a lawsuit, you will probably have to pay by the hour. In some straightforward cases, the lawyer may accept a flat fee. For example, if the lawyer feels confident that a simple cease and desist letter will take care of the matter, the lawyer may charge a fixed fee for that service.


If litigation is involved, the lawyer will most likely continue charging you an hourly fee. However, in a lot of consumer cases, successful litigants are awarded attorneys' fees. Therefore, if you have a strong case, your legal fees may end up getting reimbursed.
 After you complete all of your initial consultations, compare your experiences. Think about whether each lawyer was able to answer your questions in an understandable way. Also, you want to make sure the lawyer you hire feels comfortable with the case you have. If a lawyer seems unsure of their ability to represent you successfully, don't hire them.


In addition to comparing the lawyers, do not overlook the lawyer's staff and office. Remember, you will be spending a good amount of time with this person and their office for some period of time. You want to make sure you feel comfortable with the lawyer you choose.
 Once you have made your decision, call the lawyer and tell them you would like to hire them. If the lawyer is unable to take your case, move on to your next choice. When a lawyer accepts your case, they will ask you to sign a retainer agreement or engagement letter. This agreement will lay out the services the lawyer will perform for you and the fees they will charge. If you are comfortable with the agreement, sign it and start working with the lawyer.

