 A kidney transplant recipient may be able to walk the day after their surgery! However, you should encourage someone to take it slow in terms of physical activity following the procedure. That said, once the recipient is feeling up to it, help them begin to work physical activity back into their daily schedule. While taking care to prevent injury, light exercise can actually speed recovery.Once the incision is healed, have the recipient start with gentle stretching and walking. Make sure these types of exercises are comfortable and easily manageable three or four days in one week before allowing them to exercise more actively.
 As the kidney recipient becomes more capable of physical movement, have them talk to their doctor about the amount of activity they should be getting. They will help identify the appropriate amount of movement and exercise. Great questions for the patient to ask include:How much should I be exercising?
What types of exercise should I favor? Which types should I avoid?
Does exercise affect my recommended medicine schedule?

, Once the recipient is comfortable doing so, encourage daily aerobic exercise. Jogging, cycling, tennis, and swimming are all great options. Direct them to exercise about 20 to 30 minutes every other day. This will help them recover their strength and keep both their mind and body happy and healthy.Direct the recipient to avoid contact sports unless a doctor tells them they are healthy enough to participate.
 For about eight weeks after the surgery, prevent the recipient from lifting anything heavy. For two to three months afterwards, don’t let them handle anything that weighs more than 20 pounds. Don’t let them lift anything heavier than 40 pounds for at least four months., If the recipient is fatigued or breathing heavily, have them reduce the amount of exercise they’re undertaking. There are certain signs of risk related to exercise that you should watch out for. If an irregular or fast heartbeat persists for more than 15 minutes after exercise, contact their doctor for instructions.If the recipient reports exercise-induced pain, tone down the amount or types of exercise they’re doing.
If they experience weakness, dizziness, or lightheadedness, have them stop exercising for the day.

