 The first and most important step to correcting understeer while cornering is mental. You need to recognize what the vehicle is doing as understeer in order to take corrective action to address it.Identifying that you are in an understeer situation is the only way you can know to correct it.
Pay close attention to the response you get from your vehicle to identify understeer.;
, When you turn the steering wheel and find the vehicle not responding by turning as much as it should, the natural response is to turn the wheel even more. Once that fails to work, the next natural reaction is to hit the brakes as you realize you have limited control of the direction the vehicle is traveling. These are both dangerous responses to understeer that can result in an accident.Turning more and hitting your brakes could lock the tires and remove any control you currently have over the vehicle.
If the brakes do slow the vehicle quickly, the weight of the vehicle will shift onto the front wheels that are turned too far, resulting in the vehicle suddenly and wildly changing directions.
 Once you’ve realized that you are in an understeer situation, calmly return the steering wheel to straight. If you are in a corner, turn into the direction you are skidding slightly. This will align the wheels with the direction the vehicle is moving, allowing the tires to start turning again to create grip.Point the wheels in the same direction the vehicle is moving to allow the tires to start spinning again.
Make sure to maintain total control of the wheel as you allow it to center itself.
 While slamming on the brakes could result in locking up your tires, easing off the accelerator pedal will slow the vehicle in a more subtle manner. As the vehicle slows, the weight will transfer toward the front of the vehicle, adding to the traction your front tires are able to get.Be sure to straighten the wheel out before easing off the throttle to avoid the vehicle turning suddenly as grip returns to the tires.
Easing off the throttle will only work if the tires are pointed in the direction the vehicle is moving.
 If easing off the throttle did not change the speed of the vehicle sufficiently to return traction to your front wheels, put your foot on the brake and apply them gradually to avoid locking the tires up again and losing steering control.Be careful not to press on the brake pedal too hard or abruptly.
If you lock up the front tires under braking, take your foot back off the brake pedal to allow the wheels to begin turning again.

