 Use the same voice that you would use to ask to speak to someone on the phone. Be firm, calm, and clear. If you sound emotional, confused, or upset, then the person will sense your weakness and will try to exploit you. If you sound calm, then the person will see that you're being reasonable and that it's okay for you to say "no" once in a while.


If you don't raise your voice or sound upset, the person will be much more likely to accept your explanation.
 Stand tall and keep your arms at your sides or use gestures to emphasize your words. Make eye contact with the person as you say "no" to show that you mean business. Don't fidget or play with your hands or jewelry, or you will look insecure about your decision. Don't cower away from the person or cross your arms over your chest, or you will look like you're not happy with your decision and that you can be swayed.
 If you do feel sorry that you can't do the work, then you can say a simple, "I'm sorry," but the more you keep repeating that you're sorry, the less firm you will sound. The person will think that he can still convince you to do the task, and you'll only make yourself look weak and will feel worse about not doing the task. If you apologize, it will look like you're doing something wrong by not taking on the task, and that's not the case.


Don't say, "I am so, so sorry that I can't walk your dog next weekend. I feel really, really bad about it."
Instead, say, "I'm sorry I don't have time to walk your dog next weekend."

, Giving a brief explanation can make the person understand why you can't do the thing he wants you to do. You don't have to be excessive about it, but giving just a sentence or two of explanation can help the person see that you have too much going on to complete the task. You don't have to lie or make up excuses. Just be honest. Here are some explanations for why you can't do something:


"I can't finish this project tonight because I have to wrap up this report by midnight."
"I can't drive you to the dentist tomorrow because my husband and I will be celebrating our anniversary that night."
"I can't go to your party because I have to take a final exam the next morning."

, If you still feel guilty about saying no and truly do wish you could help the person, then you can try to give some other solutions for what can be done. If you really can help the person, just in another way, then don't be afraid to mention it and see if that can work out for both of you. Here are some ways to suggest alternatives:


"I can try to finish the project tomorrow, but only if you can help call a few of my clients in the morning."
"Do you want to borrow my car to take yourself to the dentist? I won't need it tomorrow anyway."
"I can't go to your party, but I'd love to catch up this weekend, after my big exam. How about we go out for brunch? I'd love to hear all about it."

