 Sometimes companies have been known to make one type of bedwetting diaper strictly for boys and one type of bedwetting diaper strictly for girls, and the proper fits can be different for boys than girls and definitely have different zones of absorption which can affect the space between organs in the bedwetting diaper area. However, don't try to urinate into them at first.;
, Inspect different parts of the diaper.

Unlike children's diapers, bedwetting diapers never have tape. They are self sealing between the two sides, which is made at the company by a sewn-together process where both the front extensions and back sides are sewn together on both the wearer's left and right sides.
 Look for ease of use when pulling the diaper up and down the wearer's legs. Are they easy to put on and take off? Do they slide around when the wearer pulls them up?, Do they tend to slide around the wearer when they wear them? When the wearer twists and twirls, do they follow by loosely twirling with them, or do they tend to stay firm around the wearer's waist and not move around too much?

, Are there any spots that make the wearer feel itchy when they wear them or put them on? Great diapers shouldn't ever feel itchy for more than a few seconds, or that make the wearer feel uncomfortable to wear

, Great bedwetting diapers won't be able to be twisted or moved over a long distance. If they are able to be adjusted, it shall take a greater force to move and twist them to get a perfect fit on the wearer. Poorly-made diapers which slide without much movement, meaning they have unequal amounts of gel located in the wrong areas, may cause an improper fit. Think in terms of the movements a bedwetter could commonly make when rolling around in bed., Test to see if you can feel the center core of the diaper and see if it feels flexible for the wearer to wear or not. Stick two fingers into the bedwetting diaper's core. See if you can feel the center to edge of the core section of the bedwetting diaper. The core must be fairly thick and well padded, but not so much padded that no fingers can fit, and not so little padded that all 5 fingers can fit into the diaper being worn.
 See if the center core area can hold up to the bedwetting accident that was intentionally made to ensure it can't weigh the wearer down and make for an improper fit. Great diapers won't sag too much after an accident, and still provide for a proper fit. Good diapers will allow the diapers to come off, but not enough if the person accidentally moves around with the wet ones still on, hold the accident in without weighing the wearer down. Do these bedwetting diapers sag or pull with enough force that it makes it hard to stay standing up? Cheap bedwetting diapers tend to make it hard for the person to walk around let alone lay down in their bed, and only make the wearer want to have their diapers changed more often during the night. You can use tap water to test it out.,, Only the wearer can tell if they still fit as good as they did a few moments ago. However, to see if the wearer is honestly telling the truth, stick your fingers down into the bedwetting diaper's core area again, and see if you can feel the space between the core and the wearer's skin. You should still be able to move your fingers comfortably around in them without too much force. If you see that you are able to get three or more centimeters worth of space between them at the tip of the core where the wetness is found, you'll realize that it can assure you of a proper fit before, during or after your bedwetting accident.
 Most bedwetters don't soil their diapers during and after a bedwetting accident at night, so soiling tests shouldn't need to be done to ensure a proper fit with the wearer. Although geared to protect the wearer in all cases, most bedwetting diapers won't protect the wearer too much from soiling accidents as much as a regular disposable diaper would have done to the wearer.