 Taking just a few moments to "put yourself together" can take your selfie from "good" to "great." Pick an outfit that you think makes you look good. It can be something that goes well with your surroundings (like a flannel lumberjack shirt if you're in the woods) or just a set of clothes you love. Find a mirror and make sure your hair looks good, your teeth are brushed, and your eyes are clear and "awake." Wash or brush yourself as needed.


You may want to consider wearing light makeup, but don't feel obligated to use it. You don't necessarily have to wear makeup to take a good photo. Sometimes the most best photos come from a person's natural beauty.
If you are taking a profile picture Facebook, a dating website, or something similar, you may want to put more effort into your selfie than normal.;
, You can take a closeup of your face, but having something else in the photo to look at gives the photo depth and variety. It's also nice for making your selfies look different from each other. There are no "right" answers here, but below are just a few ideas:


Try shooting both outside and inside.
Try shooting against different textures of wall (wood, brick, paint, glass, wallpaper, etc.).
Try capturing eye-catching objects like flowers, bodies of water, animals, or statues in the frame.
 The light sources around you when you take your picture can seriously affect how it turns out. Not enough light can make the photo pixelated and dark, whereas too much light can block out all your features (and even make your nose disappear). Try to strike a good balance: you want just enough lighting to show all the amazing aspects of your face, but not so much that they vanish and leave you looking like a shining mirror.


If you're indoors, try not to stand in front of a window with your back facing it, as the light from outside can make you look dark and shadowy.Instead, try standing facing the window instead so any light coming from outside will hit your face and make your features look sharper.
 Now that you have your lighting situated, it's time to decide what you want your pose to be. There are many options here: you can do the duck face, make a peace sign, or even just show a simple smile! You can face away from the camera or look into the lens. The possibilities are endless. Choose something that feels right and go with it!


If you're posting pictures to social media, make sure to vary your poses. You don't want to seem like you only know how to do one thing.
If you're using a phone to take your picture and you want to look into the camera, don't forget to point your eyes at the small lens and not at the screen itself.
 Having a happy, positive attitude will show through in your picture. Taking selfies isn't a big deal, so instead of worrying, have fun with it and don't be afraid to experiment. You can always get rid of bad pictures later.


If you're having a hard time getting jazzed up for your photo, get physical! Try taking a few photos while jumping, balancing on one foot, or doing something athletic. Moving around will get your blood flowing and raise your energy levels.

