 Play a normal game of heads up, seven up. However, instead of having the children identify who picked them, have the children spell a word. If the child spells the word correctly, then they get to be a picker for the next round. If they spell the word incorrectly, the picker remains the same.Be sure to use words that are appropriate for your students level of education.
Make sure to use the same word until one of the students gets it right so all the other students can hear it spelled correctly.
You can write the word on the board or projector after the students have spelled it to give your students a chance to review.
You can also have all the students spell the word in unison after it is used.
 If you’re an English teacher, you can make the game more relevant to your class by having the children use proper grammar. For example: Instead of just blurting out a name, have children ask, “Was it Anne?” Then Anne can reply, “Yes, it was me.”You can even have your students write their guesses on the board to work on their written grammar.
Writing down their guesses can help your students learn how to write in complete sentences, when to use a question mark, and how to capitalize words.
 Have students who are picked answer a question about the math lesson that they’re currently learning. If your students are learning their multiplication tables, you might ask a question like “What is five times nine?” If the student gets the answer wrong, ask the next student the same question. If the student gets the answer right, they will be a picker for the next round. Either way, make sure to review the answer clearly to everyone in the class.Use questions with the appropriate difficulty level. You don’t want your kids to be bored with a bunch of easy questions, but you also don’t want them to be discouraged by questions that are too difficult.
Repeat the rule that corresponds to each question after it is used. For example: For the question, “What is nine times five?” the answer would be forty-five. Say, “Remember that whenever a number is multiplied by five, the answer ends in five or zero.”

, Test your kid's knowledge of science. For example, If your students are learning about the periodic table of elements ask something like, “What do the letters 'Fe' stand for on the periodic table?” If the student answers “Iron,” allow them to be a picker for the next round.


The game might run smoother if you write your questions on pieces of paper and place them in a hat. Let your students choose a question from the hat to answer when they are picked.

