 When you are in the U.S. on a B1 business visa, you are expected to leave the country by the date shown on your Form I-94. Waiting for a decision on an application to change your status is not a valid excuse to overstay your visa.If your visa has already expired, or imminently will expire (say, in the next month or two), you should apply for an extension before you apply for a change of status.
A B1 visa normally can be extended for another six months, but typically will not last beyond a year.
If you've already had one six-month extension, contact an experienced immigration attorney at your earliest possible convenience to evaluate your options.;
, The USCIS provides fillable PDF copies of all immigration forms on its website. At a minimum, you'll need Form I-539 to change the status of a B1 business visa. Depending on the type of visa for which you intend to apply, you may need additional forms.The page where you download each form provides basic information as to what the form is for and who may use it. For example, the I-539 page lists which nonimmigrant visa holders are eligible to change their status using that form.
If you have any additional questions or are concerned about using the correct forms, you can search the USCIS site for further information on changing your status.
In more complex situations, you should talk to an experienced immigration attorney. Many immigration attorneys provide a free initial consultation, so you can use that time to find out what process to use and whether you are on the right track.
 The USCIS provides instructions for completing all immigration forms, including Form I-539. These instructions list the documentation you must provide along with your completed application.The application also includes notes of answers you are required to support with documentation. Go through these two documents and make a checklist you can use as you gather your documents.
For example, you'll need documents that show the reason for your extended stay or need to change your status, bank statements and pay stubs that show your ability to support yourself in the U.S., and letters from employers or family members.
Additional documents may be required based on the reason for your stay. Generally, if you're in doubt as to whether you should include a document, err on the side of caution and include it.
Keep in mind that if the documents are written in a language other than English, you must have them translated into English and accompanied by a sworn statement from the translator certifying the accuracy of the translation.
 Once you have everything you need, complete Form I-539 and any other forms necessary to apply for the change in status you seek. Make sure you fill out your forms completely, as errors or omissions can significantly delay the processing time of your application.Form I-539 requires basic information about you, your visa, and the change of status your requesting.
The form also includes a number of questions that require you to check the box corresponding to a "yes" or "no" answer. Remember to answer these questions honestly.
Keep in mind that if you answer anything incorrectly on your application, and the USCIS later determines that your answer was false, you may have to leave the country immediately. You also will forfeit any progress you've made – even if the true answer would not have negatively affected your application.
If you don't understand the question or are concerned that the correct answer could jeopardize your application, talk to an experienced immigration attorney about your situation.
 You want at least one copy of everything you're going to mail to USCIS for your own records. In addition, you should make copies of any required supporting documentation you plan to send.If you send original documents to the USCIS, they will not be returned to you. Regular photocopies are acceptable for most supporting documentation.
For some types of documents, you may want to get your copy certified. For example, if you are sending a copy of your pay stubs, you may want to get your employer to sign the copy verifying that the copy is true and accurate.
Make copies for your own records of every document you plan to send to the USCIS.
 Before you submit your application packet, put all your forms and supporting documentation in order so the USCIS agent who reviews your application can easily confirm it is complete.If you are submitting more than one form, arrange supporting documentation behind the form to which it applies.
For documents that support more than one form, go ahead and make a copy for each form. The forms may be sent to different offices, so you can't count on one form being used for the whole packet.
Use the checklist you made to confirm that you have everything you need before you seal it in an envelope. Keep in mind that submitting an incomplete application can cause significant delays in an already slow process.
 As of 2016, the filing fee for a Form I-539 is $290. In some circumstances, however, you may have to pay additional fees. Certain applicants also are exempt from fees.Exemptions are available only in very specific circumstances. If you're unsure as to whether an exemption applies to you, err on the side of caution and pay the fee anyway.
You should pay your fee using a check or money order drawn from a U.S. bank and payable in U.S. currency.
Make the check payable to "U.S. Department of Homeland Security." Spell it out just like that. Don't use abbreviations or any initials other than "U.S."
Money orders or certified bank checks are preferable to personal checks, since you won't have to worry about budgeting around the check until it clears.
 Applications for change of status must be mailed to specific USCIS Lockboxes depending on the forms included in your packet, your original status, and where you are located.A list of the lockboxes is available on the USCIS website. Find the description of your application on the table provided and send your application to the lockbox indicated.
Once you have the correct lockbox, mail all of your paperwork in one package to the lockbox specified.
Use first class U.S. mail. The lockboxes are not equipped to accept shipments from private carriers such as UPS or Fed-Ex, and cannot sign for packages.
 Once the USCIS receives your application, it will mail you a receipt notice that includes the number that has been assigned to you and an estimated processing time for your application.When you get this receipt notice, keep it in a safe place with your other immigration documents.
You also may want to make a copy of it in case you lose the original. You will need the receipt number to access any information regarding your immigration case.
The notice also includes information about what to do if you need to change your address or any other information related to your application.
 Your receipt notice includes an estimated processing time, but you also can check the specific processing time for the location where you sent your application on the USCIS website.Individual application centers may have processing times that differ from the estimate included on your receipt notice.
Expect it to take the USCIS no less than 90 days to process your application. Typical wait time is more like four to six months.
If your B1 visa is set to expire before the processing time listed, you may want to contact an experienced immigration attorney to discuss your options. Staying after your B1 expires would mean you were "out of status," and could cause your application to be denied.
Keep in mind that your foreign passport must be valid the entire time you're waiting. If you need to renew your passport, schedule an InfoPass appointment with the USCIS to find out what travel options are available to you without jeopardizing your application.
 After the USCIS has reviewed your application for completeness, it will send you written notice of the date and time your biometrics appointment has been scheduled at your local USCIS Application Support Center.At your biometrics appointment, a USCIS agent will take your fingerprints and passport-style photos of you. These will be used for background check purposes.
You must pay an $85 fee for biometrics services. Bring a check or money order for this amount drawn on a U.S. bank and payable in U.S. currency. Make your check out to "U.S. Department of Homeland Security."
Contact the USCIS immediately if you think you will be unable to attend your biometrics appointment at the time listed and need to reschedule.
 At any time after you get your receipt notice in the mail, you can check the status of your application using the number assigned to you. Up to date information is available on the USCIS website and by phone.You can register on the USCIS website to receive automatic status updates as your application is processed.
If you want to check on your case status by phone, call USCIS Customer Service at 1-800-375-5283. Automated information is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
You also may want to schedule an InfoPass appointment to speak with a USCIS agent personally – particularly if you have a time-sensitive or emergency situation. You can schedule an appointment by visiting www.infopass.uscis.gov.

