 The normal position for the bladder is sitting completely within the belly. If, as part of development, the bladder remains partially within the pelvis, this is known as pelvic bladder syndrome. This syndrome can lead to urinary incontinence.


This is most common in large breeds of dogs such as Rottweilers, German Shepherds, Labradors, and Great Danes.;
, Urinary incontinence may not be evident in a young animal, but can develop over the years, especially if the dog becomes overweight.


When an overweight dog lies down, the pressure in her abdomen is greater than in a slim dog, and pushes harder on the bladder. If the pressure generated on the bladder exceeds the ability of the valve guarding the exit of the bladder to stay closed, urinary leakage results.
You can think of this in terms of a balloon in a bucket of water. It is easier to hold the neck of a balloon closed when it is fully submerged in a bucket of water, than it is to try to force that balloon beneath the surface.
If the water represents the abdominal contents, when the bladder (the balloon) is surrounded the forces are equal. When only the tip of the balloon has pressure on it (trying to submerge it in water) the pressure is greater at the neck.
 This condition is diagnosed by introducing a radiographic contrast agent into the bladder and taking x-rays. The position of the bladder is then clearly outlined and the anatomy clear to see.
 Dieting an overweight dog may make a significant difference to the dog and even remove the need for surgery. By reducing abdominal fat, the pressure on the bladder when the animal lies down is reduced.
 To surgically treat pelvic bladder syndrome, a procedure called colposuspension is performed. This involves repositioning the bladder within the abdomen and suturing it into this new position.


This is done via a laparotomy. The surgical assistant places a finger into the dog's vagina and applies gentle pressure to push the bladder further back and into the abdomen.
The surgeon then places non-absorbable sutures through the bladder neck (which is in its new position) to anchor it to the pre-pubic tendon. The abdomen is then closed.

