 Whether you're in love or just dating, there is really no wrong way to move in for a hug. So just do it! A casual touch can be used to introduce a casual hug, and an intimate touch can be used to introduce an intimate hug. Let your hand brush against his arm a few times, or allow it to linger there for a few moments. Look into his eyes, or sneak up behind him and plant one on him. If you want to give him a hug, just give him the hug.;
, Don't overthink it, just wrap him up. In general, you'll slide both arms between his arms and his torso, connecting them around his back for a deep, close embrace. However, if you're feeling romantic, there are plenty of other ways to hug him:Wrap one hand behind his back, just above his butt. Place the other hand around his neck so that your fingers rest where his neck meets his shoulder.
Lightly grab onto the left side of his neck (his right side) with your left hand. If you're extra romantic, you can lightly tousle the back of his hair with your fingers.
Place one palm lightly on his upper chest, wrapping around his waist with your other arm., As you wrap your arms around his neck or chest, press your upper body into his. Pressing your chest into his is considered a "heart to heart" hug. If you're taller than him, you might rest your head on his shoulder. If you're shorter, turn so that you rest your cheek on his chest.
 Just slow down and relax. A hug is simply a chance to press close together, enjoying each other's company. If your first hug position isn’t right, simply move your arms and body into a more comfortable position. If you are in a good embrace, let your hug linger until the moment passes or you feel him begin to pull away.
 Pressing your upper half into his can indicate romantic interest, but it is still fairly tame. Allowing your hands to roam or your legs to intertwine, however, is a great way to kick it up a notch and suggest stronger desire.


Massage his back, neck or chest lightly with your fingers to kick things up a notch.
Pull his face down into a kiss if it feels right, or if you're both looking for more than a hug.
 Instead of stepping back and immediately breaking contact, take a half step out of his embrace and allow your hands to linger on his shoulders or chest. Look each other in the eyes and smile, or slide back in for a kiss.


If you feel him slightly pulling back from the hug, don't try and grip him tighter. Follow the mood and ease out as well.
There is no right amount of time to hold a hug, so just feel it out and enjoy yourself.