 Ankle-tap push-ups from a plank position not only give you a good core workout, they also work to strengthen your arms. Press into your fingers and cup your palm as you do this exercise to protect your palms.From plank, you're going to straighten your arms and push your hips up to the sky at the same time, ending in an upside-down "V" position with your hands and toes on the floor.
Press down into your heels and reach back with your right arm to tap your ankle. Return your right arm to the front and repeat the action with your left arm. Then return to plank position to complete the rep. Do 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise.
Placing your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width will give your chest a good workout. If you keep your arms close to your body, along your ribs, you'll get a good triceps workout.
 The starfish march is a variation of the marching plank that will give you a challenging whole-body workout. To begin this exercise, get in forearm plank position with your elbows directly under your shoulders.March or jump your right leg and right forearm out wide to the side, holding the plank steady. Try to avoid shifting your weight. Immediately march them back to starting position and repeat the movement on your left side to complete the repetition. Do 5 to 10 repetitions of this exercise.
 The fallen triangle is a variation of the marching plank and side plank that was inspired by the triangle yoga pose. This variation provides a good whole-body workout while also improving your balance and stability.Start in high plank, and roll over to your right in a right side plank with your left arm reaching up toward the ceiling. Kick your left leg forward.
Bend your left knee as you roll back over into high plank and through to left side plank, spinning your knee underneath your body. Then return to right side plank.
Repeat this exercise 1 to 3 times from right side plank, then do 1 to 3 repetitions from the left side. Make sure you're doing the same number of reps on each side.
 The quadruped plank with leg kickbacks may seem like a pretty easy exercise – after all, you are on all fours. However, this exercise actually is a surprisingly intense ab workout.From all fours, lift your knees about two inches off the ground and engage your core. Kick your right leg backward, extending it straight and flexing your foot. Bring it immediately back to starting position and repeat the motion with your left leg. Do two sets of 10 alternating repetitions, lowering your knees for a rest between sets.

