 This non-toxic household acid works wonders for rust, among a host of other household applications. Simply submerge the rusted item in vinegar overnight and then scrape the rust away in the morning.


It's best to use apple cider vinegar instead of white vinegar. While white vinegar may work, it's not as effective as apple cider vinegar.
Although vinegar is effective, it is also relatively mild. You may need to soak the item for longer than overnight; a day might be best. After removing the rusted item from the vinegar, dip a crumpled-up ball of aluminum foil into more vinegar and scrape away at the rust.;
, Lemon or lime juice works particularly well for rust stains on clothing, but it can also be effective on metal if left to work for long enough time. Sprinkle salt over the rusted area, let soak with lemon or lime juice, and then scrape away with a crumpled-up aluminum ball.
 Phosphoric and hydrochloric acids are common household items that are inexpensive and work well on rust. Here's what you can find them in, and how to use them:


Phosphoric acid is actually a rust "converter" in that it turns iron oxide (or rust) into ferric phosphate, a black coating. Soak the rusted material in phosphoric acid and leave overnight. Then let dry. Scrape off the ferric phosphate after the surface has dried. Phosphoric acid can be found in cola drinks, naval jelly, and molasses.
Hydrochloric acid is often used in the steel industry to "pickle" steel by removing rust or scale. Hydrochloric acid can be found in several home cleaning agents, most numerously in toilet bowl cleaners.Hydrochloric acid keeps on working even after rinsing and drying. Vapours can affect other, polished, and metal objects in the same room and discolour them. One way to prevent this is to heat the treated object in an oven or fire. Another is using a neutralizing paste of chalk or lime.
 The oxalic acid in potatoes helps remove the buildup of rust.This method is especially useful for smaller rusted items, such as knives. There are two ways you can use a potato to remove rust:


Simply stab the knife into potato and wait a day or overnight. (Be careful when stabbing the potato.) Remove the knife from the potato and scrub away the rust.
Slice a potato in half, coat the inside with a generous portion of baking soda, and go to town on the rusted surface with the baking soda-coated potato. Wipe afterwards with an abrasive material, such as steel wool.
 Often times, you can create your very own rust removal solution without even leaving the kitchen. Pretty much anything acidic will start to loosen and eventually remove the iron oxide. Homemade solutions work particularly well with smaller rusted objects.


The active ingredient in most store-bought chemical solutions is some form of acid, usually phosphoric or hydrochloric, and most acidic substances found in your home can perform the same trick.
If you have any questions about interactions of acids or chemicals, do some quick research before using them. Although most household items are perfectly acceptable to use in combination, some interactions are best avoided.
 Place the rusty item inside of a glass or larger vessel filled with cola drink. Simply let it sit or just dip it. After each half hour, check for progress. The cola should do the job.

