 The name should be something short and easy to say, but don't pick a word you use a lot in daily conversation.;
, If the dog isn't good at paying attention, try saying the dog's name and then immediately giving it a treat. Very soon the dog will learn to focus on you when it hears its name.
 Every civilized dog should know its name, be housebroken, know how to come when called, sit and lie down on command, and walk on a leash. Most dogs should also be taught to let go of something they're chewing on (use the "give" or "drop" commands), "heel" at the owner's side, and stop all activity when they hear "no."

, If necessary, put a leash on the dog and tug gently on the leash to get the dog's attention. Do NOT pull hard on the leash to drag the dog toward you! When it comes, give it the treat and praise it. Repeat as needed until the dog comes when called. Gradually add in distractions to your training, until the dog will come when called even if it's busy doing something else.
 Hold a treat in your hand, say "Rover, sit" (or whatever the dog's name is) and slowly move the treat over and slightly behind the dog's head. Don't hold it up too high, or the dog might jump to grab the treat from you; if this happens, take your hand with the treat away and try again. (You might want to use a toy the dog likes, instead of something edible.)

, As soon as its butt hits the floor, praise the dog (remembering to say its name as you talk to it), pet it and give it the treat. After a few minutes, repeat the process. Do this several times, until the dog can sit on command even when it doesn't see you signaling with the treat. It may take more than one session to firmly establish the command, so after seven to ten repetitions, take a break and try again later.
 Have the dog sitting in front of you, hold a treat or toy, give the order "Lie down" and lower the treat towards the floor. Ideally the dog should lie down in order to keep watching the treat comfortably. If the dog lies down, praise it and give the treat. If the dog just tries to get the treat from you, order it back to a sitting position and try again. Repeat until the dog has learned to lie down when told to.
 If you have not, please refer to the article on that.
 Hold a very special treat in one hand and slowly reach for the dog's toy with the other. Say "Rover, drop it." If the dog lets go of its toy and tries to get the treat, take the toy away and give the dog the treat (with lots of praise). Then let the dog have its toy back. Repeat until the dog will give up its toy on command.

