 Only after you’ve exhausted all other options should blocking collection call numbers be considered. Most phone companies offer "anonymous call rejection". If the calling party is not displaying caller id information for whatever reason, your phone will not ring. Instead the calling party will be confronted by a phone company system that will do one or more of the following:


Prompt the caller to release caller id information,
Prompt the caller to leave a very short voice message which is subsequently played to you giving you a chance to accept or dump the call, or instruct the caller to call back revealing caller id information.
This will weed out most collection calls.



Numbers not on your approved list (WhiteList) will not reach your phone. Collection agencies often employ caller id spoofing, sending fake or alternate caller id information to trick you into answering. However, a WhiteList-Only home phone setup puts a swift end to this, because it won't accept non-recognized numbers.
WhiteList-Only can be through your phone company for around $50USD with no monthly fees. Alternatively one can switch phone service from Land Line (conventional phone system) to VoIP (Voice over IP). This requires an internet connection and performs best on a broadband link; dialup internet is generally insufficient.
There are a variety of home VoIP providers that allow WhiteList-Only setup for as little as $8 USD monthly. If one is adventurous, one can setup a home PBX using Asterisk, an open source software phone system usually requiring a dedicated computer. PBX in a Flash is one such flavor of Asterisk and is well suited to the above average computer user.
 Similar to WhiteList-only, sometimes also called GreenList-only, BlackList allows all calls except those explicitly blocked.


Land Line phone service typically limits the customer to twenty blocked numbers whereas home VoIP providers or home PBX have no such limit. Additionally, these services often allow one to block all calls from toll free numbers: 800*, 866*, 877*, 888*.

