 Use your sewing machine to sew an even line 1/4 inch (6 mm) in from the raw edge of your chiffon.This line will give you a guide, making the hem easier to fold. It also eases the edge in a bit, making it tighter and easier to fold under later on.
Consider increasing the thread tension by one place further than necessary for this basting line. Restore the setting to normal once this line is complete.
 Turn the raw edge in toward the wrong side of the material, folding it along the basting line. Press it in place with a hot iron.


Holding the fabric somewhat taut along the basting line can help you fold the edge while pressing it in place.
Move the iron up and down, rather than moving it side to side, to prevent the material from stretching or shifting as you press it.
Use plenty of steam as you press the fold in place.
 Use your sewing machine to sew another line around the edge of the chiffon. This one should be 1/8 inch (3 mm) in from the folded edge.


This line of stitches will act as another guide, making it easier to fold in the hem once more.
 Use sharp scissors to trim back the raw edge as close to the new sewing line you just created in the previous step.


Make sure that you do not cut beneath or into the stitches as you complete this step.
 Turn the material in toward the wrong side again, just enough to fold the raw edge under. Press this fold in place with an iron.


The second line of stitching you made should be folded in during this step. Your initial line of stitching will still be visible.
 Slowly stitch around the hem, working along the edge of your hemline, until you reach the end of the hem.


You should have to visible lines of stitches from the back and one visible line from the front.
You can either use a straight stitch or an edgestitch for this step.
Do not back tack your hem in place. Leave enough thread at the beginning and end of the seam to knot it by hand., Iron the hem one last time to flatten it out as much as possible.


This step completes the process.

