 You may encounter a dangerous situation when walking a blind person. There may be a speeding car, for example, or a loose dog. In such situations, remember the blind person cannot see the threat. Do not simply move him or her out of the way. Use your words to say something like, "Stop!" or "Move!" After you've gotten the blind person out of harm's way, explain the threat., When guiding a blind person, you may have to help him or her through doors. In such a situation, make sure to take special precautions to make sure everything goes smoothly.


Make sure the blind person is on the hinged side of the door. If you need to change sides, do so following the instructions listed above.Explain which way the door opens as you near the door. Open the door and proceed to walk through with the blind person you are guiding. Have the blind person close the door behind him or her when you finish passing through., Steps and staircases can be somewhat difficult to navigate. It's important you take safety precautions to avoid accident or injury.


First, verbally inform the blind person when stairs are coming up. Tell him or her whether the stairs go up or down.Get to the edge of the stairs. Allow the blind person to let you know when he or she is ready to proceed. The blind person may want a moment to calibrate before proceeding up or down the staircase.Walk up or down the staircase, remaining one step ahead of the blind person. Go slowly to avoid injury. When you reach the top or bottom of the stairs, let the blind person know., Curbs and roads are very dangerous, even with a guide. If you are guiding a person who is blind, make sure that you can use the Accessible Pedestrian Signals, which can provide tactile arrows and audible explanations about when to cross. You will need to push a button to activate the system, and may be able to adjust the sound.

Cross the street at the narrowest point.
Warn the person about curbs by saying "curb up" or "curb down."
Approach a curb together., In addition to walking, you may need to help a blind person sit down. Tell the blind person which way a chair is facing. Walk up to the chair and place your guiding arm on the chair. Let the blind person know which part of the chair you are touching. The blind person can move his or her arm down yours, feel the chair, and figure out how to sit down from there., If you lead a blind person to his or her car, offer to help him or her into the car. Make sure you ask if the blind person needs assistance before helping.


Let the blind person know which way the car is facing and which door you're opening. For example, say something like, "Okay, the car is facing forward and I'm going to help you into the passenger's seat."Take your guiding hand and place it on the door handle. Instruct the blind person to feel down your hand to find the handle.From here, you can usually let a blind person get in the car on his or her own. However, if it's an unfamiliar car you should place your arm inside the car on the roof. This can help the blind person feel how big the car is, avoiding bumping his or her head. Once the blind person is safely seated inside the car, allow him or her to close the door., Help them navigate through the airport, which will likely be busy and offers multiple opportunities for getting lost. Guide the individual to their seat, or ensure that they are partnered with personnel who have clearance to enter the plane if you are not travelling with them.

Tell the airline that the passenger is blind when you book the ticket so that they can provide support services, such as pre-boarding.Individuals who use a cane are permitted to carry a white cane onto an airplane as long as it goes through the x-ray machine.Guide dogs are permitted aboard aircraft in some areas, including the United States and Canada, excepting Hawaii. If the passenger is travelling abroad, check the destination to see if they will permit the guide dog entrance or require special documentation, such as confirmation of rabies vaccinations.
If you are traveling with a guide dog, ask to have the metal detector wand used instead of going through the tunnel. The dog's harness will set it off.