 Avoid buying cheap stilettos because they tend to break easily, plus they just don't look as nice. Additionally, cheap stilettos can be incredibly uncomfortable, which is the last thing you want if you're going to be walking around all day. As you're trying on stilettos, there are a few key things you'll want to check to minimize the pain:


Check the fit of the toe. The shoe should not feel tight or pinched in any area as you walk. If your toe feels crammed into the end, it'll feel much worse after several hours of that pressure.






Check the width of the heel. It should not be too narrow; if it is, add a heel liner. The stiletto itself should be reinforced, but keep in mind that a plastic heel tip can be replaced with rubber for a softer walk.






Check the centering of the heel and the placement of the arch. Ideally, the shoe's heel should be centered under your own heel and your foot arch should be completely supported by the shoe sole. If there's a gap where the arch is, the shoe does not fit properly and will cause you pain.






Buy your proper size. This should go without saying, but sometimes a moment of weakness can cause you to think that buying a half size smaller than what you normally wear won't matter---just remember that it will!





;
, The higher the heel, the less stable you will feel, the greater the chance of a fall. When learning to walk in stiletto heels, take it slowly to begin with and practice in short bursts, allowing yourself rests between tries.

If you're not already familiar with walking in high heels, it is suggested that you try shorter heels before progressing to stilettos, increasing by half an inch (1.27cm) after mastering each height.






Consider stretching before wearing stilettos. This gives your legs a chance to limber up and be warm before the stiletto stretches the muscles in your foot.
 Let yourself to get used to how it feels to have the stilettos on your feet. Since the feeling is likely to be new and a bit strange, only stand for a few minutes at the start, gradually increasing the time you stand in them, up to an hour. If that seems like a long time practicing, pick out your favorite book or get something else to do to keep yourself entertained.

You can sit down occasionally, since you presumably won't be standing for the entire time you're at your event, but try to stand as much as possible to get used to the feeling of the stilettos.






It is recommended that you stand in front of a mirror so that you can assess your posture and adjust it as needed. You will probably notice mannerisms your body is trying to adopt to cope with the height and sway created by the heels. These little tics will only escalate the longer you stand in a single position, so try to readjust yourself every few minutes.






The surface of the floor should be non-slippery to prevent falling, but not too shaggy or your heels could get stuck.
 Initially, stay in the same area where you have been practicing standing. Walk to and from the mirror to see what you look like. Adjust yourself accordingly, and keep the following things in mind.

Step with your heel first, ball of the foot second, toes last. Follow a heel-ball-toe, heel-ball-toe rhythm, while distributing most of your weight on the ball of your foot, and toes, not over the heel. The higher the heel, the more your center of balance is shifted, so that your backside and chest are pushed out.






Stand straight, even if it leaves you feeling unbalanced. High heels tend to give a sensation of being unbalanced, causing the wearer to lean forward to compensate. You won't fall backwards when standing straight because the heel is anchoring you, so straighten up with confidence!






Place one foot out in front of the other. Always lead with the foot you're most comfortable with, the one that feels naturally inclined to step forward first. Take short, careful steps rather than long strides. Keep your legs close together as you walk and avoid bending over or hanging your head.
 Once you're comfortable walking wherever you started off, try walking on a variety of floors (tiles, thick carpet, etc.) to see how it feels and to learn how to cope with changing surfaces underfoot.


Stay off impressionable surfaces like cork, as the heel will leave indentations that are permanent. You can also challenge yourself a little more by carrying things such as a bag, a cup of tea, a book, etc. Move about the house and simply get used to how it feels as you go, correcting your posture every now and then.
 Get adjusted to the feel of concrete, gravel, and other outdoor surfaces. You'll find that you sink into some surfaces, such as grass, so either avoid them or learn to glide over them quickly using the ball of your feet only (which can be hard work, so general avoidance of soft surfaces is advised).


Outdoor surfaces to beware of include cobblestones, steel grates, grass, soil, holes, and boardwalks.
Stairs require learning of their own. Always land on each step in a sideways or sidestepping motion when descending, with all of the foot landing on each step at once (heel, ball, and toe). When ascending, only use the sole/flat area of the shoe to climb up the stairs.
 Your hard work to get to this point has paid off, and now it's time to party!


One neat trick that can come in handy for the novice stiletto wearer is to take along a spare pair of shoes in case the stilettos really begin to hurt you. Quietly change the shoes unobserved toward the end of the occasion so that you can either dance, or go home in complete comfort.
Having a little shoe bag for containing the shoes discreetly is a wise option.

