 If your partner is speeding or weaving through traffic, try to control your nerves through deep breathing. When you breathe, let the air go deep into your lungs so that it fills your diaphragm; your stomach should extend as you do so. Slowly exhale.If you are having difficulty remaining calm, try closing your eyes and counting out ten breaths.;
, Looking out at how your partner is speeding through traffic might cause anxiety. When sitting in the car, try to focus on something other than the road. Use these distractions to take your mind off of their driving.You can:


Check the news or your social media on your phone. You can also play a game.
Keep a stress ball in the car, and squeeze it when you are nervous.
Look out the passenger side window instead of the windshield.
 Tensing your muscles can actually give you more control over your nerves. Tense up every muscle in your body, including your legs, arms, and shoulders. Once you are fully tensed, hold this pose for a second before slowly relaxing, muscle by muscle., Even if your partner is an aggressive driver, they may be a skilled or even safe driver. To relieve your fears, try reminding yourself quietly that everything will turn out fine. Think these statements silently in your mind so that you do not worry or upset your partner.For example, you might repeat in your head, “Everything will be all right. We’ll get there safely.”
You might also trying saying, “Relax. It’s just some bad traffic. You can get through this.”

, Your partner and you should work out a signal that you can use when you are scared. This signal will indicate that their driving is worrying you without sounding like you are criticizing them. This can encourage them to back off or slow down during aggressive periods.Some signals you might consider include:


Gripping the safety handle.
Tapping on the center console.
Exhaling loudly out of your mouth.
 While you may want to tell your partner to slow down or use their turn signal more often, these statements can be misconstrued as criticisms or backseat driving. This could cause a fight, which might distract the driver and cause an incident.

