 No matter what bridge you might have, you may be able to set it just about where Ibanez has theirs. Examine an authentic Ibanez and experience the feel and sound of their guitar, paying special attention to where the bridge is set. Then mimic that setting on your own guitar, putting your bridge where it feels most similar to the Ibanez. If you want to, use a guide with a straight edge so it lays almost or is flat across the strings on floating bridges. Make sure not to set the bridge too far away from where it was originally, or you won't be able to play at all.
 After raising or lowering the bridge, your strings will be out of tune. Using a tuner, tune your strings until they are fully tuned in E-A-D-G-B-E configuration. Tune them to your preference and make sure they sound right and hit the right notes. Don't worry about buzzing just yet, though.
 Buzzing is a major problem when strings are set very low, and most of the buzz comes from the lower strings. To stop this, try using a different gauge of strings. You may think that using thicker strings is counterproductive, but in fact they will be more tensioned when tuned and they will buzz less and will stay in tune longer. Still, thicker strings are not always the best way to fix buzzing. Depending on precisely when and where the buzzing occurs, your diagnosis (and the solution) might be slightly different, so check to make sure all the nuts and frets are in place and secure, then figure out when and where the buzzing occurs before you proceed., Ensure that they are glued down properly. If this doesn't fix the buzzing, you may have to change the nut height. Ibanez guitars straight from the factory are set up either on a slight incline towards the nut or just flat across. If yours are not right, try adjusting them.


To remove the nut, use a sharp blade that is designed specifically for cutting, such as a box cutter or X-acto knife, to cut away the finish. Cut in front, behind, and at the sides, then, gently tap the nut out of its placement.
Replace the nut. After the nut is out, replace any wood that came out and then dry fit the new nut. Almost every single nut is imperfect and will require a sanding to make it fit. The best guitar nut to replace the old one is a roller nut, but many are not adjustable, so find one at size or simply add wood underneath to raise the nut. To glue it in place, use wood glue mixed with water, because you may soon need to replace it again.
 If you still can't get that Ibanez feel, then try replacing your frets with something different. However, buying an Ibanez is cheaper than having someone redo your frets, and unless you know what you're doing, trying to do them on your own could destroy your neck. If you think this is necessary in order to make your guitar feel like an Ibanez, it may not be worth the expense and risk, so think carefully before taking this step.
 After getting everything to feel just right to you, tune or restring your guitar and play, making small adjustments as necessary. Many adjustments will probably be needed to the way you play, so play and correct your action until the result is satisfactory to you.