 It can take a few weeks for a child to completely adjust to a new sleep schedule. If your child is still having difficulty adjusting, consider revamping the bedtime routine. Try changing the order of your routine, or trying a different bedtime.
 For toddlers who do not like being left alone in the room and use this excuse to delay sleeping, you can curb this behavior by firmly telling your toddler that after you kiss her goodnight, you will leave the room but that you will leave the door slightly open in case she needs you. Some toddlers do get upset and cry or yell for you when you leave the room. It is okay to return to your toddler’s room, but only stay for a brief while.


The purpose is to not let your toddler get used to your presence in order for her to sleep. What you are aiming at is for your toddler to set a bedtime routine for herself. Some parents may disagree but as they say, it gets worse before it gets better. When you consistently show your toddler the kind of bedtime routine she needs, she will eventually learn the routine and fall asleep on her own at the designated time.
 If your toddler continues to be upset or won’t stop crying, stay with her for a while but make it “boring”; don’t cuddle with your toddler and don’t start a conversation.


Sit quietly and, try to stay for as little a time as possible. Just continue to reassure your toddler that you will visit and check on her again after some time; and make sure that you do in fact check on her.
 If your toddler says that she is not sleepy, don’t argue and don’t validate his protest. Simply tell her that it’s bedtime and then continue through the process of the bedtime routine you have set up.


If your child gets out of bed and leaves her room, don’t get upset. Instead, calmly take her back to her room and tuck her in again. Remind her that it is bedtime. If you leave the room and she stays in bed, check in on her after a couple of minutes. If she is in bed but still awake, praise her for staying in bed, and then leave the room again.
 Within a few weeks, your child should be falling asleep fairly easily. If it continues to be an issue, talk to your child’s pediatrician for their recommendations and to see if other issues, such as apnea or restless leg syndrome, could be affecting your child’s sleep habits.

