 For death metal style vocalization, breathing plays a greater role in determining the pitch and volume of your voice than in black metal because it is generally much more guttural and lower in pitch. In black metal it is only really the screaming that requires much breath control, the actual sound of black metal vocals is much more individual than in death metal and words are generally easy to decipher.;
, The more you do anything the easier it gets. The best way to do this is to try singing along to as many different bands as you can, to get a varied practice routine.


Make sure you can hear yourself to see where you may be going wrong, don’t drown yourself out or become overly confident.
, It can only help you sound more inhuman and can add an air of depravity that really helps the sound. But if it is impairing your voice don’t drink acid just spit it or use Chest Congestion Liquid to cough it up.
 No good black metal vocalist would dare take the mike without being able to start every other song with a long and blood-curdling scream. Many of us since the start of puberty have unfortunately lost this ability.


The best way is to take a huge lungful of air, tighten your throat muscles and force out the noise as hard as possible.
Another method is to start with a full exhalation, tighten your throat muscles and drag in, as hard as possible all the air in the room. If done right (and please don’t hurt yourself doing this) this will produce a demonically high pitched screeching noise like the raptors in Jurassic park!

, One cannot be too nasty to be an extreme metal vocalist, to really get in to the spirit of things you have to get right back to a primal mind frame, unleash the metaphorical and literal beast, the snarling hunger driven predator that underneath all your cultural and nurtured mannerisms you truly are! The words you speak shall pour forth like projected venom, melting all in their path, everyone shall listen, no-one shall escape. You are the nine foot lizard-goat with tigers claws and the unholy serpent tongue that lashes and destroys with absolute indifference. You are Armageddon made flesh and Satan shits himself whenever you enter the room!

, Imagine if you will, your band is about to take the stage, your diabolically atmospheric intro is playing, the crowd is waiting with frenzied anticipation for your arrival, then out walks Dave in with his favourite A-team T-shirt and jeans. “Hello Birmingham, we are The Disgruntled Monkeys, are you ready to rock?”. NO, NO, NO, this is all wrong! For a start you cannot be called Dave, you have to choose something better than that, like “Darth Speculum” or “Rectum Inferno” something that portrays your darkest self, not Dave!

, You can't just wear any old thing you find lying about, get some rat-stomping boots, black combats and a cape, don’t be afraid of makeup and jewelry either, the more spikes and boot polish on your face the better.
 If one is to “sing” one should also have written the lyrics so as to really mean what is being said and deliver it with the appropriate emotion, energy and venom. This makes the song more believable as it gives it the personal touch. There are exceptions to this rule if you think you can properly do another person's lyrics justice.


As for subject matter there are no real rules, a lot of bands in this genre go for overtly explicit lyrics touching on subjects like death and destruction, Satanism and the occult, mythology, historical, philosophy, abstract and also more personal scribblings on any subject at all.
What you say in your lyrics doesn’t necessarily have to be as dark and vicious as possible, but it helps.
If you are having trouble finding inspiration for your works maybe try looking out the window at the lonely globe, populated by a shallow, deluded, and often unsightly people, that is mankind. Now try to imagine a way to solve this problem, war, plague, pestilence, you get the picture.
Remember we are the sound of the end of the world, the voice of chaos, the prophets of the end of days.
 In the early days you might make more money from t-shirt sales than from album releases and go on to become huge.


Try to make your designs as offensive as possible to get them noticed, although these days it would hard to be original as most people are de-sensitized to pretty much everything and have seen it all before. Maybe try pictures of well loved celebrities in compromising situation. Try thinking outside the box if you want to stand out from the crowd.
When questioned by the local media and possibly the local authorities about your sick and obviously damaging “artwork” just give them the speech about how you are a product of the society you were born into and how it is actually their fault, you are just a mirror for their dark and secret selves.
If you even get as far as your first interview, say as little as possible except for the fact that you live in a cave with wolves and hate everything to do with the modern world, and are doing this for yourself and don’t give a flying **** as to what anyone thinks about your music as it was never originally meant to be heard outside your own torture chamber, but the wolves need to eat and you need to pay your cave rent!

, Basically be true to your music and it will turn out true, wasps or not.
 If you are looking for a band to accompany your hellish squawking may I suggest the following ways to do this.


Find a promising young band, fresh out of school and mold them into your own image.
Start from scratch, guitars and bass first then find a drummer who can play like a hyperactive woodpecker on speed.
Find a band that comes close in ability to what you want then slowly persuade them that they really need to drop the kazoo player and think more “metal”.
If you find a band that already has a singer, challenge the singer. If (when) you win you take over his place.
Do it all yourself, great on payday but not so good live!
Feel free to sack and rehire as much as you like, you are the “daddy” they are just a means to an end. It's your face on the front of all those shitty magazines and lunchboxes, not theirs.
 If you are on album number 17 and things are looking monotonous, the passion that once flowed through you has turned into a treadmill of familiarity and an excuse not to get a proper job, then it is time to call it a day, turn in your gun and pass the proverbial torch.


One way of doing this would be to disappear, just stop answering your phone and retain the air of mystery you have kept going since the beginning.
Or maybe throw one final gig, at the venue that made you the household name you are today, go out in a blaze of glory.
But seriously, just don’t get to album 17 and become a stale, haggard version of what you once were, when the time is right, bow out proudly, and retire disgracefully with memories of nuns riding flaming goats and music you can no longer hear.

