 You can use a paintbrush or a foam brush. Simply brush on a thin layer, going from edge to edge. The finish of your Mod Podge does not matter so much at this point since you will be covering it anyway.









If you are covering more than one side of an item, such as a box, then work on one side at a time.
If you are covering a round object, consider setting the object down on a mug or in a bowl so it doesn't roll away. Work on one small patch at a time.
If your item is very dark, and you are using a light-colored fabric or paper, consider painting your item white first.
 Place the fabric, lace, paper, etc. down on your work surface so that the back is facing you. Apply a layer of Mod Podge using a paintbrush or foam brush.
 Carefully lift the fabric, paper, or whatever you are using, and flip it over. Press it wet-side-down onto your base item. Gently smooth it until you do not see anymore wrinkles or air bubbles. You can use your fingers or a brayer to smooth it.









To get the best results, start smoothing from the center, and work your way outwards., Try to keep it some place where it won't get disturbed. If there is a lot of dust in your area, turn a box on its side and place the item inside the box.
 Brush it on using thin, even strokes. Don't worry if the layer is thin; you will be adding more coats. It will take one hour for the Mod Podge to dry. If you see any brush strokes, wait until the Mod Podge is dry, then gently buff them away using 400-grit sandpaper. Wipe the surface after sanding with a dust cloth.
 You can add another coat for extra durability, once it dries.
 Most types of Mod Podge will be dry and usable after 24 hours. The Hardcoat variety will require 72 hours., This will make the finish more durable, and reduce stickiness/tackiness.Be sure to match the finish of the acrylic sealer to the Mod Podge. If you used glossy Mod Podge, use an acrylic sealer with a glossy finish. If you used matte Mod Podge, use an acrylic sealer with a matte finish.








