 You can design the chart you want to build and lay it out on a piece of paper first before designing it using your computer. This may help you visualize your end product.


You can also have your child help you design a chart and then you can design it on the computer.;
, These images should be of things that your child does or places where she spends time throughout the day and night; examples include a bed, shirt or dress, spoon and fork, toothbrush, and a toy. These images can be found on the internet and can be saved to your personal drive or documents folder.


These images will represent your child’s schedule. A picture of a shirt could symbolize getting dressed in the morning; a picture of a pancake could represent eating breakfast.
 A simple circle or a rectangle with each day of the week typed inside should do.


You can make it colorful but make sure to have uniformity (i.e. all circles or rectangles are colored orange while the days of the week are colored green).
 Use whatever design program you have on your computer; you just need a blank canvas to paste your images to. Create a vertical column for the days of the week on the left hand side of the page.
 Consider including your child’s name and the year to make your child feel like the chart is her own. For example, at the top of the page you could type, “Jane’s Daily Routine Chart at Age 3” or “John’s Tasks Everyday at Age 4”.
 These could include borders, or a brightly colored background. You can also add extra images, so long as they won’t distract from the images that represent your child’s schedule.
 They should be aligned on top of the page, while the days are aligned on the left portion of the page. These alignments should create an invisible block horizontally and vertically that your child can place a stick on as each task is completely throughout the day.
 Make duplicates for tasks to be done in the afternoon and at night. If your child brushes her teeth in the morning and at night, make sure to have a toothbrush symbol in both the morning section and the night section of the chart.
 Make sure that you have adjusted the size of the paper in the settings of your computer so that it prints out a chart that is the size of the paper you have chosen.
 If laminated, hang it on the wall of your toddler’s bedroom where she can easily see it. If you have used a picture frame, then let it stand on your child’s desk, or hang on her wall

, As your toddler goes through each of the tasks shown in the chart, ask her to place stickers on the invisible blocks below the pictures to indicate that she’s finished brushing her teeth or has finished making the bed or has finished dressing up.


Or she can just use colorful white board markers to place check marks on each task completed, so long as the chart is laminated.

