

Where is the problem? Is the string broken or frayed? Or has it come undone at one end and pulled out?
Follow an intact string. From the tassel (the plastic part you pull), most strings go up, through a gravity catch of some sort, across the hollow channel in the top of the blinds, and down through a row of holes in the slats. From there they're secured by tying them through the channel at the bottom that rides up and down when you open and close the blinds.
There's an additional set of strings, shaped something like a ladder, which rotates the slats in the blinds.
Take digital photos at this stage if you think you will need help remembering what goes where, after you have the string out. If you have a working set of blinds like the ones you are fixing, you can use that for reference, instead.;
, Wrap an intact section 10 times around anything round, such as a pencil or screwdriver. Press the loops together, measure the width, divide by 10, and, if necessary convert inches to millimeters by dividing inches by 25.4 (or use an online converter). Mini blind string is sized in millimeters (mm)., Measure the full height of the blinds. Measure across the top, from the furthest string. Then measure down the hanging part of the string. Add these numbers up, then multiply the total by how many strings there are on the blinds, or how many of the strings you will be replacing. If the blinds are fairly old, you will probably be best placed to replace all the strings in them at the same time. If you're not sure, order extra. String is not that costly, and there is a good chance you will someday wish to replace the string in other blinds in your home., The exact procedure for this step will depend upon the type of blinds you have. In general, they mount at the top.

If you can't figure out how they mount by looking at them, consult the manual or installation instructions. If you don't have a paper copy, try looking up the make and model online.
 This, too, varies with the make and model of the blinds. Most blinds have easy access at the top once they are removed from the window. On the bottom, you may have to remove a cap or bumper, or slide out a rail., It's best to replace one string at a time. Here, we have started at the bottom of the blinds, but you could as easily start with the other end., Some newer blinds lack these holes. In this case, follow the path of the old string around the vanes, instead.







If the old string is worn but unbroken, one way to insert the new string is to tape the end of the new string to the end of the old string. Then, the new string will be threaded through as the old string pulls out. Use masking tape, packing tape, or ordinary cellophane office tape. In any case, make the taped joint as slender as possible. You may have to coax the taped joint through some openings.
If the old string is broken, use the path of an intact string as a model and use a tapestry needle, small crochet hook, or a loop of wire or wire twist-tie to guide the string through its path.
You may have to cut or untie the knots that held the old string into the tassels and onto the bottom rail. Save the old tassels for reuse, or replace them with fresh ones if they are damaged.
 Tie it firmly through the holes, making sure the knot will not slip out. This blind has a pair of holes to tie the string through. Some blinds may come with a small washer or tab that ties onto the string. Replace this if you have it. Otherwise, tie a knot large enough not to slip through the hole., Thread any additional strings and tie them off.,,, With the blinds closed, trim the pull strings to length so that the ends do not show when you pull the tassels down over them.





 Tassels should hang about as far down as the rod.

You can use existing strings as a guide for length, but generally, all the tassels should hang about the same length and they should hang down roughly the length of the rod that you turn to rotate the vanes.

