 Depth jump-vertical, these are performed with a box. Stand on the box then drop from the box, immediately after touching the ground jump up as high as you can and reach up with one or both hands. The return to box to repeat.;
, Clap-push-ups are performed on the floor with your body prone. Push your body away from the floor like you are doing a regular push-up but you must push-up explosively enough to push your upper body high enough that your elbows are locked and your hands are many inches from the floor. Then clap quickly, return hands to shoulder-width position and land. Clap-push-ups are basic plyometrics but you can't perform them, try to train up to be able to do at least 35 regular push-ups. If you cannot perform them even if you can do 35 push-ups then try push-ups with your feet on a box to increase strength further. If you still cannot perform clap-push-ups then you can do explosive push-ups without clapping.
 Medicine balls are also used in plyometric exercises. Sit-up throws are performed in sit-up position (sit on floor with knees bent)with a medicine ball above your head and either a partner or a wall and something to secure your feet. As you lay down you should have your arms somewhat at a 45 degree angle and as you sit-up the angle of your arms should straighten which allows your to throw the ball harder. This exercise has some coordination so try to not get hit in the face or hit your partner in the face. Try to use a light enough medicine ball to throw.
 Box Squat Jumps are performed (obviously) with a box. Sit on the box then jump up and then squat down till you land back onto the box.
 Box jumps are performed with a box. Stand in front of a box and jump onto it, then jump off it rapidly. Lateral box jumps are performed with the box to the side of you. Place one foot on the box and jump using that foot. You have to get enough height for your feet to pass the height of the box and more. Then land with the opposite foot on the opposite side of the box and the foot you started off with on the floor. You can also do both feet together.

