 Similar to verse memorization, it may be easiest to begin by memorizing a poem you're familiar with. If you have a favorite poem, go with that one. If not, look for a poem that you have at least a passing familiarity with.It may be helpful to start out with shorter poems. Trying to memorize a long, sprawling, book-length poem could prove difficult enough to turn you off to memorization.
In addition to brevity, look for a poem that has strong rhythmic component to it. A metered rhythm can help you remember the words by nodding or tapping to the beat., The first step to memorization is immersion, and poetry is no different. Re-read the poem over and over, as many times as it takes until you can hear the rhythm and remember bits and pieces of the poem just by recollection.Make sure that you understand the poem before you begin to memorize it. What is it about? What does it mean? Reciting or writing it by memory will be much easier if you have a deep understanding of what the poem is all about.Try incorporating a tactile component by using your finger to trace the letters of the poem's words on the page.
You can also whisper along to the poem under your breath to further drill it into your memory.
 Writing by hand on scrap paper will help commit the poem to memory. It forces you to develop some muscle memory connected to the words of the poem.Try chunking, or breaking the poem up into manageable parts.Write out the first line or two of the poem, then practice re-writing that line or two over and over. Aim for a significant, yet manageable, number of repetitions (15 or 20 should be enough to commit it to memory).
Once you've written that first line or two out repeatedly, move on to the next line/lines, and so forth.
 Reciting the poem to yourself can both test your memory and help cement any parts of the poem you may be struggling with. Write the poem out on a sheet of paper so you have something to reference, and keep it in your pocket unless you absolutely need it.


Try combining a physical movement with the meter of the poem. Go for a long walk and use each step as a "metric foot" of the poem.Check the written (and correct) poem from time to time to ensure that you're not mis-memorizing it.

