 If you’re feeling controlled by your best friend, you may want to confirm that what they are doing is not healthy. One way to do this is to notice if when you are hanging out, they like to decide what is best for you. Do they place your order at restaurants? Do they pick out your clothes when you are going out together?


A sign that someone is manipulating you is first promising you that they will fulfill some desire you have if you agree to go along with what they have decided., Not only do controlling friends like to decide what you should do, they want things their way. Ask yourself: Does my best friend ever let me decide where we are going? Do they let me choose what kind of food we will eat? Do they let me plan outings? If not, your best friend may feel the need to be in control, which is a sign of a manipulative person., If you notice that your friendship is stale and lacks spontaneity and fun, it may be a sign that your best friend is controlling you.This can happen when your friend makes all the decisions for you, forcing everything in your friendship to be all about them.
 Feeling smothered doesn’t just happen in romantic relationships. A feeling of being dominated and smothered can occur in a controlling friendship. If you feel that your best friend is domineering and that they are suffocating your life, this is a sign that they are controlling you.You know you feel suffocated when you are angry that you can’t make decisions for yourself.
You can also feel smothered when your friend wants to take up all your time and does not have consideration for what you in your daily schedule., How often do you hear, “No” from your best friend? Perhaps they say, “No, I think I want to do something else,” or, “No, that’s not a good idea.” Hearing “no” constantly from your best friend is a sign that they are repeatedly taking over situations.
 If your best friend becomes upset and jealous when you spend time with other friends, this is a sign that they are controlling. When you are with other people, you can’t be controlled as easily. Controlling or manipulative people want to constantly be in control, and when they see you with others, they feel threatened.They may yell at you for spending time with other people, or they may try to sabotage your friendships without telling you what they are doing.

