 In order to help your baby sleep while teething, you need to treat the uncomfortable pain that keeps him up. Using your clean finger, massage your baby’s sore gums. Gently apply pressure, using smooth, circular motions. You will be able to feel which teeth are erupting, so concentrate your massage on those areas.Make sure you wash your hands thoroughly before putting your fingers in your baby's mouth.
When you put the baby down, rub his gums to help relieve the pain so he can sleep. When he wakes up in the middle of the night, you can massage them as well to help with the pain and get them back to sleep.
You can also use a moistened gauze pad to massage the baby’s gums.;
, Objects that are cold can provide some much needed relief for your baby’s gums, which will help him sleep. It helps numb the pain and reduce swelling.Use a cold wet cloth, a chilled spoon, or a chilled teething ring. Gently press the cold object on your baby’s gums. Make sure to do this only before any tooth has broken through the gums. It might chip a tooth otherwise.You can also roll up the cold or frozen rag and let the baby gnaw on it.

Never give your baby a frozen spoons or teething rings. Frozen spoons or teething rings can stick to the gums or be even more painful. Instead, chill them for a short while but remove them before they freeze.Always supervise your baby when he has things in her mouth.
 Chamomile can help bring relief and also has calming properties. You can put chamomile tea into your baby’s bottle or place chamomile flowers in the baby’s juice for a while to let it infuse. Remove the flowers before giving the juice to your baby. Another way to give relief is to place chamomile in ice cubes or in popsicles. Chamomile can help calm your baby enough so he can sleep.


You can also add chamomile tea to the frozen cloth you give your baby to gnaw on.
 Since cold is a great remedy for teething pain, give your baby some cold food right before bed. Try applesauce or yogurt, or even cold cucumbers, grapes, or carrots.The numbed gums and snack will help him fall asleep better and faster.


Just be careful that the baby doesn’t choke on any parts of the vegetables, making sure to only give age-apppropriate food, or putting them in a mesh feeding bag designed for this purpose.
 Pressure can help your baby when teething. Let your baby chew on a clean hard rubber teething ring or a plush teething toy. If he wakes up in the middle of the night, hand him a toy to chew on to relieve the pain so he can get back to bed.


You can chill either the toy or the hard rubber ring in the refrigerator as well., Acetaminophen and ibuprofen can help relieve gum pain and help your baby sleep. Find children's versions of these medications that are appropriate for the age of your child.It takes about thirty minutes for the pain reliever to work, so plan to administer the medicine accordingly.


Either give it to the baby half an hour before bedtime, or try to align a second dose with your nighttime feedings so you don’t have to wake the baby up again.You can give your baby more medication every six hours or so when he seems to be in pain.
Before giving your baby medicine, make sure to contact the doctor he doctor for dosing information. Don't give ibuprofen to babies under 6 months old.
You can also rub topical gel over the baby’s gums. However, avoid all medications with benzocaine in it. It is dangerous to give to children.Instead, find natural topical gels that include ingredients like clove oil instead of benzocaine.