 Many colleges and universities will provide specific prompts for your personal statement. These may take the form of essay prompts, specific questions, or general guidelines. Making sure that you address the prompt is the most important thing to keep in mind while writing a personal statement.Specific essay prompts are common for undergraduate personal statements.Business, law, medical, and graduate school applications may ask specific questions that you must answer.Sometimes, particularly with graduate programs, you will be asked to write a personal statement and a statement of purpose as separate elements of your application. In this case, the personal statement should focus on your personal background and why you are pursuing your program. The statement of purpose should focus on your academic preparation, plans for your program, and your career goals.;
, Most programs will give length restrictions for personal statements.They may range from 250 words to 2 or more pages, but the most important thing is never to send a longer document than requested. Many admissions committees may simply stop reading if an essay or statement rambles on.If you are submitting your personal statement online, you may be restricted to a certain number of characters. You will be unable to submit the application if you exceed this requirement.
 Brainstorm. Make a mind map. Try a freewrite. Explore every possible direction your statement might take.Asking yourself questions will help you explore the topic. For example, in starting a personal statement for a law school, ask yourself: What am I passionate about? What are my personal strengths? What work experience do I bring to this program? What about my life experiences might be relevant and interesting to the program reviewers?
If you can't visit the school, follow their social media feed to get a better idea of the kind of student they seem to focus on. When you're brainstorming, consider the way your own experience and education might interact with the school's focus.
 Strong personal statements often pick a particular moment and use it to set the "scene" for the rest of the statement.Giving a vivid idea of what you felt, thought, and experienced in that moment can help introduce you to your readers.For example, you might begin a personal statement for medical school by talking about a particular moment in which you realized you wanted to be a doctor.
If you are interested in a particular subject, you might start with an anecdote about how you became interested in it, or a particularly exhilarating moment when you got to explore something about your subject.
 The strongest personal statements provide insight into your own life. Basing your statement in your own experience allows the readers to learn more about whether or not you'd be a good fit for their program.Use your opening as a springboard for the rest of your statement.
Think about how your experiences brought you to this application process. What stands out in your memories that the application's readers might want to know?
The best essays share someone's own personal growth, difficulty, strength, or confidence, all of which people experience in very different ways.
Consider the examples here: http://www.cmu.edu/hpp/apply-to-schools/personal-statements/samples.html. Both of these essays, while very different, make a deeply personal connection between the authors' lives and their desire to study in a particular program.
 Readers of applications read hundreds of personal statements every year, and many of these use the same openings. Try for something unexpected or surprising to catch your reader's attention.For example, you could start by describing yourself already working in your desired career. What would you be doing, and why?You may even try an opening that says you have not always wanted to be a doctor/lawyer/professor/etc. This will allow you to show your development over time and could be a more interesting opening for readers., Starting your personal statement by saying something like "I have been interested in archaeology since I participated in an internship program" is vague and general. Instead, try to use concrete, detailed language to give your readers a vivid picture of your thoughts and feelings: "Kneeling in the dirt hunched over a delicate fossil, I realized that even though I was sunburned and aching from the long hours of meticulous labor, this was where I was meant to be."

, Your writing should sound friendly and natural. Keep your wording concise, and avoid using overly complex wording when you can. Avoid unexplained jargon and "SAT" words -- these don't make you look more intelligent, they make it look as though you don't know your audience.If you love the topic you'll be studying, allow this to come through in your writing.
Incorporating quotes can help you articulate your theme. You can use quotes to accentuate your point, add humor, or provide insight. However, avoid relying too much on others' words -- the committee wants to know who you are.
 You may not know what openings are most commonly found on personal statements, but you can easily do an internet search for "personal statements" to get an idea. Reviewers read so many applications that they get bored of reading the same statements over and over again.Common cliches to avoid include things such as "From a young age, I have always been interested in...", "I have always been a...", defining dictionary terms, opening with a quotation, and using sweeping generalizations such as "Humans have always..."Avoid things that are overly general and could apply to anyone, such as "I want to become a physician because I want to help people." This says nothing particular about you., Most applications will also ask for a resume or CV that displays your accomplishments. While you should talk about significant experiences in your development, don't use your personal statement to rehash everything on your resume.Instead, try to pick one or two moments that really stick out to you as influencing your decision to apply to this program.
 You do not know the beliefs and values of the admissions committee reading your personal statement. While you may have strong beliefs about particular things, such as religion or politics, it is best to keep the tone of your personal statement neutral to avoid offending anyone who does not share them.This does not mean you can't mention things like religion if they are important to you. For example, you could say something like "I have honed my leadership skills by serving as a youth counselor for my church." However, you would probably want to avoid things such as "I know that God's plan is for me to cure cancer," since not everyone may believe in this.
Of course, there are always exceptions. For example, if you are writing a personal statement to apply to a seminary program, it would be appropriate to talk about your religious beliefs in detail.
 Many times, simply reading your own words aloud helps you correct mistakes you might have overlooked. You'll be able to notice where you've used words that are grammatically incorrect or overly formal language.Reading out loud will also help you hear sentences that are unclear, confusing or awkward.
If you're using this statement for multiple programs, reread to make sure that your statement is effective for each program. You will probably need to tweak the statement somewhat for each program., The best personal statements have emotional power, as well as practical life application. Read your statement to yourself, and imagine asking the question, "So what?" at the conclusion. If you don't feel you have a clear answer to this question, keep working until you do.The question may lead you into a deeper understanding of the reason you chose the way of writing your personal statement as you did.
Most schools want to know not only about your personal experiences, but how those experiences have changed you as a person.
This information won't be found in the beginning of your personal statement. Once you've completed your personal statement, reread the start. Make sure that start of your statement has a kernel of the way your statement will end.
 The best reader will be someone who knows you well, but who is also able to consider what the school might want to hear. Allow the reader to offer their honest feedback. Her criticism will help you learn, even if you disagree with it.Be specific when asking for feedback. If all you want is someone to check your spelling and grammar, let your reader know this.
Ask your reader to tell you what your central message was in your personal statement. If your reader isn't sure, your statement isn't clear enough.

