 Private insurance for you as an individual, even if you include your spouse and children, will cost more than if you are part of a group plan. You will need to manage the payment of your premiums, unlike when you are part of an employer's plan and can have the costs deducted from your pay.
 Private insurance plans will cover you and any dependants, including children or your spouse.
 This will depend on your age and general health as well as the needs of your dependants.


Look for a comprehensive policy that covers specialists, hospitalization and prescription medication if you have a history of health problems, or you are older but not yet eligible for Medicare.
Find a basic policy that covers your annual physicals and helps to pay for emergencies if you are young and in good health. You can afford less coverage if you do not go to the doctor often, or have medical conditions that require specialists, medications and surgeries.



Pay a lower premium every month or year if you do not mind having higher co-pays and deductibles to meet. This might be best for you if you are in generally good health and do not visit the doctor a lot.
Pay a higher premium to get more coverage and have lower deductibles and co-pays. This might be most cost-efficient for someone who will quickly meet their deductible and needs to visit the doctor a lot.
 Call national carriers such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Humana and United Healthcare, or conduct an Internet search on a site such as ehealthinsurance.com.


Choose a plan that will allow you to keep your doctors, if that is important to you. Most private insurance plans include the same doctors as group health plans. A Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) will only cover a certain network of providers.
Check the coverage provided by the plans you consider. Some plans will charge more if specialists or emergency care are needed. Some plans will include prescriptions and X-rays, and others will not.
Anticipate your total costs. Include the premium, deductibles and co-pays. Try an online calculator on sites such as Money-Zine.com to determine how much each plan will cost. The calculator will compare plans for you.
Talk to customer service representatives. Most private insurance carriers offer several different plans. Talk to an associate about your needs and budget to get some help in choosing the right plan.
 Health insurance is not guaranteed. You will need to answer questions about your medical history and lifestyle before you are approved.


Answer any questions you are asked by a medical examiner or underwriter. You can no longer be excluded from getting insurance due to pre-existing conditions, but there may be other exclusions attached to your policy.
 Ask any questions you may have about what is covered and excluded, what the costs are and how you are expected to go about seeking medical care.

