 The circles can be any size you want, but something around 1½ to 2 inches (3.81 to 5.08 centimeters) would be ideal. Book pages, origami paper, tissue paper, and wrapping paper are all great options. Some scrapbooking paper may also work. Avoid using cardstock, as it is too thick.You can use the same color of paper for all of the circles, or experiment with using different colors.For a more interesting ornament, consider using double-sided paper.;
, If you are using double-sided paper, make sure you are folding them all the same way. The pattern on side A should be on the inside, and the pattern on side B should be on the outside.
 Make sure that the creases are all nestled inside each other. If you are using double-sided paper, make sure that the same design is facing upwards.If you are using two or more different colors, start with your first color, then stack the rest in groups of two. For example: Red, green, green, gold, gold, red., If you don't have access to a sewing machine, you can tie thread around the middle, using the crease as a guide. Leave the tail ends long, as you will be using them to make the loop.


Consider using gold or silver thread for this. You will be using the tail ends to make a loop so that you can hang your ornament.
 The loop needs to be big enough to fit over a branch on your Christmas tree. You can also tie the tail ends around a small jump ring, then trim them off; make sure that the jump ring is flush with the top of the stack. This way, you can slip an ornament hook through the jump ring.
 Set the stack down on the table. Place a glue dot along the right edge of the circle, one-third of the way from the top. Place another glue dot one third from the bottom.Use permanent glue dots; the stronger the hold, the better.If you don't have any glue dots, you can use a small dot of liquid glue.Use paper clips to hold the paper together while the glue dries.
 Use the crease you made as a guide. Once you have the paper folded, run your finger along the edges to seal the glue dots.
 This time, place the glue dot right at the halfway point. It should be right between the first two glue dots., Alternate between using two glue dots and one glue dot. When you reach the end, flip the stack over, and do the other side.
 When you get to the end, seal the final two pieces of paper using one or two glue dots (depending which you are on). This pulls the paper into a sphere shape. You may have to slip your finger into the slots to help them open up., If you added a jump ring, slip an ornament hook through the jump ring, then hang the ornament.

