 Is it metal? which involves intense guitars, drums and loud vocals? Mainstream, radio friendly rock? or even classic rock? Your behavior depends on what kind of concert it is.;
, Now, I know what you're thinking. What if I don't know the words to every song? It's perfectly alright to not know every word. But try to know the majority. To do this, do some research on the band playing months ahead. Look up the lyrics. Buy the CD and listen to it a lot. Then when you go to the concert, you'll be able to scream/sing along with everyone else.
 Wear old clothing. Old jeans and shirt. Band tees are good, too, but don't wear a tee for a band the total opposite of the one playing. For example, do not wear a Jonas Brothers tee shirt to a Bullet for my Valentine concert and vice versa. Do not wear anything that you don't want to get dirty. Bad idea. So, new, expensive and valuable clothes are out.You may get dirty at concerts.
 A mosh pit is a section, usually near the front of the stage, where people can vent their adrenaline to the music, which usually involves colliding with other people. It may get violent at times, and it's best you stay out in order to prevent serious injuries. Also, mosh pits don't happen at every concert. For example, there wouldn't be a mosh pit at a Jonas Brothers' concert (except maybe a pushy little girl or two). There will be moshing at heavy metal bands and especially at death metal band concerts.
 Don't go alone. You need to be able to laugh and sing and dance with people you know and love. The more people you bring, the better. Then you can surround yourself with people that you know and you'll worry less about being with a crowd. Make sure you know where your group is and try to stay with and close to them all times.
 About an hour or two before the concert, prepare. Take a hot shower. Watch TV. Relax. Read a book. Do not listen to any music or anything too loud. Just sit and relax. Get a back massage from a friend or family member. I also suggest taking a nap; that will refresh you.
 You and everyone else went to this concert to have a good time. Get in there, Move to the music and let yourself go!

