 If you want to give your pet to a shelter, research the right one for your dog. Most shelters are overrun with pets, which means that they have no room for new pets. Make sure the shelter you are looking into has a no-kill policy. Shelters that have kill policies typically can only give new pets seven days to find a new home before they are killed.


There are other shelters that have a policy where every dog over four years old will be killed.;
, Most rescue organizations have a list of requirements that have to be met before they can accept a dog. This includes making sure you dog has certain vaccinations. Many organizations also require your dog to be fixed.


If your dog has not been fixed, there are some charities or animal organizations that may be able to help or offer low cost options.You should also ask your vet for a copy of your dog's medical history. This will give the rescue organization a full background on your dog. Even if your dog is and has always been healthy, any potential new owner will need to see that your dog is up to date on his shots., If the dog you can no longer handle is a purebred, you may want to look into a breeder that is specific for that breed. You can go back to the breeder that you bought the dog from or ask your vet about other breeders in the area for that kind of dog.


You may also be able to look specifically for a breeder rescue society. These societies help arrange foster homes for specific pedigreed dogs and typically have a higher success rate than normal shelters., If you got your dog from a shelter to begin with, you may be able to return your dog to that shelter. Sometimes this is written into the shelter contract when you get the dog originally. Look back at the paperwork you have on them or call the shelter to ask., If you cannot keep the dog and have no other options, do not dump your dogs on the side of the road. This is not good for your dog or the animal population. Also never dump your dog at a shelter either. Just call the shelter and explain your circumstances. They may take him in if you explain your circumstances.


Some shelters do charge fees to take ward the dogs., If you are looking into giving away your dog to a good home, make sure you know the person you are giving your dog to. Instead of giving him away on the side of the road, try to give the dog to someone you know or a friend of a friend that you know will give him a good home.


You don't know the intention of some of the people who may be adopting a dog off the side of the road. The new people may want your dog for dog fighting or some other bad purpose.
 Once you have decided a shelter to surrender your dog to, you need to find out if you need to fill out any necessary paperwork required by the shelter. These forms act as the official surrender documentation that legitimizes the ownership transfer process. You may also have to pay a fee to help with housing and rehoming costs. Once the forms are filled out and you have the fees, you should take your dog to the shelter and hand it all over.


The forms are also used by the shelter or rescue to get to know your dog, so they can provide the best care while he is there as well as help find him a good home.Breeders may have a similar form or paperwork that is required for official surrender. Ask whatever facility you found to surrender your dog about their specific requirements.

