 A portable browser does not need to be installed to run, meaning that it won't leave any traces on the computer you use it on. By downloading a portable browser to a flash drive and configuring its proxy settings, you can have a browser that you can take with you anywhere to bypass any web restrictions. Firefox is the easiest portable browser to use. Make sure that you download the portable version.


If you're setting this up to use at school or work, download and configure the browser on your home computer first.
Firefox Portable can be downloaded from portableApps.com;
, When you download Firefox Portable from PortableApps, you will be given a setup file. Run this setup file, and set the installation directory to your flash drive. The browser will be installed directly onto your flash drive., A "proxy" is a server that you route all of your internet traffic through, allowing you to bypass restrictions. Proxy servers are located all over the globe, making them useful for people all over. In order to get your portable Firefox to connect to blocked sites, you will need to configure it with proxy settings first. Since you typically can't change proxy settings on work or school computers, this is where the portable app shines.


You will need a working proxy server to enter into Firefox Portable. You can find lists of servers online. Popular proxy lists include HideMyAss, SamAir, inCloak, and FreeProxyLists.
Make note of both the proxy address as well as the port. Try to find a proxy with a high connection speed and relatively close server, or web browsing will be very slow.
Open Firefox Portable, click the Menu button in the upper-right corner and select Options. Click the Advanced menu, and then click the Network tab. Click the Settings... button to open your proxy settings. Select "Manual proxy configuration", and then enter in the proxy information that you found. Check the "Use this proxy server for all protocols" box, and ensure that the right Port has been entered.
 Once your proxy information is saved, you can start using your new portable browser. Plug the USB drive into the computer at your school or work and open the Firefox Portable program. Firefox will connect to the internet through your proxy, bypassing the blocking software.


Browsing through a proxy will usually be slower than normal browsing. Not all content may be displayed correctly.
You don't need to worry about clearing the history or deleting your tracks, as everything is stored in your portable browser.
Free proxy servers on proxy lists change often, and you may find that your proxy settings no longer work. You will need to change them from time to time.

