 You will want them to be located as close to you as possible so that gas is not an issue. Look at their website and pick the ones that fit your "style", the ones that stand out to you and excite you about what your gallery will look like. Make a list of the ones you love and call them. Talk about what you want, your budget, and if they are available.


Let the photographers that you think might work know you will get back to them shortly. If you really like them, don't wait too long. If they take it offensively that you do not want to book right now, write them off.They don't care about what you want, they only care about the money. Cross off the photographers you can't afford, are booked, or you just didn't click with. Start a fresh new list.;
, Now, look up photographer meet-ups in your area, or places they go to show off their work. Make them laugh, make them like you, show them a good time. People, especially photographers, like people who admire their work as well as a good laugh and conversation. Bring up your wedding. From there you will have quite a few interested in doing the wedding for you.


Let them know your price range. By the end of the night you will have plenty more photographers to choose from on your list. Put them in order from least expensive to most and then do more research on their galleries. Now it is time to downsize the list, but try keeping the ones you take off on a separate back-up list just in time. You also want quality over price. It is very cool when you find a photographer that has both, but it is very hard, depending on where you live.
 If you know any photographers that are just starting out, they would probably do a mock wedding to see if they could produce the quality of photos that you want. Make sure there are enough distractions there so you know they can work under pressure. If it doesn't work out, at least you had fun and have a few fun photos to show off. If you do not know any amateur photographers, try Craigslist, but be very selective and make sure they know what they are doing.
 What do you do for a living? Some photographers are willing to trade services. Ask around. The worst that can happen is no one is interested at the moment.
 You could even lower the fee for those with low income.
 If it is alluring enough, you might just get a few photographers offering their services just to get their name out there and make a few more clients in the process. Let them know they can advertise their services in some way at the wedding. It might seem like an inconvenience, but if you want quality photos that you cannot afford you might want to think about making a few sacrifices.

