 If your dog barks when the phone rings or when you pick up the phone, make fake phone calls to train your dog not to bark. Start by teaching your dog commands like ”Quiet,” ”Sit,” “Wait,” or “Down.” This begins the process of getting your dog to obey commands.After you teach your dog those commands, go to pick up the phone. Pretend to answer and talk on it. If your dog starts barking, use the commands to get them to top.
Have someone in your house or a friend call you so your dog can hear the telephone ring. When the dog starts barking, use the commands. Keep making the phone ring until your dog has learned to obey the commands while the phone rings.
You will probably have to repeat this until your dog learns to obey the commands while they are near the phone.
 To help get your dog to stop barking at the phone, you can teach your dog the command, “Quiet.” When your dog starts barking at the phone, say in a calm but firm voice, “Quiet.” Patiently wait until the dog stops barking, then give them a treat. This will eventually train your dog to know that “quiet” means to stop barking and they will get a treat.Never give your dog a treat when they are barking.
You can try clicker training your dog.
 When your dog barks at the phone, correct the behavior. You can use a sound, a look, or a physical reinforcement to correct the behavior. Make sure that you don’t leave your dog until the dog has stopped barking. Stand there for a few minutes, ready to correct the dog when they more than likely bark again.If you correct your dog once, then leave before they have stopped barking, you are not teaching them anything. Correcting them each time they bark in the same situation helps reinforce the behavior.
 Once your dog has learned not to bark at the phone, you should reward them with a treat. You can give them treats while you are talking on the phone to reinforce the good behavior.Make sure not to give treats or special attention to the dog if they start barking again. You don’t want to reinforce bad behavior.

