 You may run into your neighbor on the street by her home or pass her when she is sitting on her porch or in her garden. Be friendly, smile, and greet her to let her know you are interested in making a connection.When you say “hello” to your neighbor, you should project open body language. This means maintaining eye contact with your neighbor and positioning your body to face your neighbor. You may also raise your arm in a friendly wave and smile at her to show her you are being friendly and open.;
, You should follow up your friendly “hello” with a friendly question about your neighbor's day or how he is feeling. You may say, “How are you doing today?” or “How was your day today?” Asking this opening question could encourage your neighbor to chat with you and share more about himself.Your neighbor may also respond with, "My day has been great, thanks. How was yours?" You should reply with a few details to keep the conversation going. For example, you may share a funny moment from your day, and say, "Eventful! A funny thing happened on the way to work today..." Or you may share a light hearted event that happened to you and say, "I actually ran into an old friend on the train and we had a chance to catch up. It was great!"

, Your elderly neighbor may have an interesting life history or have first hand experience with a past you were not alive to see. You should show genuine interest in what your neighbor has to share and be a good listener when she speaks to you. Show respect and interest for your neighbor, as this will likely encourage your neighbor to keep chatting with you.You can show your genuine interest by asking your neighbor follow up questions that are thoughtful and specific. For example, if your neighbor is telling you about her childhood in Italy, you may ask, “Where did you live exactly in Italy?” or “Why did your family move to the U.S.?”
You can also show interest in hobbies or skills that your neighbor seems to do often. For example, if your neighbor is interested in WWII history, you may ask questions about her knowledge. You may ask, “What is your favorite WWII battle?” or “How do you know so much about WWII?”

, You can also form a bond with your elderly neighbor by doing kind things for him and offering practical help. Pay your neighbor a visit that is friendly and useful for him by stopping by and offering to do things for him around the yard or the house. Offering your help can show your neighbor that you can be a useful friend to him and a good support in the neighborhood.For example, you may notice that your neighbor’s lawn is looking overgrown. You may knock on his door and introduce yourself. Then, you may offer to mow his lawn on the weekend or help him deal with the weeds in his garden. You may say, “I noticed your lawn needs a trim. I could come by on the weekend and do that for you, if you’d like.”
You may offer to get groceries for your neighbor or help him clean out his garage if he seems to need assistance. You may also offer to pick up your elderly neighbor’s prescriptions at the pharmacist, especially if he appears to have a hard time getting around or if he does not drive.
 Pop by your neighbor's with food you think she might like or leave a covered plate of food at her door for when she gets home. You may prepare homemade food and wrap it up on a plate to deliver to your neighbor or you may buy food from the store and decide to share it with your neighbor. Appearing at her door with a small gift, like food, can really brighten your neighbor’s day and allow you to introduce yourself.You may also bring over items that you have discussed with your neighbor before and think she might enjoy. Maybe you mentioned that you do watercolors and decide to bring over one to share with your neighbor. Or maybe you discussed your love of humor with your neighbor and decide to stop by with a funny cartoon or image you found.
 If your neighbor has grandchildren and you have kids, try talking to him to arrange a playdate for the kids. Or, you may not have to arrange anything — if your neighbor's grandkids are playing outside and your kids are, too, it's makes a good opportunity for you to walk over and strike up a conversation with your neighbor.


Similarly, if you and your neighbor both have dogs, you may get to know him by walking your dog at the same time. This may happen spontaneously, or you may want to knock on your neighbor's dog next time you take your dog out and ask if he'd like to join you.
 You can also make an effort to include your neighbor in events happening in your community so she feels more connected and in touch with what’s going on. You may invite the neighbor to a neighborhood block party or make sure you include her in a neighborhood garage sale. Try to get your neighbor to participate in community events with you so you have something to do together that is productive and engaging.You may also decide to start your own community event with the elderly neighbor in mind. Maybe you and your neighbor decide to start a community bingo night so younger people and elderly people can interact. Or maybe you create your own trivia night at the community center, with the elderly in your neighborhood in mind.
 You should make an effort to interact with your neighbor on a consistent basis, even if it is a quick “hello.” This will help to maintain your friendship with your neighbor and keep the interaction between the two of you friendly.You may also try to plan your interaction with your neighbor for when you know he will be home. You may pause to say “hi” as you get in your car for work or make sure you chat with your neighbor briefly when you get home.
 You should also get the habit of checking in with your elderly neighbor, especially if you have not seen her in a few days. Make an effort to check in on your neighbor to let her know you are around for support and friendship. If you know your neighbor lives alone, you should make sure you check in on her often to confirm she is doing okay on her own. You may give her a quick call on the phone or stop by for a quick visit to make sure she is doing well.Once you become friendly with your neighbor, you may ask for an emergency contact for her, such as a family member or close friend, in the event of an issue. This way, you will know who to call if your neighbor has a medical issue or problem.
 You can maintain your friendship with your neighbor by scheduling in weekly visits with him. This will allow you to stay connected with him and stay in touch on a weekly basis. Having a set day for hanging out with him will ensure you and your neighbor both make time for a visit.If you are not able to make your scheduled visit for whatever reason, you should show your neighbor the courtesy of letting him know in advance that you cannot make it this week. Elderly people tend to take appointments and scheduled meetings seriously and you do not want to appear impolite by canceling last minute or with no notice.

