 When an animal is dehydrated, her skin loses its elasticity. You can check to see if your cat is dehydrated by lifting the scruff off of her shoulders with your finger and thumb. If:


The skin flops back into position immediately, your cat is hydrated.
The skin remains peaked and slowly slides back down out of its tent-like position, your cat is dehydrated.;
, Provide clean fresh drinking water within reach of your cat’s bed.


When they are ill, some cats prefer the taste of mineral water to tap water (because it has less chlorine in it and cats dislike the taste of chlorine), and will sip on mineral water even if they refuse tap water, so consider trying to give your cat different kinds of water.
 These solutions include Diarolyte or Pedialyte, which are made for humans but can be given to cats. These solutions are mixed with water (normally 500 ml, but read the package) and are used to replenish lots electrolytes.


Some cats don’t like the salty taste of these solutions. If this is the case with your cat, switch her back to water.
 If your cat is having a hard time drinking, and you happen to have a sterilized syringe at your house, give your cat water via syringe. Place the nozzle of the syringe behind your cat’s canine teeth. Press the plunger down slowly in order to give your cat time to swallow.


An average sized cat, weighing between three to five kg, requires 180 to 300 ml of water a day to meet maintenance needs. Try giving your cat 5 to 10 ml of water every half an hour., For a cat with gastroenteritis, dehydration is a sign that fluid loss exceeds fluid gain and it is essential to redress this balance. If your cat vomits each time she drinks, or is unable to hold fluid down, then do not delay and seek urgent veterinary attention.


A veterinarian will make a judgment call as to whether intravenous fluids need to be given to your cat based on your cat's demeanor (how alert or lethargic she is), how long she has been vomiting and expelling diarrhea, and the degree of dehydration. Intravenous fluids are given via a catheter which is placed in the vein in your cat's front leg. It can take between 24 and 48 hours to rehydrate your cat.

