 Have you done things to cause your parents to feel uncomfortable or annoyed around you? For example, lacking manners, snapping at your parents and hassling them out a lot can lead to being ignored or treated differently at times.;
, Indeed, simply changing how you act toward your parents may be sufficient to get you the attention you deserve, and to restore the sought after balance between you and your sibling. For example:


Ask your parents questions starting with "May I?" rather than "Can I?"
Always say "please" and "thank you".
Never be rude. This means, always use your manners, never hit or kick others, communicate in a calm and constructive ways, etc.
 If you change too quickly, your parent will think that something is wrong or that you're after something more than behavioral change. Don't be a goodie-two-shoes overnight. In short, become an individual that deserves good notice but slowly doing things nicely and calmly around the house.
 Your sibling can't have the attention forever. Find a time when your parents aren't with your sibling. Get them together in a room when everyone is calm and ready to listen.
 Begin with some compliments, such as: "Your hair looks nice today, Mom!" You could also share good news about what's happening to your life.
 Be sure to confess you feel jealous and feel neglected.


You could say something like: "Mom (or Dad), I think you have been paying too much attention to X and that it is very unfair. I would appreciate it if you show me as much attention as you give my brother/sister".
Explain to your parents how you feel about your siblings.
Tell your parents why you have the impression that they don't love you as mush as they love your sibling. Always state things from your position, so that they can see how you're feeling. Do not blame them or tell them off; it's possible that they don't even realize what they're doing to you.
 They just want to have a little time with the younger kids, maybe because you've grown up and they feel like they don't know how to talk to you.
 Talk with them about your daily activities (at school/during a visit to somewhere/about your school, friends etc). This will give them cause to believe you and you can gain their trust.

