 Find a quiet place where you won't be disturbed, such as your bedroom. Turn off any electronic devices that may distract you, such as the television, phone, or computer. Turning off the lights and shutting your blinds will also help.
 Candles are a great way to focus your attention during meditation. If you have created an angel altar, then you can light the candle on your altar. If you do not have an angel altar, then you can just light a candle and place it on a table in front of you.


If you do not want to light a candle, then you can also use a rosary to help focus your attention or listen to some repetitive nature sounds, such as ocean waves or rain sounds., Meditation requires you to be still for a long time, so make sure that you are comfortable. For example, you may want to sit on a cushion. You can even lie down to meditate, as long as you're sure you won't fall asleep., Close your eyes or watch your candle. Try not to think of anything, not even your guardian angel for a few minutes. Focus on keeping your breath steady and slow.If you notice that you have started thinking about something, then take a moment to acknowledge the thought and then refocus on your breathing.
 In your mind, say "hello" to your angel. Thank your angel for watching over you. Then, let your angel know about any problems that are bothering you and ask your angel for guidance.


If you have learned or prepared a prayer, then take a moment to recite the prayer. You can do this in your head or say the prayer out loud.
 Any sign that your angel is there will most likely be subtle. For example, you may hear a faint noise, see a fleeting image in your mind's eye, notice a sensation of warmth, or get the feeling that someone is in the empty room with you.


Some people believe that angels cannot interfere in our lives without being directly asked to. If you're not sure your angel is there, try asking your angel to let you know someone is there.
 When you have finished speaking with your angel, say goodbye. You may want to end your meditation with a prayer as well. If your eyes were closed, open them. Then, sit quietly for a minute or two as you let your mind go back to normal.
 Keep in mind that meditation is a difficult skill to master. You probably won't get it right on your first attempt and that is okay. Just keep practicing your meditation and it will become easier.


Remember that it is fine to start with just a few minutes of meditation per day and work up to longer periods of meditation as you become more comfortable.

