 Possibly, these readers of your blog are all your supporters. The more your blog readers are, the more it shows that you have nailed down a valuable topic. This helps you find your position correctly and make improvement and adjustment. But it’s just the beginning.;
, It is a similar way as you did in Yahoo Answer. Here “Large” is an ideal and expected state. Actually, it is very hard for a blog beginner or newbie to have a large blog, i.e., a personal blog community with considerable readers and commenters. But it is deadly possible to get more followers and commentaries on your blog if you make a large number of small or middle-sized blogs. In most cases, the blog owners who have received positive comments from you will make good comments on your blog as reciprocity. In this way, you can reap what you have sown easily.
 They always hold the same views and the same purpose with you. Make comments on other freshman's blog and you are supposed to get more comments in return. You can help each other and get mutual benefits.
 Pay attention to the regular blog viewers and the blog visitors who leave comments on your blog repeatedly. They are loyal followers of your blog or the ones attempting to make a name through your niche. Whatever the intentions are, they want to share feelings and interact with you. What you have to do is to create a conversation by answering their comments or even through Email. In this way, you can get more valuable blog comments to make your blog circle larger.
 Also, there is some other way to make your blog followers or subscribers to comment more willingly - offer your blog viewers with really good things such as some useful software. But this way of winning more comments for your blogs should surely be based on the premise that your blog readers would not feel being asked too much. This is the pre-condition to ensure that they will share their feelings gratefully. So you'd better provide this software copies to them free without excessive requirement.

