 Mosquitoes are attracted to sweat and the natural bacteria that congregate on your skin. Keeping yourself covered in long sleeves, pants, and shoes will reduce mosquito attraction and also make it harder for them to bite you.Many outdoor superstores carry lightweight outerwear, so that wearing long layers is still cool and comfortable even in extremely warm temperatures.
Choose light-colored clothes, like whites, tans, and pastels. Mosquitoes are attracted to dark colors, like black and navy.;
, Sprays and lotions that contain DEET are highly effective for warding off mosquitoes while you enjoy the outdoors. DEET is safe when used as directed and can be used on kids as young as 2 months, but be sure to read safety and application instructions before applying.Eucalyptus, lemon essential oil, and picaridin are also effective ingredients in mosquito repellents.All lotions and sprays eventually wear off, so be sure to follow application instructions.
If you prefer to use a natural homemade repellent, combine 2 ounces of witch hazel and 2 ounces of distilled water in a spray bottle and add a total of 40 to 50 drops of essential oil, like citronella, eucalyptus, and lemon essential oils (you can choose your own combination). You'll want to use half the amount of drops if you're applying the repellent to children under 3 years old., Geraniol candles are 5 times more effective than citronella in repelling mosquitoes, so it’s best to buy those candles, though not everyone finds the smell as pleasant as citronella candles.Although citronella is not particularly effective in repelling mosquitoes, the smoke from the burning candle does help confuse them, which prevents them from biting you., If you’re hosting a garden party or hoping to lay in your hammock for a leisurely nap, consider moving inside a tent or under mosquito netting.


Tents and netting won’t necessarily keep mosquitoes far away, but they will keep them off of your skin, provided that you keep tent flaps and doors tightly closed and allow the netting to drape on the ground and make a seal against the intruders.
 Mosquitoes are not strong fliers, so electric fans strategically placed around you or your deck make it increasingly difficult for the pesky insects to reach you and bite. Mosquitoes are also highly attracted to the CO2 humans expel, and the fans help dissipate that, as well., These areas are where mosquitoes are most likely to live and breed, so by staying away from these areas, you are less likely to attract mosquitoes and get bitten.
 Mosquitoes are most active at night, beginning around dusk. If you head inside at night and wait until the next morning to resume your outdoor activities, you are less likely to get bitten.

