 When you have RA it may be difficult to get in and out of your home easily. Maybe you have a lot of stairs that you have difficulty walking up and down. Maybe you just have a few stairs but no railing to help keep you stable while you walk up them. Whatever the issue, find a way to eliminate or minimize it.


In cases of severe RA, you may become unable to walk on your own. If this is the case, you will need to install a wheelchair ramp if there are steps up to your home.
For example, the bathroom may become slippery, and it may be difficult for you to navigate in and out of the shower without risking a fall. Try installing grab bars near the shower, bath, and toilet as well as any other place where you feel insecure.;
, If you have RA, it can be hard for you to bend down or reach high places. If this is the case, you should organize the things that you use often so that they are within arms reach. This may take some time to do, as it will require you to reorganize many items in your home.One room in the house where this can be especially helpful, but the organization can be difficult, is the kitchen. Place items that you use daily, such as condiments, tools, and dishes, on your counters or in upper drawers. Also, place refrigerated items that you use most often on the upper shelves of your refrigerator.
When planning your organization, consider what your needs are during the times when you are feeling the worst, not for when you are feeling the best. When you are feeling the worst, these changes and modifications will help the most.
 If you have items in your home that you need to move on a regular basis but they are heavy, put them on wheels. Adding wheels to things like furniture will help you to move them to clean under them or rearrange them.If you have groups of things, like craft project supplies, that need to be moved around when you are not using them, consider storing them in a lightweight rolling suitcase. This will allow you to move them more easily.
 It can be hard for those with RA to move on and off of furniture that is low to the ground. With this in mind, lift low furniture up with the use of furniture leg extensions or specialized products.One specialized product that can raise up a low surface is a raised toilet seat.
You can also use furniture leg risers to lift up other furniture, such as your couch, chairs, and bed.
You might consider installing taller kitchen counters to help.
 If you need to make a lot of changes to your home, you should get help in doing it from your support system. That support system may include both family and friends, as well as paid caregivers.


It can be hard to ask for help, especially if you are used to being self-sufficient. However, you need to remember that those that love and care for you will be willing to help you in your time of need and that it is only pride that will keep you from getting the assistance you need.
 You may be able to receive a grant to help fund any renovations that you do. Some of these grants are offered by government programs while others may be given by non-profit organizations.You might consult the National Directory of Home Modification Resources to find grants and other resources that you qualify for.
If you rent your home, your landlord must provide reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act.