 You should always start by wearing clothes that fit. Clothes that are too small or too big will both make you look fatter than you are. Clothes should not be tight because this creates and emphasizes the appearance of fat rolls. Clothes should also not be too loose, because the added bulk and hiding of your form will only make it look like you're got more under there than you do. Instead, just wear clothes that fit: your clothes should lightly hug your form without squeezing.


This goes for underclothes too. You want to wear underwear and bras that fit. Many women, for example, wear a bra that is the wrong size. Underwear should not bite into your hips and bras should keep your chest supported and firmly in place without creating rolls at your sides or causing your breasts to spill out over the edge of your bra.;
, An easy clothing fix to make you look instantly thinner is to draw attention to your natural waist.This is the part of your waist that is thinnest. Choose fitted shirts that nip in at the waist and styles that include belts, patterns, texture or stitching that draws in your eye at the waist.


Shirts, for example, that have gathers and twisted material that swoops in at the waist can make you look smaller.
 You can make your waist look even smaller by emphasizing the size of your chest and hips. Wear shirts, skirts and dresses that flare out at the hips (if you're a guy, try wearing your shirt untucked, when you can). You'll also want to wear tops that make your chest look bigger. Women can wear shirts with ruffles or a cowl neck in the front, for example.
 You can create a lot of illusions regarding your size by tailoring where you're visually cut off. The hem line of skirts, jackets, shirts, and other pieces of clothing can all change how you look. Generally, you want crisp lines at your hips or chest and waist, and keep cut-off lines and outlines as close to those spots as possible.


For example, you'll want to avoid the clichéd "tourist" clothes, since most of these add bulk and bad lines: capris, calf-length skirts, and long, baggy shortswill do you no favors.
Straight leg, boot-cut jeans are the best choice for creating good lines. Women can also wear A-line skirts that hit at the knee or just above.
 You can also carefully choose accessories that get the look you want. Certain accessories will change how a persons eye moves around your body, creating the illusion that you are taller and thinner than you really are. Long necklaces will easily create a long, slim look, for example. Bold accessories, like large, brightly colored bracelets will draw attention to your slim wrists, making your whole body smaller by comparison.Earrings and headbands also make great distractions, drawing attention away from parts of your figure that you don't like. These are especially useful if you feel like your head looks small when compared to the rest of your body.
 You can use colors and patterns to create a slimmer look as well. Of course, the standard advice is the truest: wear black. Black is your friend. Black, and other dark colors, reduce the amount of shadows that can be seen on your body. This creates an optical illusion that makes you look thinner. Pair with bright accents and accessories at your waist, wrists, neck, and feet. This will make you look thinner. There are also a few pattern choices you will want to make:


Wear vertical stripes. Thin, vertical stripes will create a visual illusion which makes you look thinner and taller (making the two sides of your body appear to be closer together).
Avoid big patterns (and most other patterns really), as these can easily make you look bigger instead of smaller. Finding patterns that don't make you bigger is challenging, so err on the side of none at all.
 You'll want to avoid clothes that add bulk in the wrong places. Clothes that don't fit will obviously do this, but there are certain clothing styles that will also make you look bigger. Empire waist tops, for example, will make your waist look bigger and for many women will actually make them look pregnant. Thick sweaters are another example of clothes that add inches visually, distracting from a smaller form.
 You can actually make yourself look much slimmer by wearing underclothes called shapewear. These may be known colloquially as Spanx, which is a common brand. These are shirts, shorts, or bodysuits which are may of elastic fibers that hold in your body in key locations. You can get them to deal with or enhance all sorts of different parts of your body. While they are tight and often uncomfortable, they will work amazingly well. You can find them at most department stores, as well as online stores like Amazon.


You can also find these shapewear items for men, usually for the chest but also for the lower body as well.
 Standing with proper posture will pull in your tummy and make you look easily 10 pounds lighter or more. Keep your back straight and your shoulders back. Sometimes this can be very uncomfortable, if you're used to standing with poor posture, but it can make a huge difference visually.


Sleeping flat on your back can help you keep a straighter back during the day.
You can find more help with improving your posture here.
 When you wear heels, your posture naturally changes, rotating your hips to tuck in your bottom and helping to keep your back and shoulders straight. It will also lengthen your legs, making you look proportionally thinner by comparison. If you're a woman, wear high heels when you can to look thinner. If you're a guy, many dress shoes will have a bit of a heel, and you can get a minor version of the same benefits.
 You'll want to hold your head high, in addition to standing straight. This will keep fat from pooling around your chin (instead stretching it out across your face), making you look thinner overall. Chin rolls can make even a thin person look like they're carry more pounds than they really are.
 Take a page from fashion models and carefully angle your arms and legs to create a slimmer appearance. Crossing your legs, for example, when you're sitting down will taper the visual lines you create, making you look slimmer. Holding your arms out from your body, like with your hands on your hips, will also draw the eye to your thinner waist and break up a boxy shape that can add visual pounds to your frame.
 If you're wanting to take photographs, there are other things that you can do to combat the camera adding those dreaded pounds. Choosing a better angle, such as from above you, will make you look slimmer by cutting off how much of your body is visible. You'll also want to adjust the lighting of your photograph. Avoid setting up the photo in a way that leads to dark shadows around bulges. You might want to experiment with taking the photo from different locations if you don't know how to adjust the lighting, so that you can choose the best photos later.


Avoid taking photos from too high above you, however. This will give the clear "selfie" look and people will think you're trying too hard.
 You can also make your body actually thinner by avoiding salty foods. When you have too much salt in your body, your body will try to compensate by retaining more water. This will make you look bloated and chubbier, even if you're actually pretty thin. Of course, this is something that needs to be done in advance, since it will take a few days for your body to return to normal.


Foods to avoid include cured meats, bacon, chips, soup broth, and lots of restaurant and fast food.
 There are also some foods which create gas as they break down in your system, making you bloated and adding the appearance of extra pounds. Avoid these foods in order to make yourself look actually slimmer.


Bloating foods include beans, lentils, garlic, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and other foods.

