 Some behaviors put you at a higher risk for an HPV infection. Ask yourself the following questions since your doctor will most likely ask the same questions when you go in for testing:How many sexual partners do you have? The more partners, the more likely you can acquire the virus.
Do you use condoms? This barrier helps reduce sexually transmitted diseases, including HPV.
How old are you? Genital warts have a prevalence with adolescents, teenagers, and young adults.
Do you have a severe infection or cancer, or are you taking drugs that damage your immune system? Infections such as HIV/AIDS reduce the body's ability to fight infections. Blood cancers such as leukemia alter our immune cells and cause them to be dysfunctional. Drugs such as steroids reduce our immune system over time.
Did you notice any skin damage to your genitals? Breaks in your skins such as cuts give the virus an opportunity to enter your body.
Do you have an uncircumcised penis? Men who have not had their foreskin of the penis removed are more likely to acquire HPV and pass it along to their partners.;
, You may confuse warts for other conditions. It is best to schedule an appointment with your doctor for proper diagnosis. Look for the following characteristics to help you distinguish at home.


HPV warts are flesh-colored lesions. Redder, fluid-filled blisters are more likely genital herpes.
HPV warts are not fluid-filled and do not burst open. Genital herpes blisters are painful and can open—forming a sore—and spill fluid before healing. An ulcer (open skin lesion) on your penis can also signify the first stage of syphilis. Lesions caused by syphilis are usually painless;
Though not always painless, pain and itchiness is more associated with herpes and genital warts.
Other symptoms—including a red rash on the palms and soles, white patches in the mouth and genitals, fever, hair loss, and sore throat—in addition to genital warts may be secondary stage syphilis.
Multiple small bumps circumferentially around the base of tip of the penis that are either flesh colored, red, yellow, pink, or translucent could be a condition known as pearly penile papules and are completely harmless. This is considered a normal variant of penile skin and is not contagious.HPV warts are not dimpled. A dimple on the top of the wart can indicate a viral infection known as mulluscum contagiosum. Mulluscum can be a sign of HIV infection as well.
 Ultimately, a visit to your doctor is the best way to identify potential HPV warts. Your doctor will also help to determine the best treatment option. Usually HPV warts clear up within a few months and about 90% within two years without any treatment.Sometimes a doctor will not provide treatment except to wait see if the warts regress or if you develop more bothersome symptoms. If you decide not to visit the doctor, observe the warts for:


Increase in size
Increase in number
Developing more in new places on your body
Developing more specific symptoms such as itchiness, pain, bleeding from the wart, hair loss, fever, white patches on mouth or genital area, sore throat, and an ulcer on the penis. As previously mentioned syphilis can cause warts and early detection and treatment with antibiotics is warranted. Syphilis can eventually lead to neurological problems over time if left untreated.
Age & cancer — HPV is responsible for approximately 63% of penile cancer in the USA. The median age of diagnosis is 68 years old but can be as early as in your 30s.If you observe other symptoms such as fatigue, weight loss, blood from your penis, lumps on your penis, velvety rash, hardened penile skin, and smelly discharge, then a visit to the doctor is urgent.