 You can make use of apps that can be used to make it appear as if you are receiving a phone call. Browse the app store on your iPhone, Blackberry, Android or other smartphone device by using a search term such as "fake call." There will be options on the app store that are offered for free or can be purchased. Be sure to read reviews to determine what features will suit your needs best as the features will vary between apps.


You may also find apps that generate prank calls by offering specific personalities such as celebrities, characters or even a significant other. These may not provide the same versatility as general apps, but may be useful for themed occasions such as the holidays or birthdays.;
, You may have options available such as making a fake identity for your mystery caller, using a contact from your contact’s list, pre-recording audio and scheduling the call. Plan out when you are to receive a call to use in an appropriate situation.Apps will allow you to create a name, phone number and provide a photo to create an identity to a fake caller.
When receiving a call, the phone call interface will look similar to the phone call interface of your phone. You can also choose between other phone interfaces if it does not match your device. In some apps, you are allowed to create your own interface. Try to match it as close as possible to yours. Handing the phone to someone who is familiar with your phone device may uncover your prank.
Apps can provide an array of audio clips that provide different topics, personality types or you can even create your own by providing a compatible audio file. The app may not allow you to record a conversation, but you will be able to use other apps to record audio.
Apps will allow you to place the call immediately. If you want the app to call at a later time, you can set it’s scheduler to place a call after a certain period, or you can have it place a call at a specific time. You can use allow the app to run in the background or place your phone in sleep mode to simulate receiving a call.
 Be sure to practice the situation beforehand. Try to rehearse and memorize the call in order to provide a convincing situation. If you are to give the phone to someone, make sure the prank app is not visible.


Your phone will still receive regular calls from other phones which can interrupt your prank. Be sure not to schedule your call when you are expecting to receive an actual call.

