 Desert temples can be entered through the small doorway at the front end (between the two square towers.) Inside, you should find a darkened chamber with a diamond-shaped design of orange clay and a single blue clay block in the very center. This design marks the location of the temple's secret treasure.


If you've found a buried temple, you don't necessarily have to dig down to the door to get in. You can fall through the hole in the top of the pyramid to enter the chamber as well — however, be careful for falling damage!


, Beneath the central diamond floor design is a 3x3 room that contains four chests which can house valuable items like gold ingots, horse armor, and even rarities like diamonds and enchanted books. However, in the center of this small room is a stone pressure plate connected to nine blocks of TNT. Touch this square and you will most likely lose your life (and the treasure in the room.) The pressure plate is directly beneath the blue clay block. Thus, you will want to carefully dig into the room from a spot to the side of this pressure plate.


One good way to do this is to dig a set of stairs into the secret chamber starting from a few blocks away — this way, you enter the chamber from the side, rather than from above, making it less likely that you'll fall onto the plate or suffer falling damage.
 Once you are in the small treasure, take the time to disable the trap and prevent any tragic accidents. Use a pickaxe to carefully mine the stone pressure plate block in the center of the room without actually touching it. Once the pressure plate is gone, the room should be safe as long as you don't light the TNT manually.
 The four treasure chests in the chamber are filled with a selection of items — some common, some rare. Each chest contains 2-6 stacks of items; each stack may have one or several of its item. Some of the items that can be found in desert temples include the following — note that these items are rare and may not appear in every desert temple:Iron ingots
Gold ingots
Diamonds
Emeralds
Saddles
Iron/Gold/Diamond horse armor
Enchanted books

