 If you believe that your child is experiencing an issue with their heart, contact your doctor immediately. It is important that they see a medical professional and receive treatment as soon as possible. The doctor will determine if there is any problem, and if so, they will attempt to find the source of the heart irregularity and prescribe a course of treatment.Irregular heartbeat (or arrhythmia) may be a sign of a number of different heart problems, many of which are benign. However, some may require immediate medical attention.
If your doctor suspects an irregularity, they may recommend an electrocardiogram or other electronic monitoring device.;
, An early sign that your child may be experiencing some heart issues will be a general lack of energy. They will be constantly tired, regardless of how rested and well fed they are. They will also be extremely weak and often lightheaded or dizzy.If they exhibit any of these symptoms, you should monitor your child’s pulse and then call your doctor.
 Get immediate medical attention if your child complains of any chest pains or any heart fluttering. This pain may be accompanied by paleness, sweating, and shortness of breath. If your child complains of chest pains or heart fluttering, do not worry about taking their pulse and go see a doctor right away.In most cases, chest pain in children is not due to a heart problem. However, if the pain is a new or severe symptom, it is still best to have a doctor check it out to rule out anything serious.
 If your child’s heart beats too fast, too slow, or includes a third or fourth sound, you should contact your doctor immediately. This may be a sign of a number of different heart conditions. It is important that your doctor is able to get a diagnosis quickly so they can begin a treatment plan.For infants (0 to 11 months), anything over 160 beats per minute is too high and anything under 100 is too low.For a child (1 to 11), anything over 120 beats per minute is too high and anything under 70 is too low. Talk to your pediatrician if your child always seems to be at the lower or upper limits of a normal heart rate.Be aware that a fever can temporarily increase a child’s heart rate, so a rapid heart rate may be a symptom a cold, flu, or other common childhood illness.
The normal sound of a heartbeat is “lub dub” and sounds like a horses gallop. A third sound would be “lub du bub” in a cadence similar to saying “Kentucky.” A fourth would be “be lup dup” in a cadence similar to saying “Tennessee.”, Because an infant is unable to articulate how their body feels, you need to be able to recognize the symptoms of arrhythmia. The first sign is a general irritability or fussiness. If your baby is particularly fussy and cries a lot, even after you have fed, changed, and burped them, call your pediatrician., Another sign that your infant may be experiencing arrhythmia is difficulty in feeding. If your baby lacks the energy to nurse, either from a bottle or breast, they may have an issue with their heart that needs attention. Be sure to talk to your pediatrician about any issues that you may experience with nursing your baby.Fortunately, because of the frequency of checkups that newborns receive, your pediatrician will likely be able to pick up on any heart conditions if they exist or develop.
 These may include general weakness, excessive sweating, and pale or bluish skin. If you notice any of these symptoms, get your child to a doctor immediately.