 The triangle pose delivers an excellent full body stretch. The pose also strengthens the legs and develops a strong back. As you rotate your body to assume the final pose, keep you head, butt and ankle in a straight line. Repeat on either side to stretch both sides of your body.;
, The revolved triangle will open up your hip joints and stretch your legs before your free running session. The “triangle” that you form between your front leg, side and arm should become larger as you perform the exercise, so that you feel more light and spacious. This exercise will require good strength in your back, so be careful if you’ve had a recent back injury.
 This pose will stretch your gluteals, hamstrings and calves while strengthening your core muscles. As you bend down, lengthen your spine and work to keep your spine straight. Lead with your sternum as you position your torso over your leg to focus the stretch into the back of your leg.
 The extended side angle pose uses every muscle in your body when executed correctly. The pose stretches your groin and hamstrings as well as resolving stiffness in your shoulders and back. In addition, many yogis believe that the stretch will cure stimulate digestion and increase stamina.
 Standing splits will stretch your body from neck to ankle. You will feel the stretch intensely in the hamstrings of the leg you’ve planted on the ground and in the quads muscles of your raised leg. When you become stronger and more supple, then you will no longer have to rely on the wall for support.
 These simple ankle rotations will help to strengthen the muscles that support your ankles and will keep your ankles flexible and injury-free. The forward stretch will also provide relief from shin splints while strengthening your calves.
 Ankle rocking will both strengthen and stretch your ankles and your calves. You can also perform this exercise while sitting on a leg sled machine if you want to increase the difficulty level. For further ankle strengthening, try standing with a barbell behind your shoulders. Stand on your tiptoes, then lower yourself down. Repeat the exercise 10 times.

