 A vital part of a kitten’s early life is play with her littermates. It is through bites and scratches from her fellow kittens that she learns what hurts and how to be gentle when she is playing.If a kitten is deprived of this early experience, for example if she is hand-reared, or a lone kitten, then she is less likely to have a concept of what is painful and what isn’t.;
, It is a kitten’s natural instinct to chase anything that moves in training for hunting prey (even though she will most likely never have to hunt). As she reaches around twelve weeks of age instinct tells her to bite prey to kill it. Eventually, the scenario arises where she chases moving objects, such as human feet or hands, and then bites them.


Unfortunately, the kitten’s behavior can be reinforced by the reaction of her victim. You are bitten and react with fear, it reinforces your young cat’s instinct to chase and bite her quarry.
 Kittens are geared for bursts of wild energy and this is when they lose their inhibitions about biting. The trick is to channel this energy safely away from your hands and feet, by getting the kitten to play vigorous games of chase with a toy on a string. Tire her out with the toy while keeping your hands and feet at a safe distance.A kitten can normally play in bursts for 5 to 10 minutes and then she will have to stop and lie down. Only pet her once she is calm again, and then reward this calm behavior with small food treats.
 When kittens get bored, they build up excess energy that can lead to wild bursts of biting frenzy targeted at your feet. Provide her with plenty of toys and switch up which toys are available for her to play with so that the toys seem new and exciting each time you rotate them.There are lots of automated toys on the market that are battery operated and can be programmed to start moving at certain times, hence catching her attention and keeping her mentally stimulated even when you are out.
 Teach your kitten that you will not engage in aggressive play. If the kitten does bite you, say “no” in a firm voice, and pull your hand away. Give them a toy to play with instead. Don’t go back to petting them or letting them play with your hands until they have calmed down., If your kitten absolutely will not stop biting you, try putting a bad-tasting but non-toxic substance on your hands before playing with or petting the kitten. The kitten will quickly come to associate biting you with a nasty taste. You can get bitter apple or bitter cherry spray for this purpose at most pet stores, or at your vet’s office.