 Find a place in your house that’s clean, organized and free from distractions. The space should be comfortable, but not so comfortable that you could easily fall asleep there.Make sure you have all the resources you’ll need –all your books, assignments and office supplies.
If it helps you to have music playing as you work, work near a speaker. But choose instrumental music, so the words of the song don’t distract you.;
, Staying up all night is an endurance event, so you’ll need to fuel yourself accordingly. Make sure your fridge and pantry are stocked with food, water, milk and your favorite caffeinated beverage, like coffee, tea, energy drinks or soda.Feed your body protein rich foods, like peanut butter sandwiches, turkey sandwiches or hummus and carrots.
Stay away from sweets; the sugar will cause you to crash.
 If you’re staying up all night, you have a lot of work to do, but not all of it necessarily needs to be done by the next day. Make a list of all your assignments, then figure out which assignments are most pressing.Put the assignments that are due first near the top of the list.
Save assignments that you can complete quickly and easily near the bottom of the list. Try to do these towards the end of your night when you’re exhausted.
Any assignment that isn’t due next day should be completed on another night.
 Figure out what time you need to complete your work by. If you have school the next day, you’ll need some time in the morning to shower and prepare, so factor in an hour to get ready. Then work backwards and schedule out your night.Approximate how long each assignment will take you and then block off an appropriate amount of time in your night to do the work.
Schedule high priority assignments early in the evening, when you’re still at your best.
Schedule in a ten minute break every two hours. Use this time to get up and walk around and give your brain a break.
 If you’re tired before starting your work, take a caffeine nap. Drink a cup of coffee, then immediately take a 20-minute nap. The caffeine will take effect just as you wake up and you’ll feel refreshed and energized.Don’t nap for longer than 30 minutes. If you nap for longer than 30, you risk entering into REM sleep cycle.
If you don’t have time for a nap, take a fifteen-minute walk outside. It will accomplish the same thing.
 If you’re planning an all-nighter, it’s because you’re crunched for time, but don’t make it any more difficult on yourself than it has to be. Start working as soon as you can, and don’t put the work off till later in the night.Make a concrete plan of what time you’re going to begin working and stick to it. Set an alarm, if you have to.
Turn off your phone and any other distractions that might impede you from beginning your work.

