 Stimulants like caffeine can exacerbate the symptoms of tachycardia. Caffeine contains chemical compounds that increase your level of alertness. It does this by stimulating the central nervous system and cerebral cortex of the brain, which causes vasodilation of your blood vessels. This can increase your blood pressure, which in turn can affect the electrical conduction in your heart, leading to rapid heartbeats.


While it depends on the individual, one to three cups of caffeine can increase the average person’s heart rate. Try to avoid drinking more than one cup of coffee, black tea, cola sodas, or eating chocolate at a time. Instead, opt for the decaffeinated option if you still want to consume these items.;
, Having an electrolyte imbalance can lead to tachycardia. Low potassium levels, which is an electrolyte, is a very common cause of tachycardia. To combat this, eat foods that are rich in potassium. However, if you have hyperkalemia or other co-morbid conditions, it is very important that you talk to your doctor about how much potassium you should consume.


Foods that are rich in potassium include bananas, avocados, vegetables, root crops like potatoes, milk and oranges.
 Motherwort is used in traditional Chinese medicine to combat different heart problems, including tachycardia. This herb contain alkaloid leonurine, a natural chemical that acts as a vasodilator. It has an antispasmodic property that can help to relax your heart muscles.To prepare motherwort, pound motherwort leaves to make a tablespoon of extract. Pour a cup of hot water and mix it with the teaspoon of motherwort. Let it sit for several minutes, strain the mixture, and then drink it.
 Arjuna is a common tree in India. Chemical laboratory studies showed that arjuna may contain antioxidants and flavonoids including, essential minerals and co-enzyme Q-10, which may help to regulate heart rhythm.You can purchase arjuna tablets at natural food stores.
 Valerian is a medicinal herb which is thought to help relax the heart’s smooth muscles and normalize heart function. It may also help to promote sleep and relaxation.Use a ceramic kettle and bring a teapot full of water to boil. Add a teaspoon of dried valerian root. Strain and drink.

