 Keeping your legs in the same position for an extended length of time reduces circulation in your legs and can cause blood to pool in your veins. Focus on shifting or changing the position of your legs to maintain good circulation.Change your position every 30 minutes or so. Take a walk around the office or, if this is not possible, stand up and stretch your arms and legs every 30 minutes.;
, Elevating your legs while you sit can ease the pressure on your blood vessels. Keeping your legs uncrossed can also reduce pressure on your veins.Place your feet on a stool or another chair, when possible, to improve the circulation in your legs. Try occasionally lifting your legs so that your feet are above the height of your heart.
 Elevate your legs as you sleep, as well. Keeping your legs elevated as you lie down can be just as important as elevating them when you are sitting down., Wearing high heels and tight clothing can make it more difficult for blood to pass through your veins. Low-heeled shoes or flats cause your calf muscles to work more as you walk, which also helps with circulation of blood flow in your legs.You should especially avoid tight clothes that cut off circulation around your waist, legs, or groin. Go for loose clothing or clothing that does not squeeze or constrict these areas.
 Including moderate exercise into your daily routine can improve both the circulation and muscle tone in your legs.Exercising on a regular basis will also help you lose weight, if needed. If you are overweight or obese, shedding your extra pounds can ease the pressure on your legs and greatly minimize varicose veins.


A 30-minute walk or jog around your neighborhood a few days a week can greatly improve your overall circulation, especially the circulation in your legs.
Focus your efforts on cardiovascular exercises, which help to get the blood pumping throughout your body, and strength training exercises that target the legs in order to build and tone muscle mass there.
 Restorative yoga is a type of yoga that uses props like a wall, a bolster or a block to support your body. In restorative yoga, there should be no muscle activation at all and you should use this practice to release any stress or tension in your muscles. Legs-against-the-wall pose is great for circulation and blood flow, thereby lowering the potential for varicose veins in your legs. Find a quiet, open area with a wall and place your yoga mat against the wall. Have a bolster or several rolled up towels next to your mat to use in these poses.If you have stiffer muscles, the bolster or support should be lower under your back, just above your tailbone, and placed farther from the wall. If you’re more flexible, the bolster should be closer to the wall. Your distance from the wall also depends on your height: if you’re shorter, move closer to the wall. If you’re taller, move farther from the wall.
Start with the bolster 5–6 inches from the wall. Sit sideways on the right end of the support. Exhale and swing your legs up onto the wall. Keep your shoulders and head on the floor. Your sitting bones don’t need to be right against the wall, but they should be a few inches from the wall. The bolster should be under your back area, higher or lower depending on your flexibility.
Bend your knees, press your feet into the wall, and lift your pelvis off the bolster a few inches. Then, tuck the bolster a little higher up, under your pelvis and lower back. Then, lower your pelvis onto the bolster and straighten your legs so they are now stretched out against the wall.
Keep your legs firm, with just enough weight to hold them vertically in place. Release your skull away from the back of your neck and open your shoulder blades away from your spine. Release your hands and arms out to your sides, palms up.
Stay in this pose for five to 15 minutes. You should feel the blood draining from your legs, into your hip area. This is a sign the blood flow is being reversed and flushed out.
Do not twist off the support when coming out of this pose. Slide off the bolster onto the floor and then bend your knees. Roll to one side and stay in the fetal position, with your knees bent and your head tucked in, for a few breaths.
 A balanced diet with plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables can keep your salt levels down and your fiber levels high, thereby stabilizing your blood pressure and putting less press on your veins.A low-salt diet will minimize the amount of swelling in your legs connected to water retention. You should also focus on eating foods rich in fiber, such as whole grains like rice and quinoa. Bioflavonoids found in dark berries, dark leafy greens like kale and spinach, garlic, and onions also help to keep your veins healthy.
 Tobacco and alcohol can cause high blood pressure. Cutting them out of your life or reducing their presence can help you get reduce your varicose veins.Alcohol can cause your blood vessels to dilate, which, in turn, can aggravate varicose veins. An occasional drink may not hurt, but frequent drinking will.
Smoking has a direct connection to blood pressure, and cutting smoking out completely is important if you plan to be rid of your varicose veins.

