  A sheet is heavy and won't buckle, so there is no need to mount it to a support board. Just leave it attached to the pad and the cardboard backing will act as a support.  You will want to be able to pick up the paper and tilt it to help the colors mingle.;
,  They are the consistency of toothpaste.  For this technique you will be using them almost as they come from the tube since the water which will dilute them will be already on your paper. Set up your palette with both primary and secondary colors: red, yellow, orange, blue green and violet. Put out a spot of brown, but keep it well away from the other colors. Put pigments around the edge of your palette, or in the designated areas on the palette., When bent, the hairs will spring back to their original shape.  ,,, Tulips are a simple, cup shape, so there is no need to begin with a drawing.  Wet your brush and with the paper flat and using a generous amount of water, paint a tulip head, in plain water, on your paper.  Make a "U" shape and fill it in. It is fine to skip little spots, leaving bits of dry paper. Make the tulip approximately life size. Since wet areas will readily accept the moist color and dry paper will resist it, use care to keep surrounding areas dry. Drop in enough water so it almost rises off the paper's surface.
  There ought to be enough water to carry the color over the wet blossom. Random, ragged color will begin to fill the blossom. Let the water work for you and help it as little as possible., As the blossom begins to dry slightly, pick up the paper and tilt it slightly to move the water and mix the colors. If it isn't moving, drop in a little more water. Again, set the paper flat., Paint a line for the stem of clear water. If you touch the wet blossom with even the tip of your brush, you will create a water "bridge" and the color from the blossom will gush into the stem. Ignore it and touch bits of green paint from the tip of your brush, or let the green mix directly on the paper by first introducing yellow and then, adding blue. Let the water will mix the colors. If necessary, drop in a tad more water if it isn't moving as you'd hoped., This will make a "blossom," "water spot" or "back run" and will create something like a ragged petal edge.
 If things get out of control, use a "thirsty brush" as a mop to siphon off excess water. Try to avoid dabbing with paper and interfering with the things that are happening with the water, paint and process of drying., They are one of the hallmarks of watercolor paintings. The paint should look wet even when dry.


The glow will appear as the water sinks into your paper and begins to dry, if you have used enough water and not manipulated the area with strokes or dabbing. The glow will get stronger as the paper dries, and it does take a long time to become thoroughly dry. If possible, avoid using a hairdryer in favor of letting nature take its course.
, Touch in bits of yellow, blue and green to make the leafs. Try adding just a small spot of brown to mix with and enrich the greens.
 If you decide you want a background, randomly wet the sky with a soft wash brush filled with clear water. Add yellows, blues, pink, lavender, or any color you wish to one wet edge and let the water carry the color over the background.

