 Craft a compass and eight piece of paper to make a map, and equip it to create a "minimap" of your surrounding area as you explore. Expand the size of your map by crafting the map with eight additional pieces of paper. You can expand a map up to four times, requiring a total of 40 pieces of paper, but you do not need to expand it until your travels take you to the edge of the current map.


To create a compass, combine one redstone and four iron ingots.
 It can take hours to find a village, especially if you are not using a special world type as described in the world creation section. Stock up on basic tools, a bed, food, and weapons before you set out. Do not expect to return to your starting point for a long time.
 If you found a saddle somewhere, you can use it to get a mount and speed up your exploration. Find a horse and interact with it several times with an empty hand, until it doesn't throw you off. Sneak up to the tamed horse and saddle it to make it controllable while you ride it.A pig can also be saddled, but requires a steady supply of "carrot on a stick" items to be controlled. You can create these items by combining a carrot with a fishing pole., Go to the Options screen and increase the render distance to the maximum, so you can see farther while you explore. If this makes your game lag, reduce it, then increase it again for a short time whenever you are on high ground looking for the next place to search, as described below.
 Villages appear most often on biomes that are mostly flat, such as plains (short grass), savanna (tall grass and a few trees), or desert (sand). If you do not see areas like this nearby, climb a mountain or tree to search for one, or build a tower out of dirt or gravel.


At night, you might be able to spot a distant village by its torchlight, but beware of monsters in Survival mode.
 There is no guarantee that a biome has a village, but thoroughly explore the whole area to increase your chances of finding one. Look at your map once in a while to see if there are any tell-tale signs of a nearby village marked on it:


In plains or savanna, villages are made of wood, and will show up on the map as brown pixels on the green background.
In deserts, villages are made of sandstone, which appears almost identical to the sand on the map. This makes them harder to find, but these sometimes contain pyramidal temples with valuable loot.
Either type of village might have unusual tile types that give their location away on the map. Look for rows of wheat, small water tiles (wells), bookcases, pressure plates, or crafting tables.
 Once you've explored a biome completely, climb a hill or other tall structure, and locate the next plains, savanna, or desert biome. You may need to explore hills for a short time to find the next flat biome, but try to get back to flat land as soon as possible to increase your chances of finding a village.


You can make the most efficient use of your map by moving in a large circle around the point where you first used your map. If you keep moving in one direction only, you will only be able to use a small part of your map before creating a new one.
 Occasionally, a large group of zombies will spawn to attack a village. If you spot an unusual number of zombies in the distance, it might be worth checking out where they're headed. Needless to say, be prepared for a fight.

