 When you notice signs of asthma (coughing, wheezing, open-mouthed breathing), take your cat to your vet. They will perform various diagnostic tests, such as chest x-rays, to diagnose the asthma.Once your vet has made the diagnosis, they will discuss the various treatment options with you.


The main feline asthma treatment options are corticosteroids (‘steroids’), which reduce inflammation, and bronchodilators, which open the airways.;
, Steroid treatment for feline asthma is either oral, injectable, or inhaled.Long-acting injectable steroids, which can be administered by your vet, would be good if your cat doesn’t like taking pills.The inhaled steroid, called fluticasone, is a popular treatment choice for feline asthma.


Your vet can help you decide which form of steroid would work best for your cat.
Be aware the dose of an injectable steroid can’t be reduced once the steroid is given—you may have to wait for the effects to wear off.To give a steroid pill, consider hiding it in a pill pocket.Pill pockets are available at your local pet store.
 You will need a metered dose inhaler (MDI), cat-specific spacer (also called a chamber), and face mask. First, acclimate your cat to the spacer and face mask by holding the face mask on your cat’s face for gradually longer periods of time (up to about 20 seconds), then attaching the spacer. Your vet can show you how to give the inhaled steroid:Shake the MDI and attach it to the spacer.
Press down on the MDI to deliver the prescribed dose into the spacer.
Place the unit on your cat’s face and wait for your cat to take about 10 to 15 breaths.
 With whichever form of steroid you give your cat, make sure you follow your vet’s prescription instructions carefully. This will help your cat get the most benefit from this type of treatment.
 Examples of steroid side effects are increased appetite, increased water intake, and increased urination. Inhaled steroids can produce side effects like throat irritation and voice loss. Inhaled steroids usually have fewer side effects than oral or injectable steroids.Cats that are overweight or have certain medical conditions (diabetes, heart disease) may have a higher risk of side effects when taking steroids., Steroids are very effective at reducing the inflammation and mucus buildup seen with feline asthma.If you give your cat inhaled steroids, it may be two weeks before your cat’s asthma start to improve.You may see the effects of oral or injectable steroids sooner.

