 It's common sense, but if you do not have your heart and soul in a song you will come off as fake and/or cheesy. Even if it's a cover, try to relate to the lyrics and the feeling as much as possible.;
, Even the most "emo" acts need to look like they're having a good time, because moodiness does not come over well to the audience. Let them see you are having a great time, and the effect will rub off on them. This doesn't mean you can't change up the feel for different songs, it just means you shouldn't look serious the whole time you are performing.
 Come on, don't just stand there looking awkward! If you constantly move, even just a little bit, your motion will attract the audience's eyes. Good examples of singers who moved around a lot include Axl Rose, Freddie Mercury, Morrissey, David Lee Roth, Bruce Dickinson, Michael Jackson, Bono,, Hayley Williams, and Robert Plant. Look up some of your favorite artists on Youtube to see what they do on stage, and go onto the next step.
 Go ahead, no one is going to fault you if you take some pointers from well-known singers. Axl Rose was renowned for his stage presence, by fans and critics alike. Don't copy one person, and don't copy their whole routine. Take the bits that you enjoy the most and make them your own. Eventually, after seeing how comfortable they are doing "crazy" stuff on stage, you'll feel more comfortable in your body doing your own stage moves.
 Be careful not to tighten your throat or do other actions that would inhibit good vocal technique! Watch Geoff Tate for someone who correctly vocalizes while dramatically expressing emotions.
 Sometimes you have to let other band members steal some spotlight. Otherwise you'll become an egomaniac in others' eyes! Think of David Lee Roth! Although it's great to be a bit showy now and then, vocalists need to back off a bit.
 If you involve the audience, they will be forced to pay attention. Freddie Mercury used to sing a line, then make the audience sing it back. Get the audience in on the songs. Ask them non-cliché questions, (Not, "How're we doing tonight?!), make them shout out, tell them you want to see a mosh pit and things like that, depending on your style of music.
 A good "Come On!" followed by gestures will get the crowd going. Good examples: James Hetfield (Metallica), Billie Joe Armstrong (Green Day), Geddy Lee (Rush), Matt Bellamy (Muse). Or if you play drums and sing, a good example is Aaron Gillespie (Underoath).

