 If you have never been in love before, it may be hard to understand the implications of this phrase. There are many types of love: friendly love, familial love, romantic love. If you truly feel that you are romantically in love with this girl, then go ahead and say it – but understand the gravity of your words.

Love is notoriously hard to define. Some say that young people tend to confuse "true love" with a shallower level of infatuation or "puppy love." Others believe that you can feel deep, meaningful love at any age. The point being: love means something different to everybody.
If this is your first meaningful relationship with a girl, think before you say "I love you." Sometimes, you "just know" when you love someone. However, if you've only been together for a few weeks—or even a few months—it might be wise to wait a while before you drop the "L-word.";
, Do not tell a girl "I love you" just to get into her pants, or to get her to pay more attention to you. Only say this if you plan to follow up on your words. Romantic love typically implies a level of care and commitment to a person, and you don't want to make this promise if you are going to be "in love" with someone else in a week., Do you think that this girl loves you back? Has she been in love before, or is this her first emotionally-serious relationship? Be aware that "I love you" can be a heavy phrase to drop onto a budding relationship. If she isn't ready to say the words back, then you might actually make things more complicated with your admission.


Think about the way that she acts around you. You should be able to tell if she likes you by the way she looks at you and the amount of attention that she gives you. If you're going to tell her that you love her, she should at least have said that she likes you a lot.
 Feelings are feelings, but you don't have to jump right into an "I love you." Tell her how much you like her, and use your words and actions to show her that she means a lot to you. Give her thoughtful compliments; buy or make her a personal gift; and show your passion through physical interactions.


Say, "I want you to know that I care really deeply for you. You've brought so much happiness into my life, and I truly value that."Say, "I like you a lot. You make me really happy." She'll know how you feel, but she won't have to worry about the serious implications of "love."
Say that you love something about her, not that you love her. This can be a solid way to ease into the conversation. For instance, say, "I love the way you smile when you hear your favorite song," or "I love your eyes. They're absolutely captivating."

