 Before starting, choose a hand you want to begin with. After choosing it, pick up the dumbbell. This is important, as this method of performing triceps kickbacks works only one arm at a time.


Start with your strong hand, so you can more confidently complete the motion.
Remember that you will switch hands at the end of the set.
Grip the weight firmly, but not too tight.
Consider using gloves, if you prefer.;
, After picking up the dumbbell, you need to situate yourself into a proper stance before beginning the movement.









The forward leg should be the opposite of the hand you are holding the dumbbell with.
Make sure both of your feet are firmly on the floor.
Use your core to brace yourself.
Place your same side hand on your forward leg (right hand on right leg)., By leaning forward, you’ll position your body for maximum effectiveness while working your triceps. This is important because it works the triceps against gravity.


Hinge forward at the hips.
Make sure most of your weight is being transferred onto the forward leg.
Move your shoulders down and back.
Align your head and your spine.
Hold this posture throughout the exercise.
You can also complete this exercise while leaning with one knee on a bench with the same side hand on the front of the bench., Take the arm that is holding the weight and bend it at your elbow. This movement will position you to begin the triceps kickback. Remember to:


Hold your upper arm so that it is parallel to your torso.
Make sure your forearm is vertical with the floor.
Move it slowly and firmly., By lifting your forearm back in an arcing motion, you’ll be making the basic motion of the triceps kickback. This motion is essentially half of the overall movement.









Exhale.
Push the forearms back to straighten your arm along the side of your torso.
Make sure your arm almost locks as you bring it back., Pivot at the elbow, holding your upper arm still while the forearm slowly lowers to the start position, bringing the dumbbell back towards the shoulder. This is important, because the second motion will return your arm to its starting position so you can complete another repetition.









Inhale.
Hold your core stationary.
Your upper arm should be stationary and be held close to your body., Resistance bands are a great way to do triceps kickbacks without weights. Ultimately, the resistance band will stand in for weights and allow you to do triceps kickbacks normally.









Stand on one end of the resistance band with both feet.
Hold the other end of the band in one hand.
Carry out the motions of the triceps kickbacks as if you had weight in your hand., Another variant of the triceps kickbacks is to kneel on a weight bench -- or similar piece of furniture -- instead of standing. To do the kneeling triceps kickback:









Kneel down on the bench with one knee (what would be your forward knee).
Keep the other foot on the ground.
Use one hand to grip the front of the bench and to support yourself.
Carry out the motions of the triceps kickbacks as if you were standing., You can also alter the regular triceps kickback by turning your wrists at the end of the movement so that your palms are facing upwards. This will give your wrists a stretch and intensify the movement.









To do this, when the dumbbell meets your hip, turn your palm upwards to face the ceiling.
 After mastering the triceps kickbacks, you need to decide how many repetitions you want to do when you work your triceps. Ultimately, you need to pick a number of reps that will help you toward your goal but not overextend you.









Do three sets of triceps kickbacks per workout session
Start with a lower number of reps until you are comfortable with the movement and the weight you are using. For instance, start by doing 3 reps for the first set, 4 reps for the second set, and 5 reps for the final set.
Increase the number of repetitions per set as you grow more confident. For instance, keep your first set as 3 reps, increase the second to 5 reps, and the third to 7 reps.
After you’re completely comfortable with the movement, settle on 3 sets of 8 repetitions., Triceps kickbacks are just one exercise that should be used in conjunction with other movements that work your arms. Some other exercises include:









The alternating bicep curl.
The palms-up wrist curl.
The palms-down wrist curl., Triceps kickbacks are just one element of what should be a balanced workout regimen that is geared toward improving your overall physique. Ultimately, you need to design a week-long schedule in which you work cardio and every major muscle group. One example might be the following:


Exercise your chest and triceps on Sunday. Complete triceps kickbacks and bicep curls here.
Work out your shoulders and abs on Monday. Do some shoulder presses and crunches.
Rest on Tuesday.
Complete leg exercises on Wednesday. Think about doing leg presses or leg curls.
Exercise your back and biceps on Thursday. Try dumbbell shrugs or use a rowing machine.
Rest on Friday.
Do some cardio on Saturday. Think about running, swimming, or cycling., While triceps kickbacks are relatively simple, you should educate yourself about common dangers associated with the exercise. Without knowing about common problems, you may injure yourself.


Avoid using too much weight. Don’t use more weight than you are comfortable. For instance, you should start with weight that does not strain you such as 5, 10, or 15 lbs. (2.27, 4.54, or 6.8 kg.).
Don’t just do triceps kickbacks. Triceps exercises should be completed in conjunction with other movements that help work out nearby muscle groups. Consider doing compound movements like the deadlift or bench press to work nearby muscles.
The most common injury associated with triceps kickbacks are rotator cuff problems. The rotator cuff is located where the arm connects with the shoulder. If you have pain in that area, discontinue the exercise and consult a physician.
Know that there are criticisms of triceps kickbacks. Some experts argue that the exercise does not enable you to leverage enough weight on your muscle, making it an inefficient exercise. Other experts argue that it puts potentially harmful stress on your shoulder.