 Make sure it doesn't correspond with any fun events you are planning with your family! The best day to have a party is a friday, so before the party starts, if your friends aren't coming, they can drop off their stuffed animals before home time so you can walk home with your stuffed animals and their friends.;
, Tell them when the party starts and what time to be there. Write all the details on cute little invitations with a photo of your stuffed animal. If your parents don't allow your friends to come over, tell them to drop their stuffed animal off at your house. Offer to pick your stuffed animal's buddies up and if you use the car, then buckle ALL their friends in. Ask them if their stuffed animal can stay for a sleepover, and let them get their PJs.
 Let them choose what they like. Take this opportunity to buy food. Some suggestions are: jelly, pizza, ice cream, fizzy pop, strawberries, crisps, toffee popcorn. Of course, this can be fake if you like. Ask your parents if you can use a camera to take pictures of them having fun and print them out, so they can take them home in their goodie bags.
 Remember to hide it and make sure your stuffed animal wants it. You can get their old christmas list and get one of the things that they didn't get.
 This means, make a cake and start decorating, and setting the table. You can put a chair with an extra cushion out for your stuffed animal, or simply let him or her sit on your lap. Prepare some fun activities like Legos or drawing and get your stuffed animal's bedroom ready! Lay down the spare mattresses if there is a sleepover and pack the picnic! Prepare everything!

, You could play hide-and-seek (you work in pairs to hide eachother. stuffed animals can be in the same groups, you just need to help them hide together) or make up another cool game. Let your stuffed animal play tag with his friends, or let her play inside. It depends what your stuffed animal wants. If you have video games, let them play, and take lots of pictures of them. Let them go nuts!

, Before letting your stuffed animal open them, ensure they are wrapped properly and you know who they're from so you can thank them later.
 Maybe bring a big bag to the park and put the stuffed animals inside. Again take lots of pictures, and let them take turns on what to do. Bring a picnic and put SMALL (you don't want to eat much after that cake!) snacks in. Let your stuffed animals go crazy, once again.
 Offer them the sofa and put a blanket over them. Let them watch a movie and wait until the credits roll. Then assure them to their room and tuck them in. Wait until they start to stir and party! (That will happen, if so, let them have a dance party), Have fun!

