 The Community Standards detail responsible buying and selling practices, as well as list items that are prohibited for sale in the Marketplace.Scammers may post a listing for items that are prohibited under Marketplace guidelines, pocketing your cash and never completing the transaction.
Scammers also will often request payment or delivery of an item in a way that is outside the general guidelines. Using alternative means of payment or delivery gives you fewer protections as a buyer, which is why scammers try to steer you toward these methods.;
, One of the benefits Facebook Marketplace has over other online person-to-person sale and auction websites is that you must have a Facebook account to post a listing or buy an item. Checking the seller's profile will help you determine whether the seller is legitimate or a possible scam artist.Keep in mind that a legitimate seller may have a lot of information that is restricted to friends only, but you might not get a lot of information from their public profile. However, you can still see their main profile picture and how long they've had a Facebook account.
For example, if a seller only started their Facebook account the day before they posted the listing, they may be attempting to scam you.
 Facebook allows you to talk to the seller using Facebook Messenger to negotiate a final price and close the sale. If you suspect the listing is fraudulent, be careful what you say to the seller.Avoid giving out any personal information. Don't give the seller your bank account or credit card number over Facebook Messenger, or any other information the seller could potentially use to steal your identity.
If the seller is claiming to be local but you don't believe they are, you can ask them questions about local events or different neighborhoods to gauge their actual familiarity with the area.
Use your best judgement and if you have a bad feeling in your gut after talking to them, shut down the transaction.
 If you're completing the purchase online, payment systems such as PayPal offer you protections as a buyer in the event the seller does not deliver the item you purchase.Scam artists often will try to get you to pay with a money order, cash, or wire transfer. Avoid these methods of payment – even with local sellers – because if the seller runs off with your money, you won't have any way to trace it or get it back.
If a local seller wants cash, use your best judgment. Generally, a legitimate seller will not refuse a method of payment that you offer. Secured payment systems offer benefits and greater confidence to sellers as well.
 The Facebook Marketplace originally was designed to be used primarily by people who lived in the same area. However, just because someone lives near you doesn't mean they're not going to scam you.Be wary of a seller who wants you to come to their house, or who wants to meet at night. Insist on making the exchange in a public place during daylight hours – especially if you are paying them in person.
Many local police precincts will allow you to meet the person in their parking lot, or in the vestibule of the station. If you have this option available, it is the most secure place to meet a seller.

