


An empty deodorant can. Make sure it has its safety cap on, and that the can is free of any puncture marks. It's a good idea to clear out the deodorant can as much as you can before adding in pepper spray.
A tire valve. A tire valve will add pressurization to your can after the spray's been added. These can be bought at department stores and auto repair shops.
A drill. An electric drill will allow you to open a hole in the bottom of the spray can. Aim for a 9mm drill bit.Epoxy. You will only need a few grams of the putty to
A syringe or funnel.
An air compressor. Because you'll be using a tire valve to pressurize your can, a car tire air pump should work for this purpose.
 This will be used to fill the can with mixture and compressed air. Hold your drill steady and try to make as even a hole as possible. This will make it easier to patch up with epoxy once you've filled the can.









Alternatively, you can avoid the can process altogether by using capped spray bottle. You should take lengths to make sure that the spray has no chance of getting out however. Tape the head and nozzle shut when it's not in use., Taking a cooking syringe, suck up the mixture and inject it in the hole you drilled. Repeat this until all of your mixture is in the can.









A funnel is a solid alternative in lieu of a syringe., Epoxy will be used to patch up the hole you drilled in the can. Take a bit of it and dab over the hole. Wipe off the excess material you don't need, and allow it a few minutes to settle before you continue.









It's a good idea to wear a set of gloves while handling epoxy.
 While the epoxy is still solidifying, push your tire valve through the hole. This will give you a quick way to pressurize the can. The hole you covered with epoxy won't let the air escape once it's inside. If you give it a few minutes to sit, the epoxy should hold the tire valve in place.








Make sure you push the tire valve most of the way in. It needs to be able to poke past the epoxy through to the other side.
 Painting over the old can will distinguish it from all other cans. This is especially important if there's a risk that someone might mistake the pepper spray for the can's written contents.









Spray painting a can black will make it more concealable.
Adding a decal can make your homemade can look more professional. It helps to state clearly on the can what it is.
 Fill it up with air, and keep your eye on the pressure gauge. As the pressure increase, you should be able to tell a difference in the feel of the can.
 Practice your aim on a hard surface once you get the hang of spraying before you need to use it in real-life. Make sure the can nozzle is facing away from you, and squeeze the trigger lightly. Shoot the pepper spray in short, controlled bursts. If you need to use it against an assailant, you'll only need a little bit to incapacitate him.









Most pepper spray cans have an effective range of about 10 feet.The effects of pepper spray last from 45 minutes to an hour.However, lingering effects will last up to three hours.
 Pepper spray is a volatile substance. Like any pressurized contents, you need to make sure it's store in a temperate area where it won't be affected by extremes in heat. Keep it locked away in a cupboard or climate-controlled storage room when you're not using it.


Just as importantly, keep the spray out of reach from others.

