 Dr. Rolls’ 12-week weight loss plan will teach you how to adapt your diet to Volumetrics principles, guiding you through gradual changes that will help you to lose about 5 to 10 percent of your body weight. No foods are banned or classified as “good” or “bad.” You simply learn to choose more of the types of foods that you can enjoy in larger quantities. Having the freedom to eat more will help to alleviate feelings of deprivation.;
, Volumetrics divides foods into 4 categories according to their calorie density, or the number of calories per gram of food. You will learn to eat larger portions of foods in the lower density categories, like fruits and vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy and lean meat, and to limit portions of foods that have a higher calorie density.
 Dr. Rolls includes many healthy recipes in her Volumetrics books. She presents the healthy recipe and explains how the recipe was altered from its original high calorie density version. You will not only have recipes to utilize; you will also learn how to adapt your own favorites to the Volumetrics lifestyle by substituting high calorie density ingredients for ingredients with a lower calorie density.
 You don’t have to limit yourself to Dr. Rolls’ books to enjoy recipes that are Volumetrics-friendly. Choosing cookbooks that fit the Volumetrics plan means choosing cookbooks that emphasize fresh ingredients and plant foods, are low in fat and sugar, and contain thorough nutrient information. Good cookbooks also include recipes plus easy-to-understand explanation of techniques. Additionally, make sure that the recipes look appetizing.
 Volumetrics books provide lists of foods and organize the foods into categories. The categories range from very low calorie density to high calorie density foods. Additionally, the food lists help you to measure the appropriate portions of food. Again, you will see that you can eat much larger portions of low calorie density foods.
 Eating foods that are rich in water, like broth-based soups, salads and fruits and vegetables will ensure that you can enjoy larger portion sizes without packing in a lot of calories. To eat more, you choose low calorie density foods and limit portions of high calorie density foods. No food types are banned on this diet, but you can sometimes double and triple your portions by choosing low calorie density foods.
 Eating out on Volumetrics involves portion control techniques as well as tricks for feeling full. For example, Dr. Rolls recommends starting your restaurant meal with soup or a salad so that you are less hungry when the main entrée arrives. You’ll also learn tips for how to visualize appropriate portion sizes so that you can eat a single serving at the restaurant and pack up the rest to save for later.
 Satiety is the heart of Volumetrics. Instead of stuffing yourself with fat or sugar-laden foods and beverages that will cause you to lose weight, you will learn that you can still enjoy big portions as long as you are eating the right foods. You will also learn to listen to and respect your body’s hunger signals so that you don’t overindulge on any foods.
 Maintaining your weight on Volumetrics is a combination of continuing to follow Volumetrics eating principles as well as performing exercise regularly. Dr. Rolls suggests strategies for increasing the number of steps that you take each day, including using a pedometer. You will continue keeping a diary to record your diet and exercise. Additionally, you will learn steps for shedding pounds if your weight starts to creep back up.
 In addition to offering support to someone who may be attempting the Volumetrics diet, you need to educate others so that they know how to support you if you are attempting the diet yourself. Dieting is challenging, particularly when people have a troubled relationship with food. Friends, family and co-workers should respect what you are trying to accomplish and avoid sabotaging your success.

