 The images should be sharp and clear, not blurry or pixelated. The image should be no larger than the palm of your hand. It can be its own, contained image, or part of a larger picture.


This method will also work on other types of paper as well, such as printed images, photographs, scrapbook paper, or even wrapping paper.
 If the image is already in a box, then cut out the entire box. If the image is part of a larger image, then cut out just the shape.
 Place the image a sheet of scrap paper, image-side down. Cover the entire back of the image with glue. Then, flip the picture over and press it against a sheet of cardstock. Smooth the image out to get rid of any bubbles or wrinkles.


The best type of glue for this would be a glue stick. You can also use rubber cement or spray adhesive.
If you are using liquid glue, apply a thin layer of white or clear-drying glue using a paint brush.
 If your image has an irregular shape, such as a rolling pin, you can follow the original shape. You can also cut a new shape around it, such as a square or circle. The original color of the cardstock will be part of your gift tag design.


If your image is square-shaped, consider cutting it out using a pair of zigzag scissors.
 You can use the standard "To... From..." message, or create your own. You can also use personalized names, such as: "Beloved Wife," "Doting Date," "Beautiful Daughter," or "Wonderful Son." If it is near a holiday or special occasion, you can write the appropriate greeting instead, such as "Happy Holidays" or "Happy Birthday."

, Be careful so that you don't punch through your message.
 You can use just about any type of string, including twine, ribbon, yard, or metallic thread.
 Fold the piece of string in half. Poke the folded end through the punched hole in the tag, creating a small loop. Slip the two loose ends of the string through the loop, and tug on them gently to tighten the knot.
 Simply tie the two loose ends of the string around the handle of a gift bag.


Consider sticking self-adhesive labels to the back of your gift tag instead. This will make the back of the gift tag fancier.

