 Put up the lights outside of your home in late November or early December so that the whole month has a Christmas-y feel. Christmas lights have a way of making almost anyone feel festive! Try hanging icicle lights along your roof, light-up reindeer in your yard, a tree/bush decorated with lights, or have light-up figures of Santa in your yard.


Consider buying LED lights so that you can save money on your electricity bill and be environmentally conscious at the same time.
 Bring out your wreaths, snow globes, Nutcracker(s), and your other Christmas decorations to put around your house. Many people start decorating at the end of November or early December. Encourage your family members, significant other, or friends to help you so that you can enjoy the decorating together. Decorating could be a great way to get into the Christmas spirit.
 If you have an artificial Christmas tree, set up the tree at some point during early December. This is the perfect time, since it will lighten up the room the whole month of December, and you will be reminded of Christmas every time you look at it. If you purchase a real Christmas tree each year, be sure to buy it two or three weeks before Christmas. Once your tree is set up, have fun decorating it with friends/family members.


Put on some Christmas music in the background to put yourself in a Christmas mood.
Make some hot chocolate or eggnog afterwards.
 It is possible to make nice ornaments by hand which can be saved as keepsakes in later years. Invite some friends/family over and make ornaments together. You will also make memories in the process!


Create your own bunting by cutting out scrapbook paper into triangles, punching a hole into each corner, and threading twine through the holes. Weave the bunting around your Christmas tree or hang it from your mantle.Make some natural Christmas ornaments by picking up some pinecones or acorns outside. Hot glue a thread at the top to be able to hang them from your tree. Embellish them with glitter for a festive feel.
Create beach ornaments by filling plain glass ornaments with sand and seashells. Save some sand and little seashells from a trip to a warm, sunny beach to preserve memories in your ornaments later!, Go by yourself or take family and friends along with you to go check out amazing Christmas light displays near you. You'd be surprised at what your neighbors can do with their Christmas lights! Check your local newspaper for light displays near you, or look at websites like Tacky Light Tour or Planet Christmas.
 Play your favorite Christmas tunes in the background of your home, in your car...anywhere! Download some Christmas music onto your iPod/MP3 player and listen to it when you’re on the go.
 Get cozy and read a Christmas book like "The Night Before Christmas", “How the Grinch Stole Christmas”, or "The Polar Express". Classic Christmas novels include “A Christmas Carol” by Charles Dickens and “The Life and Adventures of Santa Claus” by L. Frank Baum. These simple things can help get you into the spirit of Christmas.

