 Were you born in a state whose right to citizenship you have never exercised? If so, then you might be eligible for citizenship through an unrestricted right of soil, also known as unconditional jus soli. This means that you have an automatic birthright to be a citizen of that country because you were born there. For example, if you are currently a British citizen who was born in the United States, you are entitled to American citizenship through unrestricted jus soli.Research the immigration laws of your country of birth. Most countries do not grant citizenship through right of soil, so it is important to research the laws of the country in which you were born.30 of the world’s 194 countries practice unconditional jus soli.Of these 30 countries, Canada and the United States (as of 2010) are the only countries among the world’s advanced economies that practice unconditional jus soli and grant citizenship to most children born on its soil, including children born to persons present in the state illegally.However, children born in the United States to foreign diplomats and foreign heads of state do not acquire citizenship through right of soil.;
, You may find that your country of birth, which is not the country whose citizenship rights you exercise, grants you a right to its citizenship through a right of soil. If so, discover how you can exercise that right.


One way to exercise a right to citizenship is to apply for a passport. You can apply for a passport through the state’s embassy or consulate in your current country of citizenship and/or residence. You may be asked to present an original or certified copy of your birth certificate to the consulate or embassy as evidence.
For example, if you apply for a Canadian passport, then you can present a birth certificate issued by the Canadian province or territory in which you were born. This serves as evidence of your Canadian citizenship because Canada practices unrestricted jus soli., Find out the laws regarding dual citizenship of both the state of your current citizenship and of the state whose second citizenship you are trying to obtain. Consider whether enforcing your right of soil citizenship may require renouncing your current citizenship. This is important because not all states that practice unconditional jus soli permit their citizens to hold dual citizenship.


For example, Pakistan practices unconditional jus soli (with a few minor exceptions) but only permits dual citizenship with a select number of states.Examples of countries that both practice unconditional jus soli and permit dual citizenship are the United States and Canada.