 You can install Messenger for free using the App Store.


You can also open the Messenger App Store page directly by opening the Messages section of the Facebook app and then tapping "Install.";
, This will open the app search field.
 A list of matching apps will appear.
 Make sure this is the app developed by "Facebook, Inc."

, The app should begin downloading immediately.


Depending on your settings, you may be prompted for your Apple ID password before you can download the app.
You may need to be connected to a wireless network in order to download apps from the App Store.
 You can find it on one of your Home screens, or you can tap the "OPEN" button next to it in the App Store that appears when the app is downloaded.
 When you launch Messenger, you'll be prompted to log in. If you already have Facebook installed on your iOS device, you can quickly log in with the same Facebook account.


If you want to log in with a different Facebook account, tap "Switch Account" and then log in with the account you want to use.
 You no longer need a Facebook account to use Facebook Messenger, as long as you are in United States, Canada, Peru, or Venezuela. This does not create a Facebook account, and will only allow you to chat with people in your contacts list that use Facebook messenger.


Tap "Not on Facebook?" on the Messenger log in screen.
Enter in your phone number.
Type in the code sent to you via SMS text message.
Enter the name you want to use on Messenger and upload a picture of yourself.
 Messenger will prompt you to turn notifications on for the app. You won't be able to receive notifications unless you tap "OK."


Notifications will inform you when you've received a new message or call, allowing Messenger to work very similarly to your text message app.
If you do not allow notifications, you will not be notified when someone is trying to start a voice or video call with you unless the Messenger app is open and active. Make sure notifications are enabled if you intend to use voice and video calls with Messenger, or you'll likely miss a lot of calls.
 Messenger will ask for your phone number to make it easier for friends to find you. If your number is already associated with your Facebook account, it will be listed here. This is optional.
 Messenger will scan your phone's contacts and find other people that use the Messenger app. If you don't want to allow this, you have to tap "OK" first, then "Don't Allow."


If you enable this, Messenger will continue to monitor your device's contacts and check newly-added contacts for Messenger accounts. This can make adding new contacts to Messenger easier, since it will happen automatically when you add someone's number to your phone.
 After logging in, you'll be shown all of your Facebook messages. You can chat, send voice and video calls, and much more. See Use Facebook Messenger for tips on getting the most out of Messenger.

