 When you see a dog on a busy road, go to the edge of the side of the road. If you are in a car, pull over onto the shoulder and stand at a safe distance from the road. If you are on foot, walk to the edge at a safe distance from traffic.You want to get into a position where you can get the dog’s attention but keep yourself safe from cars.
If you are in a car, put on your flashers.;
, You want to try to get the dog to come out of the road to you. So, first you need to try to get the dog’s attention. The dog may be running down the road, standing in the middle of the road, or dodging cars, so think of a way to get the dog to pay attention to you.For example, try whistling, loudly calling to the dog, or making noises, like clicking your tongue.
 After you get the dog’s attention, try to coax the dog to you. This may be difficult since you are a stranger. Clap your hands and use a soothing voice to talk to the dog. Squat down into a welcoming position that puts you closer to the dog’s height.You can say things like, “Come here, buddy!” or other similar things.
Make sure your voice is calm and friendly instead of frantic, scared, or aggressive. This may make the dog nervous or reluctant to come towards you.
 If you have food with you, you can try to get the dog to come towards you using food. Wave the food like a treat, trying to show the dog that you have something it wants to eat. If you have human food, you can take a bite to show the dog it is food.If the dog is reluctant to come towards you, leave the food on the shoulder and walk away. Wait to see if the dog will come out of the road and towards the food.
 When you pull over to the side of the road, instead of getting out of your car, just leave the door open. Often, if a dog is scared, they will see an open car door as a safe place to go. Try calling to the dog in a friendly, soothing voice.It may take some coaxing to get the dog into the car. Whistle, clap your hands, or use food to entice them.
 If you can’t get the dog to come to you when you are standing up or squatting, try to make yourself less threatening by sitting or lying down. Sometimes, a dog may think you are a threat if you are towering over them. If they see you lying or sitting, they may think you want to pet them or let them crawl into your lap.If a dog is tired or scared, it may come over and lay beside you because they see you as a safe place.
 If you can’t quite get the dog to come to you, try to get the dog to run off the road in the opposite way. You might try this by honking your horn, yelling, or throwing a stick towards the dog without hitting it. Think of a way to get the dog to run to the other shoulder of the road, out of traffic.Try yelling, “Shoo!” or “Go on!” or “Get away!” to encourage the dog to run the other way.

