 Cats with this virus basically develop an upper respiratory infection. Part of that infection includes your cat having a runny nose.You may also notice congested breathing, which you can identify by a wheezy sound when your cat is breathing through the nose.Your cat may also sneeze, but that isn't quite as common as a runny nose with this particular virus.;
, Cats with this virus often develop conjunctivitis, which is an inflammation of the inner membrane of the eye. You may notice discharge, more blinking, squinting, or a red or swollen eyelid., While not every cat develops this issue, some cats will develop mouth ulcers. One sign that your cat has a mouth ulcer is it is drooling more than normal. Mouth ulcers can also cause severe gingivitis, inflaming the gums.Mouth ulcers usually look like small white or yellow patches. They will have red around the edges.You may notice your cat is less hungry because of this problem.
 This virus can produce muscle and joint pain in your cat, which you may notice if your cat is limping or reacts aggressively to being touched. However, not every cat will develop this symptom.Also, look for ulcers on the paw pads, which can be crusty or red.
 Some symptoms are not specific to this disease, but they show you your cat is sick. For instance, low energy, fever, and not eating can all be signs your cat is sick. You might also notice enlarged lymph nodes.With swollen lymph nodes, you may notice swelling under the chin, near the shoulder, or even in the leg., While at the vet, you'll need to tell them things like when the symptoms started and what symptoms in particular you've noticed. It would also be helpful to know if the cat came in contact with another cat who had the virus (such as the cat went outside).It's also important for the vet to know if the cat had the vaccination for this virus.
 Your vet will spend some time examining your cat's eyes, nose, and face. The vet will also likely explore the cat's body, looking for things like ulcers on the paws and pain in the cat's muscles., If your vet suspects FCV, they'll likely take samples from the cat's eyes, nose, and mouth. The vet may also take samples from the lungs. These samples will then be tested for certain diseases to narrow down what is wrong with the cat., If the problem isn't diagnosed the first time, your cat may need additional tests. Blood tests, x-rays, and diagnostic tests of discharge may all be appropriate., While antibiotics do not treat this disease, they can keep your cat from developing other infections related to the virus. Therefore, the vet may prescribe one for you to give your cat at home., The cat will often need ointments to help treat problems like conjunctivitis and mouth ulcers. You'll need to apply these medications to the areas according to your vet's instructions to help alleviate these symptoms., In some cases, you may receive eye drops from the vet for your cat. The eye drops help with the conjunctivitis and can help prevent secondary infections. Apply according to the vet's instructions for dosage.Come at the eye from the back of the head, as your cat will want to move if you come at it from the front. In fact, you can rest the bottle on the back of the head to drip it into the eye.
Wipe off any drops that go down the front of the cat's face.
 If your cat is having a great deal of muscle or joint pain, an anti-inflammatory may help them feel better. However, you need to ask your vet what is appropriate for your cat, as cats cannot take many of the medications that humans can., Other medications, such as ones to help with mucus or breathing, may also be appropriate for your cat. Talk with your vet about what's best for your cat, especially if symptoms worsen., You don't like snot or other fluids running down your face, and neither does your cat. Try to wipe away discharge from both the eyes and nose with a warm cloth to help keep your cat comfortable., A humidifier can help with your cat's congestion by keeping discharge more liquid. Run a humidifier in the room where your cat is mostly staying to keep it comfortable, as the humid air will help it breathe more easily., Many cats will be disinclined to eat because they can't smell well. Offer canned food if possible, as the increased smell may encourage your cat to eat.Sometimes, baby food (just chicken with nothing else in it) can also encourage your cat to eat. Try putting a bit on a spoon and holding it near your cat's nose.


If it becomes a problem, your cat may need a stimulant, or it may need to be hospitalized.
 Your cat will need to take in plenty of fluids, but you will need to encourage it to drink. If your cat is especially sick, for instance, you may need to bring the bowl of water to the cat to get it to drink., Keeping a cat quiet can be difficult, especially if it is starting to feel better. However, rest is best to help your cat get better, so try to encourage it by keeping noise and other distractions (such as other pets) away from the animal. Also, make sure to provide blankets and keep the area warm for the cat.