 Run a brush or comb through your hair until it is smooth. It will be easier to make the bow if you have smooth hair so get rid of all those tangles!






;
, Your hair should be recently washed but completely dry. Though it may seem like it would be easier to work with wet hair, only dry hair will work to make the bow. Your hair needs to be able to fluff out--wet hair doesn’t fluff well.
 Making the bow on top of your head is the easiest way to do it, but you can also make the bow on the side or on the back of your head.









You can also make more than one bow. Make your hair into two bows on both sides of your head for a super cute look.
 Have hairspray, hair gel and bobby pins close by so you can secure your bow as soon as you make it. Running around the house looking for things to secure your hair with will pretty much guarantee that you’ll need to make your bow again.
 However, instead of pulling your hair all the way through your hair tie like you normally would, create a loop using half or three quarters of your hair. You should have a looped half ponytail and a long loose end of hair.








If you want to make a smaller bow using only half of your hair, follow the same steps but gather the top half of your hair up into a loop, rather than all of your hair. When you are done making the bow, you will have a bow that rests on top of the rest of your loose hair. You can make “ribbons” for the bow by curling specific strands of your loose hair.To create two bow, one on each side of your head, create two loops. One loop should be on the right side of your head, and the other on the left.
 Tuck the end into your hair tie. The loose end of your hair will eventually become the centerpiece of the bow. Tucking the loose end of your hair should leave you with what looks like a loose bun with the hair ends fastened underneath the hair tie.









You don’t want your loop to be too loose. If it’s too loose, the sides of the bow will be harder to control and may droop.
 You should put a dime-sized drop on your hand. Rub your hands together so that they are coated in the gel. Gel will help you sculpt your bow but be careful to only use a small amount or else your hair could be weighed down by the gel, making for a very droopy bow.
 These two sections will form the sides of the bow. Work with one section at a time. If you can, make this division in front of a mirror so that you can make sure both sections are even.
 You will come back to it after you finish the other side. Try to clip it gently so that strands of hair don’t get pulled out of the loop.
 Push the section against your head so that is lies flat. Place a bobby pin so that it runs from top to bottom at the base of the loop. The bobby pin should be under your hair so that it doesn’t show. Position another bobby pin so that it secures the loop from bottom to top. Then repeat this process with the other loop.
 Take your loose end of hair in front of the bow and pull it back and over so that it runs through the middle of your side sections. Make sure to tuck in all of the loose strands.








Another option is to create a braided centerpiece. Braid the loose end of your hair and then pull it back and tuck it into the middle of your bow. This will give your bow an even more intricate touch.
 Make sure that all of the strands are tucked in thoroughly. You may need to use a bit of hairspray to keep the hair in place.
 Connect the hair tie to the middle strand of hair with bobby pins. Use at least three or four pins to make sure that the centerpiece of the bow is secure.








Try to make the bobby pins as invisible as possible. Tuck them under your hair.
Use hairspray to control any loose strands trying to escape the bow bun.
 Use a teasing comb or your fingers to fluff out the bow and make it look fuller. If your hair is having a hard time keeping the shape of the bow on its own, try spraying some extra-hold hairspray onto each of the sections.
