 Lactobacillus acidophilus and other probiotic members of the Lactobacillus family can be found naturally in fermented dairy products such as yogurt and kefir. Acidophilus is also found in fermented soy products, such as tempeh and miso, which are options for vegans and other vegetarians who don't consume dairy products, or for those who may be lactose intolerant.


Because commercially sold yogurt may sit in the dairy case for days before being bought, its acidophilus content will not be as high as that of homemade yogurt.;
, Lactobacillus acidophilus and its related probiotics are added to milk, which provides a medium for the beneficial bacteria to replicate in. Such milk is sold as "acidophilus milk," "sweet acidophilus milk," or "probiotic milk."


Acidophilus milk is often thicker than regular milk, about the consistency of buttermilk. Some acidophilus milk has a pronounced tangy taste to it, while other brands of acidophilus milk have a flavor closer to that of regular milk.
 Although acidophilus probiotics can be found naturally or added to foods, they are more commonly taken as supplements. Acidophilus supplements are available from nutrition supply stores in capsule, tablet, or powder form and may feature either freeze-dried or heat-killed bacteria.


Generally, acidophilus supplements in capsule or tablet form are preferable to supplements in powder form, as it may be harder to measure the correct dosage precisely with a powder, and the measuring spoon may contaminate the powder.
Acidophilus supplements typically contain a higher acidophilus content than either commercially sold or homemade yogurt. The most common acidophilus dosage is 1 or 2 capsules or tablets or 1/4 teaspoon (1.25 milliliters) of powder containing 1 to 2 billion colony-forming units (CFU), more if the supplement is being used to treat a yeast infection.
The genus name "Lactobacillus" for Lactobacillus acidophilus and some of its fellow probiotics means that the bacterium are found in and derived from milk. Even though these bacteria produce the enzyme lactase that aids in digesting the lactose protein in milk, if you're lactose-intolerant, you should choose an acidophilus supplement derived from a non-dairy source.

