 We pick up other people's energies without even being aware of it. When those energies are negative, they affect our aura negatively. You may have had an experience like this: you're in a good mood and looking forward to spending time with a friend. You're enjoying your evening but at some point realize that you're feeling irritable and anxious. When you get home, you're in a full-blown bad mood, and you're not sure how you got there. A situation like this indicates that you should cleanse your aura. Even if your aura doesn't seem out of balance, it's a good idea to cleanse it periodically to release any negative energies.
 Focus on your root chakra located at the base of your spine and associated with the color red. Envision it anchored to the earth by a red light that extends beneath it. Then envision yourself engulfed in a shower of brilliant gold light radiating down from the sun. Let the light penetrate your body and your aura. Hold this image for some time. Then envision a violet light extending from the soles of your feet to the top of your head. See and feel it as a warm, protective blanket and believe that it has the ability to heal and protect any gaps in your aura. At this point, the cleansing and healing process is underway, and you should feel yourself becoming stronger, releasing negative energy and feeling more at peace. Meditate on this feeling for a while. When you feel comfortable, imagine a white light surrounding your cleansed aura for additional protection. , You can take other steps to protect and strengthen your aura; these include massage, shielding, cord cutting and heavenly intervention.

Try Reiki energy healing. This light touch therapy increase the flow of energy by helping to remove stagnant or blocked chi. A Reiki practitioner acts as a medium to receive divine energy and channel it into your energy field where it pushes through blocked chi to prevent further mental, emotional, physical or spiritual dysfunction.






Create a shield. Visualize a bubble or pod of white, loving light enveloping you. This shield of protection can repel any negative thoughts, feelings or other psychic attacks directed at you and prevent energy vampires from draining you.






Cut the cord. Invisible energy cords can emanate from you and attach to another person, place, object or situation. While positive cords of love can never be severed, etheric cords based on fear can be cut in order to prevent further drains of energy. Call upon Archangel Michael to use his sword to cut the negative cords or envision a laser beam from a favored crystal slicing through them.
Ask for angelic assistance. Call on angels for help; they're always available to assist you but must be invited before they're allowed to intervene. Ask Archangel Michael for negative cord cutting, Archangel Raphael to fill energy voids with green, healing light and Archangel Metatron to clear chakras.

