 Walk or ride a bicycle when your destination is close to home. Short trips are generally the hardest on your car and on the environment, so swap out your car for your feet or bike.


Always wear a helmet and safety reflective gear when riding a bicycle.
Get what you need to carry cargo on a bike and do your shopping on two wheels, too. You can carry a lot with panniers, a bike trailer, or a sturdy basket.
 Coordinate with another person or two to carpool to work or work with other parents in the neighborhood to carpool kids to school.


Carpooling will also enable you to take the High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lane on a highway. This lane will usually save time and money on gasoline.
If you live near your children's school, consider organizing a "walking school bus" instead of driving. Children walk to school together in groups, supervised and guided by parents. Neighborhood parents can take turns leading the group.
 If you live in an area that has a bus, light rail, or subway system, consider taking this option to get to work, school or other destinations. Reducing car trips in favor of mass transit trips reduces congestion on roads and reduces the amount of gasoline that is used.


Many bus systems in major cities operate diesel-electric hybrid buses, which further reduces harmful emissions., Make errand trips more efficient by planning out where you will go and hitting all your stops in one trip. Group outings into fewer, longer trips, and plan them out so that you’re not driving the same path multiple times.


Don't forget to call ahead or check online, to make sure you'll arrive during business hours and that what you want is available. Make appointments and purchases online or by phone, too.
 One day per week reduces your commute transportation by 20%.
 If you have been looking for a new vehicle, consider buying a hybrid car. Hybrid cars run on both gasoline and electric motors. There's a growing selection of both hybrid and all-electric cars on the market. They not only give off less emissions into the air, but they also can save you money with fewer trips to the gas station.


You may also be able to get a tax credit on your U.S. federal taxes during the tax year that you bought a hybrid car., If you do have a car, keep it in good repair by changing the oil and air filter on schedule, repairing fluid leaks promptly, keeping the tires properly inflated.
, Whether for work or vacation, lower the number of flights you take. Airplanes emit vast quantities of carbon dioxide and other polluting materials, which increases annually due to increased numbers of flights around the world.Do your part by taking fewer flights.Fly economy class. If there are more people on a plane, the relative environmental impact of one flight will be spread out among more people.
Opt to stay longer in a location rather than traveling back and forth.
Travel locally by train or bus.
Use technology for video conferencing rather than visiting a work location in person.
 Otherwise, try to live near transit or bicycle routes. If you are choosing a residence, consider transportation options as part of the process.

