 This means that you have an assertive handshake, sit calmly, but exude energy, and seem in control of all gestures. Your posture should be relaxed, but your back should be straight. This shows people you are comfortable and confident. Pause when you speak to draw in the listener and show confidence.
Keep your legs slightly apart so you take up more space. This also demonstrates confidence. Lean in slightly when a person is speaking to show interest (leaning away will show a sense of hostility). Don’t cross your arms. Instead, let them dangle at your sides or press them together in your lap. This shows you are open to other people.
Make sure your handshake is firm, but not too crushing. Look the other person in the eyes, although you shouldn’t stare too much. Blink, and look away sometimes so they don’t feel you are trying to be intimidating.
Play with your tone of voice. Tone of voice is a way that people communicate confidence. The key to success is projecting confidence.;
, You can determine emotions by paying careful attention to non-verbal cues. You should also take into context what’s going on at the time you spot the emotional signs, though.


When people are angry, their face flushes, they bare their teeth, they clench their fists, and they invade body space, sometimes by leaning forward. When people are nervous or anxious, their face pales, their mouth seems dry (so they may drink water or lick their lips), they show varying speech tone, and they have tension in their muscles (so they may clench their arms or hands, and their elbows may be drawn in to their sides.) Other signs of nervousness include trembling lip, fidgeting, and gasping or holding breath.
 If you are giving a presentation or speech, you want to be as open as you can to your audience. Thus, you should remove physical barriers that will limit your ability to connect.


Podiums, computers, chairs, and even a folder, are all props that create distance between a speaker and audience, preventing a sense of connection.
Crossing your arms or speaking to someone while sitting behind a computer monitor are blocking behaviors.
 Body language can give away liars. They might be able to hide their lies in their words, but their bodies often tell another story.


Liars are less likely to maintain eye contact, and their pupils may appear constricted.
Turning the body away from you is a sign of lying.
Complexion changes, such as redness in the neck or face, and perspiration, are all signs of lying, as are vocal changes like clearing of the throat.
Be aware that some signs of lying – sweating, poor or no eye contact- are also indications of nervousness or fear. , Different cultures have different ideas about how much physical space you should give another person. But, generally, social distance is broken down into four categories.


Intimate distance. Defined as touching another person to 45 centimeters. If you enter a person’s intimate distance, this can be very unsettling for them unless it’s welcomed or you’re already intimate.
Personal distance. 45 centimeters to 1.2 m. You are close enough to shake hands and to see each other’s expressions and gestures.
Social distance. This is the normal distance in situations that are impersonal or business transactions, defined as 1.2 m to 3.6 m. Speech should be louder and eye contact remains important.
Public distance. 3.7m to 4.5m. Examples of those who often operate in public distance are teachers or those who talk to people in groups. Non-verbal communication is critical but often exaggerated. Hand gestures and head movements can be more important than facial expressions as the latter are often not perceived.
 Make a conscious effort to think about what your body is doing in different interactions with different people. A mirror can be useful to examine facial expressions and posture, but mainly you just want to pay attention to what your body does when you're angry, nervous, or happy.


Determine whether your body language is in sync with your message. Your body language is effective if it communicates the message you want it to communicate. Does your posture communicate confidence, or does it make you seem unsure of yourself even though your words express confidence?
If your non-verbal signals match your words, you'll not only communicate more clearly, you'll also be perceived as being more charismatic.

