 Look at a ski size chart to see what size you should get ahead of time. You can also stand the skis on their end and pick ones that are about 13cm (5 inches) shorter than you. Shorter skis are easily to learn on than long skis.The longer the skis are that you choose are, the more finesse it will take to slow down and turn because you have more ski to move.;
, When you first put your boots on, your toes may feel crunched, but this is normal and it will go away. Once the boots are strapped up, you should be able to barely wiggle your toes but your whole foot should be secure.Ski boots should be tight but not to such a point that your feet are uncomfortable. There is a fine line between the perfect fit and boots that are too small.
Ski boot sizes are not directly related to sneaker sizes. You should ask an employee at the ski park to assist you with choosing the right boots.
 Ski poles are used to help you balance and turn. Choose a set of poles that come roughly to your ribs or chest. The poles should be around 1 ½ ft (45 cm) shorter than you. Find poles that have grips you are comfortable with.
 Wear layers but avoid clothes that are too bulky. You are still exercising, so you will probably sweat. The exact amount or type of clothes is personal preference.Wear a tight t-shirt that is breathable as your base layer. Wear a fleece or sweatshirt that will keep you warm. Your top layer should be a waterproof jacket, if possible, but not a bulky one that restricts movement.
For pants, you might wear sweatpants with waterproof snow pants over the top. Also, wear warm socks that are comfortable on your feet.
 Skiing can make you cold for two reasons. The temperature on ski slopes tends to be low anyway given the fact that there is snow on the ground. You are also racing through the air at high speeds which makes you colder. Choose a hat and gloves that fit snug on your head and hands.


Wear waterproof gloves if you can because you might fall and get snow on them.
Wear a hat that pulls down completely over your ears.
 Wear goggles to protect your eyes from wind burn. A whole day of wind blowing in your eyes can cause harm to them. Despite the cold, there is also a strong chance that you’ll get sunburn from the glare off of the snow. Wear sunscreen to protect your face. Helmets are also a good idea to protect your head in case you fall.
 The basic stance for skiing, especially for a beginner, is to keep your legs in line with your hips. As you get the feel on the slopes, you can move your feet farther apart or closer together. Keep your skis mostly parallel but with your toes pointed slightly inward., Skiing uses the same basic athletic stance as most other sports. It is important to bend your knees because it improves your balance and it helps you take on the impact of bumps in the slope.


Your ski boots will restrict how much you can bend your knees anyway, but you only need to bend them slightly.
 Move the weight onto the balls of your feet. Stay off your heels and resist leaning back. You will be leaning forward since your body is angled down the slope, but don’t lean too far forward. Keeping your balance centered on your feet will keep you going straight.


Leaning left or right will make you turn and leaning too far forward or backward will throw your balance off.
 There are a number of ways to turn, but one of the simplest is to lift one ski just off of the snow. This will turn your body in that direction. So if you want to turn to the left, slightly lift your left ski. If you want to turn right, slightly lift your right ski.


You can also turn by twisting your hips in the direction you want to go. Twisting your hips will turn your skis in the direction you want to go.
 The simplest stopping technique is the wedge or snowplow method. Turn the front points of your skis so they are closer together. To stop completely, get the front of your skis as close as you can without touching them.Point your toes toward each other gradually. If you point your toes together with a quick movement you are likely to throw off your balance.
Practice stopping from slow speeds until you get the hang of it.
How early you slow down depends on how long the hill is and how fast you are going. For small hills, you should slow down in the last 20 yards or so. On larger hills at higher speeds, look to slow down in the last 20% of the hill.
 Doing online research is great, but nothing beats having a live person give you specific instruction and feedback as you get started. Sign up for lessons before you get to the ski park or ask about beginner classes when you arrive.You may have the option of group classes with other beginners or private lessons, which may cost more.
 Ski parks post signs that tell you the difficulty level of each slope so that you can stick to ones that are good for your skill level. Look for signs at the ski park you are at to see what system they use.Common slope ratings go from green (easy) to black (hard) or from a circle (easy) to a diamond (hard).
If you can’t find a sign with slope ratings, don’t be afraid to ask an attendant what the rating system is or what some good slopes are for beginners.
 You will not be an expert on your first run, so don’t try to tackle the biggest slopes in record speed when you start skiing. Use the wedge or snowplow technique to keep yourself moving at a slow speed until you master slowing, turning, and stopping.


Stop halfway down the hill if you feel like you are picking up too much speed. You can start again and finish the hill.
 Coming to a complete stop is one of the harder things to get used to when you begin skiing. To keep yourself and others safe, practice stopping long before you get to the very bottom of the hill.

