 The cooling system in an engine helps it to maintain its internal temperatures and transfer excessive heat out of the engine. The cooling system must not be left unattended every time when you plan a long journey. The cooling system contains different parts, such as the radiator, thermostat, water pump and coolant.


A straightforward way to look after and safeguard your engine from overheating is by checking that it has the appropriate quantity of coolant flowing inside the engine’s cooling chambers.
Always keep the coolant level above the minimum level but below the maximum level to avoid any leakage.
Very deeply coloured coolant in orange or red must be replaced with the fresh coolant by flushing out the radiator.
Maintaining the cooling system costs far less than the damage done by overheating.;
, The engine utilizes the air to burn the fuel in the combustion chambers and it breathes in just the same manner that humans do. It is vital that you regularly check the vehicle's air filters. Cars need a continuous stream of air to run efficiently. With the exception of fuel, air is a fundamental component in charging the car engine with energy. The air needs to enter into the engine frequently, without any constraints.


Take a glance at your air filter and check that it is dirt-free and free of bugs, etc. Swap it with a clean filter if needed.
 To keep your engine clean, you need good engine oil. Regular changes of engine oil are vital. Engine oil lubricates the essential engine parts, preventing them from overheating and reducing wear and tear. If you lengthen the oil changing intervals too much, it can seriously damage your engine and cause permanent harm.


Consult your vehicle’s manual for the oil changes intervals; most updated standards suggest changing the engine oil after every 5,000 miles (8,000 km). However, note that some old motors can’t go as long, so change oils more frequently for such cars.
 The fuel filters play an important role in ensuring clean fuel injection into the engine. This guards the engine against the build-up of damaging deposits and prevents the emergence of specks in the fuel supply. Fuel filters stop any substances or undesirable particles from forming, which can be destructive to the engine.


The removed particles accumulate in a pan, just as with the oil filter. It is necessary to replace the fuel filter to make your engine’s run smoothly. Replace it with a new filter to keep the gas flowing into the engine efficiently.
 Frequent tunings of the engine’s carburetors is necessary. Also change the spark plugs and check the cables, ignition wires, cap and rotor. However, newer models need less regular tune-ups, as the majority of modern cars don't have the ignition wires or distributors found in older cars but instead use lifelong spark plugs. The fuel injection system can be tuned up by using the special injection cleaning solutions; this usually helps to improve the mileage of the vehicle.

