 Both boxes need to be the same size. A great place to pick up boxes is at an art store, an office supply store, or a post office. You can also ask your local shops for any shipping boxes. Most stores toss them out once they unpack their products.
 It must be large enough for your cat to craw through. Use your cat's whiskers as a guideline for the width. Cats will not go through anything they can't get their whiskers through.The doorway can be any shape you want, but make sure that it is as close to the bottom edge as possible. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Set circle and paw print shaped doors about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) up from the bottom edge. Use a plate to trace the circle or paw pad. Use a small cup to trace the "fingers" of the paw.
Set arched, square, and triangular doors right against the bottom edge.
 If your box came flat or unfolded, slide a self-heating cutting mat inside box before you start cutting.Be sure to erase any remaining pencil marks after you cut the doorway out.
 If your box came flat or unfolded, put it together first. Glue the bottom flaps shut using tacky glue, wood glue, or white glue.
 Make it smaller than the doorway, and set it fight in the middle of the box side. You can make it any shape you want, but it might look better if it matches the doorway. Use a pencil to draw the shape, and a box cutter to cut it out. Carefully erase any pencil marks that are left over after you cut the window out.


If your second box came flat/unfolded, slip a self-healing cutting mat inside before cutting it.
 Do not secure the top part just yet. Once again, if your second box came flat or unfolded, put it together first. Glue the flaps shut like you did with the first box. You are leaving the second box open so that you can add a crawl hole into the floor later.
 Use a wide paintbrush or a foam brush to apply the glue to the top of the first box, and the bottom of the second box. Press both boxes together. The window and doorway can be facing the same direction, or they can be facing in different directions.
 Place a plate down in the corner of the box, about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) away from both edges. Draw around the plate using a marker, and lift the plate away.
 You may need to cut around the hole a few times in order to get through all of the cardboard layers. The hole needs to be large enough for your cat to crawl through. If the hole is too small, make it larger.
 Glue the top flaps shut using tacky glue, wood glue, or white glue.
 You can paint both boxes the same color, or contrasting colors. If you want, you can even paint the inside rim of the windows and doorways a contrasting color. This will help them stand out more. You can use spray paint or acrylic paint.


If you are using spray paint, be sure to cover your work space with newspaper. Paint outside or in a well-ventilated area.
If you are using acrylic paint, apply the paint using a wide paintbrush or a foam brush. To get a smooth finish, apply several thin coats of paint rather than one thick coat.
 You can cut the blanket or towel down to fit inside your box, or you can fold it. You put it inside either floor of your cat condo, or even both floors. Do not glue the blanket or towel down; you want to be able to take it out so that you can wash it from time to time.


If you are putting a blanket or towel on the second floor, make sure that you are not covering up the crawl hole.
 To entice your cat to use it, scatter some cat treats or catnip in both boxes.

