 If you teacher is prone to giving pop quizzes, they will most likely emphasize points during class that they want you to remember. Pay close attention to the points your teacher emphasizes, and jot them down in your notes. Put a star next to these points to indicate that it is important information, so that you can spend extra time studying to remember the information.If your teacher repeats information more than once throughout class or the week, chances are that it is important information and will be on the pop quiz.
When your teacher is presenting information and they say, “This is very important” or “This might come up again,” this information will most likely be on the pop quiz., During class, take notes on information that is on the syllabus or that was covered in your assignments you did the night before. Also, take notes on ideas or connections that you make in your head while the teacher is presenting. This will enable you to remember the information better.


Write down examples the teacher uses to explain concepts, particularly examples that stand out to you, i.e., examples that created a vivid image in your mind.Develop personal abbreviations that will allow you to take notes quicker. For example, make abbreviations for concepts or ideas that have long names.Paraphrase what your teacher says. You can remember things better if they are in your own words., Always ask questions in class to clarify concepts or ideas that you do not understand. While doing your assignments the night before, come up with a list of questions on the things you have difficulty understanding or that you find interesting. If the information your teacher presents in class still hasn’t cleared up your confusion, ask the question in class.
 Before or after class, talk to your teacher about any study guides they might have that can prepare you for a pop quiz. If they do not have a formal study guide, ask your teacher what they expect you to learn from their class. You can say, “I would like to be well prepared for any future pop quizzes. Today I learned X, Y, and Z during class. Is there anything I am missing? Am I understanding the information correctly?”


You can also ask them about the information that you should pay special attention to when you read the assigned chapters for homework.

