 You cannot possibly expect to be loved if you don't love yourself. This is essential to any relationship. You need to have a special bond with YOU. Ways of doing this are gaining independence and having alone time, or even just discovering new hidden talents. Find out what your future has in store and figure out your life and yourself before figuring out someone else's.;
, By doing this, you can bring back the reasons of why you said no, and try to connect with past decisions and feelings. Bear in mind that you may have been in a totally different situation then than now.
 You have just happened to love each other at different points. Instead of being upset about you loving him, remember that they were feeling the same way about you.
 This is one of the most difficult stages. Forgetting the past takes a lot of work mentally. You should do this by keeping hardly any contact between you and the person, unless they are a friend.
 You tend to find that someone you rejected would feel pretty embarrassed and wouldn't want to be involved in a relationship with you anymore. Do NOT take this personally. If anything, they don't want to bring up the past again, as it makes them look stupid.
 Perhaps you only miss the person through jealousy or loneliness. If you really do miss the person, act on it and try contacting them, if they feel the same way about you.
 You should remember that they loved you for you, and not someone who is fake. Stick with the same sort of style and personality if you want to grab their attention. Changing yourself will only make things worse, unless you have changed in a subtle or better way.
 You could do this by spending time alone, or possibly getting in contact with old friends. Maybe even getting to know the person a little more. This will make them feel better about the awkward parting between the both of you, although they may not show it.
 Do not bring up past events, and involve eye contact so you keep the attention. A good way of talking to them is by saying stuff like, "Hey tomato," or "Funny seeing you again.." Or "Wow! You look different!" Different greetings will receive different responses.
 As much as we all dread work, it always helps take your mind off things - especially the person you miss. Love comes quicker when you least expect it.
 This could be anything from Book Club to Cheerleading. From Pottery to Diving. Or you could take more of an interest in friends and family.

