


As you search for a potential career, the best place to start is with what interests you and what skills you have. Figure out what jobs involve a combination of the two and pursue the opportunity to participate in a job shadowing day.
Don't feel as though, by doing a job shadow, you are committing yourself to anything. Getting an inside look into a specific job or field is just a great way to explore your options and to decide if the career is still something you want to pursue after getting the inside scoop.;
,


Do not go into a job shadow with professionals without some knowledge of the field. Their responsibility, as the professionals, will mainly be to show you what they do on a typical day on the job rather than teaching you specifics about the field. You will be able to get more out of the experience if you have a general knowledge about the field and what the job entails before you set foot into the professionals' office.



While you are there, be sure to ask about how the professionals got into their fields, what they like and don't like about their jobs and anything else you think might help you decide if this is the right career path for you. This is your chance to get information from the source, so don't be afraid to ask a lot of questions. This is especially important if you are really enjoying yourself and begin to think that this job is a real possibility for you.



Since the professionals are helping you out, offer to help them out. If there are any tasks that you can easily complete for them while shadowing, let the professionals know you want to be more than just their shadow for the day. This is also a good way to fill some time if the professionals have something to do where they can't take you along.



There are trade secrets in a number of fields that your professionals may not be able to share with you. There also may be areas within the facility that may be off limits to non-employees. Be understanding of this and don't push your limits. Be respectful of the professionals' time and always remember to let them call the shots.

