 Driving for hours on end can be tedious. Make it fun and exciting for you and your partner by doing something spontaneous, such as stopping at a coffee shop you’ve never been to, or stopping at a museum you’ve never heard of. Doing something new or unplanned can be exciting and could spark romance between the two of you, as you both experience something different together.
 Games can be used to amuse both of you on the road and spark romance as well. They can spark creativity, laughter, or romantic conversations, effectively keeping both of you entertained for hours at a time. Take some time before your trip to learn a game or two you can play on the road. You could be surprised at what you end up learning about each other along the way.


Play “Would You Rather.” This game will get those creative juices flowing, as both of you think of crazy, embarrassing, terrifying, or even wonderful options to offer to the other person. The other person has to choose which option they would do. For example, you could say, “Would you rather receive a dozen roses every week or be told you're beautiful every day?” This game can get very interesting and you may learn a lot about your partner. It can also be an opportunity to spark a fun, flirty conversation or a deep, romantic conversation in which you learn more about your part net and how they see the world., As you make stops along your road trip, make sure to take plenty of pictures. As you both bond over a new adventure together, you will have pictures to preserve the memories. Take silly pictures as well, so that you can both have something to laugh about and fondly remember.
 As you are on the road together for hours at one time, it is likely that you will stumble into a conversation that is very meaningful, serious, or philosophical. Listen to your partner with an open heart and mind. Hold their hand as they speak, to show that you care about them and support them. Remember to show affection to your significant other and to remind them how important they are to you.