 Place your basic supplies and most commonly used items in the top drawers so they’ll be close at hand. This includes things like writing utensils, envelopes, important forms and file folders. Save the bottom drawers for backup supplies, reference materials and documents that you only need to look at occasionally. Take a little extra time to organize the contents of your desk drawers so that you’ll know exactly where everything is when you need it.Stock up on copy paper, printer cartridge refills, ink pens, staples and other items you tend to go through quickly to create a ready cache of supplies.
Drawers are particularly at-risk zones for clutter. Go through your drawers every couple of weeks and get rid of anything you don't need that's interfering with the efficiency of your desk's layout.
 All the drawer space in the world won't do you any good if the drawers themselves are a jumbled mess. Stop simply throwing things into your desk and instead use a compartmentalized drawer organizer that does the work of sorting and storing for you. Dedicated organizers will prove useful day in and day out, as they allow you to separate your supplies however you see fit while keeping them together in one place.Label the various compartments of your drawer organizer so that its contents are immediately identifiable.
For especially large or full desks, try running with multiple organizers of different sizes and configurations that are conducive to keeping track of your supplies.
 If your laptop, tablet or smartphone plays an integral role in your work, feel free to leave them out, but isolate them to one corner or a special drawer. That way, they won’t end up spread out over the desktop. Try not to rely on too many devices at once, as they can quickly become an aggravation rather than an aid.Set up a “charging station” near an outlet or electrical strip where your devices can remain plugged in and ready for use.In general, it’s best to only use your digital devices when they’re strictly necessary. Electronics contribute to a lot of mental clutter, as well.
 Backpacks, purses, laptop bags, lunchboxes and other carriers are bulky and take up a lot of space, so it doesn’t make sense to cover your desk with them. Stash these accessories elsewhere, preferably beside or underneath your desk where they’ll be accessible without being an obstacle. Try to pack your essentials in as few bags as possible on the way to work each day.Take advantage of lockers or break rooms for storing personal belongings if your company offers them.
When storing larger accessories at floor level, try not to obstruct existing walking space.

