 Before you style your hair using a diffuser, you should wash your hair. You can use your regular shampoo and conditioner. As the heat from a diffuser can be hard on your hair, take extra precautions when conditioning.









Leave your regular conditioner in for 3 to 5 minutes instead of washing it out immediately. This will keep your hair a little softer and more moisturized going into the diffusing process.Make sure to rinse out shampoo and conditioner completely. Leaving in any residue can dry out your hair and cause damage. Rinse until you no longer see any suds leaving your hair., Once you're done washing your hair, turn your head upside down. To start drying, gently shake your hair back and forth. This will allow your natural curls and waves to take shape.









To continue drying, squeeze excess water of your hair. Do not rub dry with a towel. This can leave hair frizzy and difficult to manage.If your hair is still dripping wet, it's better to blot dry with a towel then rub.
Use a wide tooth comb to brush your hair, working out any tangles., It's optional, but a curl cream or mousse can help enhance your hair's shape during the diffusing process. You can find such products at a local salon.








Any products you use should have some kind of moisturizing agent. This is because heat can dry out your hair. Look for lotion-based mousse, foam, or gel to use in your hair before you begin diffusing., Keeping your head upside down, work the diffuser around the back of your head using circular motions. Focus on the roots at the top of your head. Diffusing from behind will add body to your hairstyle.
 Check to see how your hair is setting. If you like how your hair looks, you can stop diffusing at this point. However, if you want more volume try using the diffuser on the front of your hair and along your part line.








As with simply drying your hair with a diffuser, natural curls may be best left alone. If your hair is normally curly, try drying the roots and letting the ends air dry.Use the same circular motions as you continue diffusing your hair. As always, keep your hands out of your hair during this process. This can interfere with the style.
 You can use a diffuser to add volume to your hair. To do so, you'll need to grab some hair clips.









Place clips in your hair near the roots. Keep them at an angle. This will lift the top section of your hair, encouraging volume as you dry.You can either continue to use the diffuser or allow your hair to dry naturally with the clips in place. Different types of hair will respond in different ways. You may have to do some trial and error to see which methods best bring out volume in your hair. Try diffusing your hair with the clips in one day. The next day, allow your hair to air dry. See which results you prefer., Allowing some of your hair to dry naturally will keep it moisturized. It can also encourage volume. Once your hair feels about 80% dry, stop using the diffuser. Allow your hair to air dry the rest of the way.
 Use mousse, leave-in conditioner, or another hair product to keep your style in place. Apply it to your hair using a scrunching motion, rather than combing it in, to keep the style intact.









Your hair should have natural bounce after diffusing it. Don't apply too much hair spray or another heavy product, since this could weigh your hair down.
Once again, apply product by acting like your pulling your hair into a ponytail. Then, run your fingers all the way to the ends of your hair.Pay attention to product instructions. Many products advise that you apply at the roots to prevent your hair from looking greasy or weighed down.