 Cats are big sleepers. In fact, they sleep on average 16 hours a day. However, if your cat seems to be sleeping more than usual this might be a sign of depression.


As cats sleep so often, it can be hard to gauge how much is too much. However, you should have some idea of when your cat tends to be awake and when she tends to be asleep. Use this as a guide when monitoring her sleeping habits.If you know your cat is always awake to greet you in the morning and suddenly she spends that time snoozing in the pantry, this could be a sign she's depressed. If she's always awake after work and now you find her asleep on the couch, take note of this as well.Watch for general dips in energy. When your cat isn't sleeping, does she seem lethargic? Some cats are naturally lazy, but if your once bouncy and energetic cat suddenly lies in bed all day this could be a sign of depression., Cats make a range of sounds, from hissing to purring to mewing. If you notice your cat seems to be vocalizing more often than usual, this could be related to depression.


Depressed cats might cry, yowl, or hiss in response to mild stimuli or simply vocalize at random points throughout the day. She may be trying to communicate something is wrong.Much like sleeping, how much is unusual varies from cat to cat and you're the best judge of what's normal for your pet. If your cat is normally loud, mewing to announce her presence or ask for attention, you may not need to worry about frequent vocalization. However, if a normally quiet cat suddenly starts keeping you up at night crying she might be trying to communicate unhappiness.
Excessive vocalization frequently results from the death of a close companion, which can either be a pet or a person. Your cat might cry to try and help a missing companion locate her., Depressed cats might over or under eat in response to sadness. Take stock of how much your cat is eating.


Loss of appetite is a major factor in depression in both people and animals. Your cat may be disinterested in food and you might notice they're not eating at feeding times and the dry or wet food you leave out goes untouched. Weight loss might result from such changes in appetite.Conversely, some cats overeat when depressed. While it's rarer, it does happen. If you notice your cat wanting more food, especially if it's to the point she's putting on weight, this may also be a sign of depression., When depressed, cats may cease grooming themselves or groom themselves excessively. This may become noticeable physically.


If your cat's coat is dull or matted, she may not be grooming herself. You might also notice a lack of grooming. If your cat frequently cleans herself in the middle of the living room after dinner, for example, and suddenly stops this could be a sign of depression.Other cats may groom excessively to curb anxiety related to feline depression. You will likely notice your cat licking herself for long periods of time. She may also develop bald spots or rashes due to too much grooming., Cats are social animals, but like the occasional moments to themselves. It's not atypical for a cat to have a favorite hiding spot, like a dresser drawer or closet, but too much hiding can be a sign of depression.


When depressed, your cat may hide in a hard to find place. Rather than simply taking refuge in the closet, for example, she might burrow into a corner where she cannot be seen.Once again, only you can gauge what's normal for your pet. Some cats hide more than others, but if you're used to your cat spending time in the living room during afternoons and she's suddenly nowhere to be seen this might be a sign of depression., Litter box issues are linked to stress, which is a symptom of depression in cats.



Understand the difference between urine marking and urination. Urine marking is a form of marking territory and usually unrelated to feline depression. The urine is usually found on vertical surfaces, tends to produce a pungent odor, and is generally the work of male cats. If your cat is urine marking, this is likely because he feels his territory is threatened and not a result of depression. However, tensions between cats and other pets can lead to feelings of anxiety, stress, and depression. Make sure to manage any territorial disputes before they result in mental health issues.
If you're finding urine or feces around the house, this might also be a sign of feline depression. Cats may urinate outside the litter box due to disliking the size, shape, or litter type and may also urinate outside the box if the litter is dirty. If your litter box is clean, and you haven't made any recent changes regarding the box, the urination may be related to depression.