 With your dog in a sitting position, move behind it and bend over so that you can easily maneuver around the entire dog.


The dog must be in a sitting position at this point. His or her back should be between your knees.
Do not try to do this while your dog is in an excited state since you or the dog could get hurt.
You will not be able to do this with the dog lying down.
 Hold the harness in both hands and open up the padded collar portion. Fold the breastplate portion in half so that the two ends of the thick chest padding meet.


Use your fingers to pull the padded collar and nylon webbing back behind the breastplate portion. You should notice an opening for your dog's head at this point.
 Pull this newly created opening over your dog's head and adjust the fur and skin so that the fit is comfortable yet snug.


If your dog has a medium to thick coat, pull the fur beneath the harness straps through the opening of the harness. If you do not do this, the harness will feel tighter on your dog, and it can also cause tension, pinching, friction, and other sources of discomfort as your dog works.
The harness should sit across the breastbone at this point. It should also be in front of the shoulder blades.
Slip two fingers underneath the neck straps. If you cannot fit this many fingers through, loosen the strap. If you can fit more than that, tighten the strap.
 Gently cup one front paw with your and and lift it so that it bends at the knee. Guide this leg through the opening or loop on the corresponding side of the harness.


Repeat this for the other leg and the other side.
When done correctly, the breastplate of the harness will run vertically and centered in between the dog's front legs. It will rest along the breastbone.
Readjust the fit as you did before, checking for any pinched fur, excess looseness, or uncomfortable tightness.
 The tailpiece of the harness should run down along the spine and to the base of the tail.


With a properly fit harness, the will sit at the very base of the tail.
The webbing must also sit flat on the dog's back. If it gets twisted, untwist it and try again.
 If you are using a weight pull harness, there will also be a spreader bar near the tail end of the harness. This bar should go over the dog's back and be positioned gently beneath the dog's tail.


Note that this is not a feature found on all full-body harnesses, though.
 The dog's harness should now be snug and secure on your dog, so he or she is ready for action.
