 Interacting with other children will teach sharing, empathy and the ability to stand up for one's self.


Present options for group activities and sports. For example, joining a soccer team rather than playing singles tennis might be better for an only child to feel like he or she is part of a group.;
, Even if your child does not have siblings, becoming close with cousins, neighbors and good friends can provide the same type of bond.
 An only child often feels like one of the adults when there are no other children around. It is important to establish boundaries of adult and child time.


Leave your child with friends, relatives or a babysitter for adult evenings out. You can still have family time throughout the week, but make a conscious effort to teach your child that he or she cannot always expect to be included in what you do and where you go.
 This will help your child understand how to help others and consider their needs.
 It can be common for an only child to dictate meal plans and shopping preferences, but remember that adults need to make adult decisions.


Encourage input, but maintain your decision making power. For example, if a child wants hot dogs for dinner but you have already decided on meatloaf, explain that you are cooking meatloaf, but allow your child to pick between broccoli or corn as the side dish.
 When you have 3 or 4 kids, you might divide up chores so the dishes get done and the toys get picked up. With only 1 child in the house, the mess might be smaller but you still need to hold your child accountable for cleaning it up.
 Parents of an only child might slip into the role of confidante more easily than parents of multiple children.


Allow your child to form other adult relationships. Try not to feel threatened or disappointed if your child turns to other adults for advice, support or help. This is normal, and similar to a child with siblings going to them for help instead of a parent.
 Teach shoelace tying, bike riding, swimming and other milestones at the same pace of your child's peers.

