 If you're always tired at school, it will be extremely difficult for you to stay focused and learn. Most teenagers need at least 8 1/2 hours of sleep each night to function at their best, so make sure you go to bed early enough.
 Proper nutrition is also essential if you want to do your best in school. Make sure to eat a filling and nutritious breakfast before school. Healthy snacks like fruits and nuts can help keep you energized throughout the day.

Make sure your breakfast has plenty of protein. Good sources include eggs, whole grain bread, yogurt, and peanut butter. Steer clear of foods that contain lots of sugar or refined grains.
It's equally important to keep yourself hydrated, so bring a water bottle to school with you and keep refilling it throughout the day.
 Students who are physically fit tend to have an easier time excelling in school. Whether you're struggling with feeling drowsy in school or you have so much energy that you can't keep still in class, incorporating some physical activity into your daily routine can make a big difference.Try playing a sport at school to keep you active. If you don't like competitive sports, consider jogging, riding your bike, or playing some non-competitive sports with your friends.
 It may be tempting to ignore your teacher and do something else if you find a lesson boring, but this will only make things much harder when you need to complete homework assignments and take tests. Keep your phone and anything else that is not related to your class in your backpack.

If you are allowed to use a tablet or computer in school, make sure you only use it for school-related purposes. If you are not working on an assignment or actively taking notes, put it away.
 One of the best ways to stay engaged during a lesson is to take notes. Whether you're listening to your teacher or reading something independently, jot down the main points.You don't down every single thing. Instead, try to focus on answering the core questions: who, what, when, where, why, and how. For more in-depth material, you can challenge yourself to come up with more specific questions, like, "To what extent did...?" or "What was the effect of...?"Using your own words is more effective than just copying down what you've read or heard.
 If you don't understand something, it's important to get clarification right away. Getting all of your questions answered will make it much easier for you to move on to the next lesson with confidence.If you don't want to raise your hand and ask your question in the middle of the lesson, write it down and ask your teacher later. Writing it down will help you remember exactly what you need clarification on and at what point you became confused.
You can ask questions even if you understand the material perfectly. You might want to know more about a specific topic or how it relates to other things you have learned about. This shows curiosity and interest, so your teacher will be happy to answer your questions.
Answering other people's questions is also a great way to keep yourself engaged in the lesson.
 Many students choose to use study hall hours to socialize, but try to avoid this if you have work that you could be doing. Motivate yourself to stay focused in study hall by reminding yourself that whatever work you don't complete now, you'll have to do at home., When you have the opportunity to choose classes, make sure to choose wisely. You should choose classes that interest you to keep you fully engaged.Classes that are not challenging at all will probably be boring for you, but classes that are too challenging might cause you to become overly stressed. Think carefully about the demands of each class you plan on taking when you are deciding on your schedule.
Make sure to think about your future education goals when choosing your classes. If you want to go to college, it's probably not a good idea to skip high school classes that will be necessary prerequisites for your future degree. If you're not sure what classes you need to take, talk to your guidance counselor or adviser.
 Make sure to keep all of your notes and past assignments in one place. Different systems work best for different people, but all that really matters is that you know exactly where to find something when you need it. This will make it much easier to review what you have already learned when it's time to prepare for tests or big assignments.It's also important to keep your completed homework assignments in the same place every day so you don't lose them. There's nothing worse than losing points for an assignment that you actually did on time!

, In order to get the most out of your studying and avoid the stress of cramming at the last minute, it is important to plan out a schedule in advance. Studying a little bit every night and dividing large assignments up into smaller parts will help you stay on track.It's best to get yourself in the habit of doing homework and studying at the same time every day. You can extend your study period when you have more work to do, and end early on days when you have less work.
Set achievable goals for each study or homework session. For example, if you have an essay due in two weeks, your goal for tonight might be to create a rough outline.Write down all of your assignments in a planner. A wall calendar or mobile app can also help you keep track of your work, depending on your own personal preferences. If your schedule also includes extracurricular activities, work, or other commitments, make sure to keep track of them in the same place. This will help you visualize when you have time to do your work.Make sure to give yourself enough time to complete each assignment. If you're not sure how long something will take, try asking the teacher for an estimate. This is especially important for big projects, like research papers. Your teacher can help you understand all of the various steps that are involved, so you can budget time for each one., While you should consider all of your schoolwork a priority, some assignments are more important than others. If you are struggling to manage your time, make sure not to waste too much on assignments that are not worth much. Instead, focus the majority of your attention on the assignments that will have the most impact on your final grade.This doesn't mean that you should completely neglect smaller assignments. If you do this consistently, the bad grades will start to add up and bring your whole average down.
It might be tempting to do all of your easy homework first and save the most difficult assignments for last, but this is actually counterproductive. You will be more focused and energetic when you first start your homework than you will be after you have been working for a while, so take care of the work that requires the most attention first.You also need to consider the due date for each assignment when determining its priority level. Try to finish assignments that are due the following day before tackling ones that you have more time to complete.
 You will have a much easier time doing homework and studying if you set aside a specific place for it. Your study space should have a comfortable chair and enough space for you to spread out your books and other materials. It should also be quiet and free from distractions.If you don't have anyplace at home where you can study in peace, try to find another location. You may be able to stay after school and do your work in a classroom if you ask for permission. Your local library is also a great option.
Take a 15-minute break every hour if you find yourself getting distracted. Take a short walk or do a task that will not keep you distracted for more than 15 minutes., Everyone learns differently, so the study methods that are most effective for your friends might not work for you. Try to make studying more enjoyable for you by using the method that you genuinely find the most helpful, even if it's not conventional.


One way to make studying more enjoyable is to imagine that you are someone else, like a character from the book you are reading, a famous scientist, or a historical figure. Try to think about how this person might explain the material you are learning about. You can even act it out if you want.Flashcards are great study tools for some people. If drawing pictures on your flashcards helps you learn better than writing words on both sides, go for it!Rewriting material in your own words can also help you retain it better. If you want to get a little creative with this method, try coming up with rhyming lines or catchy phrases., Once you've finished all of your studying and homework for the day, make sure to give yourself a reward for a job well done. This may be going outside, watching your favorite television show, listening to some music, or anything else you enjoy.Remember that you will only be motivated by your reward if you don't give it to yourself on days when you don't finish all of your work.
If you lack the discipline to reward yourself, try getting a parent or older sibling to hold on to the reward until your work is done.
 Nothing makes school more miserable than struggling through your classes alone and not knowing where to turn for help. School will be easier and more enjoyable if you ask for help as soon as you feel you do not understand the curriculum, instead of waiting until you are failing the class and completely overwhelmed.

Ask your teacher for help, or maybe even another teacher at your school. You might understand the material just fine if it is explained in a slightly different way. Remember that your teachers are there to help you learn, so don't be afraid to ask them questions.
Your classmates may also be able to help you. If you are friendly with other students in the class who are doing well, ask them if they would be willing to help you with an assignment or form a study group.
If you need more individualized assistance than your teacher can offer you, think about getting a private tutor. There are many private tutoring companies that can help you, although you will have to pay for these services. Some schools also offer free peer tutoring, so be sure to take advantage of those resources.
 School will be much more enjoyable for you if you get to see people who you like. Friends can also help support you when you are feeling stressed out by school or struggling with an assignment.

Having friends is great, but don't let them distract you in class. Keep your conversations limited to free time, like during lunch or between classes.
 Being involved with school sports and clubs can help you make friends and it can help you become more passionate about school.Be cautious about over scheduling. If you start falling behind with your studying because of your extracurricular activities, you're probably doing too much. Instead of trying to be involved in everything, just choose one or two activities that you really enjoy.
 Elective classes are a great opportunity to learn more about something that interests you. The more passionate you are about your courses, the easier and less stressful school will be for you. Try to take at least one class that genuinely interests you.If your school doesn't offer any electives that interest you, talk to your guidance counselor about what other options are available. Some schools offer students the option to take certain classes at community colleges while they are still in high school.
You can also use electives as a way to explore new subjects that you know little or nothing about. You may discover that you have a passion you didn't even know about!

, You may not enjoy every one of your classes, and that's perfectly fine. It's important, however, to keep thinking about the future. If you really hate one of your required classes or even a specific assignment, try refocusing your attention on your future career goals. Thinking about the class or assignment as a very small step towards achieving a goal that will bring you a lot of happiness in the future might make it easier to deal with.