 To lose weight, you must use more calories than you intake, which can be accomplished through diet and exercise. Safe weight loss includes losing 0.5 to 2.0 pounds each week, which requires a 500–1,000 decrease in overall calories each day.No diet can target a specific part of your body for weight loss. Your goal is to reduce overall body fat, which will include fat near the underarms.
Create a mindset that encourages you to lose weight. Losing weight means committing to a plan and following through with it. You can do it!

, Many people are unaware of how many calories they consume each day, which leads to feeling frustrated at an inability to lose weight. Using a food diary increases your success in losing weight.Using a food diary means tracking the calories you eat each day, and also tracking the calories you expend on exercise.


If you have a smartphone, download a food diary application. Many free apps exist that track total nutrition, including protein, fiber, and vitamins found within your food. It's a great way to make sure you are eating a balanced diet and maintaining proper nutrition.
 Eating in response to emotional problems can end up having big consequences on your health, resulting in gaining unnecessary weight.It's easy to be an emotional eater, but start to retrain your body not to turn to food when you experience certain feelings. Listen to your emotional cues, but handle those separately outside of food.


Begin listening to your body's cues when it feels hungry. When you get an indication from your body, hear it out. What amount of food will satisfy the hunger? What kind of food does your body want? Could you be thirsty? If you have a craving, figure out if there is a healthy alternative that can satisfy the craving.
 Often, foods with a high sugar content also have a high fat content, which can make losing weight quite difficult.Moderate your intake of foods high in fat or sugar, and sparingly eat foods high in both fat and sugar.


Common high sugar sources include sodas, candies, alcoholic drinks, cakes, and pastries.
Common foods that are high in saturated fats include margarine, butter, cooking oils, non-skim dairy products, fried foods, many desserts, untrimmed meat, cold cuts, and processed or packaged foods.
 Include more fruits and vegetables, and add a variety of grains and proteins to maintain a healthy weight.Get creative in adding fruits and veggies. Make a fruit smoothie in the morning, or pack sandwiches high with veggies. Treat yourself to sweet fruits for dessert.
Eat a variety of grains such as rice, quinoa, and oats.
Mix up your protein by eating trail mix, substituting tofu, or adding beans.
 When preparing food, get the most bang for your buck. If you crave food low in nutrients, consider replacing it with a higher nutrient alternative. Do some searching online to find replacements, many can be found with a simple internet search.


Instead of making spaghetti, prepare spaghetti squash. Spaghetti squash has a similar taste and consistency to spaghetti. Spaghetti squash is a vegetable and is packed with nutrients.
If you crave ice cream, prepare "banana ice cream". Blend a frozen banana in a food processor or blender until creamy. You'll be surprised at how much frozen banana resembles ice cream!

, Sports drinks, sodas and fruit juices can have a high sugar content and are packed with calories. Water provides a healthy and cheap beverage to keep you hydrated throughout your day and while exercising.

