 Next, as quickly as you can, twist his arm and attempt to bring it behind him. When you're done, you should have a hand firmly on his arm, with it pressed against his back. This places you behind him and is rather painful. If he is quick or strong, throw your arm around his neck and put him in a headlock of sorts, further stabilizing yourself. The next move is up to you.;
, This will probably stagger him and make the counter easier. Grab his leg and rip as hard as you can in any direction, but going towards you can work well. If he falls, try to bring his leg up and close to his back as fast as possible. Sit on him if you have to, but keep his leg held. If he reverses the counterattack, get out of there and recover. If he starts a leg choke, you're done for, unless you're lucky. Or very fast and strong.
 The second option can be better, in some cases. Keep in mind that untrained grapples are much, much easier to counter than someone who's trained in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu for half of his life.
 First, break his grip. This can be done many ways, but simple grabbing his arm and tearing it away can work. If it doesn't, strike the inside of his arm, and aim for the elbow joint. If you hit him hard enough, not only will it hurt like hell for him, but he'll probably let go. In the split second of confusion is when you make your counter. Snatch his arm and do something similar to a punch counterattack, or you can try a new move.
 Then, grab his wrist. The backs of your hands should be facing you. Then, with one foot planted solidly, put your other leg in front of him like you're going to trip him. Because you will. Now throw him from the arm you have seized, and he should fall quite naturally. From here, you have him on his stomach, with his arm pulled out and back. He is pretty helpless. You can hold him there even better by putting the foot you tripped him with on his back. From here, you can inflict pain by pressing on his joint. Be careful, though. You can easily break his arm unintentionally, or intentionally.

