 A website is simply a tool that we use to communicate information on the internet. Websites are a way that a Christian church can fulfill Christ’s command to His disciples in Matthew 28:19-20; “Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” A church website will both direct people to visit the church and give information to the members of the church.;
, How to choose the best web address.


Make it Easy to Remember . Consider how a web address gets communicated:

Word of mouth: A church might have a terrific website but it will do no good if a member can’t remember the domain name to tell their friends.
Signs: A church might have a terrific website but it will do no good if no one can remember the domain name they saw as they were driving by a sign in their car.
T-shirts, flyers and business cards: A church might have a terrific website but it will do no good if no one can read or remember what they read on the media


Keep it simple. Consider:

Spelling
Make it easily able to be typed. 
Length
Memorable words
Reject Hyphens and Numbers
Only Choose Dot-Com Available Domains
Keep the Name as Short as Possible  


Create and Fulfill Expectations.

A properly worded web address can create expectations. It could possibly entice a hesitant visitor to check it out.
Likewise, the words in the web address should fulfill the created expectation through the content on the sight.
 Knowing the audience of a website helps a church focus on ways to make it most effective for the audience. With the image of their website’s audience a church must consider the specific needs when designing the site.


Perspective visitors are…

searching for a church
wanting to anonymously investigate the church
looking for a positive first impression of the church
will likely only understand clear language with familiar vocabulary
attracted to an appealing style
appreciate easy-to-use layout
wondering the whos, what's, wheres, hows and whens of the church
trying to contact a person from the church to answer questions
wondering if the church will be friendly, welcoming and relevant


Existing church members are…

Looking for one online source to find church documents and calendars
Concerned about their privacy
Hoping their church is appealing to non-members
Preaching and need a place they can direct people to explain their beliefs



, What content do people want to see on a church website?


The Essentials

Times of the services and regular classes
Beliefs
Where the church building is
Contact details 


The Extended Options:

Upcoming special events notices
Blog
Church Members Profiles
Audio and Video of classes
Links to other relevant websites.
Twitter Feed
Photos of past activities
The church's Facebook page link
Live video feed of services
A password-protected members only tab with address lists and specific calendars



