 Lab blocks are often available in varieties with varying levels of protein meant to be matched to an individual rat’s unique nutritional needs. Rats are omnivores and can eat meat as well, but it should not be a normal part of the rat’s diet. Pregnant rats, babies, and young rats need more protein than normal adults. Watch for signs your rat may be protein-deficient, such as:Chronic infections
Stress fractures in bones
Hair loss

, Pesticides have a variety of harmful impacts on rats, including thyroid disruption, reduced antibody count, and complications of the endocrine system.In order to ensure your rat stays healthy, buy as much organic produce as possible.If you buy conventional produce:


Scrub surface of your fruit/veg vigorously with a soapy solution
Rinse with water
Peel or scrape the outer skin off and discard

, In addition to rat pellets, rats should eat a variety of fibrous fruits and veggies. But not just any vegetables and fruits will do.Acceptable fruits include apples, pears, bananas, melons, berries, and citrus fruits.
Acceptable vegetables include broccoli, cabbage, celery, carrots, parsley, and fresh corn.
Unacceptable fruits include mangoes and green bananas.
Unacceptable vegetables include raw sweet potato, dried corn, avocado, raw beans, and raw artichokes.
Approximately one tablespoon of fruits and veggies per day is enough for a healthy adult rat., Like humans, rats enjoy the occasional treat. Semi-sweet chocolate, orange juice, cookies, and potato chips will be happily consumed by rats.However, don’t make foods high in sugar, fat, and salt a regular part of the rat’s diet. Doing so could lead to obesity and other health problems.
 Lab blocks provide the best nutrition for rats. These are specially-formulated food compounds designed for rats in captivity to receive all the nutrition they need. There are a multitude of lab blocks available. Some of the more reputable brands include:


Oxbow lab blocks come in two types: young and “regal” (adult).
Harlan Teklad offers varieties of lab blocks differentiated by the protein content: 14%,16%, 18%, and 23% varieties depending on the rat’s needs.
Mazuri and Purina, both owned by the same parent company Land O Lakes, also produce high-quality lab blocks.Lab blocks are available for sale online or in pet stores.
Don’t buy mixes containing lab blocks and seeds, nuts, corn, and fruit. Rats will select the latter and leave the blocks untouched, leading to nutritional shortfalls.Issue a small bowl of lab blocks once a day to your healthy adult rat., Having fresh water at all times ensures the rat is not at risk for dehydration. You can either provide a bowl of water or a bottle. In either case, fill and change the water each day.


If you provide a bowl of water, the rats can also use it to bathe themselves. Be sure to wash the bowl daily.
If you provide a bottle of water, make sure the mouthpiece is accessible by even the smallest rats in the cage. Check the mouthpiece regularly to ensure it is free of blockage, and give the bottle a few taps to make sure water flows freely. Be sure to empty and clean it weekly, as algae can grow inside.

