 If your employer offers a retirement plan, you should take advantage of it. This is good planning for retirement, and it also decreases your tax obligation. As of 2015, you can contribute up to $18,000 per individual to a qualified retirement plan at work. This money is taken out of your paycheck and deposited into a retirement account, so your taxable income for the year is decreased.For example, if your annual salary is $70,000, and you maximize your contributions to an employer-sponsored retirement plan, your taxable income for the year will only be $52,000. The remaining $18,000 will be set aside until you retire. You will pay tax on the money when you eventually withdraw it, but you will likely be paying at a lower tax rate at that time.
 For tax years 2015 and 2016, you may contribute up to $5,500 to a qualified IRA or Roth IRA. This limit is increased to $6,500 for individuals over 50 years old. If you already participate in a retirement plan at work, this limit may be decreased. To calculate your particular contribution limit, use the table at https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/plan-participant-employee/2016-ira-contribution-and-deduction-limits-effect-of-modified-agi-on-deductible-contributions-if-you-are-covered-by-a-retirement-plan-at-work.


A "traditional" IRA allows you to contribute funds and deduct the amount of the contribution from your taxable income. Contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax deductible when you make them, but the investment grows tax-free and has fewer restrictions on withdrawal. Additionally, you will be required to take minimum required withdrawals from a traditional IRA, but not from a Roth IRA. To decide which type of IRA is best for you, you should consult with a financial advisor., If you have not yet reached your annual limit for contributions to your retirement accounts, you may make contributions through the beginning of April and apply them to the prior tax year. The exact deadline varies each year due to federal holidays that fall in April. You can see IRS Publication 509, “Tax Calendars,” for more specific information for any year.Similarly, if you find that you have exceeded your annual limit, you may withdraw money from your retirement account by the due date of your tax return, in order to stay within the allowable limit. If you exceed the annual contribution limit, you will be charged a 6% tax on the excess amounts left in the account.

