


Find a comfortable position... Relax and close your eyes... Take a few deep breaths... and when you're ready just ask, "How am I inside right now?" Don't answer. Give an answer time to form in your body... Turn your attention like a searchlight into your inside feeling place and just greet whatever you find there. Practice taking a friendly attitude toward whatever is there. Just listen to your organism.;
, You can sense it somewhere. Take some time now to notice just where it is in your body. Notice if it would feel right to begin to describe it, as simply as you might tell another person what you are aware of. You can use words, images, gestures, metaphors, whatever fits, captures, expresses somehow the quality of this whole thing. And when you've described it a bit, take some time to notice how your body responds to that. It's like you're checking the description with the body feeling, saying "Does this fit you well?"

,


Feel yourself magnetically pulled toward the one thing in your stack that most needs your attention right now. If you have any trouble letting it choose you, ask, "What is worst?" (or "What's best?" ?-- good feelings can be worked with too!). "What most needs some work right now? "What won't let go of me?" Pick one thing.
 "What is the whole feel of it?" Don't answer with what you already know about it. Listen to your body. Sense the issue freshly. Give your body 30 seconds to a minute for the feel of "all of that" to form.
 Keep your attention on the area in your body where you feel it, and just let a word, phrase, image, sound or gesture appear that feels like a good fit.



Say the word, phrase, image, sound or gesture back to yourself. Check it against your body. See if there is a sense of "rightness," an inner "yes, that's it". If there isn't, gently let go of that handle and let one that fits better appear.
 Some it will answer, some it won't. Receive whatever answers it gives. Ask the questions with an expectantly friendly attitude and be receptive to whatever it sends you.
Ask "What's the crux of this feeling?" "What's the main thing about it?" Don't answer with your head; let the body feeling answer. Now, breathe that answer out.
And ask, "What's wrong?" Imagine the felt sense as a shy child sitting on a stoop. It needs caring encouragement to speak. Go over to it, sit down, and gently ask, "What's wrong?" Wait. Now, breathe that answer out.
And ask, "What's the worst of this feeling?" "What makes it so bad?" Wait... Now, breathe that answer out of your system.
And ask, "What does this feeling need?" Wait... Now, breathe that answer out.
And now ask, "What is a good small step in the right direction for this thing?" "What is a step in the direction of fresh air?" Wait. Now, breathe that answer out.
Ask, "What needs to happen?" "What actions need to be taken?" Wait. Now, breathe that answer out.
And now ask, "What would my body feel like if this thing were all better, all resolved?" Move your body into the position or posture it would be in if this were all cleared up. This is called looking the answer up in the back of the book. Now, from this position, ask, "What's between me and here?" "What's in the way of it being all OK?" Wait. Now, breathe that answer out.
Finally, ask your felt sense space to send you the exactly right question you need at this moment. Now ask the felt sense that question. Don't answer with your head. Just hang out with the felt sense, keep it company, let it respond. Wait. Now, breathe that answer out.



Take some time to sense inside if it is OK to end in a few minutes or if there something more that needs to be known first. If something more comes then take some time to acknowledge that.
 This is sometimes called a 'shift'.


,


And you might want to thank what has come, and appreciate your body's process.



Take some time to bring your awareness slowly outward again, feeling your hands and feet, being aware of the room and letting your eyes come naturally open.

