 Being honest with yourself is important if you want to experience true change and break the bond you have with this person. You will need to practice identifying when you are lying to yourself or overlooking something important in your relationship with this person.It can be difficult to face the truth about how unhealthy the relationship is, but it is in your best interest.
Try telling yourself something like, “I am committed to being honest with myself.”

, The person you are bonded to may know you well, and they may use that knowledge to get a reaction from you. To stop this cycle, identify the behaviors that you tend to display when one of your buttons is pushed and write these down.For example, you might usually respond with anger if the person makes a hurtful remark about your cooking. Include this on your list and commit to stop engaging with the person’s comments in this way.
You will likely need to decide on an alternative way to handle certain situations. This may include ignoring the person, leaving the room, or changing the subject.
 Self-defeating behaviors are those that you continue to do repeatedly despite your knowledge that they are not good for you and that they will not help your situation.Try to list all of the things that you do that are self-defeating.


For example, you might include things in this list such as believing the person when they promise to change, putting up with verbal abuse, or using alcohol or drugs to cope with the dysfunction of your relationship.
You may need to seek professional help for some of these problems. For example, if you find it hard or even impossible to go without alcohol or drugs, then you might need to attend rehab.
 Refusing to acknowledge your feelings can make them more pronounced and you will not have a chance to work through them.Try to practice acknowledging your feelings on a daily basis.


For example, if you are feeling sad, then allow yourself to cry or say out loud, “I feel sad.”
By noticing how you feel and being willing to accept your feelings, you will have a chance to process your emotions rather than stuffing them down.
You might also try writing about how you are feeling. Journaling can be a helpful way to express your emotions.
 Taking good care of yourself is also an important part of breaking a trauma bond.You may have neglected your own health and well-being in favor of the person you are bonded to, so it is important to shift the focus back to yourself. Some things you might try include:


Exercising more. Getting regular exercise is an excellent way to help your body process adrenaline from a traumatic experience and increase the endorphins (natural pain relievers) in your body.Getting adequate rest. Being well rested will help you to function at your best, so aim for at least seven hours of sleep every night.
Eat healthy foods. Eating healthy foods will help you feel your best and it is also an important way to show yourself that you value yourself.
Make time to relax. Using relaxation techniques may help to reduce stress and anxiety. Try deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, yoga, or meditation.

