 Many health insurance fraud scams use similar methods or patterns, and you can protect yourself by being wary of those activities.


Many health care fraud schemes involve the theft of patient medical information, which the criminals then use to be reimbursed for services or supplies not provided.
For example, criminals may offer a free medical screening and use that to obtain your patient information.
Another common tactic is to ask you to sign a blank medical form or insurance form. Once a criminal has your signature, he can put whatever he wants on the form and it looks as though you signed off on it, agreed to it, or authorized it., The FBI is the primary investigative authority for insurance fraud occurring in both federal and private insurance programs.The FBI has 56 field offices in major metropolitan areas around the country. You can find the field office nearest you using a locator map on the FBI website.You also can use the FBI's online form for tips and public leads. The form does ask for your name, address, phone number, and email address – however, you don't have to include this information if you want to remain anonymous., If you observe suspicious activity involving Medicaid, you should alert state authorities as soon as possible.


The Blue Cross Complete Medicaid anti-fraud hotline is 1-855-232-7640.Each state has a particular Medicaid agency with a website and phone number you can use to report fraud. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has compiled a chart with the phone numbers and web addresses for each state's agency., Medicare fraud can be reported to the Inspector General using 1-800-HHS-TIPS. This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.You also can report Medicare fraud by calling 1-800-MEDICARE, or by sending an online report form to the Office of the Inspector General.Before you report fraud, make sure you have the healthcare provider's name and address, the billing information or other service you're questioning, the date Medicare approved the payment, the date you were provided the service or supplies, the reason you don't think Medicare should have paid, and any other relevant information.
You cannot remain anonymous and will have to provide your name and Medicare number., The federal government has a hotline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week at 1-800-447-8477 for you to provide any fraudulent activity or identity theft involving insurance policies sold under the Affordable Care Act.