 Any paid cleaning staff should also wash their hands. You should have all workers and children who enter the nursery wash their hands upon entering, and always after changing a diaper, helping a child use the restroom, or before the kids' snack time.
 To prevent germs from spreading through diaper changing, wash your hands or put on gloves before the changing. Afterwards, wash your hands and the child's hands. Spray with cleaning solution or use wipes to clean the changing table after each use., Children, spill stuff, even church nursery attending children. Vacuum when there is a need to. Attempt to clean up messes and spills as soon as they happen. Have your carpet professionally cleaned every three months., If your church nurseries allows children to eat from surfaces, you'll need to wipe or wash all eating surfaces before and after eating. It is also advisable to sterilize food preparation areas, tables, high chairs and all equipment related to feeding and the preparation of food., Make sure that children wash their hands as well, before and after., After a child sleeps in a crib, the sheets should be washed before another child sleeps in the same crib. Have enough spare sets of clean sheets available for each service. Crib mattresses should be wiped down at times too. Ensure that child friendly products are used. Mattresses must be covered with waterproof material to make wiping them a practical way to clean them. Cloths used to wipe mattresses must also be sterile., Objects like light switches, door handles, pens, counters, sinks are touched frequently and should be wiped off with disinfectant wipes weekly or more., Better yet, wash the toys with dish soap and water, then soak them in liquid disinfectant and rinse or just spray them with disinfectant.

Avoid stuffed animals. These are great germ carriers.
, These include disinfectant wipes, a broom, a dustpan, a vacuum cleaner, cleaning spray, a toilet wand, toilet wand pads, dish soap, hand soap, hand sanitizer, paper towels, rubber gloves, trash bags, distilled water, clean tubs, and bleach., Ask each child to bring their own, then be sure to rinse out and wipe the seat or toilet after the child uses it.