 Necklaces, earrings, watches, bracelets, and rings are all common accessories, as long as they are large, shiny, and gaudy. The goal isn't to wear a small tasteful stone, but to wear a shiny piece of "bling." Wearing a single long gold or silver chain is a classic look. Diamonds or other precious stones are also common. The shinier the better.


It's commonly disputed where the phrase "bling-bling" came from, now that it is a household term. One of the earliest references was in the 1993 Super Cat track "Dolly My Baby."

, Hats should have a flat brim and keep the stickers on (but not the bar code sticker). Follow them same general guidelines for the jersey. Hats can be used to illustrate regional pride. Keep the brim as flat and strait as possible, worn at a jaunty angle for maximum effect.


Some people who dress in this style like to keep the stickers on the hat, which--like the t-shirts and shoes--suggests that the hat is brand new, fresh, and signifies wealth.
 Sweatbands worn around the wrist, forearm, and head are very popular. Even if you're not playing sports and have no intention of draining some threes later in the afternoon, looking as if you might be able to throw down on the court is a plus. Get sweatbands in black or white and match them to your clothes.
 Grills are gold, silver, platinum, or diamond-studded dental casts worn over the top teeth, bottom teeth, or both. Generally, they're removable, but some people have their grill attached permanently. Some can be wildly expensive (Paul Wall's custom grills can cost more than a new car) but some made of cheaper metals can be a few hundred dollars.Wearing a grill suggests extreme wealth, as if you had run out of places to wear jewelry and resorted to the mouth. It's a striking and instantly recognizable look.


The grill can trace its roots to 1980s New York, but became more popular in mainstream culture in the mid-2000s when southern rappers popularized it. Lil Wayne is notable for his ubiquitous grill.
The long-term dental affects of wearing a grill are unknown. Lil Wayne was forced to receive significant dental work upon entering prison, because his teeth had apparently been wrecked by wearing the grill and not properly cleaning it.

