;
, You can find him at the south building from the Inn (rotate your camera angle to see the portal). Get inside and then approach the dashing-looking Knight at the left side of your screen.


Before you can even click him, the Rune Knight Manuel will automatically talk to you and even offer you a drink. Choose “Sure, let's have a drink” to trigger the event.
Continue on with the dialogue, and Manuel will talk about friendship and then say that you look ready for a new path. Choose “I'm ready to be a Rune Knight.” Manuel will then tell you to meet his comrade at Glast Heim.
 Travel to Glast Heim either on foot or with the help of a Priest. Once there, head to the northwestern part of the map and you will see Knight Jungberg standing next to the sword statue. Talk to him and choose the option "I came to be a Rune Knight" to proceed to your very first text.


Jungberg will tell you to find the hidden gathering room of the Rune Knight inside the Glast Heim Chivalry.
Travel to level 2 of the Glast Heim Chivalry. You will find an NPC there named Rune Knight Staff south of the middle of the map. Talk to him, and you will be warped to the meeting area of the Rune Knights.
 In the meeting area, head directly below the point you entered to find the Rune Knight Captain. To talk the Captain for an introduction and a few dialogues then head southeast to talk to Rune Knight Lunarea.


Be sure you have all the things you need such as your preferred weapon and armor before taking the next exam.
 After talking to Lunarea and telling her you're ready, the NPCs will disappear and the exam will start. They will summon monsters for you to kill. The test is simple, all you need to do is kill all the mobs and survive.


The first monsters to appear are Raydrics, next is Raydric Archers, and then Khalitzburgs. These are followed by Wraith Deads, Rybio, and Phen Dark.
All of these monsters are weak against Holy. You can use Light Epsilon, which has 180 attack damage and possesses Holy Property damage (dropped by Orc Hero); otherwise, any weapon will be fine but may inflict less damage.
Every so often, the four tester Rune Knights will appear, and you can talk to one of the four for a buff or a negative status (e.g., curse, stun).
If you survive the test, the NPCs will appear again for you to talk. Approach Lunarea first and then the Rune Knight Captain.
 After your battle, the Captain will tell you to approach Reona. She will tell you about the runes and principles, and then ask you to read each bookcase.


Open the books Runes and Rune Knights, The Principles of Runes, and The Making and Use of Runes.
You may or may not read its contents, but it’s advisable to take your time and read it all since it's related to your future class.
Once you're done, talk to Reona again. She will mention that she's going to send you to the Sage Serpeone in Ash Vacuum for your next exam.
Tell her that you're prepared to be warped in Ash Vacuum.
 After teleporting into Ash Vacuum, Sage Serpeone will be standing right next to you. Talk to the NPC to be given another battle exam, but this time, you must travel to Niflheim to kill the monsters. You can get to Niflheim's first field if you enter a portal from Umbala.


You need to kill 10 Dullahans, 10 Disguises, 10 Quves, and 10 Heirozoist. They're not difficult to kill with your current level.
After killing the 40 monsters, return to Ash Vacuum and speak with the Sage once more.
After her dialogue, choose “I've gathered enough energy.” The Sage will teleport you back to the Rune Knight meeting area for the next step.
 Go to west and speak with Rune Knight Reona. She will ask you to click the furnace to her right to start your exam. Match the runes with the shape that the furnace tells you.


There will be a short delay as you proceed through the furnace chat before you can type in a rune's name, so don't leave until you have finished this exam.



The rune's name are mentioned in the books you have read earlier. If you don't know the answer, simply refer to the guide below:

Ehwaz - Red Spiral
Osilia - Violet oblique line
Mannaz - Emerald diamond
Ansuz - Emerald round
Hagalas - Sky-blue star
Kano - Red diamond
Rhydo - Skyblue oblique line
Turisus - Yellow round
Dagaz - Emerald spiral
Sowilo - Skyblue fan
Laguz - Yellow diamond
Isia - Violet spiral line
Pertz - Silver spiral
Verkana - Gold star
Gebo - Yellow cone
Algiz - Emerald oblique line
Arwez - Gray diamond
Teiwaz - Gold round
Wunjo - Emerald star
Jera - Yellow round shape
Nosiege - Yellow fan-shape
Ingz - Violet diamond
Fehu - Silver round
Urj - Violet spiral


NOTE: Isia in the book says “violet spiral,” but it is “violent slant” with the furnace.
 After you have completed the test, talk to Reona first and then the Rune Knight Captain to have your achievement noted. The Captain will then instruct you to go to the eastern part of the room to speak with Rune Knight Velpino.


Rune Knight Velpino will ask you to strip all your equipment, except for your weapon and shield, and place them in storage.
You cannot be over 400 weight.
If you're ready, talk to Velpino and choose “Enter the Final Test Field.”
Velpino will give you two types of runes, and 30 of each. The first set will cast Storm Blast, and the second set will cast Millennium Shield.
As soon as you enter the test room, you will fight 1 Ogretooth, 1 Executioner, and 1 Mysteltainn one at a time.
The next monster will spawn automatically as soon as you kill the previous monster.
Once you have defeated the three monsters, you will be warped back to the Rune Knight job change area to talk to Velpino.
, The Captain will congratulate you for your hard work and then will ask you to dismount your Peco Peco and store all your items (you must be at 0 weight). Do this and then talk to him again to have your class changed to Rune Knight.


He will give you 1 Green Apple Ring and 1 Rune Circlet with 1 slot.
Talking to him again will give you 1 Rune Plate or 1 Energy Rune Guard.

