 There are many signs. One of them is dysfunctional boundaries. Like boundaries with personal "physical" space, (ie. standing too close to someone in an elevator) people in codependent relationships interfere with others by invading emotional space, allowing others to invade theirs, and having trouble distinguishing their own feelings, needs, and responsibilities from other people. You realize you feel uncomfortable not giving help when asked, or you are the main provider for comfort or any other support for a person close to you, or you feel pulled in many directions by the people closest to you.;
, Look for material on the Internet and gain an understanding on the causes of the relationship difficulties.


Codependent parents, for example, may have a hard time letting go of parenting and providing for their adult children, or they rely on their grown children to help them in unhealthy ways, reversing the parent-child dynamic. Pulling away from either dynamic is a positive move toward establishing healthy personal boundaries. It does not mean that you're a "bad" son or daughter, even if the parent claims that this is the case.
 When you put your need to grow, mature, and become a healthier person first, that will create a shift in your codependent relationship.


Be aware that doing this work will destabilize the relationship and make things harder before it makes them better. Imagine you and the person with whom you have a codependent relationship are roped together and standing on ladders next to one another. As things are now, you are stabilized--on the same rungs on your ladders and the rope around you both is taut. You understand the unspoken rules of how you interact.
Now, when you begin to get healthy, begin moving up your ladder, the other person in the relationship will feel the pull of the rope and try to pull you back down, may even move down her / his ladder a rung or two to get you to move back to where things were. This is normal. Continue your work to grow, mature, and become healthier. The rope can stretch.
 (And generally, most folks will choose to get healthier, thus making the whole thing less codependent)

, Find ways to make choices that are independent of their needs. In worst-case scenarios, curtailing contact may be necessary for personal growth.

