 Most ropes are made up of many strands which are usually held together at the ends with a fastener or adhesive, like glue. You may need to cut the ends of your rope free to separate your rope into three strands.


If your rope is made up of more than three strands, try to distribute excess rope evenly among your three strands.
Eye splices are useful for making a stable loop in a line of rope.This can be useful for towing, pulling, hanging, or pulleys.;
, This will prevent your rope from fraying while working on it. Most kinds of synthetic rope can be sealed by singing the ends together with a lighter. Simply hold the flame of the lighter to the very end of each strand for a few seconds until the ends of each strand fuse together.








Always exercise caution when working with fire. If your rope has soaked up a flammable substance, it could catch fire easily.
When dealing with a natural fiber rope, tape may be your best bet for sealing loose ends. However, you should prioritize a smooth, durable tape, like electrical or duct tape. These not only hold up better to wear and tear, but make it easier to splice the rope.
You might also be able to use a rope-safe glue to attach the end strands of a natural fiber rope together to prevent further fraying.
 Fasten electrical or duct tape around the ends of your strands so it encases your rope the entire way around. Not only with this strengthen it, this will make your rope more rigid, which will make it easier to pass through loops and gaps.
 Your strands are going to feed together with the main part of your rope to create an unbroken line. You'll need each strand to be long enough to tuck around the width of the rope at least five times. At the base of this length, where the strands feed into the main rope and are yet unraveled, use a piece of tape to encase the rope and prevent more from unraveling.


If your strands aren't long enough, you may not have enough line to tuck each strand the five times necessary to tie this knot best., Bring the fasted part of your separated end strand back to the main body of the rope where you want your splice tied. The loop formed by your rope and the fastened base of the 3-strand end will establish the size of your loop.








Keep in mind the purpose for which you intend to use the rope. A big eye may work well for some jobs, but may not be ideal for your purposes.

