 Before you put any essential oils or herbal remedies on the cyst, you should warm up the cyst and encourage it to come closer to the surface. You can do this by applying a warm wet cloth to the cyst for 10-15 minutes. The compress should be warm but not boiling hot, just warmer than the temperature of your skin.


Repeat this process every couple of hours. It will help to bring blood and infection-fighting white blood cells to the source, in addition to keeping the skin soft so that it can drain.
The compress will also keep the area around the cyst clean and better prepare the cyst for the herbal remedies.;
, You can apply essential oils such as tea tree oil, turmeric oil, garlic oil, or frankincense oil directly onto the cyst with a cotton ball or a Q-tip. These oils all have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties. They will help to reduce any swelling around the cyst and lower the risk of infection.You should only use one essential oil or herbal product at a time, especially if you've never used them before. That way, if your skin gets irritated or you develop an allergy, you will know exactly which oil has caused the problem.
If you have sensitive skin, you can mix the essential oil with castor oil, using three parts essential oil to seven parts castor oil.
Apply the essential oil to the cyst four times a day and cover the cyst with a bandage after you have applied the oil.
 Aloe vera has anti-inflammatory properties and can help to speed up healing. You can put the aloe vera directly on the cyst and then let it dry.You can find aloe vera at your local health food store or in the beauty section of your local grocery store.
 Witch hazel has astringent qualities, which will help to dry out the cyst. Apply a small amount of witch hazel on a cotton ball or a Q-tip and apply it to the cyst.You can find witch hazel at your local health food store or online.
 Apple cider vinegar has acidic properties that can help to dry out the cyst. If you have sensitive skin or it stings when you apply the vinegar, you can dilute the vinegar with one part water to one part apple cider vinegar.Apple cider vinegar can be found at your local health food store. Look for organic apple cider vinegar.

