 Many states have medical leave laws in addition to the leave provided under FMLA, and your state's labor department will have information about these benefits., State programs may be your only option if your employer isn't covered by the FMLA, or if you haven't been working for your employer long enough to be eligible.


State laws may cover smaller employers and employees who haven't worked for their employers for a full year.
Even municipalities may have law requiring medical leave. For example, San Francisco has a law requiring employers to provide paid sick leave for workers when they take time off to care for their own health or the health of a family member.Paid sick days are required by law in four states, the District of Columbia, and 18 cities nationwide.
Some states provide greater totals of time off than FMLA provides, even if you are eligible for FMLA, making state leave the better choice if you need additional time.
At least five states including California, New Jersey, and New York provide temporary disability benefits to provide some wage-replacement for workers out on unpaid medical leave for their own medical conditions.If your leave is covered under both state and federal leave laws, the leave you request will come out of your federal leave time unless you specify otherwise., Check with your state's labor department to determine how much notice you're required to give your employer to take advantage of state medical leave benefits.


If your leave is covered by both state and federal leave, the notice rule that applies is whichever provides you the most benefit. Therefore, if your state law requires less advance notice than the federal law, the state's notice requirement applies., If you've decided to use state rather than federal leave and you're eligible for both, make sure you specify in your request for leave that you wish to use state leave.
 Many state medical leave laws also allow employers to request medical certification if doubts are raised as to your need for leave. In most states this provision is similar to the FMLA certification provision.