 You can add dried basil, cumin, paprika, salt, or Italian seasoning to your breadcrumbs to enhance them. Add your dried seasoning to your ground nuts and mix them thoroughly.

Cumin and paprika will make spicier breadcrumbs.
 Your nut breadcrumbs may be more coarse than traditional breadcrumbs and will require something extra to stick to your proteins or vegetables. To create an eggwash combine one large egg with 1-3 teaspoons (4.92-14.78 mm) milk, heavy cream, or water. Beat the mixture until well blended, then dip your raw food in the egg wash before covering them in your breadcrumbs.

You can add salt to season your egg wash.
 If you prefer not to use eggs in your cooking, you can use chia or flax seeds to help bind the ground nuts to your proteins or vegetables. To use flax and chia seeds as a binder, mix one tablespoon (4.92 mL) of ground flax or chia seeds with three tablespoons (14.78 mL) of water and wait for 5 to 10 minutes. The solution should create a jell that's similar to eggs. Once it's a jell, proceed to use it the same way you'd use an eggwash., Cook your food the same way that you would when using breadcrumbs. Pay close attention to the surface of your food because nuts are prone to burn. To bake your food, dredge your food in your flax seed mixture or egg wash and then get an even coating of breadcrumbs on it. Heat your oven to the appropriate temperature for the food and let it cook.


Chicken cooked at 350°F for 45 minutes will cook through and should leave a golden brown coating.Remember to flip your food over half way through cooking so that there is an even cook.
 A breadcrumb or nut coating tastes great when fried. Fill a deep pan with two inches (25.4 mm) of frying oil and place it on a stovetop on medium-high heat. Let your oil get hot before placing your nut covered food into the oil. Cook the food evenly on both sides and remove it once it's golden brown.

Use your egg wash or flax mixture to bind the ground nuts to the surface of your food.
You can use vegetable oil or canola oil.

