 If you are shopping for a dessert at the grocery store, give yourself some extra time to look over the label details. Pay attention to the number of calories listed towards the top of each label. Then, see how many of these calories come directly from fat. You want to find a dessert with low calories that also contains a low amount of fat.Make sure to only compare similar dessert items to one another. Otherwise, you may make a false comparison due to differing serving sizes. For example, it is a good idea to compare various ice creams, but putting these numbers up against a muffin’s food label may not provide a clear picture.;
, Open your browser and search for “low-calorie desserts.” You will find a ton of websites listing off easy-to-make, or even gourmet, recipes. Go through these recipes and save the ones that interest you. You can then make them yourself, or order something similar when eating out.For example, if you are a fan of brownies, you can learn how to make them the lower-calorie way using sunflower oil and sugar substitutes.
Or, you can make a layered carrot cake using reduced-fat cream cheese and a reduced amount of oil, sugar, and butter.
 If you are going out to eat, hop online and see if you can view the menu. Pay particular attention to their dessert offerings. Making a dessert choice in advance will help you to avoid getting a high-calorie “impulse buy.” You can also scope out how certain desserts could be modified to suit your preferences, such as requesting that the whipped cream be left off or more fruits be added.


Some restaurants may list how many calories each dessert contains. This information may appear on the dessert menu or on a separate nutritional flyer.
 If you are eating out, don’t be afraid to ask your server questions and to see if they can make certain healthy substitutions or changes to the dessert offerings for you. You might tell them that you are trying to keep your calories low, but would still like a dessert. Ask them what your best option would be.


For example, you might say, “I’m currently trying to reduce my calorie intake. Is there a healthy dessert that appears on the menu or could be special ordered?”
If you cannot find out the ingredients or nutrition information, you may have to judge based on what the menu states. Try to choose a dessert that contains fruit, and avoid choices that have cream, whipped topping, icing, or candy.
 If you are craving a high-calorie sweet, try to satisfy this feeling with a doppelganger dessert. You want something that has a similar texture and flavor to the high-calorie alternative. If you want ice cream, you could try out a low-calorie version. You could also get sorbet or an ice pop instead.Some people find that dessert-flavored yogurts are a great way to fight off cravings while indulging in a familiar taste.