 The Master Form gets Experience from picking up Drive Orbs. This makes training easy in that every time you get Exp, you get a little longer in that form. You can conceivably go on training for much longer than any other form because of this. However, enemies are not the best way to get Drive Orbs. Explosive carts are and you can find these in the Land of Dragons. The Checkpoint is the best place to get them. To begin with you'll need to kill all the enemies in the checkpoint. Once you've done that, you're ready to start training.
 Before you actually begin training you will need to equip all of the Negative Combo abilities available to you in Master Form. This pretty much constitutes Fenrir, an extra weapon obtained after the battle with Sephiroth. Equip this as one of your weapons and you're ready to go.
 To start of with, you'll need to know the fastest route to a save point. This is through the Encampment and into the Grove where you first start the level. Once you know that by heart, stand next to one of the three carts in the area. Go Master Form, and the area damage effect will blow it up for you, saving some time. Once you've done this, collect up the orbs and run to another one. You will need to perform a full combo to destroy them from know on, so try not to miss. Once you've destroyed all of them from there switch area and run back as fast as you can, this will make the carts respawn.
 Although this takes time, and there are a lot of factors to juggle (Form Gauge, getting to the save point in time, etc), a bit of practice will mean that you will have Level 7 Master Form in no time. Once you do, the sweet Aerial Dodge ability will be yours.
 There is a save right close by and two carts available. I went from level 3 to level 5 in one single transformation using this spot. Just clear out the baddies in the entrance to the tunnel, prepare FIRE in your quick menu, then leave the tunnel to re-pop the carts. Enter, burn, collect, exit, repeat. With the right options, this can almost self-sustain the drive bar. Plus, when you get to the drive 0 bar, run to the very close save point in the village and go to the world map and return.

