 What are you good at? Is there a loved one you can help with certain tasks? Participating in activities where you can succeed will help you feel accepted, recognized, and supported. If you can take part in activities that develop and/or utilize your strengths, your overall self-esteem can be greatly boosted, resulting in higher emotional, social, and physical well-being., This activity has multiple benefits; it takes your mind off of your break-up, makes you feel good about yourself, and it helps others. Make the experience even more rewarding by recruiting a close friend or two to volunteer with you. , Regular exercise makes people feel happier. You will likely feel better physically, with increased energy and motivation. Exercise has the added benefit of helping you be in better physical shape, which may make your clothes fit more comfortably and give you the added boost of self-confidence that often accompanies losing weight.


Your exercise routine doesn’t have to be rigorous, or involve a gym membership, to be effective. You can simply walk outside for 30 minutes a day or find a class that interests you such as dance, yoga, or stand-up paddle boarding.
 Choosing foods that are high in fiber and low in processed ingredients and sugar can help you feel healthier and look better. Not a great cook? Find a cooking class and explore the new freedom of following only your own food preferences.


Remember that a balanced diet includes a large portion of fruits and vegetables, a small portion of protein (such as lean meat), and a small portion of grains and dairy., Maintaining a clean and well-kept appearance is always helpful to boost your self-esteem. In fact, it is very common for people to find a new look (or at least a new hairstyle) after a long relationship ends. You don’t have to change your whole style, however, to look presentable. Leave the sweatpants at home and get dressed every day—including real shoes, not slippers—while you are on the road to recovery.
 While no one else can improve your self-esteem for you, surrounding yourself with supportive friends and family who care about you and truly listen to you can help you get over your break-up and improve your self-esteem. 