 Place the bucket or other large container on the floor directly in front of the sink. Place the larger end of the dustpan inside the sink, so that water can easily flow onto it. Place the handle sticking out of the sink, so that the water will fall into the bucket.
 Instead of going to the locksmith and purchasing colored copies of the keys, why not make brighter, more colorful, personalized, and 'free' ones at home? Nail polish works better than other types of paint. Gel nail polish works the best, but any type will do.
 The bottles fit perfectly, and if you get a mesh or clear pocketed one, you can even see the labels easily. Best of all, it takes up no floor space whatsoever.
  Start by putting a little toothpaste on a rag, and rubbing in circular motions, until headlight is covered.  With  toothpaste, you may get 2-4 months out of it, unless you apply a wax, or something like Opti-coat, clear coat, or other sealant to your headlights to block the UV rays and keep them from getting hazy again.  Toothpaste is a mild abrasive, so it naturally works well to polish things, and fill small scratches. Just don't use any kind of toothpaste with cooling crystals or anything like that, as they will scratch the surface badly. Regular whitening toothpaste works fine.
 Use different removers for each type of object:



For fabric: Use hand sanitizer.

For skin: Use rubbing alcohol

For walls: Use hairspray or toothpaste

For wood: Use rubbing alcohol

For carpet: Use white vinegar

For dry erase boards: Cover with white board marker.

For furniture: Use milk

For ceramic or glass: Use 1 part toothpaste, and 1 part baking soda.
 Cut a slit in a tennis ball. Add eyes, then attach a hook velcro to the wall to attach the tennis ball. You can also use this as a towel holder, or a pen holder, or a letter holder.
 This can be useful to prevent excess from going down the drain and being wasted.
 The chemicals cause the bristles to release and soften.
 First, the bottom off of the jug. Then cut a long slit across the straight ridge just under the handle of the jug, then cut down the jug from each end of the slit in the shape of a scoop. This can be useful if you lost your dustpan or need an (almost) free one.

