 Depending on your budget and desired sound, your home theater will need an amplifier and preamplifier specific to your needs. An amplifier increases the power available to your speakers while a preamplifier controls everything and needs both an amplifier and speaker to function.A tube amp uses a vacuum tube where a single ended triode tube amp works well with high efficiency speakers.
FET amp stands for Field Effect Transistor because it uses an electric field. This type of amp is a popular solid state amp.
Class A amps produce almost no distortion with a maximum amount of power.
Class B amps produce some distortion and need to be turned on.
Class AB amps are a combination of Class A and B where a signal switches between a Class A and B circuit.
 Amplifiers have many different configurations that can be based on the number of speakers, type of speakers, and room configuration.


If you’re simply using a pair of speakers, stereo amps are a common choice.
If you have a number of different high powered speakers, monoblock amps can be setup for each.
If your home theater is advanced with five inputs or more, multichannel amps are best.
 Your equipment will depend on how involved your home theater will be but the basic requirements are the input sources, amplifiers, preamplifiers, and cable connectors.Input sources are whatever you choose to plug into your speakers including Blu-Ray players, DVD players, and stereos.
Cable connectors should come with input sources but if you need more or need extended lengths, go to your local home theater specialist.
 Your preamp should be easily accessible with space for both input and output cables.If you’re using a home theater cabinet, make sure there is an opening in the back or remove any covering that can obstruct your cables.
 Depending on how many input sources you have, you may need to label each cable. Keep your cables organized as you connect them to your preamp.Wrap masking tape near the plug of the connector and label each source.
 Run cables from the back of your input devices to input plugs in your preamplifier.


Ensure that you’re using the right cable and are connecting it to the right input plug in the preamp as there can be many plugs.
Ensure that the plug is firmly connected to the slot.
 Connect cables from the output terminals of your preamp to input plugs at the back of your amplifier. Your amplifier will be connected to your speakers via the output terminals.Do not connect a two channel amp to more than two speakers because it will damage your amp.
 Choose your input source and turn on your amplifier and preamplifier. Never connect your amplifier while the power is on as it will create a power surge and, depending on your volume control, a nasty sound.While any amp can be used with any preamp, they can also come as a single integrated unit. The difference between a single unit and a 2-piece combination is the flexibility you have when setting up your home theater and the power you can have available to you.

