 Rinse the strawberries under cool water first, then pat them dry. Chop the stems off, then cut the strawberries into thin slices.


The strawberries must be dry. If you let too much water get into your ice cream, you'll get ice crystals in your ice cream.;
, Put everything into a bowl, and stir it together with a rubber spatula. Set the remaining ½ cup (100 grams) of strawberries aside for later., This will allow all the flavors to blend together. While this is happening, you can continue preparing the rest of your ice cream.

Again, do not add the ½ cup (100 grams) of strawberries into the bowl.
 Stir the milk and sugar with a whisk to help the sugar dissolve. Keep heating it until it is just short of boiling., If you have not already done so, crack open the eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. Discard the whites (or save them for another recipe), and beat the yolks until they turn light and creamy. Slowly pour ½ cup (120 milliliters) of the milk mixture into the eggs while whisking it.This is known as "tempering," and it will prevent the eggs from cooking too quickly and forming clumps.
 Be sure to pour the egg mixture slowly, and to stir the milk mixture as you pour., The mixture is ready when it reaches 160°F (72°C), and becomes thick enough to coat the back of a metal spoon., The best way to do this would be to fill a sink with ice, and set a bowl into the ice. Place a fine, mesh strainer over the bowl, then pour the milk mixture through it. Discard anything caught in the strainer, and let the milk mixture come to room temperature before chilling it in the fridge for 2 hours.Make sure that the bowl is big enough to hold your heavy whipping cream and strawberries as well.
 Just as the milk mixture is almost done chilling, take the strawberries out of the fridge, and pour them into a blender or food processor. Purée them until you get your desired consistency. The longer you purée them for, the smoother your ice cream will be.


Try not to leave behind any big chunks, however; that's what your remaining ½ cup (100 grams) of strawberries is for!

, Take the milk mixture out of the fridge, and fold in the puréed strawberries and heavy cream. Keep folding and stirring until the color is even, and you can't see any streaks or swirls.

For a more complex flavor, stir in 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract.
 Fill the canister of your ice cream maker two-thirds of the way with the ice cream mixture. Freeze the ice cream according to the manufacturer's instructions; store the remaining ice cream base in the fridge while as freezes. As you finish each batch of ice cream, transfer it to a freezer-safe container, and store it in the freezer.

If you don't own an ice cream maker: pour the ice cream into a large, metal loaf pan, and freeze it for 45 minutes. Give it a stir, making sure to break up any ice crystals, then freeze it for another 2 to 4 hours. Stir the ice cream every 30 minutes, and keep it covered with plastic wrap.,, It will be very soft, however, just like soft-serve ice cream. If you want firmer ice cream, left it "ripen" in the freezer for several hours. It would be best if you let it ripen for 6 to 8 hours, however.

