 This is a classic exercise for toning and strengthening the calf muscles. This workout utilizes your own body weight instead of a weight machine to help build muscle mass. It strengthens both the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. To start off, you will need to stand near a wall to balance yourself, if needed, and your feet should be hip-width apart with your ankles, knees and hips vertically aligned.Push your body upward on the balls of both feet. Make sure that your abdominal muscles are engaged so that your back remains straight instead of shifted forward or backward.
For a more intense workout, you can place the balls of your feet on a step so that your heels are on the lower level. Push up with the balls of your feet to lift your heels as high as you can off the floor. Then, slowly lower your heels back down to the floor. Repeat.
Additionally, you can add weight to strengthen your calves further, such as holding milk jugs, cans, a heavy backpack or something else while you do the exercises.;
, The intensity of the calf raise exercise is enhanced when you do one leg at a time. This is because your full body weight must be lifted by one leg instead of two. Again, stand near a wall in case you need to balance yourself, and put your left leg behind you. Ensure that the ankle, knee and hip of the right leg are all aligned vertically.


Push your body upward on the ball of your right foot. Make sure that your abdominal muscles are engaged so that your back remains straight as you are lifted up.
For a more intense workout, you can place the ball of your right foot on a step so that your heel is on the lower level. Push up with the ball of your foot to lift your heel as high as you can off the floor. Bring your heel down.
Repeat with the left foot.
Additionally, you can add weight to strengthen your calves further, such as holding a milk jug, a can or two, a heavy backpack or something else while you perform the single-leg calf raise.
If you need to, hold something heavy with one hand and place the other hand on the wall to help balance you.It is important to work each leg equally to avoid one calf becoming thicker than the other.
 To do this exercise, you will need a bench or some other sturdy object and a partner--but no equipment is required. Bend over and grasp the sturdy object or bench with your hands. Your toes should be facing forward, and be sure not to lock your knees.Have your partner climb onto your lower back near your tailbone. The heavier the person, the harder the workout.
Raise your heels off the floor by pushing up on the balls of your feet. Pause, then lower your heels back to the floor, and repeat.
You can add more weight by having your partner hold something heavy like a backpack or milk jug while you do the exercise.
 Box jumps can strengthen your calf muscles and make them more powerful. When you practice this exercise regularly, your muscles are trained to react and contract quickly. This not only builds muscle but allows you to jump and spring in different directions much more quickly.


Get a box that is high enough for you to get a workout but not so high that you might strain or hurt yourself. You may need to build up from a lower level box to a higher level one over time.
Stand in front of the box. Use the balls of your feet to jump onto the box, landing on the balls and toes of your feet. Jump back down to the floor, and repeat.
Do this 8 -10 times per set. As with calf raises, the more often you do this, the easier it will become. At that point, it will be necessary to challenge yourself with more reps.
It isn’t a good idea to hold weights or anything else when you do box jumps so you can still catch yourself if you fall.
 When you use a jump rope, your calf is constantly engaged. This helps build muscle, provides a good cardiovascular workout and makes you quicker on your feet as well. Do this exercise regularly, and see why you don’t need weight equipment to tone your calf muscles.To jump rope effectively, hold your hands out to your sides, and make small, fast circles with your wrists to spin the rope. Jump an inch or so off the ground over the rope as it moves under your feet.
Jump rope at least 3 times a week. Start out doing just 1 set for 2 minutes and then advance to several sets.You should strive for 15 minutes per session at minimum. If you don’t have a jump rope or find this activity difficult, run on your toes in the same spot instead.
 It is also important to exercise the tibialis anterior, the muscle that runs along the outer front of your calf and alongside the shin. To exercise this muscle, try walking on your heels or simply standing on your heels and turning your toes up toward your shins., You will want to work your calves several times a week, giving them a rest between workout days to repair and build muscle. If you have not worked your calves before, follow a beginner's workout schedule. If you have been working on your calves for a while, consider an intermediate or advanced workout schedule.For a beginner's workout, do double-leg calf raises for 2 sets of 12 reps.
For an intermediate workout, do double-leg calf raises for 3 sets of 8 to 12 reps, then single-leg calf raises for 3 sets of 8 to 12 reps.
For an advanced workout, do box jumps for 1 set of 5 reps, then double-leg calf raises for 2 sets of 8 to 10 reps, then single-leg calf raises or jump squats for 2 sets of 8 to 10 reps.
You should feel a sore strain in your muscles when you finish your sets. That feeling is the feeling of your muscles tearing and newer, stronger and larger ones replacing them.
With every calf workout week, try doing a few sets more.

