 Gauge their interests, the things they like, the activities they are most likely interested in doing, the movies they watch, their morning routines, and their hobbies. Some of these things could be found without asking them directly or even conducting a survey; they could be things that could be observed about them, such as being fashion forward, owning car keys, etc. This is important to make sure that your topic is relevant to the audience. **While this step is vital, information on the audience cannot be determined on some cases. If this happens, skip this step.;
, If you find anything common with the audience's interests, make it a candidate for your topic. If you cannot find anything common, this puts you in a tough position. Try gathering fresh information, such as current affairs and current trends, or just try to give a speech regarding something general, such as caring on their own clothes, emergency DIYs, etc.
 If your topic would be something general, it would be recommended that you give updated or uncommon information, or else your speech may not be of help to them. Find more candidates for your topic until you are sure you can actually talk about your topic.
 Some topics, especially the general ones, are easy to relate to another topic. A topic on basketball could be interesting to a part of your audience, but the rest could not enjoy it. However, to make up with that, relating basketball to something else, such as determination, socialization, love, passion, or even air, may be sufficient to make if not all, most of them, pay attention.


Another tweaking that works would have something to do with using comparing and contrasting. Talking about self-respect might not appeal to everyone, but weighing whether self-respect or your good reputation is more important than the other, and citing relevant examples to the audience, may keep them engaged into the topic. This also works when you try to cite similarities of two things that are seemingly irrelevant, such as equating a resumé to a love letter, likening politicians to hamburgers, etc.
Another approach would be using sarcasm in the topic. Since it is an informal speech, sarcasm would be welcome but make sure that the audience would be able to understand that you are being sarcastic as they might take you seriously and have violent feedbacks. Examples of these would include How NOT to be a Law-Abiding Citizen, Tips on NOT Staying Awake in Class, and more.
 It is important to be prepared especially if you are not experienced on the topic you are going to talk about. Outlining would help you organize your thoughts and see the flow of the speech. This is optional as minding the flow of the speech while delivering it affects the quality of their talk.

