 Depending on the depth of the snow and the temperature, you should make sure your dog is wearing a sweater or water wicking coat to keep them warm. Some pet clothing made specifically with weather protection in mind will include information about the lowest recommended temperatures for wear. As always, ask your veterinarian for suggestions, if you’re worried your pup isn’t warm enough on their walk.Pay attention to breed specific or dog specific needs. If your pup is panting or looks overheated when wearing a sweater or coat, you may want to leave the coat off for your next outing.
 Like humans, dogs loose most of their warmth through their extremities, so keeping dog feet and legs warm is essential to equalize their body temperature during walks in the snow. Dog shoes are the easiest way to keep your pup's paws warm. Most dog shoes made for cold weather are also waterproof and add traction to keep your dog safer.


With your dog standing, lift one foot and place it in a shoe. To ensure your pup puts its full weight into the shoe, lift the opposite leg once the shoed foot is in place. Then, adjust any straps or closures as necessary.
You can find shoes for dogs at most pet stores and online. If you don't see any in your local pet store, ask an employee whether or not they stock this item., Have towels by the door and dry off your pup as soon as you get home. Water will trap moisture onto your pet's coat and will keep its body temperature too low. Take a few moments to towel or blow dry your dog when you return home from your walk., This improves traction, as your dog’s foot is able to flatten out completely on the ground. By staying up right, your pup will remain drier and warmer. Trim nails using children’s nail clippers or those specifically crafted for pets, but take care as a large vein runs through dog nails. Known as the quick, this vein can cause serious bleeding when damaged.


Trim your dog's nails as often as necessary to prevent them from reaching the ground or otherwise impeding your dog's movement.
If your dog has lightly colored nails, you’ll be able to see the quick. It’s the darker pink colored part of the nail.
If your dog has darkly colored nails, you’ll need to look for the quick as you clip. Remove a small amount of nail. Then, look at the newly exposed end. If you see a gray area in the nail, this is the quick, and you should stop clipping.