 If you feel victimized and need help, don't hesitate to talk to a trusted adult for support. Find a parent or parents, a guidance counselor or teacher, or anyone else who you trust. Ask them for advice and reassurance about your particular situation, or see if they can help mediate the situation., There is safety in numbers, and popular kids will be less likely to target you if you have a circle of your own. Schools usually offer lots of different kinds of clubs and extracurricular activities. Join a club dedicated to something you’re interested in, and make your own friends who have things in common with you.Don’t just ignore the problem and don’t retaliate: these usually make the issue worse.
Without seeking revenge, find a way to show that you are confident, have your own friends, and can’t be intimidated.
 Social media can be great, but don’t let it become a source for bullying. Popular kids often use the internet to maintain their popularity by bullying others. Social media, text messages, and other platforms can take bullying from school and affect you 24 hours a day, seven days a week.Never respond to a mean text message or online comment, and don’t say anything in a text that you wouldn’t say to your parent or another figure of authority — remember that it could be shown to anyone.
Know your school’s policies on cyberbullying and what resources they have for help.
It can be very serious, even a crime, if someone sets up fake profile, spreads a vicious online rumor, or threatens violence. You aren’t alone in dealing with problems like these, so do not be afraid to report something to your parents, school, or, if appropriate, law enforcement., Have a sense of humor, especially if the popular kids aren’t necessarily tormenting you but are poking fun in a less severe way. You’ll face rejection and teasing no matter how old you are. To an extent, you have to develop a thick skin and learn to shake things off.For example, maybe you told the popular clique who your crush is thinking you could trust them, and then they told that person. Act unfazed and laugh it off. You could say to your crush, "Well, that's embarrassing, but what can I do — it’s really easy to have a crush on you!"
If your crush doesn’t return your feelings, then at least you can start getting over your crush and focus on other things — maybe even someone who’s interested in you, too.
Don’t laugh it off if you really feel threatened, and don’t go it alone if you face constant torment. Remember how important it can be to find support from others, too.
 Don’t fall into traps or let yourself be an easy target. If they find you less likely to be intimidated, the "popular kids" will be less likely to make fun of you. You don’t want to be paranoid all the time, but if you suspect someone is stringing you along just to make you a punchline, don’t wear your heart on your sleeve.


Be prepared for handling two-faces and backstabbers: some people will be nice to your face and talk about you behind your back. Remember that it takes time to build a friendship. Don’t become best friends with someone overnight and let them in on any secrets they might turn into rumors.

