 Before you apply any ointments or salves on the cyst, warm it up and encourage it to come closer to the surface by applying a warm wet cloth to the cyst for 10-15 minutes. Check that the compress is warm but not boiling hot, just warmer than the temperature of your skin.


The compress will also keep the area around the cyst clean and better prepare the cyst for the herbal remedies.
 Dry burdock root has been known to help draw out the liquid in cysts. Make a burdock root ointment by combining ½ teaspoon dried burdock root with 1 tablespoon of honey. The honey is antimicrobial and will also help to bring out the liquid in the cyst.Apply the burdock root ointment to the cyst with a clean finger.
Do not use burdock root if you are pregnant or nursing.
 Bloodroot, or sanguinaria canadensis, has been used in traditional Native American medicine to treat skin disorders. It is also known to be an effective remedy against skin cancer. However, the effectiveness of bloodroot has not been independently verified by clinical studies.Combine ⅛ teaspoon bloodroot powder with 2 tablespoons of castor oil. Apply the salve to the cyst with a Q-tip.
Never use bloodroot salve on any broken or cut skin and use only a small amount at a time. Do not ingest bloodroot or use bloodroot around your eyes or mouth. You should also never apply bloodroot around your genitals.
 You can find commercial salves over the counter at your local drugstore or online. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions and only use the salve on cysts that are on the surface of your skin.


Try PRID, a homeopathic salve that can used to “pull out” splinters, infections, cysts, and to reduce swelling on the skin. Do not use this product on children without first consulting with a homeopathic physician.
You can also try Black Drawing Salve from Harvest Moon Herbs. It contains activated charcoal, kaolin clay, vitamin E, and lavender oil. It can be used on cysts, boils, splinters, and thorns.
Another option is Traditional Amish Salve, which contains comfrey, olive oil, tea tree oil, activated charcoal, bentonite clay, and hone.

