 Following appropriate portion sizes can help ensure you're eating just the right amount of food for you while helping you maintain your weight.


Most meals should include at least 3-5 oz lean protein, 1 serving of vegetables (about 1 cup) and 1 serving of grains (about 1/2 cup).
Purchase a food scale or measuring cups to help you stay on track. Pre-measured plastic containers or bowls can also help with portion control.
Measure protein sources raw and consistently maintain that habit.
Also, make sure you're eating enough. Sometimes diets or a weight loss plan may call for portions that are too small. If you're not eating enough, you'll feel hungry all day.
Diets or eating patterns that suggest skipping meals, drinking only liquids or fasting will generally cause you to feel more hungry throughout the day. They are also most likely not safe.;
, When calories are being restricted or you're restricting portion sizes, you may not be eating enough protein. This may make you feel more hungry and less satisfied throughout the day. This is pertinent in keeping you full and also ensuring that muscle isn't lost instead of fat when trying to lose weight.


Men should consume around 65 g of protein daily while women should consume around 50 g of protein daily.Track your protein intake with a calorie/nutrition counter either online or on your phone. Aim for your daily target and work towards meeting it as best you can.
Consume protein at each meal. If you're eating protein at each meal, you're most likely consuming the minimum amount.
 When portion sizes are smaller, you may feel hungrier sooner. Going to long in between meals without eating can leave you overly hungry which makes it harder to control your portions at your next meal.


Snacks aren't used to replace meals. They are used in between meals to keep you full and keep your metabolism revved up.
Snacks also need to be portion controlled or calorie controlled and not be a meal. Try to keep snacks under 200 calories.Include protein and produce (fruit or vegetable) at your snacks. This combination will help keep you satisfied longer.Options include: greek yogurt with fruit; carrots and hummus; small apple and cheese stick; hard boiled egg and grapes; or pumpkin seeds with dried fruit.
 Following smaller portions can be difficult at first. Try sipping on a clear, sugar-free beverage prior to eating your planned meal or snack. This can help quell your hunger and make it easier to maintain a small portion. Try sipping on water, low-fat or skim milk, unsweetened coffee or tea or low-calorie sports drinks.
You can even try sipping on vegetable or low-calorie broth-based soups.
 Once you portion out your meal or snack, put away any remaining foods. It'll help prevent you from being tempted by second servings.


After you've prepared dinner, plate your food and then automatically put the leftovers in the refrigerator.
For snacks, portion out what you're planning on eating. Do not eat snacks from the box or bag. It's almost impossible to stick to an appropriate portion size since you can't see how much you've eaten.
The minute you feel satisfied, clear your plate. This will help prevent you from finishing what's on your plate when you've already had enough to satisfy you.
 Using smaller server ware can help make it seem like there is more food on your plate. It's an easy mind trick to help you eat less.


Appetizer or salad plates are the perfect size for your main meals.
Don't have small plates? Try serving yourself 20% less instead.
 Studies have shown that protein can keep you feeling satisfied longer when compared to meals that are mostly carbohydrate.In addition, whole grains, fruits and vegetables are complex carbohydrates or foods that are high in fiber and contain other nutrients, that also keep you feeling satisfied longer.Healthy fats can also be used to improve satiety without overeating. Consider pairing protein with complex carbs OR protein with healthy fats.
Lean protein options include: poultry, lean beef, fish, shellfish, nuts, lentils, beans and low-fat dairy foods. Include a variety of these protein based foods in your diet.
Foods like berries, lentils, beans, whole grains (like oatmeal or brown rice) and broccoli are high in fiber and are considered a complex carbohydrate.
Combinations of meals that are protein-rich and contain complex carbohydrates are: whole wheat English muffin with low-fat cheese and a scrambled egg, oatmeal with fruit and nuts, mixed green salad with raw vegetables, grilled chicken and low-fat dressing, a whole wheat wrap with deli meat, low-fat cheese and lettuce or shrimp and vegetable stir-fry served over brown rice.
Combinations of snacks that are protein-rich and contain complex carbs are: yogurt with fruit and whole grain granola, carrots and hummus, an apple with peanut butter or sliced raw vegetables with low-fat dip and a cheese stick.
 Meals that contain a lot of carbohydrates or are mostly carbohydrates without much protein or fats do not keep you satisfied long compared to a meal that's a combination of protein, carbohydrates and fats.


Carbohydrate rich foods include foods like: bread, rice, pasta, tortillas/wraps, beans, potatoes, corn and lentils.
Aim to have about a 1/3 of your meals to be a carbohydrate rich food.Ensure you have a source of lean protein in each meal - about half of your meals or snacks should be protein-based - in addition to a serving or two of a fruit or vegetables.
 Highly processed foods (even low calorie ones) should make up a very small portion of your diet. Studies have shown they are not as satisfying long term.When your body is fed processed foods, it has to weed through the junk to absorb the real nutrition. Sometimes, you're left undernourished and still hungry. Eat whole foods to avoid this.


Processed foods generally refer to foods that have a lot of additives (like flavorings or colorings), preservatives and have gone through multiple changes to become the final product.Examples of processed foods to limit include: desserts, "100-calorie packs", refined grains (like white bread or white rice), frozen meals, chips and cookies.
Most of your choices should be whole foods or minimally processed foods. Examples include: fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, fresh or frozen lean protein, 100% whole grain breads, pasta or grains and dairy products.
 Many times even mild dehydration can make you feel hungry, when in fact you just need a few sips of water.Stay hydrated daily to prevent this mistake.


Purchase a water bottle to help you keep track of you ounces each day. This can also help you see what progress you've made throughout the day.
If you're not a fan of water, try other options like: diet iced tea, unsweetened coffee, water with lemon or flavored water.
 It can be difficult to maintain small portions or not snack when you feel hungry. However, it's also important to understand and define what true physical hunger is. You may feel "hungry" when you're bored, stressed or angry and be tempted to eat.


Physical hunger comes on gradually. In addition your stomach may feel empty or growl or make noises. Physical hunger also goes away after even a small portion of food.If it's been several hours since your last meal or snack, you may be physically hungry. Eat your planned snack or meal.
If you noticing you're feeling "hungry" without the signs of physical hunger, consider the other reasons you may be craving foods.
Remember, feeling hungry is OK. You should feel hungry before your meal and you might feel hungry at bedtime. This is normal and expected.
 It can be easy to eat in the car, during a work meeting or while watching TV. Sitting down to eat will draw your attention to your meal. This can help you stick to a smaller portion.Take this a step further and disconnect from all technology. Turn off the TV, computers and phones so you can fully pay attention to your meal.
Set a rule that you only eat when you're sitting down at a table or desk. This will help curb unnecessary eating or snacking.
 Take about 20 minutes or more to eat your meal. This is about the time it takes for your brain and stomach to communicate that you've had enough to eat and you're satisfied.Promote an environment that is solely used to eat. Avoid snacking while working or watching TV. Sit down to a meal and don't get up until it's done. Really savor your food and dedicate a specific meal time to you. You will appreciate your meal more and feel more full as you enjoy each bite.
Set a timer or a stop watch to give you an idea of how much longer it should take you to eat.
Put your fork down in between each bite, take a sip of water between each bite or chat with friends or family as you eat.
Take small bites and chew each bite at least 20 times to slow you down.

