 You can find these on Amazon or in tech department stores like Best Buy.


Be sure to buy an officially licensed Microsoft receiver and not a third-party one, since third-party receivers do not work.
 Go to https://github.com/360Controller/360Controller/releases/tag/v0.16.5 in your web browser., This is the .dmg file listed just below the "Downloads" heading. The file will download to your Mac., Double-click the .dmg file, then click and drag the driver's icon into the Applications folder. If you encounter an error during this process, do the following:

Open the Apple menu.
Click System Preferences.
Click Security & Privacy.
Click the lock icon and enter your password if prompted.
Click Open Anyway next to the file name.
Click Open when prompted.
 Click the Apple menu





, click Restart, and click Restart when prompted. This will ensure that the .dmg file's drivers are incorporated., It should plug into one of the USB ports on your computer's housing.

If your Mac doesn't have USB ports, you'll need to purchase a USB-C to USB adapter.
 If you have an Xbox 360, disconnect it from its power source before continuing; otherwise, your controller will attempt to connect to the Xbox 360 instead., Press and hold the Guide button, which is the Xbox logo in the middle of the controller. It will start flashing., It's a circular button in the middle of the receiver. The receiver's light will turn on., It's a button with the >>> icon on the front of the controller, between the shoulder buttons (LB and RB). Once the Xbox 360 controller's Guide light stops flashing, it is connected to your computer's wireless receiver., It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., This option is near the top of the drop-down menu. Doing so opens the System Preferences window., It resembles an Xbox 360 controller. Doing so opens the controller window, where you should see your controller listed in the box at the top of the window. This means that your Xbox 360 controller is connected to your Mac., Your controller's settings will differ from game to game, and you may need to customize your controller's settings in a game before you can use the controller.