 There are products on the market designed to prevent shoes and other odd items from moving inside the dryer. These items consist of two heat resistant suction cups connected by an adjustable strap. Place the toes of your shoes along one raised edge of the drum. Attach one suction cup next to the center of the shoe nearest you. Pull the strap tightly across both shoes and then secure the second suction cup next to the shoe furthest from you. Set your dryer on low, delicate, or no heat and push start. When the cycle is over or your shoes are dry, undo the suction cups and remove the shoes.You might be tempted to use duct tape or a temporary hook. It might work but be aware that the adhesive may cease to work with the application of even low heat and that duct tape will potentially mark the dryer permanently.
 Laundry experts have developed a way to keep your shoes from crashing around in the dryer. They have created a product that secures your shoes to the dryer door. The single piece of fabric is attached to the door, creating a pocket between itself and the door for your shoes to sit in. You can find this product online and in stores.


Attach the product to the dryer door—these bags are equipped with straps and suction cups.
Insert your wet shoes between the product and the door.
Close the door and set your dryer to the delicate, low, or no-heat temperature setting.
Remove the shoes from the pocket when the cycle ends or they are dry.
Be sure to arrange the bag over the door in such a way that both shoes at sitting flat and not on top of each other, to allow for the best possible air circulation., There are so many items, like footwear, that should not be tumbled dry. Set this finicky or clunky items on a drying rack specifically designed to sit flat inside the barrel of your dryer. While there are some generic drying racks, most of these products are specifically designed for a certain make and model—enquire at the retailer who sold you your dryer. Follow the installation instructions for your specific drying rack. Once installed, place your shoes on the drying rack, set the dryer to the appropriate temperature setting, and turn on the dryer. Remove the shoes from the rack when the cycle ends or they are dry.