 Although spending a long time in a chlorinated pool or hot bath is not good for the skin, soaking your feet for 15 minutes prior to moisturizing or exfoliating is helpful. Once your feet have healed and are no longer dry and rough, you won't have to soak them for treatment.


Long soaks in a hot bath deplete the natural oils in the skin and the heat reduces the moisture in skin's outer layer, all of which contribute to dry skin, so limit the time you soak.
Do not soak your feet more than three times per week or you’ll contribute to the drying skin instead of treating it.
You can make different soaking mixtures, including:

A mixture of baking soda, water and a splash of vinegar in a bucket of warm water.Mild soap (scented if you wish) with a bucket of warm water.
Half a cup of epsom salts in a tub of warm water.A quarter cup of white vinegar in a bucket of warm water.
A quarter cup of lemon juice that will dissolve dead and dry skin.;
, Mechanical exfoliation means removing the dead top layer of skin in order to treat the underlying layers. You can use a pumice stone, stiff brush, or loofah after softening the top layers of skin through soaking.A pumice stone is found at a pharmacy or in the pharmacy department of a large store.
You don’t need a specific type of stiff brush. Even a brush from the household cleaning department works as long as you don’t use it for anything else.
It's a good idea to soak your feet in warm water or take a warm shower for 10–15 minutes before exfoliating.
 Once you have removed the outer layer of dead cells it’s time to add moisture back to the skin. Moisturize immediately after a shower or soaking using a non-alcohol based product to trap the moisture that is on the skin and keep the skin moist. Some moisturizers work to seal in the moisture on your skin and others work by penetrating the skin to the dermal layer.Thick creams like Eucerin and Cetaphil work to trap the moisture in the skin. Other products with lanolin work in the same way. Olive oil has the same effect on the skin and is likely in your kitchen cabinet. Use just a little, rubbing it and massaging it into the skin.
Other moisturizers will be absorbed into the skin and work at the dermal layer. Coconut oil is an oil that has many beneficial properties, including being naturally antibacterial and antifungal. Used on your feet it will moisturize the skin, improve healing of any cracked areas, and help prevent infections.Alcohol-based products may be less “greasy” feeling, but the alcohol will also dry the skin out faster.
After moisturizing your feet put on a pair of cotton socks to reduce the potential for slipping and falling on the floor and to keep the moisturizer on your feet.
 If these remedies are not successful after repeated use, you may need to see your doctor. Expect to be tested for hypothyroidism if the dry skin extends to your arms and legs as well.If your dry skin is resistant to the measures you have taken at home, your doctor may recommend an over-the-counter product that contains lactic acid or lactic acid and urea. These ingredients help the skin to hold more moisture.
A more serious condition might require prescription ointments or creams to reduce the potential that the skin will crack due to dryness.

