 Usually at frat parties they will have games like beer pong or flip-cup, and you shouldn’t be afraid to join in. Frat houses are a brotherhood, so comradery is also something you’ll find at most parties. Don’t be afraid to make friends and join in on the fun, even if you are an outsider.
 If you feel nervous when going up to strangers don’t worry, it’s pretty common.It’s important to break through that nervousness and talk to as many strangers as you can at a party. It will make you seem sociable and other people might come up and start talking to you.


Try making a friend every hour. The more people you meet, the better the chance of finding someone to have a blast with!
Try to pick out someone who looks like they came alone. These people are usually waiting for people to talk to them, so they will be responsive.
If you can’t think of something to say, complimenting someone’s clothes usually works.
 If there is music at a frat party and people are dancing, make sure that you join in. Dancing for some people can be a source of anxiety, but the best method to overcome it is just to get out on that dance floor and do it.


Don’t be afraid of looking stupid. Many people don’t know how to dance but try anyway, the important thing is to have fun.
If you feel nervous about dancing with strangers, dance with some of the friends you came with. Since you know them, it will be less awkward and there won’t be any expectations.
 Sometimes it’s hard to stand out at a frat party because of a lot of people usually attend. You want to make an impression on some people, but don’t want to go overboard and try to be the center of attention. By being louder than usual, sociable, and open to speak to anyone, you’ll make a positive impression and people may remember you at the next party.


Sometimes if you try too hard it can come off as agitating, fake, or desperate. Your goal isn’t to be everyone’s friend, but become friends with those that you genuinely like.
Being funny is an easy way to get people's attention and leave a positive impression. If you're not funny, try to be nice instead.
 The party doesn’t end when you leave the frat party. While the ultimate point of going to a frat party is to have fun, it doesn’t mean that you can’t meet really good friends there. When you talk to someone you like, or you see someone you find attractive, don’t be afraid to ask for that phone number.


Don’t ask for a number out of nowhere. Start a conversation with the person first, then ask for their number if the exchange goes well.
Don’t be afraid of rejection. The worst thing someone can say is “no.”
The more you ask people for their numbers the better at it you’ll become.
 Having a fun time at a frat party isn't like solving a calculus equation. While following all these steps will help you have fun, it really relies on you and whether you. If you find yourself overthinking everything and not having fun, just relax and try to make some friends.

