 Shopping in retail stores can be difficult and uncomfortable at times. You can get the look and feel of the garment you are selecting for your sweetheart but you may be the nervous type and wind up selecting the wrong item. Sometimes salespeople will approach you and tempt you into buying something that may be inappropriate for your relationship. Online lingerie stores are the best, easiest and safest place to shop. Your purchase there is discreet and confidential and can be returned. Just be sure the store has a return policy that is acceptable to you.;
, First, be sure the site you purchase from has sizing charts so that you can match that to her. You will need to do some investigation to figure out her correct size. Also, remember that all manufacturers sizing runs differently so be sure to email them if you are not sure. A good seller of intimates will quickly respond to questions and if they don’t then don’t expect them to ship promptly. When picking a size choose something on the smaller side rather than larger. It is better for your purchase to be too tight on her rather too loose. This could change the mood of the occasion very quickly !! Check out her underwear drawer and examine the labels. Garments are labeled, XXS, XS ,S, M, L, XL, 1X, 2X, 3X. Others are labeled size 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16,18 …..and bra sizes are go by the back size (the number) and the cup size (the letter). There is a huge variation of sizes, you can get a AAA 28 all the up to a size DDD 40! Sizes in most retailers usually go from around A 32 - DD 38.
 Think about what excites both of you and choose something that will be erotic and turn you both on. Sexy intimates offer many choices so take your time when choosing style and website. When considering the style, think about your relationship and how intimate you are and how long you have been together. You can then choose something that is casual and on the safe side such as lace, satin or silk. Or, select something more risky such as leather, Lycra, PVC or vinyl. Be careful, PVC is great for the right occasion but only fits well on true sized people. This is also true for leather so be cautious when choosing this type of material. These types of outfits sometimes are better discussed in advance before purchasing. You want your lady to feel comfortable with your purchase so it is important that is pleases both of you.
 Choose garter belts for the taller woman or corset types of outfits. Garters belts will make her legs go on forever! Also, a body stocking may be a fun choice (make sure it has an open crotch for convenience). For the larger woman a baby-doll may be a good choice. Baby-doll are fitted around the bra area so go by bra size.
 These choices are simple. Most women can wear red, white or black but try to match her hair color. Blondes look good in pastels and great in black. Brunettes need rich blues and reds. Redheads look good in green, blue and earthy tones. Skin tone is also an important factor. For darker skin, go for a lighter color lingerie. Pale skin tones look better in darker colors.

