 Drying gourds while keeping them from rotting means reducing their exposure to bacteria and fungus. The first important step in this process is to rinse any dirt and debris from the gourds' rinds with clean water. After this, use a cloth to rub a bleach solution (or full-strength distilled vinegar) over the rinds. Dry the rinds with a clean cloth.
 The drying environment is crucial; it must be dark, cool, dry, and extremely well ventilated. Moist or poorly ventilated areas will nearly always cause the gourds to rot instead of drying. To ensure excellent ventilation, open windows and run a fan in the room where the gourds are drying., After choosing an area, put the clean gourds into place for drying. Do not allow the gourds to touch each other, as this prevents adequate air circulation and can encourage microbial growth. For extra air circulation underneath the gourds, place the gourds onto a makeshift wood lattice, poultry wire, or another porous material., If you catch mold growth early, you can often remove it without damaging the gourd. If you see any black, white, or blueish-green growth on the outer rind of your gourds, scrape it off with a butter knife. Disinfect the surface again with bleach, and wipe it dry. If the rind is still hard and shows no discoloration, the gourd is still healthy., Once a gourd develops a soft, discolored spot in its rind, it has started to rot. This process cannot be undone, and if left in place rotting gourds can quickly spread their microbes to neighboring gourds. Inspect your drying gourds daily for soft spots, and throw any offending specimens into your compost pile or garbage. Note that no matter how ideal your drying environment, some gourds will inevitably get moldy., When your gourds are satisfactorily dried, you can shake them and hear the seeds rattling around inside. The entire process will take between a few weeks and a few months depending on conditions. Generally, Cucurbita gourds dry faster than Lagenaria gourds., As you plan your fall decorations, handle the dried gourds gingerly. Gourds are fragile once dried, and their shells can easily sustain cracks.