 Go to the Craigslist website. In the upper left-hand corner, click on “Post to Classifieds.” Select “Housing Offered” and click on “Continue.” Choose a category. If you have an apartment or house for rent, select “Apts/Housing for Rent.” Click on “Continue,” and you will be directed to a page where you can enter information about your rental property., Fill out all of the sections on the ad creation page. Provide as many details as possible to fully inform potential tenants. Include features of the property such as the number of bedrooms and bathrooms, the square footage, the monthly rent and when the property will be available. Once you have entered all of your information, click on “Continue.” You will see a draft of your ad, and you will then be able to upload pictures.For your contact information, you can choose whether or not the ad will display your personal e-mail address or phone number. If you want potential tenants to see this information, input your phone number and select “Show My Real Email Address” at the top of the form. To keep this information private, do not enter your phone number and select “CL Mail Relay.” This displays a system-generated email address to which tenants can respond to your ad.
Avoid abbreviations that you would use in a newspaper ad. On Craigslist, you will not be charged per word or character as you would in a newspaper ad. Instead of using abbreviations like “dw” for dishwasher, write out the whole word so people know exactly what you’re advertising.
Describe any amenities, such as new appliances, on-site laundry or access to fitness, swimming or playground facilities.
Give information about the neighborhood that would attract tenants, such as proximity to stores, schools, historic areas or public transportation.
 In the page where you can see the draft of your ad, click on the “Edit Images” button in the upper left-hand corner. You can load up to 24 images. Include pictures of the inside and outside of the property. If your property is an apartment, provide a picture of the building. Upload your best picture first. This will be the featured image on the ad., After you add all of your images, you will again see your ad draft. Proofread the ad to make sure all the information is accurate and everything is spelled right. If you need to change anything, click on “Edit Text,” “Edit Map” or “Edit Images” in the upper left-hand corner. Once everything is right, click on “Publish” in the lower right-hand corner., Millions of people use Craigslist.To keep your ad from getting lost at the bottom of the list, you may need to repost the ad every few days. Also, respond to potential renters quickly. They will have access to many ads on Craigslist. Waiting to respond to someone who’s interested in your property could cost you.