 These can be helpful during the process. Some are listed below.


VO = voice over
OC = off camera
OS = off screen
Pre Production = The process of getting things together before the making of the film
Production = The making of the film
Post Production = The editing process after the film is complete
Distribution = The process of distributing your movie into theaters or stores;
, A good (and common) program to use to make a screenplay is Microsoft Word (though you could handwrite it, it would be easier to type). People with high budgets often hire a screen writer to do this part, however, if you have no budget, then it would be good for you to come up with the ideas and have your friends help you out. To create a screenplay, first you want to come up with an idea. Let your imagination run free.


Make sure to come up with something interesting that still shows what genre you're displaying.
Create a scene title. An example of a correctly formatted title is: INT. BEDROOM SCENE- EARLY AFTERNOON. "INT." means inside, but you can also use "EXT." which means outside.
Label the name of your scene. Above, the label was "Bedroom Scene". Add a dash and state what time of day it is. If you want to go even further you can also add a time, by adding another dash and a specific time (such as "INT. BEDROOM SCENE- EARLY AFTERNOON- 1:15").
Move onto the next line. If your character is performing an action before he/she speaks, type that first.

A good font to type the character's name, actions, and dialogue in is Courier New at 12 pt.


Center what you're typing. Type the character's first and last name.
After you have their name typed in, move down a line and start typing their dialogue, or "what they're supposed to say". If they have an action after that, start a new line, un-center what you're typing, and type the action in. Keep typing character actions and dialogue until you change scenes.
Repeat the process of writing scenes until you are finished with your screenplay.
The format for writing scenes is:

Scene Heading
Character Name
Dialogue
Action or Notes for the scene



, That way, you won't have to think about that on the spot.
 You'll want to be as prepared as you can.
 Sometimes people get tired of the project, things go wrong, or it starts out great but soon people start to forget about it. The cast could be exactly as you pictured, but there could still be some that aren't dedicated enough to do as you ask.
, A few of the angles are:


Wide Shot
Medium Shot
Close Up
Dolly Shot
Aerial Shot
Arc Shot
Dutch Tilt
Long Shot
Deep Focus
For an explanation of the angles, go to: , The cast has to be able to feel what the character is feeling and respond like that particular character would respond. Wardrobe, makeup, and hair may bring out the look of the character but it needs the feelings to get the job done. #* A good exercise for this is to have them act like that character for a day.



SFX stands for "special effects". Now this is usually the things done "in camera" meaning if you, for example, put a prosthetic arm on your cast member and have another person rip it off and have blood splatter everywhere, that's SFX. It can be the easier of the two. VFX is done on the editing software on your computer.
