 You don't need to use any specific browser (like Chrome, for instance). Your Google preferences are linked to your Google account, rather than your browser.;
, Either click here to get to this page, type "www.google.com/preferences" into the address bar, or use the following steps — all three options will get you to the same place.


Go to Google.com and enter a search term. It's not important what you search for.
On the results page, look for a button with a gear on it in the top right corner. Click this button.
Select "Search Settings" from the list of options.
 Look for the heading “Search history” near the bottom of the page. You will see a small blue link underneath that also says "search history." Click this link.
 If you aren't logged in to your Google account, you will be prompted to log in at this point. If you don't have a Google account, you'll need to create one so that Google can remember your personal history preferences. See our How to Make a Google Account article for step-by-step help.


You are usually kept logged in to your Google profile by default. However, even if you are already logged in, you may be asked to re-enter your Google username and/or password to proceed. This is normal.
 Click the gear button on the top right corner of the page. Choose "Settings" from the drop-down menu. You will be brought to the “Account history” page.
 Here, you will see the option "Your searches and browsing activity" with a small switch button to the right.When the switch is to the right and is colored green, Google History is on and your searches are being recorded. Click the switch and press "Pause" in the pop-up menu to turn it off.
When the switch is to the left and is colored grey, Google History is off and your searches are not being recorded. Clicking the switch and pressing "Turn on" in the pop-up menu will turn it on.
 Clicking this link below the history on/off switch gives you more options for specifying when and how Google will record your history. Your options are listed below (all work the same way as the main history switch):Google can record where you go when you use Google Maps.
Google can record information like your contacts, calendars, and apps from your mobile device.
Google can record your voice searches and commands.
Google can record videos you search for and watch on YouTube.

