 Any original text, audio, or visual work has copyright protection from the moment you put it into a tangible form.


Generally, your copyright gives you the exclusive right to reproduce, distribute, display, and perform your work publicly. You also can enter into an agreement with someone else to do any of those things for you.However, if someone does any of those things without your consent, they have infringed your copyright and you have the right to sue them for damages. You also can get an injunction – a court order that requires the infringer to stop copying or using your work.Copyright protects the words, sounds, or images themselves, but not the ideas they embody or the processes they describe.For example, if you create a training video for your employees, you could register your copyright in that video. If someone copied your video and put it on the internet, that would constitute copyright infringement. However, it would not be copyright infringement if another business owner created his own training video, even if it discussed similar processes.
Computer programs can be protected by copyright as literary works, but the copyright protects the code sequences themselves – think of the code as a language like English, but read by computers rather than people – not the program's functions or processes. Application processes or systems can be protected by a patent.You also should keep in mind that copyright generally doesn't protect single words, names, mottos or short phrases. If you have a brief phrase you use in connection with your business, you may be able to trademark it, but copyright would not apply., You will need to disclose information about yourself and your copyrighted work.


Registration basically is a legal formality, since your work is protected by copyright from the moment you create it. However, you must have a registered copyright to file an infringement suit in federal court.If you're filing online, you will be asked some brief questions about the work you're filing before you proceed. Once you start your application, you must enter information such as the type of work, the title of the work, whether and when it has been published, and the names of the authors of the work., The U.S. Copyright Office allows registration to be done either online, or by mailing in a paper application.


Filing online provides a number of benefits, including faster processing time and a lower filing fee.If you file online, you only have to pay either $35 or $55 to file your application. The lower rate applies to registration of a single work by one author.When filing online, you can save your application whenever you want and return to it later. Your application will only be submitted after you've paid the filing fee and clicked the button to submit your work.If you'd prefer to file paper forms, you can download them from the Copyright Office website. You must include a filing fee of $85 with your paper application. Some types of copyrights such as serial registrations or works by multiple authors may have a higher filing fee.Processing will take approximately eight months if you file your application online, and can take up to 13 months if you mail in a paper application. If you file online, you have the additional benefit of being able to check the status of your application whenever you want., To complete registration, you must deposit copies of your work.


If you file your application online, you may be able to upload electronic copies of your work directly into the system.If your work has been published in the United States, you are required to send two physical copies for use by the Library of Congress within three months of publication. This deposit is separate from the registration deposit requirements, but you can use the same copies to satisfy both requirements in some circumstances. Failure to make the Library of Congress deposit doesn't affect the status of your registration, but it can lead to fines or other penalties., Although the Copyright Office registers copyrights, it does not enforce them. It is your responsibility to detect and go after infringing uses of your work.


Copyright protection endures for the life of the author plus 70 years. If you file your copyright and list a corporate entity as the author, protection will last 95 years from publication or 120 years from creation, whichever is shorter.If you own a website or blog where you publish your work, there are applications available that will scan the internet for copies of your work.Some of these services may charge a fee, so you should compare them so you can choose the maximum amount of protection that will fit your budget.
If you find someone infringing your work, take action immediately. Find out the name and contact information of the infringer and send them a letter letting them know that you have a registered copyright in the work and their use is infringing.You can ask them to cease and desist their infringing use, but you also may want to give them the opportunity to work out an agreement with you to license the work.

