 It may sound silly, but some people aren’t used to laughing and it will be difficult to use humor to release anger if you don’t feel comfortable laughing. So be silly and take some time to practice the act of laughing.Start by smiling. Even if it is a forced smile, it’s the first step in laughing and developing your sense of humor.
Say “ha” to get your laugh going. Start with one, then two, and keep increasing your ‘ha’s’ until you are laughing.
For instance, you would say, “Ha. Ha ha. Ha ha ha.” After a few ha’s you’ll at least be laughing at how silly you sound.;
, You can develop your sense of humor by surrounding yourself with things that make you laugh, or at least smile.It doesn’t have to be anything large, but it should be something that lightens your mood as soon as you see it.


Save a humorous meme on your phone or electronic device. Or take a gag selfie and use it as your wallpaper.
Keep something comical like a bobbling figure on your desk at work or buy a funny keychain.
Put a sticky note with a funny saying or joke in your locker at school so that you can see on a regular basis.
 It will be much easier for you to develop your humor if you are doing something you like to do. Doing things you enjoy will relax you, lighten your mood, and put a smile on your face. Take some time out to have fun so that when you need to release anger with humor you’ll be able to do it.


Go to an amusement park or even go to a playground and swing and slide. You’re never too old to play.
Watch your favorite sitcom or cartoon on TV, catch the latest comedy to hit the big screen, or attend a comedy show.
Get some physical activity. Going for a walk or hitting the gym can relax you. When you are relaxed it’s easier for you to have a sense of humor.
 Just like doing something you enjoy, spending time with people that put a smile on your face can help you develop your sense of humor.They can show you how to lighten up as well as give you examples of how to use humor to release anger.


Accept the invitation if your friends or family members invite you somewhere. You might just have enough fun to make you laugh.
You don’t have to do anything in particular. Just sitting and talking can bring a smile to your face and help you laugh.
Spend time with some children. Whether it’s something they say or something they do, kids are great for helping you develop your sense of humor.
 This form of yoga is different from traditional yoga. Instead of doing downward facing dog or child pose, you focus on breathing, fun movements and visualizations, and laughing.You get the benefits of physical activity, plus you learn strategies to use laughter to calm yourself down.


Attend a laughter yoga or group laughter session in your community. Practice the exercises at home to develop your sense of humor even more.
Ask a friend to go with you. That way you can practice together outside of class.

