 Look for the “broil” button or dial on your oven. Some ovens will provide different broiling options, but these are generally very basic settings like “high” and “low.” Experiment a bit and check out what each setting does.


Before cooking anything, turn on the broiler at least five minutes in advance. This will ensure that it heats up completely.;
, Most broilers provide two to three rack positions. These positions dictate how close the food is to the broiler. The top two racks are usually three to five inches away from the heating element. Use these racks for browning gratins and cooking thin pieces of meat. Use the top rack with caution because it heats food up very quickly. Some foods can char within seconds on the top rack.









Ovens vary, but in general, food cooks at 550°F on the top rack.
There is usually a temperature drop of about 50°F to 70°F for each rack beneath it.If your oven provides three racks, use the middle one to broil things like thick steaks and bone-in chicken.
 As a backup, use a digital timer. A mechanical one is fine, too, but because the intense heat can char foods within seconds, a digital timer will help you be precise. Most foods will be ready to remove from the oven after broiling for five to ten minutes., When working around the intense heat of a broiler, you should use a high quality mitt that is long enough to protect your wrists and forearms from the heat. Look for brands that have a silicone coating on the outside – these usually can protect your skin up to 600°F. Avoid using a damp kitchen towel or mitts that are very thin or short., Whatever vessel you choose, it cannot be too deep or it won’t fit between the oven rack and the broiler. Cast-iron skillets operate very well under high-heat conditions, making them ideal for broiling.Look into grated broiler pans, as well. These are designed to be used with broilers and they allow heat to circulate under your food.Never use a glass baking dish under a broiler, not even Pyrex, because it might break under the intensity of the heat.








Always spray your pan with nonstick cooking spray before you place the food on it.
If you are planning to broil something messy, line your pan with aluminum foil first. This will make clean-up easier.

