 A low-allergen garden could, for instance, use artificial mulch and incorporate bright and colorful flowers (which tend to be pollinated by bugs rather than by wind).

Herbs to avoid include chamomile and wormwood.
Weeds you should keep out of your garden include plantago (asthma weed) and Paterson’s curse.
Avoid planting birch, maple, ash, she oak, olive, oak, walnut, alder, white cypress, willow, poplar, elm, cypress, and Monterey pine trees.
Most herbs are perfect for a low-allergy garden. Plant basil, thyme, chives, tarragon, dill, summer savory, fennel, sage, mint, parsley, rosemary, and oregano to your heart’s content.
You might choose to include flowers like the climbing rose, banksia rose, rosemary, and glossy abelia.
 Once you know exactly which allergies you have, you can take action to safeguard against them. For instance, if you have an allergy to tree pollen, you can schedule your gardening in such a way so as to avoid the most intense periods of tree pollination (February through May, in this case). If you’re allergic to grass pollen, on the other hand, you will have a different set of periods during which you should not garden.Consult a botanical guide in order to identify when your specific allergen is pollinating. Avoid gardening during those times.
The plants most likely to cause seasonal allergic reactions include apple trees, dogwood trees, plum trees, pear trees, begonia flower trees, sunflowers, roses, magnolias, daffodils, and lilacs., For instance, you might take a decongestant, which eliminates feelings of stuffiness and runny noses. You might also get an antihistamine, which fights the body’s natural histamine (a biological compound involved in developing inflammation). Finally, you might receive nasal spray steroids, which relieve inflammation and swelling caused by your seasonal allergies.Talk to your doctor about using medication to reduce the severity of your seasonal allergies. If your doctor deems it wise, they will prescribe you an appropriate medication.
 Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese traditional medicine that requires piercing the skin with thin needles to cure various ailments. Some people find that acupuncture can prevent or reduce the incidence of seasonal allergic reactions. To receive acupuncture, visit your local traditional Chinese medical specialist or acupuncturist.Acupuncture is very safe, though you might have some temporary side effects like drowsiness, feelings of sickness, or pain where the needle punctures the skin.

