 In some states all you need is a high-school diploma or a GED, but other states require more. A Bachelor’s degree is quickly becoming the standard for CO work. If you’d like to increase your odds of employment, there are multiple college courses that can improve your chances.


Natural-resource sciences – Understanding the biodiversity and ecology of your environment is critical to a conservation officer.
Criminal justice – Law enforcement preparation related to apprehension and tracking would be beneficial.
Sociology – Knowing why people and groups interact can help you understand their actions and motives.
Communication arts – A big part of being a conservation officer is communication with the public
Military experience also counts as a supplement to traditional education in some situations.;
, Various forms of community service and experience can enhance your chances to get a conservation officer job. Experience related to conservation officer jobs are looked at favorably when applying. Study general information regarding natural resource management and the laws that govern it.Courses are often offered at local fire departments and Fish, Wildlife, & Parks (FWP) departments. You can further supplement with some of the following areas of study:


Hunter education courses
Experience with boating and other marine vessels
Trapper regulation courses
Participate in youth development courses like 4-H
Fish and wildlife identification, Commitment to wildlife organizations shows an interest and dedication to the conservation officer job. Affiliation also helps an applicant stay abreast with latest information and resources about fish and game issues, wildlife protection, and wildlife conservation.A few examples of organizations you could join are as follows:


North American Wildlife Enforcement Officers Association (NAWEOA) – This organization has specialized focus on poaching prevention, even including Crime-Stopper and Tip hotlines to catch poachers.U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service – This organization serves as a one-stop shop for information related to being a conservation officer, everything from ecological services to migratory birds.North East Conservation Law Enforcement Chiefs Association (NECLECA) – The NECLECA is a professional organization covering multiple states in the U.S. northeast that focuses on providing its members with upcoming events related to the profession.

