 The following techniques only work on older cars that don't use electronic locking. If your car doors have small knobs or rods that move up and down when you lock the car you should be able to get the door open without a key.
 Known as the "screw and rod" technique, this can damage your car if you are not careful. Since the locking mechanism is usually on the middle of the door, you can pry open the top part of the door with a screwdriver and use a long rod to push the unlock button.


Pry open the top of the door with a flathead screwdriver.
Take a metal rod or yardstick and stick it into the space you between the car and the door.
Use the rod to press the "unlock" button on your door.
This technique often works for newer cars as well.
 Pull apart the clothes hanger so that you have a long wire with the hook at the end. You can use this hook to manually pull up the lock on your car door. Stick the hook end of the hanger between weather-stripping and the bottom of the window, lining the end of the hook up with the knob of the lock. Stick the hook down and feel around for the lock -- it will feel like a vertical rod sticking up from the keyhole to the lock inside the car. Get your hook under this rod and pull up to release the lock.


This may take some time, especially if you are inexperienced, but it will work in a pinch.
"Slim-Jims" are professional hooks made for this purpose. They are the long, slender tools seen in carjackers on movies and TV., This strategy only works on cars that have a visible knob that unlocks the door. Still, it is quick, easy, and efficient. To open your car with a shoelace:


Create a slipknot in the middle of your lace.
Get the lace inside the car by threading it between the door and the car frame. Think of "flossing" the space between your door and the car.
Hook the loop in the middle of your lace around the locking mechanism.
Tighten the lace around the lock by pulling on both ends.
Pull the lock upwards to unlock your car., If you have an AAA membership you may be entitled to a free or discounted visit from a locksmith. Be sure to call and ask about the price and how soon someone can come help you.

