 After you saturate the hair with whatever liquid you are going to use, you need to section the hair. Start by putting the hair in four to eight separate sections with clips. The sections should be small enough that you can easily comb through them with your comb at once.Later, you will put these sections into smaller ones when you comb through them.
 Make sure to keep these sections separate through the whole process. You will go through each section of hair methodically, so try not to contaminate a clean section by combining it or touching it to a section you haven’t gone through.Consider going along one side of the head first and then the next.
 Start with the top section first. Using your fine-toothed comb, comb through every inch of the hair. Go from the scalp to the ends. You will see eggs and bugs in the teeth of the combs as you go through the sections of hair.You should comb through each part of the hair. Comb over the top of the hair, then under it, then the right side and the left.
 While you comb through the hair, nits and bugs will end up in the teeth of the comb. You need to make sure to clean the comb after every few runs through the hair. This removes any eggs or bugs so they don’t get back onto the hair.


Wipe the comb on paper towels to dislodge the eggs and lice.
Rinse the comb with hot water to remove any oil or residue from the comb.
After you finish combing through the hair, put the paper towel in a sealed bag and dispose of it. You can kill any eggs on the comb by placing the comb in a sealed bag and placing it in the freezer until you need it again.
 After you have combed through the hair, rinse the oil, mayonnaise, or conditioner from the hair. Then, the hair should be washed with dish soap, then rinse out the dish soap. Comb through hair again.Combing through the hair again will help get any left over eggs or bugs, or any eggs that have been loosened by washing.
 The best way to get rid of lice is to get rid of every bug and nit on your child’s head. To achieve this, repeat the combing process with the oil or conditioner every two or three days. This helps remove any nits that have been laid or bugs that have hatched since the last time.Most of your efforts should be focused on combing out your child’s hair. This is where you will eliminate the bugs.

