 Some of the primary challenges associated with dyslexia aren’t based in the learning challenges, but rather in the misunderstandings of peers and teachers. Dyslexia is simply a different way of thinking, neither better nor worse than other ways. If you can find communities that accept and acknowledge the differences associated with people who have dyslexia, you’ll be more able to help your child (and yourself) experience success.Low self-esteem, behavior problems, anxiety, aggression, and difficulty with friends are all associated with unsupported people who have dyslexia.
Emotional support for those with dyslexia is very important. It’s easy to feel lazy or less intelligent than other people in an academic environment that is based on reading skills.
 Support groups for students with learning disorders such as dyslexia can are good places to meet others with a similar learning style. Group therapy are more intensive than support groups, and provide individualized strategies within the group setting that can help you navigate your life situation.Look for a group setting that feels active, dynamic and positive.
In a group therapy setting, each person should have his own goals. These goals should be attainable, measurable, and relevant to his life.
 Working with a therapist can people with dyslexia and their parents better identify the way dyslexia affects an individual. A good therapist will be aware of the latest research and treatments for dyslexia, and use techniques that have been shown to be effective. The client's own interests and goals should inform the treatment program.The therapist will help create goals for the client’s progress that are both specific and measurable.
For instance, if the goal is to “improve the ability to spell new words,” you can’t measure this, and it’s not specific. Instead, a more appropriate goal would be to “increase the participant’s ability to spell words using the –rer pattern from 60% to 80% accuracy on an informal assessment.”

, If you do not have dyslexia, you can provide better support for someone who has dyslexia by learning more about dyslexia. It’s not as simple as reading words backwards (an archaic idea people once had). If you have dyslexia, you’re likely to have trouble reading words even if you’ve read them many times before.You’re more likely to read slowly, and reading takes a great deal of effort. You’ll probably feel very tired after reading.
It’s easy for people who have dyslexia to mix up letters in a word, such as reading “own” as “won” or “left” as “felt.”

, A student with dyslexia might require more time to complete assignments or tests. She might need someone else to take notes for her, or to record lectures or spoken information in class. You might be able to access your course material through an audiobook, rather than printed textbook.Computer software is available for certain subjects that “reads” the textbook out loud.
Using spell-checker software may be permitted to help support the dyslexic student.
 People with dyslexia do not have low intelligence, and most people with dyslexia have average or above average IQs. People with dyslexia might be “people-oriented,” and have strong interpersonal skills. There is also research exploring whether people who have dyslexia may have stronger than average abilities in science.People with dyslexia also have other skills with information processing, such as:The ability to focus on “the big picture” rather than the details. As a result, they may be skilled problem-solvers and more creative thinkers than people who do not have dyslexia.
Being able to visualize 3-dimensional information with ease, and to reorganize existing designs into creative new ways of being.
Having good visual-spatial skills, and strong pattern-recognition abilities.
 People with dyslexia become doctors, musicians, artists, architects, scientists, teachers, economists, and many other professional occupations. Children and tees with dyslexia may benefit from having someone successful who also has dyslexia as a role model. A role model can be useful for building self-esteem in children and teens with dyslexia.When you meet successful adults who have dyslexia, ask what strategies these adults used to work through their challenges.

