 Whatever your secondary life entails, don’t talk about anything related to it without anyone you don’t want to know. Even if you’ve been winning big by betting on the Wolverines all year and your boss mentions that he placed a bet on their opponents in next week’s game, bite your tongue.While it can be tempting to try to talk about aspects of your double life, it’s better simply not to engage.;
, You know better than bringing your personal issues to work. However, if you’re hiding some personal life secrets, you may want to go above and beyond keeping your basic responsibilities at work. Ensure that no one at work suspects you of leading a double life by showing up early, meeting your goals, and maintaining cooperative relationships with your colleagues.If your secret life intrudes on your work day – perhaps a call from your fellow furry Agent Mittens – don’t let the interruption affect your work flow. Go for a walk when you get a free minute and address any issue that arises outside of the office.
 Thoughts about your second life will likely arise during conversations in your non-secret life. Don’t externalize these thoughts, even if your think you won’t betray your secrets. Double check any statements that bear any relevance to your double life by asking yourself, “Will this possibly reveal anything?”For instance, so-and-so mentions wanting to see such-and-such movie this weekend. You’ve already seen it, perhaps while on a secret solo mushroom-trip, or with a romantic partner you’d rather stay secret. Don’t say something like, “You totally should, it’s great!” They might ask when you saw it, or with whom, forcing you into a situation where you’ll have to lie or admit you’re living a second life.
 One of the quickest ways to get caught living a double life is by letting a conflict spill from one of your lives into the other. If you’re fighting with someone important in one of your lives, look to address any source of unease as soon as you can. Since people often act irrationally when they’re upset, allowing a conflict to persist may lead to emotion boiling over and secret second lives spilling into the light.For example, an on-and-off again romantic friend from your second life, Agent Mittens, is upset you were canoodling a bit extensively with Sterling Silver at the last Meet & Pet. Don't leave Agent Mittens wondering what to think. Tell them how you feel, and how you prefer to interact with others in the environments you spend time in together.
Stated simply, when issues arise, address them directly. Unaddressed issues are the most likely reason that people from your second life will intrude upon your first life and expose your secrets.

