 First, start thinking about movies and books you love. Don't think too hard, just start writing down ideas. Next, write out some characters from those books or movies that you might like to dress up as. Just go with things you love or that inspire you.Next, start narrowing down your ideas. Obviously, some costumes are going to take more time than others. You can buy some costumes if you have the money, but if you don't, you're going to need to get creative.
Think about how much time you have and what you'll need to make each costume. You may need to start as much as a month or two in advance to get a costume together.
Make a list of what you'll need. For instance, if you're going to be Mary Poppins, you'll need a hat, a red scarf, a long-sleeve white blouse, a black skirt, a bag, and an umbrella.
 Often, you can find parts for you costume at the thrift stores. You may have to spend some time going to a few stores to find all the parts you need. If you can't find the parts you need, you may end up making those or buying them at a more expensive store. You could also use pieces from your closet that you already have.For instance, for the Mary Poppins costume, you probably already have a white blouse or button-up shirt. If you don't have one, see if you can borrow one from a family member.
You'll probably be able to find a plain, black skirt at a thrift store, for example, but you may need to make the hat, as well as make additions to a plain umbrella. You may also be able to find the Mary Poppins-style bag at a thrift store.
 Look around your house to see if you have anything else you can use. For instance, if you already have a black umbrella, there's no need to buy another one. For what you can't find or buy, you'll need to make, such as Mary Poppins' hat, if that's your costume.To make something like a hat, you can either start with a plain hat and dress it up, or make it completely from scratch.
One option for a hat like Mary Poppins' hat is to use cardboard or foam core to make it, and then add paint and decorations.
 It's the details that make characters come to life, so make sure you're hitting all the details. For instance, with Mary Poppins, make sure you have the bright red scarf, the bright red lipstick, and try to create a head for your umbrella.You can use printouts for things like the umbrella head to make it easier. Just be sure to back it with cardboard to make it sturdier.


For Mary Poppins' scarf, you can just use red ribbon to make it easier.
For example, if you went as Darla from Finding Nemo, don't forget to carry a goldfish so people know who you are. Alternatively, if you go as a character from Toy Story, use tape to write Andy's name on the bottom of your shoe. The details make all the difference., Character Day is about looking the part, but it is also about acting the part. Borrow mannerisms from the characters you’re dressed like by watching the movie they are in again or by reading through the book again. Memorize their key phrases and mannerisms, and employ them throughout the day.


If you’re dressed like Batman for the day, lower your voice to a deep growl and say everything with a Christian Bale grunt.
If you’re dressed like Cher, twirl your hair, acting super girly, and end sentences with “as if."

