  While this method may not be effective against scorpion infestations, it works well if you just have the occasional unwanted 'guest'. Scorpions tend to be found around water sources, so a great place to look with care is around your sink, shower recess, or bathtub in the bathroom, and around similar wet areas in the laundry and kitchen. If you find a scorpion, it's just a matter of covering them with a wide enough plastic container, sliding a piece of cardboard under the container to cover it, and then transporting the 'guest' outside.


If you have a bug catcher, consider using that device instead of the plastic container and cardboard sheet.
If you don't want to return the scorpion to the wild, humanely kill it quickly by a swift crush with the boot. Use a fly swatter to collect the squashed body. However, consider returning the scorpion to its natural habitat rather than killing it because it is a beneficial predator.;
, Caulk around all holes and other entrance possibilities where your pipes and other plumbing enters rooms in your home. Start from the basement upward, and seal all the areas around pipes, drains, fittings, walls, vents, etc., where a scorpion might gain access to the house. This includes ceiling fixtures because scorpions can climb.Pour bleach down the drains of your septic system. Do this on a weekly basis if you have noticed scorpions crawling up the drain to gain access to your home. Use 2 tablespoons weekly to deter the crawling in.
Look outside too. Check the mesh over the dryer vent and any holes around it. Check everywhere that cables, wires, and pipes enter the house, as well as for any holes in the walls, doors, and windows. Your heating and air-conditioning outlets should also be checked.
Install weather-stripping around loose-fitting windows and doors. Be sure that all window and door screens are in good conditions, free of holes or tears.
Fix leaky faucets, pipes, and any other dripping sources of water.
 Allow non-harmful pest-catching spiders to reside in your home. They may well try to kill scorpions that come near them. However, be sure to remove insect sources of food such as crickets, cockroaches, cicadas, and ants., The fresh plants seem to have a better effect than oils or dried plants though. It's quite easy to grow and maintain, and smells wonderful.



Citrus is also considered to be another deterrent. You could grow citrus in pots near your entrance areas and use citrus oil cleaners in bathroom and other wet zones of the house.
 Move woodpiles out of, and away from, your home. Another natural method is to get rid of scorpion hiding places. They love piles of firewood, rocks, and lumber, and can also be found in compost heaps. If it is an option, move these scorpion havens further away from your home, you should have less intruders.


Keep the lawn mowed at all times, and prune bushes and overhanging branches to keep these away from your house, garage, and shed walls.
Rest garbage containers and compost containers on bricks or other items that push them up above ground level. Add mesh to the base of the compost bin; this will also keep out rodents.
 Cats have been known to catch and kill scorpions around the home, and some dogs will as well. You may think it as cruel, but it is a very natural method to rid your home of creepy-crawlies. However, not everyone likes this method for fear of harm to the pet, so don't allow this to happen if the scorpion is really venomous and could harm your pet (most scorpions in the USA are not highly dangerous, see "Tips" for dangerous zones); usually it's okay provided the pet is naturally fast and predatory.Never force a pet to catch a scorpion. Only some pets will innately and willingly go for a scorpion, and will have the courage to do what is needed.
Set your chickens onto eating up the bugs that scorpions consider to be food. Chickens aren't fussy – they'll also munch up a scorpion that crosses their path., If you're willing to manually shift scorpions from your yard, this can be done at night. Scorpions fluoresce under ultra-violet light, so use a black light or an ultra-violet light to look for them. Also, wear sturdy boots and use long barbecue tongs to collect the scorpions into a container for removal from your yard. Release them into the local desert, forest, grasslands, or wherever their natural habitat is rather than killing them because they are beneficial to the ecosystem.

