 Fluoride is put into toothpaste and dental rinses to replace the calcium component in the enamel compounds with fluorapatite, a substance that is resistant to demineralization by acids. Fluoride toothpastes help remove bacterial plaques and can strengthen tooth enamel. Fluoride ions replace calcium ions, which strengthens the enamel. Fluoride can also help the process of remineralization in part because it is anti-microbial, killing off the oral bacteria that often is an underlying cause for teeth to lose their enamel.If your teeth are sensitive, use a toothpaste for sensitive teeth. These types of toothpaste can help reduce gum inflammation as well.There are some tooth remineralization toothpastes, liquids, and powders. Ask your dentist for her recommendations. You should also only use a fluoride toothpaste with a seal from the American Dental Association.
You can also use a special toothpaste meant to rebuild enamel, such as Squigle Enamel Saver toothpaste, which has fluoride in it.
 Fluoride is helpful but not necessary for remineralization. It makes the teeth stronger, but teeth don’t actually contain the substance the toothpaste puts back into them. Because of this, there are ways to remineralize without fluoride. Toothpastes without fluoride reduce the bacteria in your mouth. They do this with xylitol, a sugar alcohol that reduces the adherence of plaque-forming bacteria to your teeth.


These toothpastes also replace the calcium and phosphate used in your tooth enamel.Common toothpastes without fluoride Redmond Earthpaste, Dr Collins Restore toothpaste, Apagard Premio toothpaste, and Tom’s of Maine Cavity protection.
 Instead of buying over the counter toothpaste, you can make your own at home. Use 4 tablespoons (59.1 ml) of calcium carbonate powder. You get this powder from crushing calcium carbonate tablets or by buying the calcium powder in bulk. Add to it 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) baking soda, ½ to 1 packet of stevia, and 1 teaspoon sea salt. Mix together. To that, add enough coconut oil to make a paste. Once it is a paste, add a few drops of peppermint oil until it is minty enough for you. Mix completely. Dip your toothbrush into the paste and brush.


You can make a larger batch of this at any time, just seal it in a jar and keep it in the refrigerator to keep it from spoiling.
If you want to whiten your teeth or have stubborn stains, add 2 teaspoons of 3% hydrogen peroxide. It will cause some foaming and perhaps some tingling, but don't worry. That is normal. Hydrogen peroxide is antibacterial and works as a bleaching agent. Don’t use anything stronger than a 3 % solution because higher concentrations can burn and irritate the gums and mouth.