 Those are usually bunnies. You could also use a raccoon or any small animal.



For non member girls try wearing one of the listed clothing: Clover blanket, necklace, silver glove, butterfly wings, jamaaliday sweater, or a scarf of some sort.
For non member boys try wearing one of the listed: old blanket , star cape, bow and arrow(s), fox hat, raccoon hat, worn, or a scarf of some sort.
For member girls try wearing one of the listed: Designer skirt, a necklace of some sort, scarf, fox hat, a shirt of some sort, a coat of some sort, a bonnet, or a tutu.
For member boys try wearing one of the listed: a shirt of some sort, boyish hats (for example, baseball caps/hats), coat, or sweater.
 If a member, do not wear non-member clothing, if possible.
 It's next to the Sol Arcade.
 Say, 'Arrives in wicker basket' 'Gets Left in Pillow Room' 'Mommy leaves me in the pillow room', or you can just arrive.


When you enter, you could say things like: "Is a new born in a cold box" or "Wants to be adopted" Make people adopting feel sad for you so they will adopt you.
Be aware that making an entrance can annoy some potential parents. Arriving quietly may prove a better option.
 Describe what kind of child you are.
 To be adopted faster, make sure you have at least three siblings; this can help you to catch more attention. Be quick to be the youngest sibling.
 Try members, because they will give you more attention, but if you're desperate, don't care about who will adopt you.
 When a mom or dad picks you, say 'Yay!!' and 'Hugs'. Then go to her den.
 If you said 'Is sweet little angel' in the pillow room, don't be an evil little devil at home!

, Don't just sit in the den once you enter, start doing things. For example: Go to the bathroom, eat, play. Play with plushies/toys, make a "stinky" (but don't make a stinky too much), ask to go to the park (when old enough), etc.


Listen to what your parent(s) say. If your parent(s) ask you to help them with something, do so. (Giving you're parent a rare that you want to keep but they told you so to give them, don't give them it, report them for scamming, delete them from your buddy list, and go back to the Pillow Room.)

, If you try to get items from your parents with force a lot, you are most likely to get reported and sent back to the Pillow Room. Also try to grow up. When you turn to age 6, say: "needs to go to school" and keep growing from there. When you grow up all the way, maybe you can adopt you're own kids! Or, you can just start over again., Faking sick too much or for too long may annoy your parents and you may risk being put back into the Pillow Room.

Don't 'accidentally' fall in the fire. This really irritates people, and could cause you to be thrown off a speeding car, or dumped, or left in a wicker basket again.
 Sometimes you're parents will ask if you want a sibling and/or a pet.

If you want to be a only child, say: "I want to be a only child" or something like that.
If you want to have a sibling, look around until you find the perfect sibling and tell your parents you want that sibling.
If you don't want a pet when you're parent asked you, say: "I don't want a pet" or something like that. If you do want a pet, look around for the perfect pet until you find one then tell your parents you want this one.
, Say, 'Packs bag' and 'Leaves!'


If your parents only care for one of your siblings, delete the parents and head back to the Pillow Room and repeat everything.

