 Wash your face twice a day with a mild cleanser, moisturize your skin after washing, and always remove your make up before bed. Try to wear sunscreen every day, even if it's cloudy, overcast, or rainy, as the UV rays can still damage your skin. Taking care of your skin will help you to keep blackheads and pimples at bay and keep your face looking fresh and healthy!


Remember that many teens suffer from acne at some point and even girly girls are no exception! Don't panic though, there are loads of creams, gels, and lotions available at your local pharmacy that will help keep skin under control.
If you often have severe or painful breakouts, consider seeing a dermatologist. They can recommend treatments, like stronger face creams or even antibiotics, that can help get rid of acne once and for all.;
, A little make up can help to accentuate your best features and highlight your femininity. Lip gloss and mascara are perfect for everyday wear. For parties and weekend activities you can also apply a little blush or highlighter on your cheeks and some pretty eye shadow in a girly color like pink or purple. Foundation makes your skin look flawless, but make sure you get the perfect color to match your skin tone, otherwise it can look silly and fake. Concealer is good to cover up blemishes. Eyeliner makes your eyes pop, but you should be careful not to go overboard with it.


Use a makeup sponge or brush to apply your foundation. This will ensure an even application. If your skin is a little oily, put some pressed powder (in a matching shade) on over the foundation. This will help the make up to stay in place.
Whatever you do, don't apply make up too heavily, especially for school. This can make it seem like you're trying too hard and can look cheap. Make up should be used to accentuate your natural beauty, not hide it!

, Girly girls should always smell fresh and clean, which is why a daily shower is a must. When washing your hair, use a shampoo that helps your hair become frizz-free and shiny. Follow up with a moisturizing conditioner which helps to remove tangles and leaves hair feeling soft and silky. Wash your body with a pleasantly scented bath gel and sponge. Floral and fruity scents work particularly well. Citrus, cherry, and others are good.


After the shower, apply a lotion (with a scent that matches your shower gel, if possible) to your legs, knees, elbows, arms, and hands. If you do this, you will have moist, soft skin all the time.
When spraying perfume, use just enough. Too much perfume can be overpowering and can put people off. Apply just a dab of perfume to a few key pulse points (behind your ears and on your wrists).
 Having pretty, polished nails is another girly girl essential. Treat yourself to a pedicure/manicure once in a while, and make sure to keep from biting your nails, picking at them, etc. People notice your hands more than you think, and jagged nails don't look nice. Try to go to a nail salon to get your nails done. If you can't, just do it by yourself or with a family member. Older sisters and mothers are often good at nail-polishing, so enlist their help if you can! Make sure you don't put on nail polish too much or it can damage your nails.


If this is your first time being a girly-girl-in-training, try not to use dark colors like black or dark purple. Use girly colors like pink, baby blue, or lavender (light purple), etc.
Make sure your hands are soft too; invest in a good hand cream like Vaseline Intensive Care Healthy Hand & Nail Revitalizing Hand Lotion. It makes your nails stronger and hands softer.
Nail polish can be extremely feminine and chic at the same time, and it comes in tons of different colors. Try to use a nail polish that matches your outfit.
 Girly girls are known for their great hair, so make sure to wash your hair every other day (depending on your hair type) and always take the time to style before going anywhere. Try different hairstyles every day, like half-up half-down, high-ponytail, side-braid, low pigtails, curls, side ponytails, messy buns with a headband, and tiara braids. Short haircuts can be cute on the right face type. Be creative!


Be careful, too much brushing causes flat and dull hair. A few strokes to get out your tangles and to style it will make your hair beautiful. You'll look like your hair is flowing when you walk.
If you have flat hair use a volumizing spray to give it some lift. Spray it close to the roots and work your hands through your hair. If you have curly hair, try scrunching it with some mousse to really define the curls.
Straightening your hair every day will damage it and cause it to become dry, so you will need to use a heat protection spray. Apply the protection spray before straightening or curling your hair, while your hair is still wet. Give your hair a break from the styling tools and allow your hair to air dry every once in a while!
A quick spritz of hairspray will keep your style in place, helping your hair look fabulous all day long!

, A girly girl should have confidence in her appearance and feel good about her body. Exercising regularly and maintaining a healthy diet will help you to look and feel good on the inside and out!


Try to eat lots of fruit, vegetables, and whole grains, along with healthy portions of protein and dairy. You should be eating three balanced meals a day, with some healthy snacks in between.
When it comes to exercise, try to find something you enjoy—like running, swimming, or dancing. And whatever you do, don't let being a girly girl stop you from joining the soccer team!
Eating healthily does not mean starving yourself. Remember, you don't have to be thin to be beautiful. Just try to keep everything in moderation and don't eat too much junk food.
If you're very unhappy about your weight, think about going to see a doctor or nutritionist. They can advise you on the best healthy eating and exercise plan for your age and body type.
 Girly girls tend to be smiling all the time, so it's important that you keep those pearly whites in tip top shape! Remember to brush twice a day (once in the morning and once in the evening). Every brushing session should last at least two minutes, so hum your favorite song to yourself as you brush. You should also floss between your teeth every day and rinse out your mouth with a minty mouthwash for extra fresh breath.


Don't worry if your teeth are not perfectly straight—there are several ways to get the perfect dazzling smile. If your teeth are crooked, don't shy away from braces. Just think of them as jewelry for your teeth!
For whitening, you can either do it yourself at home with a store-bought product or go to a dentist. Look for someone who has expertise in the area of cosmetic dentistry to get them professionally whitened.
Ask your dentist if you'll need braces; this way, you may look nice with straight teeth.
 Never underestimate the powers of sleep! Sleep allows your mind and body to recover from the day gone by and to prepare for the day ahead. A good night's sleep will leave you looking healthy and refreshed and put you in a good mood for the day. On the other hand, if you don't get enough sleep you will look and feel tired, be irritable and slow and possibly have purple bags under your eyes! This is why it's essential that you get eight hours sleep a night.


Try to relax for at least an hour before bed to help your body to prepare for sleep. Run a relaxing bubble bath, put on some soothing music, light a couple of candles, and allow yourself to soak in the tub for a while. You'll drift dreamily off to sleep as soon as your head hits the pillow!
Avoid overstimulating yourself by watching TV, playing computer games, or messing around on your laptop right before bed. Try reading a book or magazine instead.

