 Once an account is opened, the next step it to choose what to buy. You will first need to understand the different types of asset classes. An asset class is simply a group of investments that have similar characteristics. The main asset classes are equities (like stocks), bonds, and cash.The key to successful investing is building a portfolio that has a good balance of each these asset classes. This helps to manage your risk (or prevent losses), while making money.
 Equities are the most popular asset class, and this includes stocks, but can also include mutual funds and ETFs. An equity is simply ownership in a business. When you purchase a stock, you are therefore purchasing a piece of a company, and in doing so you have the opportunity to grow your investment as the business grows.


Stocks are the riskiest type of asset class for the most part. This is due to the fact that they are extremely volatile, and it is not uncommon for some, and occasionally (in the case of market crashes) most stocks to lose up to 50% or more of their value. Purchasing individual stocks should only occur after significant research and is typically not recommended for brand new investors.
 If you are new to investing, consider mutual funds or ETFs as a means of owning equities. Mutual Funds and ETFs are baskets of stocks or other investments, and when you purchase a share of a mutual fund or ETF, you are effectively owning a piece of dozens (or sometimes hundreds) of different stocks.What is the difference between a mutual fund and an ETF? While they are both baskets of stocks, and the basket is managed by a professional investor, there are a few differences. The main difference is that ETFs are actively traded just like stocks, and their prices fluctuate throughout the day. Mutual Funds, on the other hand, have prices that are set at the end of the day.Mutual funds are actively managed to achieve specific investment goals while ETFs are managed to replicate the price movement of a specific stock index. Managers of mutual funds typically collect management fees significantly higher than managers of an ETF.
For investors looking to invest small sums, ETFs are largely a better option. Firstly, mutual funds typically have minimum requirements (often $1,000). Secondly, mutual funds are often higher cost. Not only is the commission to purchase mutual funds much higher (many ETFs have no commission), but the annual fees for using mutual funds are also typically higher.
One of the more popular ETF investing strategies is to buy Index ETFs. These are ETFs that follow a stock exchange, like the S & P 500. Common Index ETFs include the SPDR S & P 500 ETF, and the iShares Russell 2000 Index ETF. When the stock market does well, an Index ETF performs exactly in line with market, and with the S & P 500 producing average returns of 11% since 1954, this has been a profitable strategy

, Bonds are a less risky asset class than stocks. A bond simply represents debt, and when you purchase a bond, you are effectively lending money to the bond issuer and receiving a bond certificate in return. You can purchase corporate bonds, government bonds, or municipal bonds.Bonds pay interest, known as a coupon, and the coupon is a percentage of the bond's total value. Bonds also have a term, known as maturity date, at which point you receive your initial investment back.
For example, you may purchase a government bond for $1,000, with a coupon of 2%, and a maturity date five years from now. You are therefore entitled to receive 2% of $1,000 (or $20) a year for the next five years, plus the $1,000 on the maturity date.
The market prices of bonds move negatively with the direction of interest rates. When interest rates rise, prices of outstanding bonds generally fall; when interest rates fall, bond market prices generally rise.
Purchasing bonds can be complex and expensive. If you want to purchase bonds, the simplest way is to purchase a bond ETF. Just like stock ETFs, bond ETFs are simply a collection of bonds, and can be purchased easily, and at a low fee.
A popular bond ETF is the Total Bond Market ETF, and this ETF holds a variety of different government and corporate bonds. Bonds represent a safer alternative to stocks.
 If you are investing small sums of money, it is wise to diversify and not invest 100% of your amount in only equities or only bonds. The traditional combination is to purchase 60% equities, and 40% bonds. This ensures that 40% of your money is not exposed to the volatile stock market, while the majority benefits from stock markets that have traditionally risen over time.For example, if you have $800 to invest, you may opt to spend $480 on an Index ETF, and $320 on a bond ETF.
Your asset allocation, however, depends on your level of risk, and your goals. If you want to be very conservative, and need the money in a short period, you may opt for a 100% bond portfolio. If you have a longer-time horizon, and can afford to lose money over the short-term, you may choose a heavier percentage towards stocks.
Never invest money that you need in stocks. Money invested in stocks should represent extra money that you do not need for a long time period.
Defer investment in the stock market until you have an adequate savings account for emergencies.

