

Wear the least make-up possible. No more than 4 products at a time is perfect. Eyeliner is usually the best place to add a pop of color, because it's subtle but visible, but don't cake it on or you will look like a raccoon! This will also make your eyes look bigger, and your skin look clearer. Try a little concealer and mascara; it can go a long way.



 


Have good hygiene. Take daily showers and wear deodorant. Shave wherever needed. Use oil blotter sheets, have good breath (brush teeth, use mouthwash and mints, and stop lying to your dentist about flossing. Actually do it.) Then, people won't be grossed out around you. It's a little uncomfortable to sit close to someone who has B.O. or is very severely broken out. If you want to take this up a step and be actively pleasant to sit close to, wear subtle but not overpowering perfume. Get a prescription to keep your skin presentable. Health insurance should cover this, and it works a lot better than some 'over the counter' brands






Have really nice hair. Keep it shiny with at home gloss treatments this is a lot cheaper! Use good smelling shampoo and conditioner, do not wash your hair daily unless you have to because it is not good for your hair. To get the shampoo really worked in, massage your scalp, start from the roots, and focus mostly on the top of your head. Please don't mess with your ends because the shampoo will rinse downward so you don't have to wash. You don't want more split ends! Blow dry when you have to be somewhere (it's faster and guarantees straightness). With your head upside down, after combing with a wide tooth comb (never brush wet hair - it makes it limp and weak). Blow drying can have an effect on your hair, so use a moisturizing shampoo and just leave in your conditioner for a few minutes. Also, be sure to brush, use leave-in conditioner, basics like that. Some popular styles are: messy buns, half ponytails, the very top pulled back and the rest curled, crimps, etc. Skinny headbands are also classic, but wearing your hair down can work wonders (and makes you look really pretty since it works for all face shapes.)






Stay in shape. Being active really helps. Join a sports team, try Pilates (if you can afford it), or just jog. Whatever it takes for *you* to look great. It's better to exercise a lot so you can still eat junk food once in a while than to loaf on the couch all day eating nothing but celery.





;
, Be the one always laughing and make sure you are the one people love to be around when upset and just normally as you should be fun and positive, not the negative person with a bad attitude and a habit to backchat! Lots of people let the fact that they aren't Megan Fox get them down. Don't let that happen to you. Being classy and having money don't have to go hand in hand. In Paris's case, for example, they don't. Instead, think of all the great things about yourself. Are you cute, smart, cool, nice, funny? The world is lucky to have you. Really. To show that you're confident, have good posture (the more you hear it, the less insane it sounds), smile, and don't bully people. If you really feel good about yourself, you don't need to bring other people down (that's why bullies are bullies - they need to feel better than *someone*). Be totally sure of everything you do, from making your bed to filing your nails. Just think of everything you have to offer-the world would really, really, be poorer without you.
 Try to be the one who enlightens moods and makes people laugh, without going to extremes and just simple don't care about the negative! You don't need to be a caricature of Paula Abdul or anything, but be happy whenever possible. Try to find the fun in any situation-it'll make *you* fun! Oh, be nice to anyone you don't hate, and if you totally can't stand someone, don't snap at them unless they started it. If, however, they *did* start it, have a few good comebacks, and just walk away! Don't be the one who's always caught up in drama as people would rather stay away from you and your drama self.
 See, this is where the whole budget thing comes in. Your best bet is the clearance rack or outlets and factory stores. These are tricky to find, but well worth it! If you really can't afford these whatsoever, even on sale, that's perfectly all right, most Americans can't. There's nothing wrong with you or your budget! Just get some cute basics, even if they're from supermarkets, and have fun with them! Get some solid basics first though. You'll want a nice pair of skinny cut jeans that will last. Also a white tee shirt can be dressed up or down. You can always add accessories to your closet, and still look great. You will want to invest in the jeans though. Go to a good store, and at least check out what they have. If you don't have the money, then you can always go back to a different store and buy it for a lower price.

