 Sticking to the plan can help you put your energy into achieving your goals. Remind yourself of your goals and why you're focusing on the task at hand. Sometimes devotion will seem easy, and other times you'll have to push yourself to maintain it.Making and repeating a mantra like “I can lose weight” or “I can get the kitchen remodeled by Thanksgiving” can help you keep your goals in mind when you’re tempted to let them slide., The kind of reward will depend on the milestone you've reached and the type of goal your pursuing. If you're intent on losing weight, don't reward yourself with an extra-large pizza when you lose a pound. You don't want to reward every little thing, because the rewards will lose their meaning. Rather, focus on rewarding real progress by setting up subgoals and rewarding yourself once you've met those goals., When you accomplish one goal, before you move on to the next one, make sure you take the time to appreciate your accomplishments. Each step usually builds upon the previous. With time, you'll see how your hard work has paid off., This should be a person who knows you well enough to know what might get in your way. They will be helpful in motivating you to make progress on your goals. Sometimes, all you need is someone who is working on the same goals as you. For instance if you’re trying to lose weight, you might try a weight-loss group., You may need to re-prioritize at times. You may realize after a few weeks or months of pursuing a goal that you need more time, sometimes a lot more time. Don't be too hard on yourself when this happens. Be careful not to lose heart when you've reached an obstacle to your goal., This is not a step to be taken lightly. Some goals like losing weight or getting a raise are totally reachable for most people. Other goals, on the other hand, like winning a gold medal, becoming President of the United States, or owning a multi-national corporation may be attainable by only a few people. This is not to say you shouldn't try, but that recognizing when to let a goal go and start something new can be empowering when a goal is no longer attainable.Asking yourself whether your drive to pursue a certain goal is negatively impacting your relationships with people you love can help you determine whether to give up on a goal.

