 Some states require bonding, licensing, insurance and certification. Requirements vary from state to state. Even if they're not required, bonding, licensing and certifications add credibility and help to protect you from liability. Your local government or state Attorney General can tell you how to start a locksmith business legally.;
, A formal education isn't necessary, but vocational classes are available; these could help establish credibility and strengthen your skills. Even if you don't choose formal training, it will take some time to learn to use the various tools and lock pick sets that you will need. Books, manuals and practice kits are some sources for training.
 One of the most challenging skills is learning to pick various locks. Many lock pick sets offer practice locks to work on. Another job that takes practice is installation. Install deadbolts and other locks on your home, and volunteer to do it for friends and family to learn.
 Home lockouts, vehicle lockouts, and residential installations are some categories. The one you choose determines your marketing efforts and the type of equipment you need. Consider working as a car locksmith either way, since this generates the most calls and income.
 These vary by the type of work you'll do. Some of the equipment you'll need includes a generator, key duplicator, code cutting machine, re-keying kits, lock picks sets and lockout kits. Buy from established manufacturers. Read reviews and get advice from established locksmiths to choose the right equipment.
 You can work out of a home office or rent office space. Your office should have enough room to store equipment and a computer for handling billing, marketing and finances.
 A work van is a good choice for holding equipment and adding credibility to your business. Add signage to your vehicle with painting, vinyl decals or magnetic signs. Make sure your phone number is displayed prominently.
 If business gets busy, you may need additional locksmiths for late night or overnight coverage. Look for employees who are bonded and experienced. You may also choose to hire an office manager and dispatchers. A third party dispatch center is another option for getting calls.
 Since locksmith equipment can be expensive, budget for purchases, and remember to include the overall costs when setting prices.
 Start by doing jobs for family, friends and neighbors and get referrals.
 Join groups like the Associated Locksmiths of America to get training, keep up with trends and news, and learn how to start a locksmith business.
 An ad in the Yellow Pages or local directory is essential, since people will often be looking for you when they are in an emergency and locked out of their car or home. Make sure you are listed on Google Places, Mapquest and other online directories. Put ads in local and online newspapers.

