 If you're tagged, simply stop moving and stand in place until someone on your team tags you, at which point you can play again as if nothing ever happened.
 This often makes the game much faster and more offensive minded. If you capture the flag you can throw it to a teammate to try and get it out of your territory. The tagging rules still apply, and you can add the rule stating that if the flag is dropped (by a bad pass or missed catch), the flag must be returned to the starting space.


This is a great variation for Open-Field games, where it is impossible to hide a flag.
 This is a great way to extend the game longer, or make it more fun for larger groups (20+) in large areas. Give each team 3-5 flags to hide individually. The game is not over until all the flags are found by one team.


You can also give each flag a point score, based on the difficulty of finding and returning it to your base. Set a time limit on the game, and the team with the most points at the end wins., Don flashlights or headlamps and head out for a spooky, extra challenging game of CTF. To prevent dangerous collisions, make a rule that you can only be running with a light on. However, turning your light off and sneaking slowly around is a great way to search for the flag, or spring a trap on an unsuspecting attacker.
 For a safer, easier version of paintball capture the flag, cut up several pairs of pantyhose into small, 3-4 inch long strips. Tie one end up and fill it with enough flour that it is easily thrown back and forth. Tie the top up, and make sure all the players are wearing dark clothing. Now, instead of tagging someone, you have to hit them with the flour bomb, which will leave a puff of flour as proof.Water balloons or water guns can be substituted as well, but refilling them takes time, especially over a long game.
 Having a neutral zone prevents impossible-to-judge situations where two players tag each other near or on the line. To do so, simply make the center line 3-5 yards wide. If you're in this area, no one can be tagged and sent to jail. Players are not allowed to go to the neutral zone and stay there! That is considered cheating.

