 Play is essential to the emotional and cognitive development in children, as play allows children to practice their verbal and nonverbal communication and their body language. Cognitive development is your child’s ability to process information, emotions, reason, and memory. Having strong cognitive skills is also an essential element to developing strong critical thinking skills.


Children can also process emotions through play and gain self-confidence, as playing with others requires children to respond to the feelings of others. Healthy play in childhood will often lead to a healthy adulthood, especially in terms of emotional processing and coping mechanisms for strong emotions.
 Having a special doll or stuffed animal to take care of can help your child develop stronger emotional skills. She can use the doll to explore relationships and emotions in a healthy, safe way. Allow your child to pick her own doll or stuffed animal, as this will make it feel more like it belongs to her.There are many types of dolls currently available on the market, from American Girl dolls to Barbie dolls. Look for a doll that looks like your child or let your child choose her own doll.
Stuffed animals can also be good for emotional development, as they allow your child to display nurturing and caring skills towards the stuffed animal. Make sure the stuffed animal is made for children and does not have any parts that can be swallowed or toxic to children.
 Finger puppets can be made from socks, cloth, or felt. You can then draw faces with different emotions on the finger puppets and use them to perform a scene or play for your child. You can also show her how to use the finger puppets herself. This will allow her to play around with emotions and relationships in a positive, exploratory way.Finger puppets also allow your child to access her imagination and expand her vocabulary as she creates voices for the puppets. Puppets can help her develop her ability to think abstractly and to improve her eye hand coordination.
 Encourage your child to develop cognitive skills through play in a dollhouse or a playhouse. Your child may act out scenes that she has watched adults do already or other scenes from her imagination. You can also stock the playhouse with accessories to make it feel more realistic.Another option is to get your child a mini-kitchen where she can pretend to prepare and cook meals. This type of toy is great for her cognitive skills and her fine motor skills.
 Let your child explore her imagination by playing dress up with your clothing or with a tickle trunk of costumes and accessories. Dress up with your child and act out a scene from a small audience of family members or let your child direct you on an imaginary stage. These kinds of activities will allow your child to use her imagination and feel free to express her emotions through play., Activity cards are often made of plastic and are full of bright, big pictures. Activity card sets can focus on different emotional reactions, vocabulary, sounds, or actions. Practice these cards with your child to help build her self-awareness and her self-esteem. They are also great for building language skills and sensory awareness., Books are a great way for your child to name and learn objects and words, especially early in their development. Look for thick books with pages that are easy for your child to turn or felt books that have tactile qualities that will encourage your child to hold them and look at them. You can read the books to your child or encourage your child to read with you and listen to the sound of words as you read.