 A plaintiff who has an unpaid judgment against you generally will begin by obtaining a capias warrant from the court. This warrant is usually valid for up to a year (your own local laws may be different). Within that time, the plaintiff may opt to mail you a copy of the warrant with a letter demanding payment. This type of letter is referred to as a capias letter. This gives you an opportunity to arrange payment without being ordered to court., When a plaintiff sends you a capias letter, the primary purpose is to collect money, more than to order you to court. If you can satisfy the plaintiff that you have the ability to repay, perhaps over a short period of time, you may be able to keep the plaintiff from taking further action against you.Send a written offer with details of your ability to pay. Include the timing and amounts of payments. To encourage the plaintiff to accept your offer, you should make the payments as large as you reasonably can afford, over as short a period of time as you can manage.
 If the plaintiff accepts your offer to make payments over time, you should create a written payment agreement and get the plaintiff to sign. This signed agreement will prevent the plaintiff from having a sheriff arrest you, at least during the term of the agreement. If, while the agreement is still in force, a sheriff does happen to appear, you should produce the agreement in your defense.


The payment agreement does not need to be overly formal. Something very simple can be valid, as long as it contains the terms of your agreement and has the signatures of both parties. For example, you can write something like, “John Smith, Defendant, agrees to pay Able Baker, Plaintiff, the total amount of $2,000. Payments will be made in $100 weekly increments, due each Saturday, beginning on October 1, 2016, and continuing until February 11, 2017.” Then have each party sign the agreement.
 If you wish to avoid an arrest on the capias warrant, you will need to meet the terms of whatever plan you propose to the plaintiff. For example, if you make the offer described above, for weekly payments of $100, you will need to make sure that you can afford that amount. Because such a payment plan does not directly involve the court or police, you may be able to contact the plaintiff if you ever need a slight grace period for any payment.