;
, You can do this by using breathing exercises, find a quiet spot, close your eyes and take a slow deep breath through your nose, hold it for a few seconds and slowly release it out of your mouth, try to feel relaxed as you do this. If you are worried what people will think of you, remember that the audience has paid to see a good show and wants you to succeed and be the best you can be.
, This is a big mistake, you will need your blood sugar levels to be up and large amounts of energy to give a great performance, beware of sticky or dairy products as they can line your throat and restrict your vocal ability. Carbohydrates are good but keep some sugary sweets or fruit in your dressing room to snack on during the performance. Tip: Don't eat to much or you will feel bloated eat a small amount in intervals.
 Then, open your mouth so wide, the person in front of you can see what you had for tea! After, do your biggest cheesiest smile! Then write your full name in the air with your tongue. You may look stupid you'll thank yourself you did them when you're up on stage. Repeat this two or three times to stretch your facial muscles. It's called lion face, lemon face. Then, sing a few songs as quiet as you can, as high as you can, in your mid range, in the lowest you can and finally as loud as you can. Finally time for the body, you need to stretch all the muscles in order to gain freedom of movement., Identify the scenes where your character has very prominent traits and try to conger the emotions up in your dressing room. Just go out there and act like it's your last day on earth. If you're thinking you're too dramatic, you're probably being just dramatic enough.
 This will allow you a few moments to really focus, run through what you have to do in this scene in your head and focus on calming your breathing.
 STAY FOCUSED good actor always stays in character, so try not to laugh at anything, and keep a straight face. If you concentrate on what is going on around you then you will be less inclined to laugh, which is a nervous reaction, and will notice the audience less.
: Even if you're in the corner, in the back, smile! You'll feel great and that will be reflected in your acting and the audience will notice too! People prefer to look at your face than what your feet are doing so if you go wrong, smile like you meant to do it and no one will notice.
 Give yourself a pat on the back, and if you did slip up then don't dwell on it no one will of noticed.

