 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 3 8-inch round cake pans with cooking spray. Set them aside while you make the cake batter., In a medium bowl, whisk together the cake flour, baking powder, and salt., In a small bowl, stir together the 3/4 cup of milk (save the tablespoon for later) and the vanilla extract. Set this aside., Put the sugar and butter in a large mixing bowl of a stand mixer (or you can use a hand mixer). Beat them slowly till they're combined. Then turn up the speed to high and beat the mixture until it's light and fluffy, about 5 minutes., Turn the speed down and add one egg to your butter-sugar mixture. Mix it well until the egg is completely combined. Continue to do this with the rest of the eggs, adding them one at a time., Add half of the dry flour mixture to your mixing bowl. Stir it together on low speed. Pour in the milk mixture and slowly stir until it's combined. Then add the rest of the flour mixture and stir until it's combined.Occasionally scrape down the sides of the mixing bowl with a rubber spatula. This will make sure there are no pockets of flour or unmixed batter., Pour half of the cake batter into a medium mixing bowl. Pour the melted chocolates and remaining 1 tablespoon of milk into the batter that's left in your mixing bowl and stir well., Take 2 large decorating bags with a half-inch opening or freezer bags with snipped corners. Fill one of your bags with the vanilla batter and the other bag with your chocolate batter. Pipe a 1 1/2 inch band around the bottom of one cake pan using chocolate batter. Then pipe a 1 1/2 inch band of vanilla batter next to the chocolate. Alternate chocolate and vanilla circles until you reach the center of the pan. Do this for 2 of the prepared pans.For the third cake pan, be sure to start with your vanilla batter on the outermost ring. This will ensure a checkered pattern when you assemble all three layers.
 Place 2 of the cake pans on a middle rack in the oven and the third cake pan on the lower rack. The lower cake should be in between the two cakes above it. Don't place it directly below one of the cakes, or they'll bake unevenly. Bake for 20 minutes., Insert a cake tester or toothpick into the centers of the cakes. The tester should come out mostly clean. Place the cakes on a wire rack and let them cool for 10 minutes. Then, remove them from the pans and let them cool completely on wire racks., Take one of your layers that has matching layer (it should have chocolate on the outermost ring) and place it on your cake stand. Spread 1/2 cup of your frosting over the top. Place the mismatching layer (with vanilla on the outermost ring) on top and spread another 1/2 cup of frosting evenly over top. Top with the other layer that matches your bottom cake (chocolate on the outermost ring).Use the rest of your frosting to completely cover the sides and top of the cake. When you slice into the cake, you should see three alternating checkered layers.

