 Check its owner’s manual or visit the manufacturer’s website to know the make and model of your old unit.;
, When you purchase your phone from Verizon, your new phone’s make and model will be included in the receipt.


You can also check its box or ask the Verizon sales representative if you’re not sure what your new unit’s model is.
 Open a new browser tab and visit the Verizon Wireless website at http://www.verizonwireless.com/.
 Click on “Support” from the menu bar at the top of the page and choose “Device” from the drop-down list to go to the site’s Device Support page.
 Scroll down the Device Support page and click the “Transfer Contacts” under the Top Device Questions section.
 Click the “Select Device” button under “Current Device” and choose from the dialog box the make and model of your old Verizon phone.


Click the “OK” button on the dialog box to confirm your selection.
 Click the “Select Device” button under “New Device” and choose from the dialog box the make and model of your new Verizon phone. Click the “OK” button on the dialog box to confirm your selection.


Click the “Next” button on the page to proceed to the next step of the Contacts Transfer Tool.
 The page will show you a step-by-step procedure on how to prepare your old phone for contact transfer. Just follow the procedure displayed on the page to prep the phone where the contacts will be copied from.


Note that Verizon has offered hundreds of different phone units to consumers already. Each of these units has its own set of procedure for copying contacts from one unit to another. Therefore, the steps displayed on the page will vary depending on the models of your old and new cell phones.
Click the “Next” button on the page to proceed to the next step of the Contacts Transfer Tool.
 The page will show you a step-by-step procedure on how to copy the contacts from your old phone to your new unit. Just follow the procedure displayed on the page and your contacts will be transferred between your Verizon cell phones.

