 Making a relationship work longer term is not all about cruises and nights out on the town. It's being able to depend on each other and showing true caring.


Show understanding. If he's going through a tough time at work, or he's fixated on a stressful project for a short time, show understanding about that.
Show appreciation. Remind him that you appreciate small things he does. If he makes a nice dinner or fixes something around the house, let him know you care.
Above all, always show kindness - in your words and your actions. Be reliable. If he asks you to be somewhere for him, be there, and don't forget. Be someone he turns to first when he needs help.
 Essentially, you need to prioritize your marriage. You need to find time for you as a couple without the distractions of work or children who take your emotional energy. Have a date night for just the two of you several times a month. This gives you a chance to see each other in a romantic light, which can be hard when you're in the middle of parenting.
Pick the right friends. Studies have shown that couples who hang out with happily married couples are less likely to divorce. So pick your friends carefully. Develop couples friends, not just friends you both had individually when you were single.
If he starts developing friends you don’t know, such as at work, make a concerted effort to get to know them as a couple also. For example, invite that work friend over for dinner – with her husband.
 Realize he wants to feel wanted. Sometimes men cheat because they don’t feel desired anymore. If you take time to remind him that you love him - if you show him true affection - you will reduce the chances he will cheat, and he will be more likely to show you the affection you've wanted back.


To make him feel wanted, you need to create intimacy in your marriage. This can be done in different ways. One is through communication. Another is by holding his hand or kissing him. Small touches are really important in a relationship.Studies have found that emotional dissatisfaction is a far more common reason men cheat than sexual dissatisfaction. Leave him love notes, compliment him on his new tie, buy him a surprise gift, arrange a dinner, make him his favorite meal - these are all ways to show affection to a mate. This can't be a one-way street, but if you show affection, he likely will too.
 Human touch is incredibly important. If you're having a tough conversation, touch his hand or his knee. You might be surprised how hard it is to argue when you're touching. Hug him and/or kiss him goodbye in the morning, hello at night, and goodnight before you fall asleep. It creates a constant bond of intimacy.
Holding his hand, touching his shoulder, these small touches throughout the course of the day remind him how much you care.
 Dr. Gary Chapman wrote a book called the Five Love Languages that argues that people perceive love differently. What’s his love language? If you figure that out, you’ll be able to make him feel loved.


Acts of service. Does he derive a sense of love when people do things for him?
Physical touch. Is physical touch necessary for him to feel loved?
Words of affirmation. Does it matter a lot to him if you verbalize your love?
Quality time. Does he put most importance on the amount of time you spend with him and how you spend it?
Gifts. Does he believe you love him because you give him gifts? Remember that most people have more than one love language. However, figuring out which one they emphasize most really does matter

, Yes, sometimes you’re just not in the mood. Kids or a job can get in the way. And, yes, sex is only part of a relationship. But it’s a part that matters. So don’t neglect it.


Sometimes you should initiate sex. A man wants to feel desired. If you make a sexual pass at him, he will feel you desire him.
Don’t let it get boring. You should be open to some experimentation. That doesn’t mean you should do anything that makes you uncomfortable. But the missionary position every single time? Mix it up.
 Although you shouldn’t become a chameleon who loses herself in her man’s interests completely, what’s wrong with trying to develop a common bond by liking some of the things he cares about?


Take the time to truly understand what he does at work. Read an article a week about his field, so you can surprise him with knowledgeable conversation about what he does during the day.
What’s wrong with watching a sporting event now and then, or learning how to play golf, if that’s what he loves?
Rather than feeling threatened by his old college friend or single work colleague, get to know them too.

