 Depending on your condition, your bed rest may mean something different than someone else’s. Your physician or midwife may want you to stay at home, but say it’s okay for you to move around the house. You may need to rest for a few hours each day, or you may need to stay in bed most of the day. Ask your provider what is the appropriate amount of rest and physical activity each day.Make sure to ask how long you can stand on your feet, how much you can lift, and how long you should stay in bed each day. Also determine if you should take stairs.
Find out if there is a specific position you should rest in each day.
Ask your doctor about how you should bathe.
You may want to ask if you can sit on the couch or sit outside on your deck. Also ask if you can sit in a chair at the dining room table so you can join your family for meals.
You also may want to discuss what sexual activities are safe for you during this time. For instance, if you are on pelvic rest, this means you cannot have anything in your vagina.
Ask your doctor if there are any exercises you can do while on bed rest to help keep yourself strong and active.;
, Bed rest may limit your exercise. It may also exacerbate constipation or heartburn related to pregnancy. To help with this, you should maintain a healthy diet during your pregnancy. Make sure you are eating a well-balanced diet. This includes protein, vegetables, fruits, dairy, healthy fats, and complex carbohydrates. Make sure to increase your fiber intake to help you avoid constipation.Eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables while on bed rest, along with whole grains.
Also make sure you are drinking plenty of water. You should aim for eight to 12 eight-ounce glasses each day.
Try to eat small meals throughout the day instead of large meals to help reduce heartburn. Shoot for six to eight small meals., Bed rest differs from person to person, which means the amount you are allowed to move may not be the same as someone else or may change during your pregnancy. Sitting in one place for long periods of time can cause complications, such as poor circulation and bed sores. Talk to your doctor about what exercises and movements are okay for you before trying any bed rest exercises.


You should also exercise or stretch as much as you can while sitting. Talk to your doctor about safe exercises to do while on bed rest. You may try isometric exercises with stress balls, moving arms or legs in circles, using resistance bands, or tensing and relaxing your arm and leg muscles.
You may want to try doing kegel exercises.Stretch your chest and shoulders by placing your hands behind your head with your elbows wide. Sit up straight and then lean back slowly as you lift your chest. Inhale deeply, making sure your ribcage expands. As you exhale, lower down until your elbows touch your knees.
Try pelvic tilts. Sit with your legs crossed. Inhale as you lift your chest and arch your back. As you exhale, roll your spine down as you tuck your pelvis,
Move your arms by starting with them straight out at your sides, then pulling them straight over head. Make sure to squeeze the muscles in your back, shoulders, and arms as you lift and lower.
Roll your ankles one way for 10 or 20 times, then do it the other way. Flex and straighten your feet 10 or 20 times.
 Your doctor may advise you to lay a certain way during your bed rest. They may tell you to lay on your side instead of your back. You shouldn't stay in one place for too long because it can cause stress on your body, cause sores, and reduce circulation. Make sure to switch from one side to the other to help reduce this risk and relieve pressure on one side.You may also find that pillows or body pillows may give you more comfort. You can lay with a pillow between your knees or a pillow under your belly. You may want to hug a pillow because it puts your body in a more comfortable position. You can even place a pillow under your calves to help reduce pressure to your feet and legs.
Body pillows help give you more options for positions, because you can lie half on your side and half on your back.