 You want something that 'flows'. Something that is descriptive, flows, and if you want to become known at all, is brand worthy.;
, Those are ones like Blogspot, Wordpress, and many others. Don't limit yourself to those two, they are just a place to begin looking. You might find a better fit with one of the lesser known ones. Use your favorite search engine to find one.



This is probably a better method for those who just plan on blogging for your friends and family.
 The advantage is that you have much more administrative control with it and much more flexibility.
 This is only necessary if you are creating your own blog on your own website.
 Basically, a server will be the place that your blog/domain calls home. Depending on who you know and what you find, this can cost a minimal amount per month, or be a yearly cost, or be free.
 You will need to have an account there for you to get the information that you will put on your domain once you have acquired it.
 That is the information that you will need to plug into wherever you bought your domain from.


It will look something like ns20.nameserver.com and ns21.nameserver.com.
 It will have information as to how to do many of the things that you will need to do to start a blog.


The information that you get will depend on the software that they use. One very popular server software is cPanel.
 Things that you will want to take into consideration are ease of use and cost.


Using more popular software has the huge advantage of being able to find themes for it. Themes are what make up the look of your blog and can truly make it or break it.
 Your initial screen should tell you the options that you have with your website. One thing that you will want to do is set up an email account or accounts.
 You might be able to have your domain server support load it onto the domain.


If that isn't an option, check your dashboard (you may call it something different) for your domain.
You should have a variety of options for you. In cPanel, it is under Fantastico De Luxe.
 Some ways are:


Using a particular email address and email articles to your blog.
Entering your articles straight into a data interface on your domain.
 It may seem unnecessary now, but you will want to have some kind of order in your blog and categories help you do that.
 Some plugins that you might want are for:


Site Security
Site Administration

SEO (Search Engine Optimization)
Site Statistics
Formatting tools

, This can help you decide if anything is missing.

