 As tempting as it can be to react in the heat of the moment, try your best to be friendly and civil. Reacting harshly (even with this reaction is justified) can often backfire, encouraging the offender to react to you in worse ways than before. On the other hand, if you remain calm (and don't give them the emotional reaction they're seeking). they may stop trying to get a rise out of you.Also, sometimes when an over-competitive co-worker notices that you don't intend them harm, they'll feel more motivated to treat you nicely in return.
Friendly casual conversation, especially around non-completive or non-work subjects, can help.
 If your colleague is openly competitive, think of the ways that you can harness that. For example, it can often be a useful tactic to ask them for their advice and ideas about things they talk about or do, rather than assuming they're going to run away with all the glory. This flatters them, as well as giving you an opportunity to learn from them. Openly competitive colleague types include:The superstar – this competitive co-worker always needs to shine and will go above and beyond the call of duty to do so.
The weightlifter – this competitive co-worker shoulders responsibility by taking on extra workloads.
The speeder – this competitive co-worker wants it done yesterday. This can be beneficial in terms of morale and motivation.
 Discuss about their feelings concerning team morale and management support. Try to gauge their general feelings and understandings. Be careful not to name call or theorize without actual facts. Later, if you feel there is enough concern, you could consider raising the particular issue of competitiveness for a general discussion., Find out what his or her strategy is with respect to teamwork and shared outcomes in the workplace. Consider pointing out to your boss that a team encouraged to do well as a whole benefits the organization, especially where those who are not performing as well are given help and advice from those who are performing well.You could also talk to higher level management or human resources if you're concerned that your workplace environment is too divisive.

