 Look for the Skype application in your computer’s program folder, Start menu, or desktop, and open it.;
, Choose "Skype Name" then on the login window, enter your Skype ID and password into the text fields, and click on “Sign in.”

, To do so, once logged into your Skype profile, click on “Tools,” which is at the top-left side of the Skype screen; a drop-down menu will appear. On the menu, click “Options” to open your Skype settings.
 Upon clicking to “Options,” you will be brought to the General Settings tab. If for some reason you’re viewing a different tab, select “General” from the tabs at the left of the screen.


You can now begin editing your General Settings.
 Right under the General tab is “General Settings,” which is already selected for you. The first option is “When I double-click on a contact, start a call.” Check the box beside it if you want to enable it, or leave it blank if you don’t.


This option is great if you use Skype more as a telephone than a chatting service.
 Check the tick box to enable the feature, and indicate the number of minutes that will prompt the “Away” status.


This works well if you’re the type who wanders away from the computer but still want to keep your contacts informed.
 This option lets you set Skype to automatically run the moment you turn on your computer and Windows starts. Activate it by checking the box next to it.


This is time-saving if you use Skype a lot and yet always forget to sign in.
 The next option on the list is the program language you want used for the whole program. Simply click on the drop-down menu to display the list of languages. Scroll down, and click on the language you prefer.
 If you don’t like seeing a bland-looking list of your contacts, by all means check the tick box that enables you to see thumbnails of your friends’ profile photos right on your Contact List.
 After you’ve set the General Settings to your liking, give everything a once-over. Click on the “Save” button at the bottom of the page to set your settings in stone—at least until you change your mind again.

