 You need to clarify which, if any, hair products you use cannot be removed without shampoo.


Use a sulfate shampoo to remove any silicones or waxes in the hair. (Only do this once before beginning the method!) Also, get your hair trimmed if you have any split ends. It will take 2-4 weeks for your hair to adjust to the no shampoo. It may even look worse at first. Hair is a long-term project and it may take a couple weeks for it to regain its health.;
,,


For curly or wavy hair that isn't oily: Distribute conditioner on your entire scalp and massage your scalp with the tips of your fingers. This will cleanse the scalp of any dirt and get rid of dandruff. Then rinse thoroughly. You only need to do this step every other day.







For straight hair or hair that's oily: Consider using home remedies in place of harsh shampoos. All of these still may be a little drying to the hair so be sure to condition afterwards.







Baking Soda Mix: Baking soda is also known as sodium bicarbonate. It is sold in most supermarkets, health food stores and similar places. Before showering, combine one tablespoon baking soda with one cup warm or hot water in a plastic bottle and shake thoroughly. Work into the hair and comb through. Rinse thoroughly with water thenfollow with a vinegar rinse to condition your hair.
'Apple Cider Vinegar or Distilled White Vinegar Rinse: This of course, smells like vinegar. Don't worry though; once you have rinsed your hair the smell will go away. If it doesn't, you are using too much vinegar. Combine one to two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar with one cup water in plastic bottle. Work into the hair and comb through. Rinse thoroughly.


Lemon Juice: Combine the juice of one lemon with an equal amount of your normal conditioner. Work into the hair and comb through. Rinse thoroughly.
 Skip this step if you are using baking soda to wash your hair and a vinegar rinse to condition it.
 Take a small section of hair on one side of your head and untangle from the bottom up. Repeat until all of your hair is combed.
 Skip this step if you are using the baking soda / vinegar rinse method.
 The outermost layer of a hair strand is comprised of downward-facing cuticle scales (away from the scalp).
, Short term, silicones will make hair look sleeker and less frizzy, but in the long run they will coat the hair shaft and seal out moisture causing hair to become straw like, less defined, and frizzy. The only way to remove silicones and waxes is to use a harsh, drying sulfate shampoo. Most of the highly commercialized lines of hair products (Pantene, Garnier Fructis, Aussie, Tresemme, Sunsilk) contain silicones. However if a silicone has "PEG" in front of it, it is water-soluble and will not build up.
 If straight, simply let your hair air dry. Read this article about curly hair for more tips and tricks.
 Your hair may become frizzy or oily as it adjusts to the no-sulfate routine, but eventually everything will level out and you will reap the benefits of going shampoo free! For the period in which your hair is adjusting (2-4 weeks) try wearing your hair in braids, a healthy, protective style for hair.

