 The most important things to pick up are big wooden letters. These can be found at most arts and crafts stores. They are usually around 12-18 inches tall and cost around eight dollars a piece. You can also use paper mache letters, but they will not withstand outside weather conditions like wood can. You will want to get all the letters of your business name, or the slogan you use. You can also get letters to create phrases, such as "Ten Percent Off" or "Buy One Get One."Here are some other materials you will need:


Acrylic paint of your choosing
Large and small paintbrushes
3-4 plastic place mats
Scissors
Spray paint primer
Silver spray paint
Electric drill
Pencil
Stringed bulb lights
Super glue
Nails
Cork board

, Buy some acrylic paint from your nearby hardware store. Stir the paint when you get home, and apply it with a medium sized brush. Go from right to left, left to right, always with the grain of the wood. Make sure you get both the front of the letters and the sides. You will want to do this outside so the fumes don't build up. Make sure you are wearing gloves and an old t-shirt as you paint.You can create a "vintage" look by dabbing on darker colors to the edges. Use a small piece of foam and dab it in the dark paint. Gently press and rub it around the edges of your wood.
 You will want to buy a few plastic place mats. Measure, with a ruler, every 2 inches and make a mark on the short side of the place mat. Use scissors to cut out the 2 inch wide strips, going longways. If you want to, you can take a piece of sandpaper or steel wool, and run down the edges of your plastic strips. This will smooth them out, and make them soft to the touch., This is not the step where you attach the strips to your letters. You first need to get the form of the letters. Take one strip and wrap it around one of the edges of your letters. Press firmly so that all the curves and corners form in your strip. Make a mark with a pencil where that strip ended and place that strip to the side. Grab another strip, and start about 1/2 inch before that mark. Continue until each of your strips has been formed.When you set the strips to the side, let them stay in the bended positions. Remember which strip goes where.
 You will first want to spray the plastic pieces with a spray primer. Then, once the primer is dry, paint on a black bottom layer of spray paint. Move the can left to right as you hold down the nozzle. Make sure to get the entire surface area, as well as the edges. Then get a can of silver spray paint. Hold the can as far away as possible, and lightly spray the pieces. You just want the plastic strips to get a light coating of silver spray paint.In between the primer, black, and silver coats, wait for the plastic strips to dry completely.
Do this outside so that the fumes don't build up, and so you don't get paint everywhere. You might want to wear gloves and goggles when you are spray painting.
 Decide on where, and how many, holes you want. For an 18 inch letter, you will want about 10 holes. The important thing is that the holes are equidistant from one another, and are centered along the width of the letters. Mark where you want each hole with a light pencil mark. Drill each mark, all the way through. Wipe away any excess sawdust with a soft cloth.Make sure the drill bit you use is at least the size of the largest part of the light socket. When you insert the lights later on, you want to make sure they fit into the holes.
Determine the number of holes you want by how many lights you have available. If you only have a few, do fewer holes in each letter. Remember, you will need a relatively high number of bulbs to create the effect of the marquee sign.
 Wipe down the edges of your letters with a clean cloth. Put a consistent strip of super glue on one section of a letter. Take the respective plastic strip and press it to the letter. Wait 15 seconds before you release it. Make sure that you are applying pressure equally to the entire strip. Continue on, until all of the strips have been glued on.There will be some overlapping, depending on how much you overlapped when you originally bent the strips.
If you notice the strips are already coming off in certain areas, apply a few drops of super glue behind the loose areas. Reapply pressure for another 15 seconds.
 You will want to buy at least two sets of globe string lights, available at most local hardware, and arts and crafts stores. Take the lightbulbs out, leaving just the string of sockets. Insert them from the back, starting with your first letter. As you are inserting each socket, apply a small amount of duct tape, or electrical tape, to the back of each socket. This will keep the sockets from popping out.When you run out of one line of sockets, simply attach the next line and continue on.
Once you have finished putting in the sockets, go ahead and attach the bulbs on the front side of your sign. This will give your sockets some extra security as well.
 You can use a peg board, a cork board, or just a regular piece of wood. Lay your letters onto the board to determine where you will need nails. Insert them into the peg/cork boards, or hammer them into the piece of wood. Now just plug in your socket lines, hang your sign up, and it's ready to go.