 This can be found on the top-right corner of the keyboard. The Power button may be a key on the keyboard or a separate button.;
, You may have to hold it for a few moments. The Mac should either power on or wake from Sleep mode. When the Mac starts to power up, you will hear the Apple chime. Most Power buttons will illuminate when the computer is turned on.
 If your battery is dead, you won't be able to turn on the laptop. Try plugging it in to see if you can turn it on.
 If your System Management Controller (SMC) is acting up, it may be preventing your computer from turning on. If your MacBook has a removable battery, see the next step.


Plug the MacBook in to a power source.
Press and hold the Left Shift + Control + Option.
Press the Power button, and then release all the keys and the Power button at the same time. You may need to use both hands for this.
Press the Power button again to turn the computer on.
 If your System Management Controller (SMC) is acting up, it may be preventing your computer from turning on.


Unplug the laptop from its power source.
Remove the battery from the back of the laptop.
Press and hold the Power button for at least five seconds.
Reinsert the battery and power the MacBook on.
 The Parameter Random Access Memory (PRAM) is a small amount of memory in your Mac that stores various system settings. If this gets corrupted, your computer may not turn on.Press the Power button.
Immediately press and hold Cmd + Opt + P +R immediately after the computer turns on.
Continue holding the Cmd + Opt + P + R. Keep holding until your hear the startup sound twice.
 If you've recently upgraded your RAM, your new modules could be causing the problem. Try removing your new modules and reinstalling your old modules to see if your computer can boot.



Click here for detailed instructions on replacing your MacBook RAM.
 If after trying the above fixes you are unable to get your Mac to power on, contact Apple Support to have an Apple technician take a look at the computer. There may be failed components inside that are preventing it from turning on.

