 The fake blood you'll need to use for this technique is similar to the blood you might make for a standard running nosebleed, but you need to skip the addition of laundry detergent since this blood will be going directly inside your nose.


In a small bowl, thoroughly whisk or mix together 1 cup (250 ml) light corn syrup, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) water, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) red food coloring, 2 to 3 drops of green or blue food coloring, and 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of cornstarch. Continue mixing until the cornstarch dissolves.Add more cornstarch for thicker blood and more water for thinner blood. Note that slightly thickened blood might be easier to hold in your nose, but it still needs to be watery enough to drip down naturally.
If the blood looks a little too red to be realistic, add a few more drops of blue or green food coloring to create a subtle brown tint.
 Squeeze the bulb of the dropper to expel all the air in the tube and dip the tip into your fake blood. Release the bulb so that fake blood is drawn into the body of dropper.


A syringe or similar tool could be used instead of the dropper, but the tip must be small enough to fit into one of your nostrils.
 Stand in front of a mirror and tilt your head back slightly, just enough to make your nostrils visible in the mirror. Insert the tip of the dropper into your nostril and slowly squeeze the bulb, releasing the fake blood into your nose.


This step should be done simultaneously with the following step.
Do not inhale sharply as you squeeze the fake blood into your nose.
 Sniff enough to draw the blood into the upper part of your nostril without inhaling too sharply and drawing it further into your sinus cavities.


This part will likely take some practice to master. A little too much sniffling makes it look like you have a runny nose. Sniffing too much too quickly can cause the fake blood to escape into your sinus passages, which could cause a harsh stinging sensation. Not sniffling enough will cause the blood to release from your nose prematurely.
You will need to continually breath in to keep the fake blood in place, so even if you master the technique, you can only hold it there for a minute or so.
 When you are ready to create your nosebleed, stop inhaling and gently exhale through the nose. Without the suction provided from your inhale, the blood should be released and should come trickling out of your nostril in a steady, believable stream.


Do not exhale with too much force since doing so could cause the fake blood to gush out of your nose too quickly.
The completion of this step marks the completion of this method.
 Select a fruit punch with a deep red hue. As is, this recipe works well for any dripping nosebleed technique, but you can also add a little more cornstarch if you want to make it thick enough for smears or dried blood.

Combine 1/2 cup (125 ml) tropical fruit punch with 1 cup (250 ml) corn syrup, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) red food coloring, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) chocolate syrup, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cornstarch, and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) powdered cocoa. Blend the ingredients in a blender for about 10 seconds, or until evenly mixed.
Note that every fruit punch varies slightly in shade, so you may need to adjust the color. Add more red food coloring to brighten the blood or more chocolate syrup to dull the blood.
 Brewed coffee provides a strong enough brown tint to realistically dull the shade of your fake blood. This recipe is best used for dripping nosebleeds, but if you add more cornstarch, you can thicken it enough to use for smears.

In a blender, combine 1/2 cup (125 ml) brewed coffee, 1 cup (250 ml) light corn syrup, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) red food coloring, and 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cornstarch. Blend for 10 seconds or until evenly mixed.

