 Stress during the day can lead to anxiety and panic at night. Children and adults are more likely to be afraid at night if they are stressed by something in real life. Keep track of your mood during the day, writing down moments of stress and the place and time they occur. What thoughts bring them on?Are you especially stressed at work? At school? In social situations?
Sufferers of post-traumatic stress disorder are especially likely to experience fear at night, nightmares, and sleep disorders.If you have survived a traumatizing experience, such as violence, abuse, or danger, ask for a referral to therapist who has worked with people with PTSD.;
, When you feel yourself getting scared at night, name the emotion. Say it aloud, if you feel comfortable doing so. Say, "I am scared," or, "I am anxious," or, "I am having a frightening thought." Next, state what brings it up. For instance, say "The shadow that the tree makes on my wall at night is frightening me," or say, "I feel vulnerable at night because I feel alone, and I worry that nobody is here to protect me.", Speaking to yourself can help you calm down and regain control of your emotions. Using your first name instead of "I" or "me" can dramatically boost that effect. Give yourself simple, loving commands using your first name.You might say "Now, Jane, calm down. Get cozy. Pull the covers up and close those eyes. You know that's just the wind outside, and you know it always scares you.", Writing fears down can help you move past them. You can write down your fears in a "worry diary," or you can keep a regular journal in which you write about many things, including your fears. Try writing in your journal before bed, and include the things that are worrying you., There is no need to suffer alone. Speaking to a loved one can help you clear your mind. Saying things out loud can be incredibly therapeutic. You may even get some helpful advice., Nighttime anxiety is anxiety, and anxiety becomes harder to treat if less unaddressed.Speak to your doctor about your fears, and ask for a referral to see a therapist. Talk to your doctor or therapist about your night fears, and ask for help with stress management.