 Journaling is a great tool if you want to work through the emotions that you’re experiencing. Get out some paper and a pencil and write out your thoughts, however they come to you.


You might express yourself best through poetry or songwriting.
You can also try writing out a list of all the worries you have about this new move and what you can do about those worries.;
, You can write this letter to a friend, your parents, or to yourself. Write out your thoughts and feelings openly and honestly and then make a choice about sending or delivering the letter. You can keep these words just for you or share them, but either way sometimes having a direct person in mind when writing can help your words flow better.
 Finding out you are moving and leaving your friends can be very stressful and it can bog you down if you let it. Every day, take some time to take care of yourself. Take time away from your own negative thoughts and act positively instead.Go for a walk or exercise.
Take a hot bath and have an at home spa day.
Watch a movie or read a book you like.
 Though it may seem easiest to try to not think about the move or even perhaps to detach from your friends, allow yourself to fully experience true friendship with them in these last days or weeks that you have. Think back on how you met and all of the fun times that you have had since that day. Look back at old photos to remind you. Doing this will ensure that you don’t take this last time you have with them for granted.
 Just as you might be feeling tempted to pull away from your friends, they may be tempted to do the same to you. When you know that someone is about to leave your life in some way, many people react by trying to distance themselves from that person in order to self-preserve. If your friends do this, be understanding and patient with them and don’t lash out. Continue to reach out to them to try to spend your last days in that city with them.You could say something like “Hey, I know I’m leaving soon and I’m really upset about it because I’ll miss you so much. It would be easier for us, perhaps, if we just distanced ourselves from each other now, but I think that does a disservice to our friendship and to how close we are. Let’s try to spend time together before I leave, okay?”

, Moving can feel so sad and so stressful that we are unable to see the bright side or consider the potential opportunities that may exist. Consider, for instance, how lucky you are to have known these people that you are feeling so sad to leave. They must be very important and have made a significant impact upon your life. Rejoice in the fact that not only will you have them as friends but you will also have a whole new set once you move.


Write down all the potential positives of this move.
Write down everything you like about your friends.
 You may feel frustrated with your parents for this move or perhaps you are accustomed to moving every so often. Regardless of your feelings about the move, it is never an easy task to leave the friends that you love. Your parents have likely had to part from friends in the past because of a move, so ask them for advice. Talk to your parents about your worries and fears and they will be able to give you sound advice.You might say something like “Mom, I understand that we have to move away, and I’m dealing with that, but I do feel sad about it, especially because I’m leaving my friends.”

, Once you find out that you are moving, you may feel so shocked and upset that you don’t want to talk about it for awhile. However, your friends deserve to know so that they can begin dealing with this change now. Set aside some time to break the news about your move to them as soon as possible.


You might have them meet you at your house or tell them during lunch at school.
You can say something like “I’m pretty upset about this and feeling sad, but I wanted to let you know that my parents said we’re moving in a few weeks.”
They will likely be upset but allow them to respond without silencing them.
 Saying goodbye to your friends doesn’t have to be a completely sad and depressing ordeal. Don’t get so caught up in being sad that you forget to be happy and enjoy your time with them. Spend your last few days laughing, doing activities with your friends, and just having a great time in general.
 Think back on any traditions that you and your friends have created over the years. Though you will still be able to talk to them once you leave, many of these traditions, especially if they require that you be together in person, will be impossible. Do all of the things that you will miss doing with your friends and do them one last time before you go.For instance, if on the weekends you typically cruise around town or have a slumber party, do that!
Create new memories with them, as well. For instance, if you all have always wanted to go to the new theme park nearby, do that before you leave.
 Make sure that the place where you will have your final goodbye is the right place. If you are saying goodbye to some of your very good friends, you will likely want to have some privacy and be somewhere that is quiet. For other friends who you are not that close to, you may want to say goodbye to them at school.A park is a great place to say goodbye.
You can also choose to have your friend come over to your house. If you would prefer to go to their house, however, ask if you can do that instead.
 Another common mistake people make is rushing through a goodbye just to avoid feeling sadness. But you must remember that this moment would be unnatural without sadness. You will be moving away from your friends, and though this is not the end of the world, it is still a sad time. Don’t rush through that sadness but tell them how you feel and how much you will miss them.You might say something like “I wanted you to know how much this friendship has meant to me and how much I will miss you. My new school won’t be the same without you. I love you!”
Don’t be afraid to cry! Bring some tissues.
 It can be very sentimental to leave someone you love with a memento to remember you by when you part ways. Try to think of something very thoughtful to give your friend, something they can keep forever. Don’t fret over the cost; you can make a gift if you don’t have much cash or even give them something of your own.You might want to buy them a matching bracelet or necklace like yours so you can be bonded in that way.
Perhaps you have a book that they really like; consider giving them that and writing a note inside for them.
 Don’t leave your friends without them knowing how much they mean to you and how much you love them. More often than not, we regret more the things we didn’t say than the things that we did say. Don’t let any words go unsaid so that you can enter into this new move with a clear heart and mind. Your friend will appreciate hearing nice things from you.


You might say something like “I want you to know that you are one of the best people I’ve ever known. You’ve really taught me a lot about kindness and loyalty and I’m so proud every day to be your friend.”

, Remember that, though you are moving, we live in the age of technology. You can reach nearly any person at any time by phone which is an opportunity for you and your friends to stay connected even when you don’t live nearby. Call them or text them every so often so you can stay in contact.


FaceTime or Skype them. Another of the many blessings of technology is the ability to see someone and talk to them even if you can’t physically be with them. Utilize this technology to keep your friendship strong and still interact with your friends visually.
Make sure you have their phone numbers before you go!

, Though this may seem old fashioned, it is a great way to stay connected to them in a deeper way than a text will allow. Take some time to write your friend a letter about your new house and school and perhaps even send them a picture. Ask them questions about themselves, too to give them something to write about in their letter.Make sure you have their addresses.
 If it is okay with your parents and if you are not moving too far away from where you live now, see if your parents would be open to you driving to visit your friends every so often. You can even make a yearly tradition of this by planning at least one visit to each other annually. This will also give you something to look forward to.


See if your friends can meet you halfway.
See if your friends can come visit you.
 Before you leave, make sure that you are all connected on social media, whether that be Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. This will allow you to stay updated about your friends' lives and for them to keep updated on yours as well. Many people use social media as a form of communication as well, so you can do that if you have a laptop/computer but not a phone.
 After a move, it can be very easy to lose touch with friends. Talk to your friends about creating a schedule or committing to speaking to each other at least once per week. You will likely become very busy as you are settling into your new life after the move, but you should not forget about your friends.