 Do you really need all those parts? Some cheap bikes come with unnecessary parts that can all be removed. Even though these parts could weigh next to nothing, in total they all add up. Be sure you know what the different parts are and what they do when analyzing the bike––never remove anything vital.


Some unnecessary parts include: Chain guards, reflectors, lights, detanglers, brakes and possible stunt pegs.
If you're going to remove brakes, only remove one (probably the front brake). It's not recommended that you remove brakes at all.;
, Check the specs, do some research and figure out which parts of your bike weigh heavier than normal.
 This will allow you to figure out how to make your BMX bike lighter for cheaper. Remember to read reviews on the parts you buy before you buy them! Remember weight isn't everything.
 Many of the parts can be replaced. The focus needs to be on replacing the heavier parts with quality light parts that are strong, durable but weigh less. Start with cheap things like seats, pedals, pegs, etc. Once you've changed those over for lighter versions, you can move on to move expensive ones, such as wheels and tires.
 Before you buy any parts over 50 dollars, check your local Craigslist listings, as this can save you a lot of money.


Shop around online and in bike stores for the lightest of each certain part to replace the old one.
 If you bought your bike stock, which means all of the parts are from the original bike, then chances are you have a railed seat. Buying a pivotal seat is fairly cheap and easy to put on. As well as improving the weight, this type of seat will also allow you to choose different colors.
 Most stock bars are usually a lot heavier than higher end bars.
 Your current wheels probably have many more spokes (metal rods) than needed. While you could remove them, be aware that to do so is very unsafe. A safer and better option is to buy new ones that are lighter. New ones will freshen up your performance as well as your bike's lifespan.
 Default tubes are usually very thick and lined with more metal. A thinner tube has less metal, therefore less weight.
 This is the extreme of all extremes but some riders do it to good effect. Creating holes takes out chunks of metal from your bike, removing chunks of weight with it. Be careful where you drill though, as you still want to be able to use the bike when you're done with this whole process.
 If your handle bars are low and you find there's 8 inches (20.3 cm) of metal sitting inside your frame, saw it down to 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm). If your seat seems to have the same problem, saw that down too. Any parts of your bike that stick out from the rest of the frame, saw them down. This means if your bars are too wide, remove the grips and saw them down. In fact, keeping the grip off will save weight in itself.
 By doing a 5-minute workout every day, this might help you gain more strength so you won't need an extremely light bike. Durability is more important than weight. Remember to do your research and happy biking!

