 Yeah, yeah, you already thought of this, but maybe there's a new way to chat you haven't tried. Look at UberFactsand see who can come up with the most random fact to talk about. Share links, pictures, and videos that will make your friends laugh.


Facebook, Skype, Kik Messenger, and Google Mail are probably the most common chatting services, but Yahoo, AOL, other email service chat generators are also available for old-fashioned IMs.
If you're feeling lonely, try video chatting with your friends. It can help to make it feel like you're actually hanging out. Just don't video chat with people you don't know well. Message and old friend and get together on Facebook video chat or Skype.
 Facebook is a great way to kill some time. You can upload content, check out other people's updates, and talk to your friends instantly. It's a great way to get in touch and have fun on the computer.


If you're bored with your Feed, do some deep digging into someone you don't know. Your best friend's second cousin's girlfriend's Facebook page probably has a bunch of stuff on it that you've never seen. Check out vacation pictures from ten years ago.
Or you could add some content. Studies show that people who spend more time looking at other people's content and less time adding their own are more depressed and bored than people who do.Update your status, add some pictures, and write on other peoples' walls.
 Make a Twitter account and start following celebrities, your friends, and other interesting Tweeters to get engaging in the hashtag community, if you haven't already. If you can be witty, concise, and engaging, you can build up some followers and entertain them with ridiculous Tweets on a daily basis. Then start a Twitter beef with Steve Inskeep from NPR or Nicki Minaj. Kidding. Don't do that.
 Have you ever been to a restaurant and had an opinion about it? Of course you have. Might as well put it online right? In all seriousness, offering consumer criticism is a great way of killing some time online and having fun. Let your voice be heard.
 Pinterest is a great way of exploring recipes, fun facts, clothes, and other lifestyle hacks, as well of sharing your great finds with others. It's easy to glance through quickly, making it a great resource if you're having trouble thinking of something fun to do online. Start a page and get pinning!

, Without message boards, we never would have gotten the concept of the meme, the "lulz," or the well-placed .gif. Message boards can be tough to crack into, but big communities exist around every type of subculture, from punk rock to skating to anime to video games. Find a good message board related to your interests, start an account, and chat safely.

