 Use a frying pan or skillet and add about 1 tbsp of cooking oil to it. Warm it over medium heat. Don't let your pan get so hot that the oil begins to smoke. Once the oil is shimmering and covers the surface of the pan it's ready.


You can also use a tbsp of butter. If you use butter, make sure not to let it burn or turn brown. This can add a burnt taste to your omelet.;
, Open 2 cans of tuna and drain the liquid. Scoop the tuna flakes into a bowl and sprinkle with a small amount of salt and pepper to taste. Set the bowl aside. You can use tuna canned in oil or in water. Here are some things to consider:


Tuna can be a great source of Omega-3 fats, but to get the most out of your tuna, choose tuna packed in water. When tuna is packed in oil, the oil mixes with some of the tuna’s natural fat, so when you drain oil-packed tuna, some of its Omega-3 fatty acids also go down the drain. Water packed tuna won't leech any of the Omega-3.
Oil-packed tuna will give you a richer-tasting and more flavorful tuna right out of the can. Of course, you can add your own seasonings and oil to the tuna yourself and you won't have to miss out on any of the valuable Omega-3s.
 Crack your eggs into a medium bowl. Use between 2 and 4 eggs depending on the size of the omelet you'd like. Use a fork or egg whisk to beat your eggs in the bowl until combined and set the bowl aside. You can use the entire egg or just the egg whites. Here are some things to consider:


Whole eggs, overall, are healthier for you. The more important consideration is where the eggs come from. Pasture-raised eggs from chickens that are roaming around eating plants and insects are the best choices. Look for organic eggs from hormone-free, cage-free chickens.If you are concerned about high-calorie counts and high cholesterol, combine whole eggs with egg whites to help keep important nutrients in the diet while cutting down on the fat and cholesterol.
If you are looking to make an extra fluffy omelet, add a splash of milk to your egg mixture and whisk it in., Pour your eggs into the preheated pan and reduce the heat to medium-low. Let your eggs cook for about a minute until the edges start to bubble. Use a rubber spatula to carefully peel up the edge and check the bottom for firmness and color.


If the bottom of your omelet is a pale yellow, let it cook until it begins to turn golden-brown.
 Use a fork to evenly distribute the tuna on the surface of your egg omelet. Try to avoid getting large chunks of tuna anywhere. This might make it difficult to fold your omelet later.


You can also flake your tuna all onto one side of the omelet and flip the other side to cover it later.
 Use a spatula to gently lift one side of the egg and fold it over the other. Place your spatula at one edge of the omelet and gently work it under one edge and fold the egg over itself.


If you have added all your tuna to just one side, fold over the side without tuna to cover the tuna.
 Flip your omelet after your fold has set (about 30 seconds) and cook until the underside is firm, golden brown, and crispy.


Take care not to overcook your omelet. This can cause it to dry out.
 Use your spatula to gently lift your omelet from the pan and onto a plate. Accompany with a piece of bacon, toast, or bowl of freshly sliced fruit and enjoy with hot sauce, grated cheese, or ketchup.

