 For the Christian physicists, cosmologists and biologists, who laid much of the foundation of modern science, there was a clear answer: there exists a Creator of everything who is the rational, loving God.;
, How is it that we can identify laws of nature that are not variable?


All of science is based on what author James Trefil calls~ The Principle of Universality -- as he states it: "It says that the laws of nature we discover here and now in our laboratories are true everywhere in the universe and have been in force for all time."Cosmologist Sean Carroll comments,~ "A law of physics is a pattern that nature obeys without exception.", To do so, most often they are not words only. The laws of nature can often be measured and computed in the language of mathematics.
 The speed of light measures the same 186,000 miles (299,000 km) per second, no matter if the light comes from a child's flashlight or a star that's galaxies away. There is a measurable speed of light that doesn't change.


Physicist Eugene Wigner states that
~ the mathematical underpinnings of nature "is something bordering on the mysterious and there is no rational explanation for it."Richard Feynman, a Nobel Prize winner for quantum electrodynamics, said,~ "Why nature is mathematical is a mystery...The fact that there are rules at all is a kind of miracle.", Instead, scientists cling to their long-held faith in the fundamental rationality of the cosmos. A study confirmed,~ "One of the most important numbers in physics, the proton-electron mass ratio, is the same in a galaxy six billion light years away as it is here on Earth, according to new research, laying to rest debate about whether the laws of nature vary in different places in the Universe.", Just as God is constant, unchanging, there is a constant nature of science. They believed that God made the universe to operate lawfully, according to divine reason and with glorious beauty.
, Polytheistic societies believed in gods that were inconsistent, unsearchable and in nature governed by gods who were not knowable by ordinary people. The polytheist's universe was a mystery as were their gods.
 Followers of Jesus Christ believe the God that is rational, wise and willing to be known, seeing him to be self-disclosing in Jesus Christ. Throughout the Bible are statements such as:~ "For what can be known about God is plain to the people, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made.", How could anyone have figured that out? Kepler did, in large part because he was convinced that there had to be a beautiful mathematical relationship that was hidden and waiting to be discovered--put in place by the orderly God whose intellect is far beyond man's. Today, even the most secular of scientists presumes that nature embodies not only order but simple beauty.
,


These Christians in science were convinced that God created the universe so that it is mathematically measured, leading to precise and valuable scientific discoveries.

