 Don't overdo it because you will seem weird or crazy. Call your friend on the phone once in a while to check up on them. If they don't feel like talking about why they're upset don't force them to and give them some space.;
, Plan out what dates when both you and your friend are available to hang out. Figure out what activities both of you like to do so you'll both enjoy yourselves. You could go to see a movie, go to the park, invite them to your house, have a sleepover, go to the mall together etc.
 Invite your friend over for a sleepover and some other friends they don't know so the next time your friend is with them they won't feel uncomfortable.
 Before going to bed try your best to say a quick prayer asking God to help your friend if they're going through a tough time in their lives (family death, parents divorced etc) or thank God for blessing you with great friends.
 You don't always have to be so serious! Friends love having a great time with each other!

, Act the way you always act you don't want people to get attached to the fake you. If they don't like your attitude then it was never meant to be.
 That makes her feel good about herself, not to mention happy with you. Did your friend get a cool new haircut or a nice pair of shoes? If so you can say " I like your ___ it looks good on you.
 If you just say, "Ya, I know," then your friend might get hurt or angry with you.
 Try not to play with other people while ignoring your other friends. That might cause to break your friendship. If your upset with your friend instead of ignoring take the mature route by talking about it with each other.
 Ask them what's wrong and try your best to resolve the problem. Try cracking a joke when your friend is upset to make their day a little bit better.
 Spreading secrets and false rumours isn't very kind you wouldn't want others to talk rudely behind your back so don't do it.
 Help him/her out if they got hurt and don't say nasty thing to their face. Try to include them as much as possible or else they may feel left out and that you don't like them.
 Cheer them on and encourage them when they're doing something nerve-wracking like trying out for a sports team or auditioning for the school play.
 Try not to upset them even more when they aren't feeling well.
 Call or video chat with him/her so they don't feel like you forgot about them.

