 If you are an athlete and are adding off-balance exercises to your training regimen to help prevent future sports injuries, working with a trainer is essential. A trainer with experience in your particular sport knows which off-balance exercises will best benefit you.Doing the wrong off-balance exercises as an athlete can actually increase your risk of injury and cause a decrease in your performance overall.
 A BOSU ball is generally a half of a stability ball with a flat surface on the other side. Both of these pieces of training equipment can be used to do off-balance exercises that will improve your stability and can enhance your overall athletic performance.When using a BOSU ball, start by standing on the rounded, or ball, surface. Once you are comfortable with the tool, try flipping the ball over so that you stand on the flat part. Move to exercise only when you are comfortable standing on both the flat and rounded parts.
These pieces of equipment originally were used for rehabilitation after injuries. Adding them to your training regimen can also strengthen the stability of your joints to lower your risk of future injury.
For example, you might do lunges or squats on a BOSU ball. Do three sets of 10 repetitions of these exercises. Try to hold the squat or lunge position for several seconds and activate your core to maintain balance.
 One-leg exercises are the standard off-balance exercises that require you to activate your core to maintain your balance. However, split stance exercises may be more beneficial for preventing sports injuries.Split stance exercises are still considered off-balance exercises because you're shifting the center of your mass further away from your base of support.
With split stance exercises, however, you keep both feet on the floor, so you're not exercising from an unstable surface, which can increase your risk of knee injuries.
 Balance and wobble board exercises are frequently prescribed for rehabilitation from a sports injury. Regular balance and wobble board training can improve your understanding of your joint position to prevent injuries to your ankles or knees.A balance or wobble board is simply a board with a rounded bottom that you can either stand on, or do simple exercises such as squats or lunges.
The uneven surface will cause you to wobble as you exercise, forcing you to engage your core to maintain your balance.

