 Maths and Physics problems are not meant to be studied under stress. Relax your mind. By doing this, you will be able to focus more on your task.
 Many people think that once they take a glance at a formula, it is in their mind, but when they wake up the next day, they are shocked to realize that the formula leaked out during the night. This is why it is a good idea to practice solving a problem with the formula without looking it up. You must do this as many times as you can. Repetition leads to Memorization.
 Put the raw units of each variable into the formula and see if you can get the units of the answer.
 You already have a decent gut feeling about the concept. Make sense of the formula. For instance, a = F / m. F is on the top of the fraction. That makes sense, since if you exert more force on an object, it will speed up more quickly. Mass is on the bottom of the fraction, since more mass means more inertia, making the object more difficult to accelerate. The opposite formula (a = m / F) does not make sense. Using this incorrect formula, a strong force (large number on the bottom of the fraction) would cause a smaller acceleration, which does not make sense.
 Do you ever study while you are hungry or thirsty? How does it feel? You always feel reluctant to focus because you are in a rush to go grab some pizza. If you start to feel hungry or thirsty, quit studying those formulas and satisfy yourself with some food or drink.
 That way you can memorize just the bare minimum number of formulae that you need to derive the rest from. For example, the formulae in List of mole concept formulae and List of circular motion formulae are all you will ever need to learn in order derive the other formulae involving only the variables on those pages.
 Each time you learn a new formula that tells you how to compute one quantity in terms of other quantities, get a friend to randomly pick one of the formulae you previously learned in your current course and describe it and then put up with the boredom of struggling to remember what the formula was until which ever comes first of you getting it right or 4 hours going by without you ever looking in the book to see what the formula was during those 4 hours. If those 4 hours are not yet up, get your friend to randomly pick one of the formulae they haven't already picked and struggle to recall it until you get it right and keep going until which ever comes first of using up all the formulae or 4 hours going by. Each time you do that, you will make yourself better at extracting weaker memories back into your consciousness making it easier to learn formulae in the future.

