 Nobody wants to hang out with some poser scene kid. Listen to the music while following the steps below.


If you like metal, listen to Death-core/Metal-core bands like Bring Me the Horizon, Suicide Silence, Chelsea Grin, Asking Alexandria, and the Acacia Strain.
If you're more interested in pop, listen to something still electronic-based and danceable but edgier than a soccer mom would listen to like Panic At The Disco, Hellogoodbye, Lady Gaga (Yes, really) and deadmau5 if you like Dubstep.
Want something mellow/soft? Try indie like Death Cab For Cutie, Ellie Goulding, LIGHTS, and Foxtrot.
If you're looking for something in between, try post-hardcore & Screamo. Examples include A Sky lit Drive, Sky Eats Airplane, Escape the Fate, Breathe Carolina (electronic), Attack Attack, etc.
A good website to go on to find bands is www. taste-kid.com. It has you type in a band you already like, and it'll give you even more suggestions.;
, The most important part of the scene look is the hair. You can get away with any clothes as long as your hair is perfect. The typical scene hairstyle is unisex and works for all lengths/hair types. Just make sure you have short layers at the top and side bangs. Cut them yourself if you can. Girls can also have straight bangs. Don't forget to get your hair thinned out.
 Straighten your hair completely flat. If your hair seems frizzy, add shine serum. If you're a boy with longer hair, stop here because you're done. Everyone else, grab those teasing combs. Only tease the uppermost shortest layers if you have short hair. If you have long hair, tease the upper half of your head. Everybody also don't forget to hairspray! Obviously, don't tease your bangs.


Guys should never ever wear a ponytail. Short haired girls are allowed to skip the teasing step and wear a deer tail.Girls with long hair can wear a ponytail with all of the hair tied to either side of you, directly behind your ear, and your bangs remaining in their original place. Girls with any hair length can wear pigtails.
When styling hair, it is important that all hair on the front part of your head remain flat. Use your ear as a guide. Nothing in front of it should be moved when creating your hairstyles.
 Sure, you can go ahead and dye your whole head green but it's a lot easier/healthier/trendier to add a few streaks of any color into your hair using extensions. Fashion core needs to be up to the minute, so this is the way to go. At the moment neon is in style, but check out hair on the runways to see what's in the next season. Also, some people add coontails to their hair, which will probably be on the outs by the time you'll read this. Either go to your local hair supply store and buy the extensions or go to Sally's or even buy them on Myspace. You can glue them to your hair or clip them in. Just make sure to trim the extension to the length of your actual hair when doing streaks. Make it look real. Its not that difficult.
 Buy tightest pants possible. Add tight graphic tee, band tee, or v neck. Go to next step. Ladies have the real options. Here are a few looks a scene girl could try out:


A casual look can be skinny jeans in a black/light wash/ripped/neon variety with a tight graphic or band tee.
You could substitute t-shirts with other tops like beater tanks or regular tanks in the summer. Try one white or black tank with a neon color underneath.
Another idea for the summer is to swap out the skinny jeans for shorts or Bermudas in black and white with prints.
A more glam look can be leggings with an oversize graphic or band t shirt. Just make sure the shirt is large enough to cover your crotch but not so large that it is actually a dress. Find the perfect medium between thug tee and baby doll.
Dresses are also becoming more popular in the 2010/11 scene. The most popular at the moment can be found at Rue 21 and Delia's.
 This is a unisex look.


In colder climates, bomber jackets and fur puffy vests are OK.
Limit hats because they crush the hair. If one's needed, choose something bright, beanies, or berets. Scarves and earmuffs are acceptable.
 Seriously, no guy-liner unless you're actually a rock star. You will still need to be flawless. Drink 8 glasses of water each day. It really does clear up skin, even better than Proactiv. (You should still wash your face every night!) Wear colorful nail polish. Really, anything will do. Black is acceptable but overused and expected. Guys should not paint their nails as that is way too 1992 to function. Girls should follow the following makeup guidelines:


For the casual look, start with whatever you usually use to cover blemishes. Add blush and cheek highlighter. Smooth a white eyeshadow underneath your eyebrow and above your top lash. Then apply a black eyeliner on top and bottom and follow with 2 coats of mascara.
When getting dressed up, use a color eyeshadow on your lids and follow the rest of the directions for the casual look. The eyeshadow can be black or neon. Use whatever colors compliment your eye color. Use blue for blue eyes, pink for hazel, lavender for brown, and purple for green eyes. Or wear any color, as long as you look amazing!
When leaving the house without makeup, it is mandatory you wear sunglasses to cover this fact up.
 Unisex shoes are great for casual looks. These include Converse, (although Converse have become far to much of a fad - it's best to steer clear of them.) Vans, Reebok Freestyles, and Nike Dunks. Girls can wear ballet flats or pumps with any outfit and probably get away with it. Flats are getting more and more popular. It's mandatory to own at least one pair of black flats. It's also good to have silver or white. Collect tons of different colors to wear with different outfits. TOMS shoes and moccasins are also becoming more popular. Don't wear boots unless they're flat.
 Girls can wear these for a casual look as well.
Girls also wear necklaces with over sized pendants as well as bangle bracelets. Light, dressy scarves are acceptable as well. Pearl necklaces and silver necklaces with random pendants on them are great too. Don't wear those gummy or rubber band bracelets as they are truly passe. An actual rubber band that really does tie things is an acceptable piece of jewelry for both sexes.
Girls should also wear a hair bow or a headband. Tiaras are for birthdays only.
Girls can wear those 3 in 1 belts if they want to glam up. Only wear the ones with snaps instead of the ones that loop through a buckle.
Also, if you need to wear glasses, they should be plastic. The current trend is to get your grandma's old huge plastic frames and get them filled with your prescription. If you don't have those, get prescription Ray Bans.
 You could do something creative with your pictures like give yourself porcelain skin or purple eyes.
 Facial piercings, plugs, and tattoos are scene too. When getting a tattoo, just make sure not to get any tribal tattoos. Nothing in this step is mandatory though.
 Try not to do the hold-the-camera pose, the "oops" face, or the peace sign. Using a self-timer, take pictures of yourself outside, in looking out of a window, or write your best friend's name on your palm. Upload! Get a high-quality camera instead of just using the camera on your phone.


Create your own Myspace and be famous with lots of friends. Create proof of yourself using a picture or video. For example, you could have a photo of yourself holding a piece of paper with your URL or a video telling your URL.
 Have you added everyone in your area in your age range? That's a good start, but if you want fame, which you DO, you're going to need a higher friend count than that. Go to friend adding sites. Add kids who look scene. Myspace only lets you add 400 people a day, so hop to it! Strive for a six figure friend list. Nothing in this step is mandatory. Fashion-core is about fashion. NOT about having a bazillion friends on Myspace. This actually has NOTHING to do with it, but it may help.
 Add all the bands you liked on Myspace and find what dates they are coming to your town. Go to every show you can even if its local. You need to be seen to be Scene. Make sure to post bulletins telling people what show you're at and tell people to say hi to you if they see you. Bring a friend so you don't look lame and make sure you look your absolute best. Learn to do the dances you see at the shows. If you have a band, talk to the band after the show. They probably know people who can get you gigs. Again, nothing in this step is mandatory. If you're not overly obsessed with music and going to shows, you don't have to. Be yourself. Don't try to be something you're not, or you will be labeled as a poser.
 An iPod touch works well too. Decorate it by adding small rhinestones, using Sharpies, and adding cell phone charms. The more cell phone charms, the better!

, Doing this ensures that everyone knows where all the action is at. After a fun night, post a blog detailing all the upscale things you did. They don't need to be upscale, just make them seem like they are. For example, if you go to McDonald's, say you went to a restaurant with friends. Don't divulge every detail of your life. Make yourself seem mysterious.
 If you do it too often or too little, people will find you boring. Try to post pictures with your hot friends, but just make sure you are the best looking one in the picture.
 Try not to watch television if possible. Go to coffee shops, techno clubs, shows, the mall, the movies, whatever. Just don't be boring.
 Also read NYLON and Miss Behave magazines.
 Just because it's scene to listen to a certain band does NOT mean you have to if you don't want to.

