 If you’re in an appropriate situation, and see someone who seems like they might be interesting, go up and say hi. Tell them your name and make small talk-perhaps you’ve seen them around before and thought you’d introduce yourself.


When you introduce yourself, embrace understatement. Usually saying less is best. When you talk too much about yourself right off the bat, it will make you seem overly egotistical. A simple “Hi, I’m Steve,” is way more likely to lead to conversation than, “Hi, I’m Steve. Well, let’s get this party started. I just had a long day making some major business deals with some really important clients from overseas and having my new Jaguar tuned up. What do you do?” Which of the two would you feel more comfortable in responding to?
Be aware of the situation when you introduce yourself. If you’re at a company party, say, “Hi, I’m Steve from accounting.” Likewise, if it’s a random situation, don’t feel the need to create a context-if you’ve been introduced at a bar for instance, just stick with “Hi, I’m Steve, nice to meet you”, and focus on the other person rather than declaring your job title or what you did that day.
Ask questions and listen. When you meet new people, always try to listen more than you talk. Don’t demand information, but use a simple, “What do you like to do?”-and then listen with genuine interest. Being a good listener is a sure way to get someone on your side. , If you’re in a bar, at a dance, a party, or other social mixing situations, people are more likely to be open to meeting new people. Likewise, avoid walking up and trying to have a conversation when people are busy or going about their daily tasks.


Be confident in approaching people, but not overbearing. No one likes to feel like they are being pursued or harassed by someone they don’t know.
Observe people’s body language when you approach them. If a person won’t look you in the eye, or seems like they want to disengage from the conversation, let them.
When someone speaks to you with an open posture and looks at your face, especially into your eyes, it can be a good indicator that they are willing to engage further.
People will often keep their arms crossed when they feel uncomfortable or closed off, or hunch their shoulders and look down.When you see signs of discomfort or avoidance, don’t react with your own annoyance, even if your feelings get hurt a little. Don’t push it-respect others’ body language and nonverbal communication signs; you never know what else is going on with someone to make them unwilling to engage.
 Appearances are important, especially in first impressions, but you should also consider other aspects of people when sizing them up.


How do they behave? Do you find the person interesting based on how they act? How do you feel about their demeanor?
How do you feel interacting with the other person? Good friends often are made “naturally”. The two of you simply hit it off, and find that you are comfortable and engaged around one another.
 One of the best ways to create an immediate bond with someone is to find common ground. When they mention something that they like that interests you, too, pick up on it.


If a person mentions going to the theatre, and you like acting, it might lead to something like, "Really? I was in a production of that two years ago! I love that play!" It doesn't need to be that specific, simply expressing a mutual interest can go a long way.
 When you first meet someone, avoid laying expectations on them from the start. Finish your conversation with a casual “see ya around” rather than asking to get together right off the bat. In the right local situations, or if you’ve connected through an app or online service, you’re likely to run into each other again.
 Usually, a first meeting will be casual and non-committal. But sometimes you connect on a deeper level with someone right off the bat. Be ready!


Let your senses guide you. Sometimes someone will just open up to you when they, too sense a connection.
Reciprocate intimacy. Sharing intimate or personal stories and experiences creates a bond between people. Everyone experiences pain, fear, loneliness- and sharing that common humanity with someone is what becoming close, good friends is all about.

