 As a lender, there are two major treatments that can be used when dealing with business bad debt. The first, the direct write-off method, accounts for bad debts only when they are confirmed to be uncollectible. This is the simpler of the two methods, but sometimes must be amended if the borrower eventually does pay the debt.


The other method is the allowance for doubtful accounts. This method sets aside an amount to account for bad debts before the debts are deemed uncollectible. The amount is set using estimates from historical bad debt percentages.Use the method established in your bookkeeping procedures. If there is no existing method, use the direct write-off method to start. You can always use the allowance method once you know how much bad debt to expect.
 The direct write-off method requires the creation of an expense account that will record the bad debt expenses experienced throughout the period. When a bad debt is recorded, it is recorded as a debit to Bad Debt Expense and a credit to Account Receivable, both for the amount of the bad debt.For example, a $2,000 bad debt would be recorded as a debit to Bad Debt Expense for $2,000 and a credit to Account Receivable for $2,000.
 The allowance for doubtful accounts operates as a contra-asset account to Accounts Receivable. This means that it is presented on the assets portion of the balance sheet. The account is used to hold money that will cover bad debts throughout the period.


The amount of the allowance can be calculated in several different ways, including as a percentage of Accounts Receivable, a percentage of total sales, or through a more complex account aging schedule.For more information on estimating the allowance, see how to account for doubtful debts.
 For the allowance method, the journal entries will reflect a reduction in the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts account for each bad debt expense. This would be reflected as a credit to Accounts Receivable and a debit to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, both in the amount of the bad debt.For example, a $1,000 unpaid account balance would be recorded as a debit to Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and a credit to Account Receivable, both for $1,000.
 Under the allowance method, the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts is presented as a contra-asset account under Account Receivable on the Balance Sheet. This means that under Accounts Receivable, the following line is used: "Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts." This line shows the allowance for doubtful accounts and is used to reduce Accounts Receivable to arrive at a third line, Accounts Receivable, net.


As the allowance is drawn down, Accounts Receivable goes down as well, meaning that net Accounts Receivable remains the same.