 Ask yourself why you think someone is shallow. Keep in mind when you are assigning a label to someone based on their appearance or interests, you are thinking in a shallow way through stereotyping.Appearance tells you very little about the person inside. A popular jock could write poetry in his spare time, and maybe a “valley girl” wants to be an engineer. Avoid labeling someone until you get to know the person better.
Keep in mind that talking about stereotypically shallow things doesn't mean that this is all the person cares about. Keep an open mind and continue to search for common ground by talking to them.
 Be open and curious about what they like instead. Ask questions about the things they care about and try to learn.For example, your cousin is an expert at makeup. You may think that makeup is a waste of time, but you could still ask your cousin for makeup tips. You will learn something, and your cousin will enjoy teaching you. You may even begin to understand why your cousin is so interested in it.
Admit your ignorance and ask to learn. You could say, “I know absolutely nothing about car stereo systems, but I know how much you love them and would love to learn more. What do you like so much about working on them?”

, You don't have to be best friends if you don't have much in common. Choose to be kind and respectful of others, regardless of their differences.Smile and make someone’s day brighter by engaging them in conversation, even if you are not at all interested in what they have to say. They will appreciate you listening to them.
Do not pretend to know about a topic if you don’t know anything about it. It is okay to just say, “I don't know about this topic, so I really can't comment on it."

, While making small talk can be difficult for many people, it is also a part of our shared culture that crosses demographics. Small talk can help make it possible for a rich person to talk to a poor person, or people from different cultures to begin to come together and find common ground.Small talk also helps you learn about someone’s personality. Is every sentence out of their mouth a complaint? Is the weather too cold, and their family ungrateful? After chatting with them, you may have a better idea that you are dealing with a negative person.

