 Whooping cough, also called pertussis, starts like the common cold with a runny nose or congestion, sneezing, a mild cough, fever, and sleep apnea. After one to two weeks, severe coughing can begin. Whooping cough can cause violent and rapid coughing, over and over, until the air is gone from the lungs and you are forced to inhale with a loud whooping sound. Occasionally, vomiting may also occur.


You should see your doctor immediately if you have a whooping cough. It is important to know that many babies with whooping cough don't cough at all. Instead, it can cause them to stop breathing. Infants and children under six years should seek emergency medical care immediately.There is a vaccination for whooping cough. Make sure you vaccinate your children against this disease.
 A cough and sore throat can also be symptoms of nasal infection. If your doctor suspects chronic nasal infection, also called sinusitis, she may request imaging tests including an X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Other common symptoms of nasal infection are fever and headache. If you have a high fever or severe headache, you should seek medical care immediately.


You may also feel pressure in the forehead, temples, cheeks, nose, jaw, teeth, behind the eyes, or at the top of the head. Nasal infections are also accompanied by nasal stuffiness, loss of smell, nasal discharge that is typically yellowish green, or a post-nasal drip.
Rare complications associated with chronic sinusitis can include blood clots, abscesses, orbital cellulitis which causes inflammation around the eyes, meningitis, and osteomyelitis, an infection that spreads to the bones of the face., Bronchitis is an inflammation and accumulation of mucus in the air passages of your lungs. This can often lead to chronic coughing and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), regardless of whether you have acute or chronic bronchitis. It is usually caused by cold viruses, exposure to secondhand smoke, or gastroesophageal reflux disease. If you or a loved one experience symptoms such as chest pain, fever, wheezing, sore throat, fatigue, swelling of the feet, and a chronic cough that produces mucus, see your doctor immediately to determine if you have bronchitis.


The best way to avoid bronchitis is to stay away from air pollutants and secondhand smoke and to avoid catching a cold.Lifestyle modifications, such as eating right, getting enough rest, and staying hydrated, as well as diligent hand hygiene, can help protect you from becoming ill.
 There are certain severe symptoms of a cold that require medical attention. If you have a cough with green to yellowish phlegm or blood, high fever of 104째F (40째C), ear or nasal infection, nasal discharge, skin rashes, or breathlessness due to asthma or another respiratory, problem you should see a doctor or get emergency medical care.


If you are experiencing severe symptoms of a cold or flu or have been previously diagnosed with any respiratory disease, you should seek professional care immediately. Babies are especially susceptible to the common cold as they have yet to develop immunity to common infections and are often around other older children who may not always wash their hands.
Early symptoms of a cold in babies are congested or runny nose, nasal discharge, decreased appetite, irritability, difficulty sleeping or feeding, cough, and a low-grade fever. If your baby is younger than two to three months of age, you should see a doctor early in the illness.
Babies are prone to respiratory difficulties as they are "obligatory nose breathers." If the baby's nose becomes congested, he will have problems breathing.
See your doctor immediately if your baby has a temperature higher than 100.4째F (38째C), has red eyes or eye discharge, has trouble breathing, is bluish around the lips and mouth, coughs up blood, coughs hard enough to cause vomiting, and/or refuses to nurse or accept fluids, which can cause dehydration.