 Use a tape measure to measure around your forehead, above your ears where the hat will fit. Then add an inch to this measurement so that the hat won’t be too tight., You may prefer the style of a shorter brimmed chef’s hat, or like how a stiffer, taller chef’s hat looks. Approximate how tall you would like the brim of the hat to be, picking a number between 2 and 8 inches (5 and 20.3 cm). Then multiply this number by two and add on one inch (2.54 cm).You will create the brim out of a piece of cloth that has been folded over, which is why you need to multiply the number by two. You need to add the inch on to the measurement to allow for seams.
 Measure a rectangle onto a white pillowcase or another similar material, with the first measurement you calculated as the length, and the second measurement as the width. Then cut out the rectangle you created.You want to create your hat out of a white cloth that is light and crisp. Cotton is an ideal fabric, and using two white cotton pillowcases works well. Before using the pillowcases, cut them open, rip out any seams, and iron them so that they’re flat sheets of white cloth.
 Outline a rectangle onto a piece of stiffener or interfacing. The length of the rectangle will be the first measurement you calculated (the circumference of your head plus an inch) and the width will be the exact height you want your hat brim to be (do not multiply this number by two or add on an inch as you did for the fabric). Cut out the rectangle using a pair of sharp scissors.Use a piece of stiffener or interfacing that is white or light-colored.
 Take the second pillowcase and cut it into a square that is about 2 ft x 2 ft (.6 m x .6m). Then fold the square into fourths by folding it in half twice. Using a pencil or pen, draw a curve that starts an inch (2.54 cm) from the top right corner and arcs down to a spot that is one inch (2.54 cm) to the right of the bottom left hand corner.This arc is one fourth of the circle with will serve as the top, floppy section of the chef’s hat.
This size piece of cloth produces a floppy chef’s hat. If you want one that is less floppy, make the original square of fabric smaller.
 Make sure that the edges of your folded fabric line up, then carefully cut along the arc with a pair of sharp scissors, through the multiple layers of fabric. Discard the leftover fabric, then unfold the cloth to see the circle you created.It’s ok if the circle isn’t perfectly round, since its edges will be hidden when you eventually sew it into the brim.

