 Even professionals struggle with determining the cause of teens’ frequent inability to fall asleep. Doctors and counselors can help find ways to deal with any stress or physical health issues that may be causing nighttime discomfort., If you’re having trouble falling asleep for more than a couple weeks, it’s going to start to effect you’re health and happiness. There are professionals that have the specific knowledge and resources to help!They can also help identify the following potential reasons for nighttime discomfort:


Circadian rhythm sleep disorders. Common in teens, off-kilter body clocks can cause daytime sleepiness and nighttime alertness. You may want to talk to a professional if you experience several of the following:

Trouble getting to sleep until very late at night.
Trouble getting up in the morning.
Sleeping very late sometimes.
Falling asleep during the day. (1 out of 5 high school students fall asleep in class on their typical day.)Emotional problems. Emotional problems can increase your risk of sleep problems. Lots of teens experience emotional swings and rapid shifts in mood. In fact, 10% of teens have insomnia related to anxiety or depression.These can lead to discomfort when trying to fall asleep, and even depression, which can greatly disrupt your sleep.
Restless leg syndrome (RLS). Yes, this is a real thing! An irresistible inclination to move one’s legs, usually happening at bedtime, is an issue that some people deal with. If you’re worried you may have RLS, speak with a professional!, Be aware of the present moment. A great way to do this is meditation. With sufficient focus, your body will physically respond with a “relaxation response,” a calming and rest-inducing state. Here are the basic steps:Choose something to focus on that is calming. There are many options in this regard.

The classic choice is simply your breath.
Make a soft, gentle, continuous noise if you’d like.
Repeat a short phrase, or even one positive word, out loud or in your head. Try “I am calm.”


Let go. By emphasizing something that is definitively in the present, keep your mind from worrying about elements of the future or the past. When your mind wanders, don’t be bothered, just return your mind to whatever you’re focusing on.

