 Dioramas are small scenes created of layers of materials, all depicting a similar theme. Think of the topic or idea you want your diorama to portray - is it a scene from a book? A period in time? An example of an ecosystem or animal/plant group? The options for a diorama are endless.









The theme you choose may vary depending on the ultimate size you want and the amount of supplies you have. A very broad theme may not be able to be accomplished in a small shoebox, while a very specific theme will be difficult to accomplish in a large frame.
Consider the availability of your supplies. If you want to make a diorama with an ocean theme, but have nothing to represent water or fish, it will be difficult to accomplish.;
, Create a list of ideas for possible inclusions for your diorama. How do you want the background to look? Will you use found objects only, or printed pictures as well? Do you need to buy any supplies to create your scene, or can it all be made using things from your home and garden? Brainstorming ideas prior to starting to build up your diorama will help you to have a more finished looking piece.









Try making a rough sketch of what you want your ideal diorama to look like. Think of the composition of the piece, and the layout of all the figures.
Gather as many of the supplies for the project as you are able prior to putting it together. Getting the supplies organized will make the assembly of your diorama much easier than trying to find them as you work.
 Because dioramas have layers of background, they need a box or frame that is several inches deep. For a basic diorama, a shoebox or old shipping box can be turned on its side and used. Larger dioramas can be created out of a large wooden crate or frame attached to a box. Anything that gives the illusion of a small open-faced room can be used as the frame for your diorama.








If you have specific goals in mind for your diorama, you can consider building a box out of wood to fit your desired dimensions.
Get creative with the frame for your diorama. For example, a diorama depicting a family scene or people could be done in a refurbished dollhouse.
 Your diorama should be worked on from the back to the front. As you work, you will add layers of details and images which create depth in your scene. Make the background first against the farthest wall of your box. Consider painting a basic scene or printing an image and gluing it on. You could also create a collage out of magazine cutouts to act as the background for your diorama.









Don’t forget to add a background image to the inside sides as well as the furthest back side.
If you want, you can paint the outside of your box a different color to add a more finished look. This should be done before you begin adding layers and figurines to your diorama.
 A realistic diorama does not fail to acknowledge the creation of the ground. Add details to the ground using paint or modeling clay. Papier mache can be used to create the illusion of real mountains or hills in addition to those painted in the back.
 Add your first layer of details and objects at the back and near the sides of your diorama. At this point, you could add larger detail items such as trees, rocks, or pieces of furniture. Keep to the edges of your project, as you will work inwards and forwards as you go.
 Complete the background for your diorama by adding any additional landscape details you may want. If you are creating a nature scene, add anything to represent trees, grass, flowers, rocks, et cetera. The same should be done for any scene though - add in everything you want for a completed landscape.
 Although you don’t have to, complete your scene with the addition of small figurines or models. Keeping with our nature theme example, you might put small toy animals or bugs throughout the frame. Consider hanging things like birds or tiny airplanes from the top of your frame using fishing line and a bit of hot glue or staples. Simple photos could also be printed of the figures and be cut out and set amongst the landscape. This is the final step in your diorama, so complete the scene as you like!







, Although you may just want a simple, smooth ground in your diorama, you can create a very realistic and textured ground easily. Try gluing sand or gravel along the bottom of the frame to give the look of a rough terrain. Pine needles, small leaves, and grass clippings can be glued down to look like grass or a more natural bottom.









Make boulders and small details out of modeling clay or papier mache and glue them down using hot glue.
You can paint or print photos of details you want to be on the ground if you are short on time.
 To give the appearance of trees in your diorama, gather small twigs and branches from your yard or neighborhood. Twigs without any leaves look like trees barren in the winter, while small branches off of bushes or trees with needles look like full trees. Stick a tiny ball of clay on the bottom of the branch to hold it upright, or glue it to the inside of your box.









If you want a more playful look, consider using tree figurines from a childrens toy set or doll house. These are available separately from the packs in some childrens toy stores, or can be taken from a complete toy set.
Consider cutting out pictures of trees from printed photos or magazine clippings. You can cut a little extra of the paper at the bottom of the tree and then fold it backwards so that the paper tree will stay upright when set away from the sides/back of the box.
 If you are looking to create the look of water in your diorama, consider using glass, cellophane, paint, or nail polish. To give the look of a small pool, use a piece of mirror set on the bottom of your diorama with small pebbles or pieces of grass glued around the edges. You can also pour a pool of blue or green metallic nail polish and allow it to dry in a puddle at the bottom of your frame.









If you are doing an underwater scene, stretch blue cellophane over the entire opening of the frame. This will give everything a blue tint like it is underwater, and will add an extra layer of dimension to the diorama.
Photos of water can be added as the background or glued to the bottom of a diorama for a large covering of water.
Use basic acrylic or tempera paint to add a simple background of water to your scene. Small waves can be painted or drawn in as well. Paint paper with the image of water and stagger it inside the box to add layers of dimension.
 To add detail to the sky, consider putting in things to act as clouds, the sun, the moon, or stars. Cotton balls work well glued to the background and roof as clouds. The Stars can be created out of dots of glitter glue, silver nail polish, or metallic paint. Create a large sun by painting a small styrofoam ball and hanging it with fishing line or hot glue. The sky is the limit in terms of the items you use to represent celestial beings!







,