 If you want to forget your crush, then the first thing you have to do is to admit that you have strong feelings for this person. If you’re in denial about how much your crush means to you, then you’ll just keep all of those intense feelings inside instead of letting them go. Take the time to cry, to talk to a close friend about it, to admit how much you’ve been hurt, and to acknowledge your feelings.


Write down what you’re feeling, if that helps. If you don’t want to open up to a friend, opening up to a journal can make you feel better, too.
If you’re going to be upset for a little while because things didn’t work out with your crush, that’s okay. Let your friends know that you’re going to lie low for a little while and don’t force yourself to be super social if you’re just not feeling it.
That being said, after a few weeks or so, it’s time to stop wallowing and to start having some form of social interaction. If you spent too much time being alone with your feelings, you may only feel worse.;
, You may have many reasons for feeling angry or bitter. Maybe your crush really hurt you. Maybe you were so sure things would work out and they didn’t. Maybe your crush ended up dating one of your friends and you’re feeling mad at both of them. These feelings will naturally accompany the situation you’re in, but that doesn’t mean that they are healthy or that they can help you move on.


Write down all of the reasons why you’re feeling angry and bitter. Acknowledging your pain is crucial to forgetting it. Once you’ve figured out where all of your negative feelings are coming from, you can begin to tackle them, one by one.
If you come in contact with your crush, don’t let them see how angry or bitter you may be feeling. The best thing you can do is act completely indifferent, like you could care less about what your crush is up to. If you keep faking indifference, you’ll be surprised by how quickly you’ll really start to feel it.
 Stop thinking about how good-looking, funny, or sweet your crush is whenever they pop in your mind. Instead, focus on all of the bad parts about your crush, from their weird fashion sense or their ability to be mean to perfect strangers. Make a list of all of these qualities if it helps. When your crush comes to mind, conjure up all of these negative thoughts instead of the positive ones. This will help you remember that your crush isn’t really such a great person, after all.


If you think that your crush is perfect and that you really can’t think of one bad thing about them, then guess what? You don’t really know that person all that well. There is no such thing as a perfect person and everyone has flaws.
The more you think about all of the bad aspects of your crush, the sooner you’ll see that you two aren’t right for each other after all.
 You may think that you and your crush would be the world’s most perfect couple, but that’s just not the case. If you really belonged together, then it would happen, wouldn’t it? For whatever reason, it didn’t work out between you and your crush, and it’s likely that it’s because you’re simply just too good for them. Your crush is not your soul mate, and once you realize that, you’ll be able to find someone who you do deserve.


Sure, you may have heard all of your friends telling you that you deserve better than your crush over and over again, but this won’t sink in until you realize it for yourself.
 If you’re feeling down in the dumps about things not working out with your crush, then it’s likely that you need to pump yourself up. You probably are feeling down on yourself, and like you’re unworthy in some way because you’re not dating your crush, but that’s the farthest thing from the truth. Remember your most amazing qualities, focus on all of the great friends and opportunities in your life, and remember your favorite personality traits. Keep telling yourself that you are an amazing person who only deserves the best – and “the best” simply does not refer to your crush!


Staying positive is key here. If you focus on all of the good things in your life and in your character instead of the things you don’t have, then you’ll be able to move on much faster than you would if you only saw the worst in every situation.
 It may sound obvious that you should stop talking to your crush if you want to forget them, but chances are that you may still be talking to your crush even if you know it’s not good for you. You don’t have to be downright rude, but you should make a point of avoiding your crush and not talking to them as much as you can. Stop texting, calling, or just stopping and saying hi to your crush. The sooner you stop seeing your crush and hearing their voice, the sooner you’ll be able to really get your crush out of your life.


If you have to be in the same place as your crush, like a class, for example, then you should be nice and polite without making an effort. There’s no need to be mean and it won’t make you feel better.
 Though talking to a close friend about forgetting your crush can help you move on, if you talk about your crush to every single person you come across or every mutual friend you have, then you won’t be feeling better any time soon. You don’t have to be denial about your feelings, but if you keep mentioning your crush, you’ll only be opening up old wounds and reminding yourself of the very thing that hurt you.


If you do have mutual friends, avoid asking about how your crush is doing. How will that make you feel better?

, If you’re only going on Facebook, Instagram, or any other social networking sites to stalk your crush and to see if they've been dating anyone else or hanging out with that cute person in your chem class, then you should take a social media break. If you really do love Facebook, then avoid the temptation to click on their profile and use it to stay in touch with the people who actually make you feel good. Seeing pictures of your crush is guaranteed to make you feel worse, so stop torturing yourself.


Give yourself a time limit – say you’ll only spend 15 minutes a day on Facebook. If you want to spend that time stalking your crush, then you won’t get to see what the people who actually care about you are up to.
 Though you don’t have to change your schedule completely, if you really want to forget your crush, then you should try to avoid all of the places where you know you’ll see them. Don’t go to their favorite restaurant or movie theatre if you’re pretty sure they'll be there on a Friday night. If you know they’ll be going to a certain party and you’re still feeling really hurt, then find something else to do.


This does not mean that your crush “won” and that you can’t do anything fun anymore; it just means you have to avoid them for a little while until you feel better.
 If you want to get your crush out of your life, then it’s time to switch things up. Have something different for breakfast. Meet a new friend for lunch instead of the same old friends. Pick up a new hobby. Drive to school or work by a different route. Though these changes may not be directly related to your crush, just making an effort to get out of the mindset that got you hung up on your crush in the first place can help you start to look at the world differently and to stop thinking the same thoughts that revolve around your crush.


Think about it: are there certain times of day when you think about your crush the most? If so, can you do something differently during those times so you will be more likely to forget about them instead? For example, if you always stare out the window on the bus ride home and think sad thoughts about your crush, find a new pump up album and listen to that during your ride home so it becomes a positive experience, instead of a time when you think about your crush.
 One great way to forget about your crush is to spend as much time as possible with the people who mean the most to you. Your friends and family have been there for you through thick and thin and they will make you feel better about your romantic situation just by being there for you. Though your social routine doesn’t have to be so jam packed that you don’t have a minute to yourself, you should make an effort to spend more time with your loved ones, so you can be grateful for all of the positive relationships in your life – instead of obsessing over the one relationship that didn’t pan out.


Don’t spend your Friday or Saturday nights alone or you’ll wish you were with your crush. Hang out with your girl or guy friends instead, and you’ll be having so much fun that you’ll forget all about your crush.
 Spending time doing something that means a lot to you is a sure fire way to banish any thoughts about your crush from your mind. You should spend more time pursuing your favorite hobby, whether it’s running or painting, exercising, reading, or just doing whatever makes you happy. Maybe you think you’re too busy to make time for the things you care about. If that’s the case, then make the time by cutting something else out of your life; if you’re committed to pursuing your passion, then all thoughts of your crush will slowly drift away.


Maybe you’re feeling so down in the dumps about your crush because you don’t have a lot of things that you really care about. It could be time to find out what your passion really is by taking a class out of your comfort zone, signing up for a photography, ballroom dancing, acting, or singing class, or just trying something completely new that you have a feeling might make you happy.
 Though spending time with your friends and family and doing your favorite activities can make you forget your crush, if you really want to find peace on your own, then you have to be comfortable with spending some time with your favorite person – you. If you’re really sad and upset the second you’re not keeping busy, then you haven’t really gotten over your crush yet. Make weekly “me dates” and spend that time doing something you really love – or just relaxing and watching your favorite TV show or taking a long hot bath. It doesn’t matter what you do – what matters is that you really enjoy doing it alone.


Don’t let last-minute plans with friends get in the way of your “me time.” You should treasure your “me time” like it’s a hot date with your favorite celebrity.
 Don’t hole up in your dark sad cave thinking about all the reasons why it didn’t work out with your crush; get outside and breathe some fresh air instead. Just being out in the sun and breathing fresh air instead of hanging out at home will make you feel more alive, alert, energetic, and happier. If you have to do some work, then don’t hole up in your room and go to a coffee shop or park instead. Just being around other people, even if you’re not talking to them, will make you feel happier and will make you less likely to dwell on your crush.


Make sure to get out of the house at least once a day, even if it’s just to take a half hour walk. Staying inside for an entire day is guaranteed to make anyone feel unhappy, whether they’re trying to get over someone or not.
 If you want to really get over your crush, then you can’t just be miserable by yourself and wait for someone new to come along. You have to be truly content with being on your own, doing your own thing, hanging out with your friends, and doing some casual flirting that won’t lead anywhere. You should appreciate the freedom that singledom can bring and know that, while dating someone can be fun and fulfilling, it should not determine whether you’re happy or sad.


Give it time. It can take weeks, or even months, to appreciate being single, but once you do, you’ll see that you never really needed your crush after all – what you needed was an idea of your crush that you thought would lead you to happiness, but it wasn’t the answer you were looking for, in the end.
 Once you’ve done all the right things – adjusted your perspective, gotten rid of thoughts of your crush, and moved forward to do the things that make you happy – then you can really congratulate yourself for forgetting your crush. You have seen how great your life is without your crush, how amazing you are, and how lucky you are for the life you have. If you’re really over your crush, then you can slowly start to open up your heart and start crushing on someone new.


If you’ve really moved on, then celebrate your victory and get excited about all of the love that will come your way.

