 In most cases, environmental factors cause dry skin. However, other skin conditions can also cause dry skin. Causes of dry skin include:


Weather, especially when it is cold.
Heat from central heating, wood burning stoves, or space heaters.
Harsh soaps and detergents.
Long, hot baths and showers.
Swimming in heavily-chlorinated pools.
Underlying skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, and lichen.Dehydration.;
, Keep a diary if you experience the symptoms dry skin. Note when you notice or feel any dry skin as well as what helps or worsens it. This can help gain an overall picture of when you have dry skin as well as identify the specific cause of your dry skin., Bathing and daily tasks such as laundry can expose you to soaps, body washes, and detergents. If you experience any symptoms, such as tightening skin patches, after coming in contact with a soap or detergent, note it in your diary. These could be a cause of your dry skin.Note what soap or detergent you used that caused the symptoms of dry skin. Every soap and detergent has various ingredients and your skin may react to different ones. For example, “Skin felt fine when I woke up. After shampooing two clients with clarifying shampoo, I started to feel tightness in my hands and wrists. Used a light hand lotion and this helped until I used the shampoo again.”

, Most people like a calming hot shower or bath. However, hot water can strip skin of its natural oils and cause dry skin. Take note of how your skin feels when you get out of the bath or shower. Also pay attention to how your skin feels after you pat or air dry it. These can indicate if your dry skin is a result of your bathing habits.Recognize that swimming—in a chlorinated pool or natural body of water—may also be a cause of your dry skin.
Keep in mind that the combination of hot water and harsh soaps can also contribute to dry skin. Using a mild soap can help you determine if the water or soap is the cause of your dry skin.
 Dry skin is often worse in the winter. However, being exposed to air conditioning during the summer can also reduce the amount of water in your skin. Keeping an eye on any skin that is exposed to low temperatures and the low humidity associated with very hot and dry heating can help you identify if atmospheric conditions are the cause of your dry skin.Look for differences in areas exposed to cold or dry heat and those protected by clothing.
For example, if you ski, check if the skin on your face is drier than the rest of your body after a day on the slopes. If it is, the cold weather may be the cause of your dry skin. Likewise, if you use space heaters or wood-burning fires in your home, see how proximity to the heat source affects your skin. Note if your dry skin eases if you sit farther away from the heater or fireplace.
 In some cases, underlying conditions, such as menopause or eczema, can cause or exacerbate dry skin. If have or are experiencing symptoms of dry skin, the following conditions may make either worse:Atopic dermatitis, or eczema.
Psoriasis.
Menopause.Hypothyroidism.
Hyperthyroidism.
Dehydration.Diabetes.
Kidney disease and dialysis., Just like underlying conditions, certain medications can cause dry skin or make it worse. Recognizing what medications can temporarily cause dry skin can help you determine the source of your specific case. Some medications that can cause dry skin include:Diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide.Topical retinoids such as Retin-A.
Systemic retinoids.
Cholesterol medications such as pravastatin and simvastatin.
 If you suspect a specific environmental factor is causing your dry skin, remove it from your usual routine. Repeat this process until you can diagnose the cause of your dry skin. Some ways to eliminate potential causes of dry skin include:Wearing gloves if your hands are in water often or exposed to soaps or detergents.
Switching out cleansers for milder, unscented products.
Turning down the water temperature in showers and baths.
Taking shorter baths and showers.
Choosing non-alcohol based products.
Avoiding anti-bacterial products.
Considering alternative medications.
Covering exposed skin.

