 This includes formulas, key words, vocabulary, dates, definitions, names, conjugations, etc.;
, The font should always be clear to read, and in the Goldie Locks size (not too big, not too small). While you would want to include as much as possible on the small sheet of paper, remember if the font is too small you will overly focus on your cheat-sheet thereby increasing your chances of getting caught. Also if it is possible to print-out your cheat sheet, do that. It will reduce the chances of your teacher or professor being able to trace it back to you.
 This is most common for spelling tests. Copy down the spellings in your spelling book to a piece of paper, then put it on your lap or up your sleeve. This is a high risk method, so be careful.




Try the "Body Part Cheat-Sheet" method. Instead of printing out the cheat sheet, try writing it on a part of your body. Good places include your forearm if you are a man or your upper thigh if you are a woman. These are both great because you can wear a dress or long sleeve shirt to cover up your cheat sheet when you aren't using it. It's important to not make it obvious that there is writing on your body. Put the words in a place that faces you only.

Try the "Water Bottle Cheat-Sheet" method. Print out the cheat sheet on a colored piece of paper that matches that label of your water bottle. Paste it on the label and turn it so that it only faces you. Ideally, you want to mimic the writing on the label to avoid suspicion.

Try the "Binder Cheat-Sheet" method. If you have a binder that has a clear slot in the front, slide your cheat sheet into there. Move your binder from under your desk to the slide of your desk to peek at your cheat sheet. Try to minimize the amount of slide, especially if you don't have carpet in your classroom.

Try the "Calculator Cheat-Sheet" method. This is common for people who are taking math tests, because that's the only reasonable time to have a calculator without being suspicious. Slide formulas or information terms between the back of the calculator and the calculator's cover.

Another Calculator Method to try: If you have a graphing calculator, save the math formulas into your calculator. Then, put the information into archive, so you will still be able to get to it if your teacher makes you clear the RAM. Unarchive the information during the test. Clear the memory after the test. This also works if it's the school's calculator, because no teacher or student is going to look in the archive. If you don't know how to archive things on a calculator, look it up.

Try the "Stashed Cheat-Sheet" method. Hide a cheat-sheet in a separate place all together to avoid it getting connected back to you. This includes on a bulletin board in the classroom, in a bathroom stall or on someone's chair.

Wear a long sleeved shirt and hide your cheat sheets under the sleeves. It is a very good method, because your teacher won't look under your sleeves. And when your teacher isn't looking, you can easily take out a cheat sheet, and it's easy to put it back.

