 Working according to a utility trailer plan will help you gather the right components. Once you have located a source for the materials, check with the customer service representative to arrange delivery. If you are a skilled welder and have the equipment you'll need, follow the manufacturer's recommended safety and procedural instructions.


Most designs consist of a bed, a hitch, a "tongue" (the wedge shape that extends from the front), an axle with wheels, taillights, and a license plate frame.
Many of the components for utility trailers (tongue, hitch, axle, jack, and taillight assembly) can be purchased fully assembled, allowing for easier construction.
 The frame will consist of 4 steel angle iron rods, 2 for the sides, and 2 for the front and back. Depending on the established length of the trailer, the sides might be longer than the front and back.


Weld the angle iron rods together for the bed frame. Assure the corners are squared.
Weld support beams made of flat iron across from side to side.
Bolt pressure-treated 2x6 inch (5.1 X 15.2 cm) boards to the frame, parallel with the sides inside the lip of the angle iron.
Cut lumber with a circular saw. Drill holes in the angle iron with a variable speed drill and drill-bit designed for metal.
Attach boards to frame bed.
 Use a hydraulic jack to raise up the frame. Block all 4 corners to keep it elevated. Weld the axle under the framing. On a rectangular frame, the axle should be attached with 60 percent of the frame in front and 40 percent in back to distribute the weight of the bed.


Using the lug bolts and nuts included with the axle kit, install the predetermined sized tires on the axle.
 Weld the hitch to the tongue and attach the assembly to the front of the frame. Attach the jack behind the hitch on the tongue. Route electrical wires from the front to the rear for the taillights. Assure the taillight connector is in front.


The taillight assembly will consist of a combination of park, brake, and signal lights. The wiring harness should be secured under the trailer and the lights attached to rear with bolts on either side.

