 Getting a full night's sleep every night keeps you from feeling drowsy and being susceptible to sleep attacks. If you wake up during the night, try to fall back to sleep rather than getting up. If necessary, adjust your sleeping environment to make it easier for you to fall asleep. The amount of sleep you need each night depends on your age, lifestyle, and a variety of other factors. In general, school-aged children need nine to eleven hours of sleep, while adults over the age of 18 generally need seven or eight hours of sleep.


Avoid alcohol and sugary foods four to six hours before heading to bed. These can act as a stimulant to keep you awake., Set fixed times for when you wake up and when you go to bed at night. Try to stick to these times as closely as possible in order to help get your body into a regular sleep pattern. You do not have to go to bed early, but try to make it as regular as possible. By doing this, you may be able to train your body and brain to stick to your sleeping schedule so you do not fall asleep when you are supposed to be awake.


For example, plan to get up at 7:00 AM every morning, and go to bed at 11:30 PM every night. You can also go to bed at 1:00 AM and get up at 9:00 AM. Stick to those times every day of the week to help get your body acclimated to being awake at certain times and asleep at other times., Try to create an environment that will help you to fall asleep. Reduce the amount of light and noise that comes into your room as much as possible. Close your curtains or blinds to make your room dark. You can also wear an eye mask to block out light. Keep the temperature comfortably cool, which typically between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit. The room should also be well ventilated so it doesn't get stuffy.


When you are in a dark environment, your brain begins to produce melatonin, which is the hormone that regulates sleep., The backlight emitted from electronic devices can reduce the amount of melatonin that your brain secretes. Melatonin is the chemical that your brain produces to help you sleep. In turn, this lack of melatonin can make it difficult for your to fall asleep. Avoid gadgets such as cell phones, smart phones, televisions, and computers at least two hours before bed. , If you typically sit on your bed to do all kinds of activities, change your habits. When you use your bed for activities besides sleeping or sexual activity, your brain may begin to view your bed as a place for being awake, rather than for being asleep. When this happens, you may find that you have a harder time going to sleep and waking up at your scheduled times.


Do not work, eat, or watch TV in your bed if you can avoid it., If you have trouble falling asleep, relaxation techniques can help relieve physical and psychological stress. Physically and psychologically stressful activities can cause the body to secrete the stress hormone cortisol, which is associated with increasing alertness. Once you have found the things that help you relax, make them into a bedtime ritual.


To help yourself relax before bed, try reading a book, listening to calm music, or practicing breathing exercises. If you lie in bed for more than 20 minutes without falling asleep, go to a different part of your house or apartment without bright lights. Do something relaxing for a while until you begin to feel tired, then come back to bed and try to sleep again., If you suffer at night from any problems that limit your breathing, you may need to change the way you sleep. Sleeping on your side, especially if you have gastric reflux, sleep apnea, or even a mild cold, can help you breathe more comfortably. This leads to a better night’s sleep. Try propping your head on a pillow that supports the natural curve of your neck and back to improve airflow if you continue to have trouble breathing.


Avoid sleeping on your stomach because this can obstruct breathing, promote acid reflux, and cause unnecessary stress on your body., When your alarm goes off in the morning, try your hardest to get out of bed without hitting the snooze button. Even dozing for a few more minutes can throw off your sleep schedule and make you drowsier than if you had gotten out of bed with the first beep., Taking two to three naps throughout the day can improve daytime drowsiness. Make sure you schedule your naps around the time that you feel the sleepiest, or half an hour after meals. Taking a nap can help to refresh you and increase your alertness. Each of these naps should last for 15 to 20 minutes.


Avoid napping for more than an hour and in the evenings. This can mess up your sleep patterns and make it difficult to sleep at night time., With this condition, you may experience sleepiness at work, especially if you work in a low activity desk job. Think about accommodations that will help you do your job better, such as scheduled nap times during work hours or flexible start and end times for the workday. Consider discussing them with your employer to help work around your condition.


Keeping your office cool and well-lit can also help you stay awake. Try focusing on less exciting tasks at times when you are most alert.