 Nearly everyone’s fear of love comes from worrying about past relationship failures, either your own or ones you were a witness to. To overcome a fear of love, it’s important to remember that you are not your mistakes. Leave them in the past and don’t keep beating yourself up over them.Overcoming failure can be challenging, but it's absolutely vital to overcoming fears about potential future relationships. Some good strategies include recognizing that failure is common and that a failure doesn't mean that you as a person are a failure and turning to others (a counselor or close friend) for help and perspective when we need it.It's also helpful to regard each previous relationship as a learning opportunity. For example, if you grew up watching your parents yell at each other, then you might make a conscious effort to not raise your voice in disagreements in your current or next relationship because you remember the hurt and stress it caused for you as a child. You are not doomed to repeat your own or others' past mistakes.., It's easy to feel badly about yourself when you have anxieties and fears that others seem to not have. You can start to question why you are dealing with a fear of love. Accept that your anxieties about love are just a part of yourself that you're working on. Your feelings are legitimate, and there's nothing wrong with telling yourself that. Guilting yourself into trying out a relationship simply "because you should" will not help and will likely make you retreat further from love, particularly if that relationship isn't successful. Remember that it takes time to fix these kinds of worries.
 Try applying the Golden Rule to yourself. Treat yourself the way that you’d like to be treated. This means giving yourself the same care and compassion that you would give a friend or loved one going through this same problem. Would you meanly tell them to get over it? Or would you tell them that overcoming mental blocks like fear takes time and not to feel pressured or rushed? Be as nice to yourself as you would be to someone else that you care about.Practice Self Care because it is vital to personal growth including overcoming fears.
 Although a fear of love is unhealthy, it’s important to not idolize love or being in a relationship. Love and great relationships are wonderful things. However, they are not the only important things in life, and it is absolutely possible live a full, fulfilling life without having a significant other. The problem only arises when you want love or a relationship and avoid it out of fear.
 At the end of the day, your preferences about love and relationships are your own. Just because you see many of your friends and family in relationships doesn’t mean that you’re ready for one. Assess whether you truly have a fear of love or are just simply not ready for a relationship. One is an unhealthy phobia and the other is a decision made out of maturity.


An easy way to tell the difference between a fear and simply not being ready for a relationship is your reaction to the prospect of love. If the idea of love makes you anxious, scared, or feel like you want to hide away in your room or apartment, then that probably implies an unhealthy aversion to love. However, if you think about love and it sounds wonderful, but you don’t know how you’d fit it into your schedule or you think you might be doing a disservice to the other person because you don’t have enough time to devote to a relationship, then that’s a mature, well-thought out decision, not a fear.
It's important also to know the difference between fear-based rationalization and rational prioritizing. Rational prioritizing is based in logic and fear-based rationalization is rooted in wants and emotions. For example, avoiding a relationship because you're planning to spend a year abroad for work soon would be an example of rational prioritizing; it's simply not very feasible to look for love at present and it wouldn't be fair to your potential partner. However, fear-based rationalization would be if you tell yourself that you can't find love at the moment because of past failures, because it's too hard to try, or because football season is coming up and you don't want any distractions. In the latter case, you're rationalizing your way out of love, rather than working on embracing it.