 Early in the morning people may not have an appetite for heavy food offerings. Go with fruits, yogurts, poached salmon, various tarts, quiches, omelets, and the like. If you want to get creative, do a play on traditional lunch foods by serving breakfast pizza, for example.Providing a variety of food options will also help to satisfy those with specific dietary requirements, such as vegetarians.
 Seated meals are usually more appropriate for evening weddings, so it is best to go with a cocktail setting, where guests can choose from a variety of small bites, or a traditional buffet-style meal. Both of these options are low-key, but can be made more formal with small touches, such as black tie brunch servers., If you choose to offer alcohol, make sure to include it alongside food options. Go with morning themed beverages, such as mimosas, bellinis, and flutes of champagne. Tie in the fruit that you serve by including fruit garnishes in the drinks, like fresh berries.You will likely save some money on alcohol by having a brunch wedding, as people tend to drink less in the morning and mid-day.
 It is important to offer a wide array of non-alcoholic drink choices for your younger guests or those choosing to abstain. Again, go with beverages that suit the morning period, such as teas, coffees, smoothies, juices, lemonades, and milks. Spike these drinks with fruit for an extra punch, like watermelon lemonade or raspberry tea., Feel free to offer a traditional wedding cake. Or, create a dessert buffet with options, such as muffins, fruit breads, and croissants. Another options is to craft a cake from breakfast sweets, like donuts or angel food squares., During every season, certain foods and beverages are particularly popular and can add a bit of excitement to your celebration if included. Read online food blogs or subscribe to wedding or food magazines to get a good feel for the trends. Then, pick and choose what you like from the ideas presented.For example, if smoking is a particular theme that year, you might try adding in smoked salmon to your buffet.

