 Social anxiety comes in a range of forms and severities, but it is very common. If you are concerned about social anxiety, and think that it is having a serious impact on your life, you should seek some support to address it. Before you proceed, take some time to try and identify what triggers social anxiety for you, and how it tends to manifest.


Social anxiety can prompt a debilitating fear of being judged or humiliated in social situations.
It may cause you to severely limit your interactions with others and make it very difficult to build relationships, or make progress at school or work.
Certain situations, such as eating in public, speaking in public, or using a public bathroom can cause serious anxiety.To get a basic idea of your level of anxiety you can do an online self-test questionnaire.This can give you an indication, but is not equivalent to a medical diagnosis.;
, Self-help manuals may not sound like a particularly rigorous way of addressing social anxiety, but there are a number of books that can help you to identify symptoms and situations that are connected to your anxiety. Often these books will contain advice about ways you can try to modify your behaviour and your thinking in order to challenge your anxiety.


Self-help manuals are generally thought of as a supplement to therapy.
You can start with a self-help book to introduce you to some of the ideas before talking to a therapist.Look for a book that is endorsed and written by therapist who has significant experience and expertise.A doctor or therapist will be able to recommend a good book for you.
 It’s important to get support from those close to you, who know you best. Friends and family will understand your situation and will want to help you and support you to tackle your social anxiety. It can be very difficult to talk to someone about it, but getting that extra support can really make a difference.


For example, if you have a big family event coming up, such as a wedding or birthday party, talk to someone you are close to in advance. This could be a sister or brother maybe.
Just say that you’re feeling a bit nervous, and ask them if they can keep that in mind.
If you start to feel anxious and overwhelmed, get back to the person you are closest to and try not to worry about all the other people.

