 Guinea pigs are one of the very few mammals (along with humans) who can't make their own vitamin C, so they need to get it from their food. They need 10 - 30 MG of Vitamin C daily.Vegetables that are high in vitamin-C, and that are good for your guinea pig, include dark, leafy greens, bell peppers, broccoli, and cauliflower.


Guinea Pigs are highly prone to getting scurvy, which is a disease caused by low levels of Vitamin C.
You can supplement your guinea pig's vitamin-c intake
Putting vitamin-c into your guinea pig's water is not recommended. Adding vitamin C to the water can cause a guinea pig to stop drinking water if they don't like the taste. In addition, it's hard to control how much vitamin C your guinea pig is getting, as they may drink a little or a lot of water.
 This includes large amounts of fruits with high sugar contents (they should only be given in moderation) and any starchy vegetables, such as potatoes.Vegetables to avoid feeding your guinea pigs include iceberg lettuce, rocket salads, red leaves, cauliflower, beet greens, potatoes, and radishes.
Feed fruit in small quantities. Not only does fruit have a high sugar content, but it may also have a low calcium to phosphorus ratio, which could lead to bladder problems and possible diarrhea.This is true in fruits such as raisins.
Avoid giving your guinea pig citrus fruits altogether.Guinea pigs are herbivores. This means that they should not be fed any meat or dairy products., These are a waste of money and are not good for your pet. Your guinea pig would like a treat of a piece of apple or rolled oats much more than a commercial treat filled with sugar and the natural treat is much better for them., These kind of additions to your pet's diet are not necessary if you take the time to feed your guinea pig well. If you do need to feed your guinea pig supplements, consider giving it vet-approved supplements that are high in fiber.
 Guinea pigs chew instinctively and will eat as much as you feed them throughout the day. Watch how much you give them and stick to a balanced diet. Explain this gently to small kids who own guinea pigs so that they do not overfeed their pets.
 Guinea pigs will chew on anything they can get their teeth on, including their food dishes. Opt for a heavy ceramic dish that can't be easily be overturned and won't be easily destroyed., Uneaten food should be removed promptly, within one day. Guinea pigs can be picky eaters, so keeping food in their cage longer will probably not make it any more appealing to them. If they have avoided it for a whole day, they are probably never going to eat it and it will just simply become a mess in their cage.
 This means that the amount of food you feed your guinea pig may need to change over time to keep them in good health.
 Don't allow the water bottle to become empty. If a guinea pig doesn't have access to water it can become very ill.


The best water bottles are designed for guinea pigs or rabbits and have a metal ball in the spout.
If your guinea pigs lives in a pen outside, make sure that the water doesn't freeze during the winter.
Clean the water bottle nozzle frequently with a Q-tip to keep it free of obstructions and food residue. Clean the water bottle itself by placing uncooked rice and a little water in the bottle, and then shaking it vigorously. The rice will dislodge any greenish (algae) build-up.
 If you have a lawn that you know does not have chemicals on it and is not used by by other pets for urinating and defecating, you can let your guinea pig graze on it. Get a fully enclosed outdoor run and let your guinea pig roam around in it during warm weather. Just make sure there is no breeze and the temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (15-24 degrees Celsius).


Only allow them outdoors in a run when supervised. While some guinea pigs do live in pens outdoors, they should not be left in an open-air pen without supervision. This could leave them exposed to predators or allow them to escape.
Make sure they have a dark place for them to hide in from the sun, or if something scares them.
Move the run around from day-to-day. Guinea pigs will keep your lawn nice and short, and they fertilize it too.

