 You want to pick a comfy bag that doesn't hurt your shoulders, but is also nice looking and trendy. However, remember not to have a very expensive one, or it could get stolen.


A rucksack is a good choice for a bag. It has lots of pockets and is easy to carry.;
, Try a track suit, leggings that aren't too tight and a vest top with a jacket in case it's cold on the plane.


Don't wear a mini skirt or shorts even if you are going to a hot country. Long haul flights can be uncomfortable, and if you want to sleep on the plane, it will be harder to do so in shorts and a mini skirt.
 Remember to think about keeping it simple and not over packing. Things to consider are:


Gadgets- iPad, kindle, 3DS, camera, computer, phone, etc. (If you don't have any of these, then don't worry. You don't need them.)
A journal- it may sound silly, but it's a good thing to record what you did on your "holiday" when you go. It's also good entertainment for the plane.
An eye mask, ear plugs, a mini pillow and/or a blanket and comfy bed socks. You wouldn't need these sleep items if you were going on a short flight, but on a long haul flight, it's nice to sleep on the plane. You don't have to take all of this but it's nice to have some of this. Usually, the plane provides a pillow and blanket, but in case yours doesn't, you can take these items.
Moisturizer, pot of face wash, hand cream, hand sanitizer, roll on, deodorant, mini bottle of perfume, lip stain, concealer, mascara and wet wipes. Put in a Ziploc bag if you're taking liquids that aren't in your suitcase. You could also put a mini fold up brush in there along with a travel toothbrush and toothpaste and anything else you might want to freshen up after your flight.
Feminine products- Us girls have to stay fresh and it's always good to have them in there just in case.
Purse and passport- It's always good to have a purse to keep your money in, and you have to have your passport so you can go on holiday.
Accessories- These are things like headphones, a pen, a scrapbook to scribble in, a bobble on your wrist, your sunglasses and your sun hat.
Snacks. Try buying sweets or snacks at the airport because the airplane food isn't the best. Sweets, cereal bars, a sandwich, and a non fizzy drink at the airport are good choices.
 Don't overpack, but use all the pockets in the bag.

