 Your doormat does not have to be brand-new, but it should be clean. Any dust, dirt, or debris can made the paint come out muddy, or even prevent it from sticking. Go over the doormat with a stiff brush to loosen any fibers, then vacuum it up.;
, Most monograms are based on the first initial of your first or last name. You can find lots of interesting monograms on the internet, or you can create your own using a word or image editing program. You can also find a large, wooden letter, and trace around it.You can use plastic, store-bought stencils as well.
You can also use contact paper or adhesive vinyl., For best results, use a sharp craft blade. If the blade is not cutting cleanly, it is not sharp and should be replaced. Be sure to cut on top of a cutting mat.Discard the letter part, and keep the sheet with the cutout.


If you are using a store-bought stencil, you can skip this step.
 These can be things like flourishes, antlers, vines, branches, wheat stalks, or smaller letters. Tape these extra designs to the sides of your main letter stencil., Tape the stencil to the doormat using painter's tape. Attach any inside shapes (like the inside of an "O") using sewing pins or T-pins.
 Choose an outdoor-quality spray paint or craft paint. If your doormat is light colored, choose a dark color of paint, such as black. If your doormat is dark colored, choose a light color, such as white.


Spray paint: shake the can for a few seconds. Hold the can a few inches away from the doormat. Apply the paint straight down using a sweeping motion.Paintbrush: Apply the paint using smooth strokes. Brush from the outer edge of the stencil towards the middle. This prevents the paint from seeping underneath the stencil.
 Carefully lift the stencil straight up. Avoid pulling it across the wet paint, or you will get smears.
 Your paint will likely require a few hours to dry. Each brand is a little different, however, so be sure to check the drying times on the bottle or can. Keep in mind that some brands also have curing times.
 You can do this by placing a plate or bowl upside down onto a sheet of paper and then tracing around it. Use a smaller plate or bowl to trace a smaller circle inside of it.You can use contact paper or adhesive vinyl for this.
Make sure that the inner circle is big enough to fit your letter. Ideally, there should be a slight border between the letter and the inner circle.
If you added bordering designs to your monogram, then you might want to skip this. This is because your bordering design already add a nice border.
 Discard the ring and keep the sheet and inner circle.
 Tape or pin the sheet of paper to the center of the doormat. Place the inner circle inside of it. Make sure that the border around it is even, then pin it in place.


If you are using contact paper or adhesive vinyl, peel the backing off, then press the stencils to the doormat.
 You can use spray paint or a flat paintbrush and outdoor-quality paint for this., Be sure to pull them straight up and avoid dragging them across the wet paint. Doing so can result in smears.
 How long this will take depends on the type of paint you are using. Spray paint will typically dry in less than an hour. Some types of outdoor paints will require more drying time.
 Your final border will be just inside the edges of the doormat, so you want to mask the outside edges off. Tear off four strips of painter's tape, and lay them down along the edges of the door mat. You want this border to be 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) thick., Tear off four more strips of tape. Place these just inside the border your have made, creating a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) wide gap., This is especially important if you will be spray painting your doormat. Cover the negative space between that final row of tape and your letter stencil with paper and tape down the edges., You can do this using a spray paint or a flat paintbrush and outdoor-quality paint.
 Lift the tape straight up and away. Do not drag it across the wet paint, or you make create smears. Discard the tape when you are done.
 Depending on the type of paint you used, this can take a few hours. Refer to your bottle or can of paint for more specific drying times and instructions. Some types of paint require a few days' curing time as well.

