 A big part of manipulation is learning how to master your emotions and make other people receptive to your contrived feelings. If you want to know how to appear more distressed than you really are, or to use a variety of other emotional techniques to get your way, then taking an acting class is a perfect way to improve your powers of persuasion.


Don’t tell other people that you’re taking an acting class if you’re only doing it to learn how to manipulate people. Otherwise they’ll grow even more suspicious of your tactics instead of believing you.;
, While acting classes can help you master your emotions and convince others that you’ll be very distressed if you don’t get what you want, taking a debate or public speaking class will help you learn how to convince people to give you what you want in a calm and rational manner. Not only will you learn to organize and present your thoughts in a more constructive way, but you’ll also learn techniques for making your needs sound very convincing.



The calm and persuasive method is great for convincing your boss or coworkers to do something. Being emotional may not work in a professional setting.
 Charismatic people have a natural tendency to get what they want. If you want to manipulate people, then you need to work your charisma. You should be able to smile and light up a room, have approachable body language to make people want to talk to you, and be able to hold up a conversation with absolutely anyone, from your nine-year-old cousin to your history teacher. Here are some other ways to be charismatic:


Make people feel special. Make eye contact when you talk to them, and ask them about their feelings and interests. Show them that you really care about getting to know them—even if you don’t.
Exude confidence. Charismatic people love who they are and what they do. And if you have faith in yourself, then people will be much more likely to take you seriously and to give in to your needs.
Be confident when you say something whether it's true or just another creation. Try to be glib while speaking out with your subject.
 If you have a friend, family member, or even an enemy who is a master manipulator, you should study this person and even take notes to see how he always manages to get what he wants. This will give you new insight into how to manipulate people, even if you end up getting tricked in the process.


If you’re really committed to learning how to manipulate people, then you may even find yourself equipped with the skills to manipulate one of the people you’ve been studying.
 Every person has a different emotional and psychological makeup and is therefore manipulated for different reasons. Before you start plotting your latest manipulation scheme, take the time to study the person you want to manipulate to understand what makes him tick and to see the best approach for getting this person to bend to your needs. Here are some different things you may find when you read people:


Many people are susceptible to emotional responses. These people are emotional themselves, cry at movies, love puppies, and have strong powers of sympathy and empathy. To get them to do what you want, you’ll have to play to their emotions until they feel sorry for you and give you what you want.
Other people have a strong guilt reflex. Some people were raised in a restrictive household where they were punished for doing every little thing wrong and now go through life feeling guilty about everything they do. With these people, the answer is obvious—make them feel guilty for not giving you what you want until they give in.
Some people are more receptive to the rational approach. If your friend is very logically minded, reads the news often, and always needs facts and evidence before he makes a decision, then you’ll have to use your calm persuasive powers to get what you want instead of using your feelings to manipulate him.

