 The game of Minecraft is around 4.50 pounds or $6.99 on the Android Market and App store. There is also a free version (demo) where you can add blocks, make houses, kill zombies just like the full version. However, for the most complete and up-to-date experience, you'll ultimately want to choose the full version. If you can not get to the app store or the Android Market there should be a link somewhere on the internet.;
, To make the world go into the Game and click Play. Then you press New in the top right corner of the screen. You can enter a seed if you know one. There are also 2 modes:


Use Survival Mode. Survival mode is where you can kill monsters and make a house. In this mode you can collect your own items and get hurt and die.
Try the Creative Mode. In this mode you can create anything with unlimited blocks and items. Monsters are not available in this mode unless you spawn them; you can also fly in it. This is the best mode if you want to start a project. The only way to die is to go under the world (breaking the bedrock).
 Jumping (middle button), Left (left button), Right (right button), Forward (top button), Backwards (bottom button),Sneak (Double Tap far right button.) Fly (creative mode: Double tap on the jump button to start flying. To go higher, hold the jump button down and tap on the move forward button.), Smashing blocks (Hold down on the object you want to break) Hurting mobs (Tap on a mob). The controls will not change on any device.
 Get a crafting table and start crafting weapons, blocks, tools etc. Crafting tables are crafted with 4 wooden planks taken from trees and crafted into wooden planks.
 To make a house you will need to find a spot that you like. You can find out about the blocks for your house in the tips. There are many different ways to make your house, and many blocks can be used to design one. It's best to make a shelter on your first night. You can build a dirt, wood or stone hut, or you can burrow into a mountain or hill. You could also just dig a hole in the ground.
 To smelt you will need to craft a furnace from crafting table, the items needed are 8 cobblestone which you can get by mining stone with a pickaxe. No other tool will work, if you do try it it will be slow and you will not be able to collect anything.
 To mine, you need to have the right equipment: At least one pickaxe (wood, stone, iron or diamond) and torches. If you want to be really prepared, take a pickaxe, shovel, 2 buckets, at least 32 cobblestone, some food and a sword. To mine you need to make steps down underground; you can find gold ore, diamonds, iron ore, coal, redstone, emeralds, and lapis lazuli. You can mine by making long steps down, but NEVER DIG STRAIGHT DOWN.
 You should remember that most monsters can't climb so crafting ladders and climbing a tall tree is a good strategy. When night comes you need to have your sword built and ready to fight the monsters that appear. A good starting sword is probably a stone sword. Diamond swords are the easiest way to kill any monster.
 Now you have got used to crafting, smelting, and the controls you now have enough experience to create projects. Try starting with stone. You can create anything from a spaceship to a floating mansion. For more information on building projects in Pocket Editing, check out How to Make Projects in Minecraft Pocket Edition, which gives great info for beginners or experienced players.
