 An uncontested divorce means that you and your spouse agree on all the issues of the divorce. If you are both in agreement, then you will work on completing the forms together and sign the various paperwork together to indicate your agreement. There is a checklist to see if you are eligible:Residence – you must have been living in Hawaii for at least 6 continuous months before filing for divorce
Children – you must agree on all matters related to child custody and visitation
Support – you must agree on all matters related to child support, medical and dental insurance
Taxes – you must agree regarding all tax filings and deduction claims
Property – you must agree on division of all marital property and debts
Alimony – you must agree on the amount and timing of any alimony payments
Cause – you must agree on the reason (“grounds”) for the divorce
Some of the circuits have an office of a Family Court Service Center. You may be able to get some assistance there, or by calling (808) 954-8290.
 Complete all the forms carefully, neatly and completely. In an uncontested divorce, you are not required to appear before the judge. But if the judge cannot understand something in your paperwork, he may require you to attend a hearing or meeting, and this can delay your final outcome., The filing fee varies from one circuit to another, but it is approximately $200-$300 for an uncontested divorce. When you submit paperwork to the court, you will often need multiple copies (the forms will tell you), and you will need to get a copy stamped by the clerk to keep for your records.If you have questions about needing copies, ask the clerk.
 The final items that you submit to the court are self-addressed, stamped envelopes, one to each spouse. When the judge signs the final divorce decree, the court will mail that decree to each spouse. This should come in about 4-6 weeks. If the judge denies the divorce for some reason, you will receive instructions about further steps you need to take.You may be able to track the status of your case online at www.courts.state.hi.us.

