 Body hair bleach kits are not permanent; they only last up to 4 weeks.This means that, depending on your hair type, the results may last fewer than 4 weeks. They typically work best on those with fair skin and light, fine hair.


If you have very dark skin, the bleach may actually make the hairs on your arm more obvious. Keep in mind that everyone is different, however, so they may work for you.If you have very dark or coarse hair, the bleaching kit may not be strong enough to lighten the hairs on your arm significantly.You may be able to achieve a golden brown color, but you likely won't get white-blond.;
, This type of bleach is stronger than the type you'd use on your face, but gentler than the kind you'd use on your hair. Some kits also specify what skin and hair type they work best on, so be sure to get the right one.For example, if you have sensitive skin, get a kit that's either gentle, mild, or designed for sensitive skin., It would be a good idea to do this, even if you have used body hair bleaching kits in the past. It is possible to become allergic or sensitive to the ingredients. Here is what you need to do:


Mix up a small amount of the bleach cream, typically one part of the powder and two parts of the cream.
Apply thumbnail-sized amount to your inner arm.
Wait 10 minutes, then wash it off with cold water.
Wait 24 hours. If no irritation occurs, then you may proceed. If irritation does occur, then do not use the product.
 Do not use warm water, as this can open up your pores and make your skin more sensitive. Also, do not use it in a hot or steamy bathroom.
 Most body hair bleaching kits have to containers: one that has powder and one that has cream. Get out the tray that came with the kit, then scoop out some of the powder. Next, scoop out twice as much cream.If your kit came with two tubes of cream, squeeze out equal amounts of both, usually half-way around the tray., Scrape the powder towards the cream, then smoosh the cream flat around it. Keep smooshing, mushing, and pressing until the powder and cream are mixed together.
 Focus on the top of your forearm, where the hairs are darker. You may not need to use any bleach on the underside of your arm, or on your upper arm.
 It may sting a little, which is normal. If it starts to burn or feel too uncomfortable, however, wash it off.
 If your hair still isn't light enough, apply more of the mixture, and wait 5 more minutes. Be realistic, however; the bleach can only lighten your hair so much., Discard any leftover bleach, then rinse out the tray and spatula. Do not take a warm shower afterwards, as this can open up the pores and make your skin more sensitive.

