 In order to download MP3 files to your PSP, you'll need a Memory Stick with enough free space to store them. You can find Memory Sticks at a variety of online retailers. MP3 files range from 3-10MB, so you'll need enough space to store multiple files if you want a few songs.


To check the amount of free space on the Memory Stick, open the Game menu and highlight "Memory Stick". The amount of free space available will be displayed beneath it.;
, You can use your PSP's browser to download MP3 files directly to the handheld. In order to do this, you'll need to be connected to a wireless network. Make sure the WLAN switch is turned ON. The switch is located on the left side of the PSP-1000 and the PSPgo, and on the top of the PSP-2000 and 3000.

If you haven't setup a wireless connection yet, you can create one in the "Network Settings" section of the Settings menu. Select "Infrastructure" and then follow the prompts to connect to your router.
Since the PSP is an older device, it can run into issues with modern router security. If you are having difficulty getting your PSP to connect to your router, you may have to switch the wireless security of your router to WPA or WEP. See How to Connect a PSP to a Wireless Network for more details.
 You'll find this in the Network menu.
 If you don't see the bar, press △ to make it appear. Use the directional pad to highlight the bar., Press ✕ while the address bar is highlighted. This will open the keyboard to type in the URL. Either enter in a search engine like Google or a specific site.
 The only way to get MP3 files directly onto your PSP is to find a site that has direct download links. These are typically blogs that host new files for a while before deleting them. You can do a Google search for "mp3 downloads" and sift through the sites, or look through various forums to find popular options.


One of the most popular options for PSP is downloads.nl. You can use the search function on the site to find music hosted on a variety of different blogs and sites, with direct download links. Downloading music that you do not own is illegal in most countries.
 Once you've found a song that you want to download, use the directional pad or the analog nub to highlight the download link. The link must be a direct link to the MP3 file., △ and select "File" from the menu. This will allow you to save the MP3 to your PSP., This will begin downloading the MP3 to your PSP's Memory Stick. The time this takes will depend on your internet connection speed and the speed of the site itself., Once you have downloaded some songs, you can play them from the Music section of the PSP's main menu. Select "Memory Stick" from the Music menu, and all of your downloaded tracks will be listed. Select a song to begin playing it.