 Put one story or joke setup on one side of the card. On the other side, write down the punchline(s), including different directions you could take the joke (less insulting, more insulting, totally different direction). That way, it makes it easier for you to adjust your jokes based on audience response. For instance:"Just look at him over there, slouched in that chair. Let me tell you, my brother is so lazy …”

“... he can’t even summon the energy to laugh at these hilarious jokes.”
“... that when his ex-wife said ‘That’s it — I’m leaving,’ he said ‘Could you grab me a beer on your way out?’”
“... that no one even bothers to ask him to do anything anymore — oh, wait — i just realized — my brother is a genius!”



, The element of surprise can often help you create the punchline of the joke. That is, people often expect a story to go one way. If it goes a different way, that can often produce a laugh. Use the person's quirks to create the element of surprise. Alternatively, use a line of your own to surprise your audience.


For example, say the person has an obsession with tea. You could tell a little story this way: “One time, I saw Charlie lugging a box of like 200 tea bags into the office. I said, ‘Charlie, how can any person drink that much tea?’ He said ‘I’ll tell you a secret — I soak my feet in it under my desk to help with foot odor.’ And when I asked ‘Then why are your teeth stained brown?’ he answered ‘Well, I’m not going to waste it — this is expensive tea!’"

, Part of being funny is pacing yourself. If you rush through a story and the punchline, you're probably going to leave people in the dust. Instead, include pauses so that your audience can keep up, especially when you're delivering the punchline., What will really make your roast funny is putting what you have to say in perspective by using stories to drive the point home. If you just say, "Haha, isn't Fred a joke? He's always running late," that's not very funny. However, if you put the same point in a story, people will find it more amusing.For example, you could say, “Fred has never been on time for a staff meeting. In fact, when it came time for him to lead one, he thought he was supposed to start it with ‘OK, any questions before we finish?’ And for the ‘continental breakfast’ he brought lukewarm decaf and half an onion bagel for everyone to share.”
While providing detail is good, make sure you don’t waste excessive time getting to the point of the joke., If you're not confident in your jokes, the people around you won't be either. The jokes will fall flat. You've got to believe in your jokes--or at least act like you believe in them--for people to actually come along for the ride.Look around the room, and catch people's eyes. Also, stand up straight, and try not to fidget. Speak in a clear, engaging tone.
Practice in the mirror a few times. And remember that you’re putting on an act.

