 The first step in getting your dream job at your dream employer is having the faith in yourself that you belong there. You need to know that you have the education, the skills and the ability to do the job, and you need to believe it firmly enough that it shows to the hiring administrator.Wayne Gretzky once said, “You miss 100% of the shots you never take.”Along those same lines, you cannot get hired for the job you don’t apply for. Be confident and reach for the job you want.;
, You can research the company, through its own website or through professional networking sites like LinkedIn.Companies that register with LinkedIn will have a “Company Page” that highlights the skills and qualifications of their employees. Research the company you want and look at the qualifications they report for their current employees. Then do what you can to make yourself match their ideal employee.


For example, find the company that you want to work for on LinkedIn, and then go to their "Company" page. You can run a search for the job type that you want, like marketing, or operations.
Find staff people who are in those positions that you aspire to, and you can see their education and their professional credentials.
 Before you reach out to the company, you should find out who has the authority to hire you. This may be someone in the human resources department, but it may really be someone who works in the department where you want to end up. If you can impress the person who would be your direct supervisor, chances are good that human resources will follow along.Write or email to the direct supervisor. This may sidestep the advertised job application, but it increases your chances of being noticed by the most relevant people. This is also the best route when you are “cold-calling” for a job that may not even have been advertised. You should think of beginning a conversation, not just asking for work. For example, you might start out with, "I would love an opportunity to meet with you and discuss you views on widget marketing." Something like that shows your interest without being too forward.
If you are responding to a posted job opening, don’t ignore the advertised application instructions. For example, if the job posting says to write to the human resources department, you should do that. But also make contact with the direct supervisor.
 Show off your ability to write, along with your knowledge of the company and your desire to work there. Keep the letter very clear and direct. Realize that the person reading it is busy, and you want to impress them but not waste their time.Email appears less formal, but in today’s business world is the efficient and direct way to make contact. Include a subject line that is relevant but not directly revealing (do not use “job application” as your subject). Provide information that shows your interest in the company and your knowledge of their work.
 Follow up after your initial contact. You need to find the line between persistent, which makes you look good, and “pushy,” which makes you look annoying. Usually let a week or so go by, and follow up with a second message or perhaps a telephone call. If you have gained any new education, have written anything recently, or have changed any circumstances that might make you more desirable to the employer, mention it.In a follow up communication, you want to keep an upbeat tone: "I would love to have an opportunity to talk with you more about working with you. I am very interested in real estate."

