 Most jellyfish stings do not require medical intervention. However, if you or someone else finds themselves in the following situations, seek immediate medical help:


The sting itself covers more than half your arm, half your leg, a large part of your torso, or your face or genitals.The sting causes a severe allergic reaction, including but not limited to difficulty breathing, dizziness or light-headedness, nausea, or palpitations.The sting came from a box jellyfish. Box jellies have extremely potent venom. They are found off the coast of Australia, and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific, as well as Hawaii.They are pale blue in color and have a cube-shaped head, or "medusa." They can grow approximately 6 feet (2 meters) tall.;
, To head off the possibility of being repeatedly stung and to begin treatment, seek land as soon as you are stung.


As you get out of the water, try not to scratch the sting-site or touch it with your hands. There are likely still tentacles attached to your skin, and itching or touching them will only get you stung more.
 Vinegar has been shown to inactivate the stinging cells from a diversity of species, and will make it so that no further harm comes from the tentacles , and it is recommended by health authorities. , If you are experiencing shock, make sure that someone has called emergency services and try to calm yourself as much as possible. The more you move around while you attempt to remove jellyfish tentacles, the more venom will be released.


Tweezers, a knife, or a pair of clean sticks may be helpful in removing the venom-filled tentacles. Do not attempt to rub or scrape the tentacles, as this will cause more stinging cells to fire.
 Drive down to 0% the likelihood that you'll accidentally sting yourself again.
 Studies have shown that heat inactivates the venom toxins, relieving pain better than ice If you are experiencing extreme pain, take a recommended dose of a painkiller, such as paracetamol or ibuprofen.
 The idea that urine was a good treatment for jellyfish stings probably originated as an old wives' tale, and then entrenched itself even further after a Friends episode used it for comedic effect.There's no need to pee on your jellyfish sting!

, Most jellyfish stings occur in saltwater. That means that the nematocysts have large concentrations of saltwater in their venom cells. Any change to the solution of saltwater in the nematocysts will cause the venom cells to fire. Fresh water does just this. Stick with saltwater instead., There isn't any research indicating that it actually works, and it may cause more harm than good., Like adding a freshwater solution to the skin, alcohol may actually cause the nematocysts to discharge even more venom, leading to a more painful experience., After you've removed the tentacles and relieved most of the lingering pain, clean the affected area with warm water. (It doesn't need to be saltwater, as the nematocysts — which react with the fresh water — should have already been removed.) If the skin is still visibly irritated or raw, lightly cover the area with a bandage and wrap with gauze.


Three times a day, clean the area with warm water and apply an antibiotic ointment like Neosporin. Then wrap the area with a bandage and gauze., Soothe any remaining skin irritations with over-the-counter antihistamine pills, or with topical creams containing diphenhydramine or calamine.
 5 - 10 minutes after treatment, the pain should begin to lessen. After a full day, the pain should be almost completely gone. If you continue to experience pain past a full day and haven't done so already, see a doctor or specialist for professional treatment.


In rare cases, stings from jellyfish can cause either infection or scarring, but most people avoid these scenarios entirely, even after especially painful stings.
In extremely rare cases, people experience hypersensitivity to the venom a week or several weeks after being stung.Blisters or other skin irritations may surface seemingly out of the blue. While this hypersensitivity is generally not dangerous, it may be helpful to see a doctor or dermatologist for assistance.

