 If you're able to drive and have access to a vehicle, a road trip can be a wonderful bonding experience between you and your friends. Pack a bag, load up the car, and hit the road together to explore someplace new and exciting.If you are not yet old enough to drive, ask your parents about the possibility of taking a road trip together. Road trips take some planning (and money), though, so be sure to give your parents a few weeks to make arrangements.
Decide in advance where you want to go. Driving aimlessly can be fun, but you can quickly find yourself lost, out of gas, or out of money.
Choose whether to stay in hotels or camp. If you do camp, make sure it's feasible to camp in the conditions you'll be entering and plan for the weather wherever you'll be staying (which may mean preparing for snowy winter camping, depending on where you'll be).
Make accommodation arrangements. If you'll be staying in hotels/motels, look into where you want to stay and consider booking a reservation. If you'll be camping, scout campgrounds and see if they accept reservations over the phone or online.Choose a scenic route to get to your destination, if it's possible to do so safely.
Know the conditions you'll be facing. Remember that some areas require chains on your tires to drive through icy mountain passes, which may be too dangerous for you to travel.
Get your car checked out before the trip to make sure it's in good working condition.
Bring whatever supplies you'll need. That includes emergency supplies in case you get stranded: extra blankets, food, water, batteries, a flashlight, road flares, gas money, and an extra charger for your cellphone.;
, Winter break is a great time to reconnect with friends you haven't seen in a while. Whether you've been off at college or simply burdened by your studies in your home town, it can be difficult to spend time with friends while you're in school at any level.


Reach out to friends you don't see very often.
Ride bikes together, play in the snow, or simply hang out watching movies or playing video games.
Consider taking a trip to visit friends who live a few towns away or a state over. If you're not old enough to drive, ask your parents (and your friends' parents) about the possibility of taking an overnight trip.
Have a sleep over with friends you've missed.
Catch up on what's new with your friends.
Get coffee together or go out for a meal.
 Depending on your financial situation, you and your family/friends may want to take a trip together to a warmer location. You can even take a trip alone, if you have sufficient funding and feel comfortable traveling solo. Spending a few days or a week on a warm, sunny beach might be just what you need to unwind from school and chase away the winter blues.


Start saving early and budget your money. Decide whether you'll need a hotel/motel, a rental car, and tickets to a theme park or other destination, and work those costs into your budget.
If you're still young, ask your parents about whether a fun vacation might be possible. This type of trip can take months to plan, though, so be sure you ask well in advance of your winter break.
Avoid traveling on major holiday weekends, as prices for flights tend to surge during these busy periods.
You'll certainly be able to find lodging at a nationally-renown beach, but you can save a lot of money if you plan to stay at a smaller beach community off the beaten path. Just make sure that the area has what you need, including transportation and recreation options.Find the best flight and/or hotel deals by searching a site like Expedia or BookingBuddy. These websites deliver prices from numerous travel pages to help you find the best prices, even on the same flight.Plan on bringing one outfit per day, or scale down your suitcase by re-wearing some items. Just be sure you bring clothing that will be comfortable and appropriate for your destination.