 No matter the size of the battery, you should store all loose batteries in a safe place that is out of the reach of children. This includes batteries that you throw away. Any battery that a child comes across can be picked up and swallowed.Drawers may not be a safe place. If your child can open a drawer, they can reach in and grab the battery. Store them someplace up high out of reach, in boxes or containers that cannot be opened.;
, Any device that has a battery in it is a potential risk for your children. Kids can easily remove the back off of a remote or other device and remove the battery. If they do this without your knowledge, they can quickly put the battery in their mouth and swallow it.Keep remotes, battery powered electronics, and anything else that has an easily accessible battery out of the reach of children. Place them on high shelves and in places they can’t climb to reach.
Many common items contain small button batteries, which pose a great risk for children. Greeting cards that make noise, digital scales, calculators, LED tea light candles, key fobs, and even flashing jewelry contain these types of batteries., It may not be possible to keep everything out of the reach of your child. For instance, you may not always remember to pick up the remote after watching television. There are ways you can kid-proof the devices in your home that need batteries. If you think there is a risk of someone in your home leaving items containing batteries around your home, find ways to kid-proof them.


For example, you may want to buy devices that use screws to hold the battery cover into place instead of the pop tab.
Consider placing several pieces of duct tape over the battery door of items like remotes so your child can’t easily get the batteries.
 Many children’s toys have batteries, and some even use the small round “button” batteries. Before letting your child use a battery-operated toy without your supervision, check the toy carefully. Find out what type of batteries it uses and how easily it is to get to the batteries.If the batteries are easily accessible, try using duct tape to tape over it.
Reconsider any toy that may present a battery hazard, especially if your child has a habit of putting things in their mouth.
Think twice before buying cheaper toys from discount stores that require batteries. They may not have been manufactured with the same safety guidelines as other toys., Most toys made for certain age ranges are developed with the child’s safety in mind. That means that the toy’s battery source shouldn’t be easily accessible. However, some children play with toys that are intended for older children. Ensuring that your child plays with toys intended for their age can help to keep them safe.If you let your child play with toys that are made for older children, always supervise them while they are playing.
Teach older siblings the dangers of batteries and tell them not to let younger siblings play with them. If the older sibling is responsible, you may want to ask them to watch their younger siblings while playing to make sure they don’t eat batteries., You should teach your child about batteries. Show them what batteries are so they are familiar with how they look. Tell them that they are not food, candy, or a toy and should not be put in their mouths.Tell your children that swallowing batteries can be dangerous and make them very sick.

