 It is located about halfway down the slide and is the same one you press on to release the slide after loading in a new clip.;
, Maneuver the smaller notch with the slide release, then push on the slide release on the right side of the pistol. It should slide out nice and easy.
 It is a plastic thing that has a horseshoe shaped bottom with another circular piece of plastic is it holding in. Push on that lower plastic piece and your spring should contract a bit. This allows you to slide the bushing to the left or right. It will come out. The spring will then push itself out of the gun along with that plastic piece you just pushed down on. Take them and the barrel bushing out.
 The actual barrel of the gun can (and should) be carefully pulled back and down for cleaning. Congrats, it's field stripped! Time to clean and oil.
 Even parts you might not think of like the spring should be oiled. Make sure any dirt and debris are out. Use a compressed air keyboard cleaner or q-tips to do this. If using a silicon lube you can spray, spray into the trigger components on the inside of your gun's handle.
 Insert into the barrel and push it through with a second q-tip to clean it. Repeat until q-tip is no longer dirty.
 Place barrel up and through the slide, making sure the back of it is correctly in a pin located on the back of the slide.
 Insert it's plastic cylinder at the end of the spring. Remember the bushing? Insert it above that cylinder piece and then make sure the horseshoe shaped bottom part is over the cylinder. The spring and slide should hold together and thus the slide is fully reassembled.
 At the back of the gun are two triangular very small notches to hold in the slide. You may need to press them down and slowly slide the slide over them.
 Line up the slide release piece (should be the last piece left and the first you removed) and make sure it lines up on the left to the back notch on the slide. It should slide in nice and easy. Dry fire or shoot off a magazine to make sure everything's working properly...You're done!

