 This gives you time to relax and not feel rushed when getting ready in the morning. Rushing=Stress.

5 minutes before if you don't struggle to get out of bed.
10 minutes before if you have average difficulty.
20-30 minutes if you have a lot of difficulty waking up.;
, This means you have to wake up to disarm it to snooze, so you'll probably give up on snooze by the time you get to it (this however isn't enough for everyone).

If your family members are light sleepers, make sure that having your alarm on for a long time will not wake them up. Everyone will be annoyed if your alarm goes off for five minutes because you can't find it.
If you hide the alarm or put it in a hard to reach place, make sure the sound isn't muffled. You still need to be able to hear the alarm.
 When the light hits your retinas, it suppresses the production of melatonin, a hormone that helps you to sleep. It also helps you to get exposure to the light so you can wake up easier.


If you are an insomniac, it is recommended that you do not do this as melatonin is needed to help you sleep better.
 This ensures that you wake up quickly and prevents you from going back to sleep. In the dark, you are never more tempted to snuggle back up in you sheets.
 This ensures that your face is refreshed and this is yet another way to not fall right back asleep. Not to mention that this is also part of keeping good hygiene.
 In the morning, after sleeping for hours, your body gets dehydrated and makes you feel more tired.
 This will brighten your mood and you will tend to forget that it is 5 in the morning.
 Be sure you eat something or take something with you on the bus. One tends to be grouchy on an empty stomach. Eating breakfast has also been shown to help people lose weight.

Eat an apple. Apples provide natural sugars and help your stomach to digest.






Drink orange juice in a clear glass. Orange juice has natural sugars just like apples. The colour orange is found to be stimulating and may help you to perk up in the morning.






Drink coffee after 9:30 am if you are a coffee drinker. Your body naturally produces higher amounts of cortisol (a stress hormone that regulates energy) between 8 and 9am. If you drink coffee before that, your body will produce less cortisol, giving you less overall energy throughout the day.
 Massage areas such as the top of your head, the point between your thumb and index finger, below the centre of your knee cap, and below the ball of your foot. Massaging those areas will help you feel less fatigued.
 This will increase your energy levels and endorphins. It also helps you to get the needed sunlight!

, The scent of peppermint helps you to feel alert and focused.