 When people misuse "affect" with an "A", they often intended this meaning of "effect" with an "E." An "effect" in this sense is the opposite of a cause - an event that happens because of some other precipitating event happening.Below are a few examples of the word "effect" being used in this way:

It's hard to say what effect the rising price of gasoline will have on the world economy.
One undesirable effect of not wearing shoes is getting really dirty feet.
The hurricane caused countless tragedies and many victims are still feeling its depressing effects.
 Another meaning of the word "effect" is related to the impression or sensation that a person, thing, or event produces. These "effects" can be psychological, physical, or emotional.Below are a few examples of the word "effect" being used in this way:

Dvorak's New World Symphony produced a moving effect on the listeners in the auditorium.
The experimental drug is known to have a calming effect on rats, though it is not yet ready for human trials.
 This meaning of "effect" is tricky because it can be used similarly to the word "affect" with the meaning "to cause or influence."The two words are nearly interchangeable, though maintain slightly different meanings - "effect" implies a cause bringing about or accomplishing a change, whereas "affect" implies a cause or force altering something.


Below are a few examples of the word "effect" being used in this way:

The CEO demanded that the employees work overtime to effect a complete overhaul of the company's product line.
Her actions in the War Room effected a change in the situation on the battlefield.
 Finally, one somewhat out-of-style use of the word "effect" is to convey the idea of someone's private possessions - his or her wallet, phone, keys, mementos, jewelry, diary, and so on. In this case, "effect" as almost always used in its plural form, as in "personal effects."


Below are a few examples of the word "effect" being used in this way:

His personal effects were scattered across the kitchen but the man himself was nowhere to be found.
The little girl skipped through the forest, choosing rocks and flowers as her personal effects as she went.



