 Take 24 graham crackers (395 g) and put them in a food processor or blender. Pulse the crackers until they're fine crumbs. Dump them into a bowl and stir in 8 tablespoons (115 g) of melted butter until they're combined.You can also purchase a pre-made graham cracker crust if you'd like a crunchier crust.;
, Dump the buttered crumb mixture into a 9-inch (22-cm) pie plate. Use your fingers or the back of a spoon to firmly press the crust into the bottom and sides of the pan. Chill the crust in the fridge until the filling is ready.Keep in mind that this crust will remain pretty soft because it isn't baked.
 Wash 3 pounds (1.36 kg) of fresh strawberries and trim the stems. Put 2 1/3 cups (340 g) of the strawberries into a blender or food processor. Put the lid on and blend the strawberries until they're completely smooth. Scoop the puree into a 2-cup (480 ml) liquid measuring cup. Put it aside while you make the rest of the filling.You will have between 3/4 and 1 cup (174 to 232 g) of strawberry puree.
 Slice the remaining strawberries into 3/4-inch (19 mm) slices. Place them in a mixing bowl along with 1 cup (200 g) of granulated sugar. Stir the sugar and strawberries until they're combined. Let the mixture rest for one hour.The sugar will help the strawberries release juice.
 Stir the strawberries in sugar. Scoop out 3/4 cup (180 ml) of the liquid and pour it into the measuring cup that has the strawberry puree. You should have a total of 1 1/2 cups (355 ml) of puree and liquid. It's fine if you have more puree and less liquid, so long as you have a combined 1 1/2 cups (355 ml).
 Set a fine mesh strainer over a bowl and transfer the sugared strawberries to it. The extra berry liquid will drain into the bowl and you can discard it or save it for a different recipe., Measure 2 tablespoons of water into a small microwave-safe prep bowl. Pour 2 1/4 teaspoons of unflavored powdered gelatin over the water. Leave the gelatin mixture alone for 5 minutes before you stir or heat it. After 5 minutes, put it in the microwave and heat it for 10 seconds, so the gelatin melts and dissolves., Scoop the melted gelatin into a mixing bowl and slowly whisk in the strawberry puree/liquid. Keep whisking until the gelatin is combined with the strawberry mixture. Whisk in a pinch of kosher salt., Add the drained, sliced strawberries to the bowl and stir them into the mixture. Stir in 1 teaspoon of lemon juice until it's completely combined.The lemon juice will give the berries a bright flavor.
 Scoop the fresh strawberry filling into the chilled pie crust. Use the back of a spoon to spread the filling evenly. Put the pie in the refrigerator to chill for 4 to 6 hours. It should be completely firm and set before you slice and serve it.You can garnish the pie with extra fresh berries or serve it with lightly sweetened whipped cream.

