 These are artificial methods that are normally used to prevent pregnancy, but can also help to reduce bleeding. These methods also help to reduce cramps and pain that is associated with the menstrual flow.


The menstrual cycle is controlled by different female hormones including progesterone and estrogen. Birth control methods have an impact on these hormones in the body and therefore interfere with the flow of blood.
There are several different birth control methods that can be used and they include skin patch, pills, vaginal ring. These methods are usually used for three weeks continuously and then the patient goes on a break for one week. However, some are used continuously for the entire month.;
, This is a hormonal device that is inserted into the uterus to help in the prevention of pregnancy and reduce menstrual flow. This device releases a hormone called progestin into the uterus, which helps to reduce the heavy bleeding. The device is usually inserted in a health center by a doctor or nurse and it serves to prevent pregnancy for six months or more. There are two types of intra-uterine devices:



Intra-uterine device containing copper: This device has a base that is wrapped with a copper wire. Copper is released from the base and this initiates an inflammatory process that helps to prevent conception. This device can be used for a maximum of 10 years.

Intra-uterine device containing Levonorgestrel: This device acts by releasing progestin and creating a thick mucus in the cervix which prevents implantation of an egg in the uterus. This device can be used for up to five years.
 This is a hormonal method of birth control in which a hormone called progestin is slowly released into the blood stream.


The implant is a small device that resembles a matchstick and this is usually inserted below the skin on the upper side of the inner arm. This is usually inserted by a doctor or nurse in a health center and it is done under local anesthetic to reduce the pain.
This helps in the prevention of pregnancy and reduces menstrual bleeding. This method is usually used by women who are not ready to get pregnant within the next six months.
 This is a hormonal shot that is usually given every three months. It helps to prevent pregnancy and reduce menstrual flow.


An injection of progesterone is inserted into the muscle in the upper arm or the gluteal. The progesterone is released into the blood stream which causes a hormonal imbalance that makes it impossible for the egg to be implanted.
This method should only be used by women who are not planning to become pregnant in the next six months.

