 When waxing the skin on your face, it's very important to use a wax kit that's specifically designed for removing facial hair.


This is because the skin on your face is extra sensitive and can easily become irritated if the wrong type of wax is used.
Men should use a facial wax designed for coarser hair, as their facial hair is thicker and more difficult to remove than women's.
 Waxing your upper lip is a relatively easy process, similar to other types of waxing. It is one of the most common areas for women (and men) to wax at home.


If you like, you can use wax strips that will remove upper lip hair without the need for hot wax -- these are relatively cheap, but not as effective as they don't grab onto the hair as well. Just follow the directions on the packaging to use.
If you're opting to use regular wax, use a cream rather than a honey wax, as these are less sticky and easier to control than honey waxes.
Wash your upper lip area (and remove any traces of make-up) and dry thoroughly. Apply the warm wax onto one half of your upper lip, tracing carefully along the lip line. Pressing your tongue against your upper lip can help to extend the skin and make the job easier. Make sure to apply the wax in the direction of the hair growth.
Place the cloth strip over the wax, stroking it on in the direction of the hair growth. Wait ten seconds for the wax to cool slightly, then stick your upper lip between your teeth to pull the skin taut (this is important).
Grasp the edge of the strip and quickly pull off the wax strip. Remember to pull your hand across rather than straight up. Press your hand against the waxed area for a few seconds to help with the pain.
Repeat the process on the other side of your lip, then use a tweezers to clean up any stray hairs.
 Waxing your own eyebrows at home is a little trick and usually not recommended for beginners -- this is due to the fact that you are working with hot in the sensitive eye area. In addition, the results are potentially disastrous if you take off half an eyebrow! However, if you definitely feel comfortable with waxing your own eyebrows at home, here's how you do it:


Use a cream wax that you heat up in a wax pot, as these types of waxes are the most gentle on sensitive skin. Clean and dry the eyebrow area fully.
Apply the warm wax onto the underside of the first eyebrow, tracing carefully in order to get the shape that you want (you can consult an eyebrow shaping guide here). Make sure to apply the wax in the direction of the hair growth (away from your nose).
Place the cloth strip over the wax, stroking it on in the direction of the hair growth. Wait ten seconds for the wax to cool slightly, then use one hand to pull the skin of the eyebrow taut and the other to grasp the edge of the cloth.
Quickly pull off the wax strip in the opposite direction to the hair growth. Remember to pull your hand across rather than straight up. Press your hand against the waxed area for a few seconds to help with the pain.
Repeat this process with the other eyebrow, then use a tweezers to clean up any stray hairs. You can either use wax or tweezers to remove any stray hairs between your brows.

