 One way to make sure you always turn in your homework is to do so right when you walk into each of your classes. Of course, your teachers may have certain rules or preferences that prevent you from doing so.


As soon as you sit down, take your completed assignment out of its folder and place in on your desk in front of you. Keep it there until you are able to turn it in.
Get an extra folder exclusively for completed assignments and keep it in the very front of your binder. This way, you’ll be reminded of your completed assignments whenever you access any of your class materials.
 Update your planner frequently. As due dates approach, be aware ahead of time by always knowing what’s due a week in advance.


Always write down all of your homework assignments as soon as you are made aware of them. Be extremely detailed with the information you include. For example, jot down the chapters or page numbers of the textbooks or other materials associated with each assignment.
If your class has a syllabus or course schedule, enter all of the included due dates into your personal planner.
Include information regarding time slots you will not be able to work on homework, such as music or sports team practices, a babysitting gig, or family meals.
 Lots of people use electronic calendars these days, which have their benefits. Maintaining a calendar on your phone ensures that it’s always with you, but you can easily get in the habit of keeping your day planner with you as well, especially on school days. Further, there are important advantages to paper planners.Tangible planners are easier to update with quick additions or edits.
It’s always satisfying to cross a completed assignment off with an actual writing utensil.
Day planners are more appropriate for in-class use. Since you’ll often be assigned homework in class, and want to enter new assignments immediately, this is a particularly important factor.
 Your phone can be a good secondary reminder of due dates, even if you don’t update its calendar as often. Set an alarm the night before an assignment is due, at a time you know you’ll be at home. When it goes off, check to make sure the homework is completed, in the proper folder, and in your bag.


Another great source of reminders is your teacher. If you struggle to remember to bring your homework to class, talk to your teacher about it. Your teachers will likely have some helpful advice, and can even remind you the day before homework assignments are due.
Your teachers will likely remind the whole class if you ask them to start reminding you, which may help your classmates remember their homework too!

