 While some people are little turned-off by the idea of using a condiment for conditioner, mayonnaise is a great way to add a healthy shine to your hair. The egg whites contain proteins that help damaged hair, and the vinegar helps restore a balanced pH to your scalp.This little mixture spreads easily and can be used just like normal conditioner. Simply whisk them together in a bowl and apply like normal.


Do not use hot water to wash your hair or you risk cooking the egg whites on your head.
Substitute vanilla yogurt for plain for a light vanilla scent.;
, Stir the mixture well and apply it to your head.Add a teaspoon of cinnamon for a wonderful, spiced scent.
Some people believe that adding one pureed banana can also help prevent hair breakage., Mix either aloe or shea butter with 2-3 tablespoons of olive oil to make it easily spreadable, then mix it over your hair after shampoo. You can also skip the olive oil for a simple and effective leave-in conditioner.


You won't need a lot-- simply put a little on your fingertips and focus on the ends of your hair to fight split ends., Oil is essential for healthy hair, so this overnight conditioner is a great way to get your hair happy and healthy. Be sure to cover your hair with a shower cap to prevent the oil from getting on your sheets. This is particularly useful for dry, damaged hair. Repeat 2-3 times a week, or as often as you hair requires.Heat the oil up until it is warm, but not hot, to the touch.
Massage the oil into your hair, spreading it from the scalp up to the end of the hair.
Rinse the oil out in the morning.
 The following recipe combines many of the principles of homemade conditioners to make a deep cleaning, dandruff fighting conditioner. Use a blender to mix the following ingredients and reap the homemade-rewards:


1 fully ripened avocado,
2-3 teaspoons honey,
1 tsp coconut oil,
1/4 cup aloe vera juice, (available at most health stores and specialty grocers)
1 tsp fresh lemon juice.If the mixture is too thick, add more aloe vera or some water.
 The basics of conditioner are actually pretty simple: a base (like yogurt, avocado, honey), a pH balancer (vinegar, lemon juice), and some oil (coconut, olive, mayo). From there you have free reign to mix and match ingredients to get the right balance for you. Try adding:


Ground flax seeds.
Lavender, lemon, sage, bergamot, or rosemary extract.
Milk or cream to thin the mixture and make it easier to apply.