 You can make a mustache that you tie in place with ribbon. You can find the materials you need at a local craft shop. You will need the following:Thick black ribbon
Two pieces of felt in your choice of color
Pins, thread, and a needle
Scissors

, You want both pieces of felt to be the same shape, so make a template for your mustache. You can draw whatever mustache shape you want on a piece of cardboard paper. Cut out the shape you drew. On both pieces of felt, trace the shape of the cardboard. You will need to use a pen to do so, as ink will show up on cloth.Cut out the shape you traced. Then, stack both pieces of felt on top of each other. Make sure the sides with ink on them are touching. You do not want the ink outline to show up on your costume.
Pin the two pieces of felt together. You should now have two pieces of felt pinned together in the shape of your fake mustache.
 Cut out two pieces of ribbon, about a foot in length each. Sandwich the end of one piece of ribbon between the two pieces of felt. You want to place the ribbon on one of the corners of your mustache. Repeat with the other ribbon, sandwiching it on the other corner of your mustache.Pin both ribbons in place between the two pieces of felt.
You should now have your fake mustache pinned together, with ribbons stemming from either corner.
 Thread your needle. Sew along the edges of the felt. Make sure to sew through the ribbons. You want them attached to the felt when you're finished.Make sure to use a color thread that's similar to the color of your felt. You do not want the thread to show up too much when you're done.
 When you're done removing them, your mustache should stay together. The ribbons should be held firmly in place.If the ribbons are not held in place, go back and sew through them to attach them to the felt.
 Place your fake mustache just below your nose. Tie the two ribbons together to secure it in place.You will probably have some excess ribbon. Cut off any ribbon that trails down after you tie the mustache in place.

