 Your child will have a fun birthday at the park with all of their friends with cake, ice cream, and presents too. At the same time, you will have more money left in your wallet, no before and after party cleaning of your house, and a pretty low maintenance party where you can actually stand (or sit) back and watch the joy on your child's face.


The park party has many benefits, including removing mess from your house, getting kids to let off steam and parents can hang around too, if they wish.;
, Most parks have pavilions that you can rent out. Sometimes they are pretty cheap. However, you can also just pick a good spot at the park that is open, meaning not crowded with people, and throw down a picnic blanket and some lawn chairs.


Sometimes you can get lucky and the pavilion won't be rented out and will be available for use, you just have to share with others if they wish to use any part of it.
Try to keep your special spot in a reasonable distance to a bathroom or port-a-loo.
 Guests can meet you there and bring their own blankets and chairs if necessary.
 There are many fun-filled activities that can be done at the park. It's a great place to bring a corn hole set, Frisbee, almost any kind of ball (baseball, kickball, dodge ball, football, etc.). Smaller children can also play games like Simon Says, Mother May I?, Red Light-Green Light, etc. Let your imagination run wild, and the children too––they are outside after all.


You can even play party music, as long as it's not disturbing others in the park. 

, Cake and ice cream? Bring a cooler with water bottles, sodas, and/or juice bags along with ice cream cups or sandwiches. Cakes are usually easy to transport.


Don't forget the paper plates and forks for the cake, unless you chose to bring cupcakes.
Also bring along a trash bag for easy clean up. 
If you want to incorporate a theme, you can do that with your paper products. You can get such items cheaply at the dollar store. If you can't find the theme you want at a low enough cost, a color scheme is cheap. 

, Be sure to switch to new activities when the current one begins to lag. Keep the energy and movement flowing, and the time will pass before you know it.

