 While it's not necessary to intensely focus on life science classes in high school, it can help you get a jump start on a career in ornithology. Start with classes like biology, as well as classes like anatomy and physiology.Consider taking concurrent classes at a local college. That way, you can really get an idea of what the field is like before jumping in. Ask your guidance counselor if your school offers concurrent classes.;
, One way to get your feet wet in ornithology, even when you're in high school, is to join a bird-watching club. Most communities have these clubs, and they'd be happy to welcome a high school student.Ask at your local library or parks and recreation department to see if they know of any bird-watching clubs in the area.
You can also use social media to find like-minded friends and clubs in your area.
 To be an ornithologist, you need a college education. Start with a degree in life sciences, such as ecology, zoology, or wildlife biology. These degrees can help prepare you for the field.While studying for your degree, try to take any courses you can that are specifically focused on ornithology.
Another important focus is mathematics, particularly analytic geometry, statistics, and calculus, which can help you when preparing research. English class can also be helpful, as they can teach you how to write well when it comes to making reports., Ornithology is a broad field, and while working on your bachelor's degree or shortly afterwards, you'll need to decide what you want to do in that field. What you plan to pursue can affect your next steps.Consider the specialties in the field. For instance, some ornithologists specialize in marine ornithology, studying birds that live near the water. Others may specialize in the birds in a particular area, such as the birds of south Texas.
For instance, you may want to become a lobbyist, working for the interests of birds by trying to change policy in Washington DC. Alternatively, you may want to do fieldwork or research, where you study the habits of birds in their natural habitats.
You may want to go into education, from working at a nature center to teaching at a university.
Another option is working towards maintaining habitats or helping to conserve the resources that birds have left. You may also work as park ranger in one of the nation's national parks or even a state park.
While doing this work, you may gather and analyze data, watch birds in their natural habitats, record bird behavior, and give reports and presentations.
 If you're not sure what part of the field you want to go into or even if you do know, an internship can help you focus your career. Summer jobs, even more general ones that focus on life sciences, can also give you valuable experience, especially if they teach you about things like researching animals and habitats.Another option is volunteering at a local nature park.
Ask at your school to see if there are any internships in the area. Also, check at nearby national and state parks to see what kind of part-time work they have.
 Ornithological conferences can help acquaint you with what's being done in the field. Plus, you'll be able to hear from a variety of people on a wide range of research, so it can help you narrow down what you want to focus on. Some conferences are free, but for most, you'll need to pay a fee and travel to the conference.While still in school, ask your professors if they know about any conferences on the topic in your area or across the nation.
You can also join local ornithological groups that have a connection to a national group, as many of these groups will have regional and national meetings.
For instance, the American Ornithologists' Union is one national group that is focused on ornithology., While graduate school may not be absolutely necessary, it is preferred if you're working in research or teaching. Once you decided on the area you want to go into, you can narrow the type of graduate work you want to do.For entry-level positions, you may get away with a bachelor's degree. However, if you want to move up in the field, you'll want to pursue at least a master's degree if not a PhD.
You'll need a PhD if you plan to do your own research or teach at a university., One key factor for most ornithologist is being able to observe birds and their habits methodically. In addition, you must be able to record the information you observe so that it can be beneficial to others.Methodical means you are diligent in your study. You go out at least once a day to observe the birds for a certain period of time, and you record the details of what you observe each day. For instance, you may want to observe how often a bird appears in your yard, what foods it seems interested in, and what kind of nest it lays in the spring.
You'll learn some of this type of research in school. However, interning with a researcher will help to develop this skill more.
If you haven't found someone to intern with yet, practice this skill on your own. That is, take time to observe birds in your area every day, making notes on their habits and movements. You may choose to just focus on a single bird.
 Raw data needs to be synthesized before it can be made sense of, and you need mathematical skills to help you do just that. Of course, your schooling should help you develop your mathematical and analytical skills, but you can work on them yourself, as well. The things you do to work on them at home probably won't be the same as what you do in the field, but they will still help to develop your thinking skills.For instance, working on thinking games, such as sudoku, bridge, chess, and cryptic crosswords, can help develop your analytical and problem-solving skills. Other things that can help include strategic computer games and learning how to evaluate sources for academic papers. A librarian, teacher, or professor can help you with learning how to evaluate sources.
You can also do things like learn computer programming and coding, which can help you with analytical skills, but it can also help you more directly in the field, as ornithologists need good computer skills.
 You'll need good oral communication skills to work with other researchers and present your research at conferences. You'll need good written communication skills to write up your research or to make informational booklets for the general public. Taking speech and English classes in college is a good place to start, but you can take other steps to improve your skills.One way to improve oral communication is to think about what you're going to say before you say it. While good listening requires that you don't do this step while another person is speaking, you can pause a moment to gather your thoughts. Doing so will help you be more concise as well as take out filler words such as "like" or "um."
An important part of communicating is listening to the other person. That means actually hearing what the person says as well as showing that you're hearing it. For instance, try asking follow up questions that indicate that you've heard what's been said, such as, "That's an interesting point about blue jays. Do you think the same could be said about cardinals?"
Also, be sure to use non-verbal communication, too. That is, when you're talking to someone, use your body language to show you are engaged in the conversation. Incline your body towards the other person, and nod your head, for instance.One way to develop better written communication skills is to read widely. When reading, you naturally begin to pick up on the word order and choice of good writers, and you'll incorporate it into your own writing without even realizing it., If you go into this field, then you need to be flexible enough to work under these conditions.
 Just like in any field, it's important to get your name out there. One way you can do that is to network at events focused on ornithology. Whenever you go to a conference, make it a point to go up to people and talk to them.Networking is just talking to people and making connections. However, to make a connection with most people, you need to find a way to be interesting to them. One way is to figure out how to be useful. What does that person need? Another way is to be more than expected. Maybe you're just a student, but perhaps you've really done your research and know all about the person you're talking to, for instance.Always have your resume ready, as well. That way, if someone is interest in you, you have something to hand them. You can also have business cards printed up fairly cheaply, which can also be good to hand someone (when they ask).
 When you meet someone, especially someone who seems interested in you and gives you a business card, always follow up with that person later so that you stay fresh in the person's mind. Similarly, when you go to a conference and hear an interesting paper, consider emailing that person, even if you didn't actually meet him or her.A simple, "I enjoyed meeting you at the conference the other day. You are so insightful about the local cardinals. Thanks for taking the time to talk with me," can go a long way.
Most people have adequate contact information online. You don't necessarily need to reach out with an objective in mind. Just saying, "I'm new to the field, and I enjoyed what you read at X conference," can be a great jumping off point.
 One point of networking is using who you know to help you find a job when the time comes. You may have more people in your network than you realize. Think about the people you interned with, your professors, and people you've met at conferences. Reach out to them, through the phone, by email, or through online business social networks to see if any of them know of positions in the field.Start by re-invoking your past relationship if you haven't talked in awhile, such as, "Hi Jess, I haven't talked to you since we worked together at Birds Forever. What have you been doing since then?"
All you're wanting to do is put feelers out to see if any job opportunities are out there. "Well, I'm partially writing because I've finally graduated with my PhD, and now I'm looking for a job in the field. Do you know of anything where you are?"

, If you haven't already, now is the time to join a professional organization. Not only will you have access to people in the field, but also most professional organizations provide places to post jobs. Therefore, you'll also have access to job postings you might not if you weren't a part of the organization.Nonetheless, if you don't have the money to join all the professional organizations, you can still use their websites as a resource. Many of them have their job postings open to the public.The main national organization is the American Ornithologists' Union, but you might also join a local one that's a part of Ornithological Societies of America., As an ornithologist, you should look for work on websites for state and national parks. You should also look at local nature centers, as well as on government websites. Regular job search engines can be useful, as well. When looking, consider observatories and charity organizations that focus on conservation.Consider government organizations such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and state fish and wildlife branches. Also, look at branches in each state devoted to natural resources. In addition, many zoos will want to hire ornithologists.Of course, universities are also an option, though usually only if you have a doctorate in the field.Don't be afraid to start small. Breaking into the field can be difficult, so you need to take a job where you can find one.
 Once you've narrowed down some job prospects, start applying across the board. Make sure the jobs at least match your skill set and experience to a degree, as it will help give you a leg up.Tailor your cover letter. Don't forget that every time you send out your resume it should have a cover letter tailored to that organization or business. The idea is to highlight the skills or experience you have that make you the right fit for that organization. Keep your resume short and simple. Don't let it go past a page, and highlight the relevant experience you have. If you're unsure how to write a resume, consider taking a short class or workshop on it. Check with your local library or parks and recreation department to see if they offer a class.
 Because the work of ornithologists is often research-based, you have the option of grants available to you. You can use a grant to fund research you want to do in the field.However, most grant-giving organizations prefer that you are connected to some organization.
One place to look for and apply for grants is through the government search engines, which list all the grants available through government sources.Also, many professional organizations also offer grants.