 One commonly-used strap accessory that can potentially save you major headaches (not to mention lots of cash) is the strap lock. Strap locks usually take the form of simple plastic or metal caps that slide over the guitar's knobs after you've put them through the holes in the strap. These handy tools keep the guitar from falling out of its strap while you're playing, potentially preventing permanent damage and/or hundreds of dollars in repairs. Best of all, they're available in a wide variety of styles at most local music stores for quite cheap - often just a few dollars!

, Normal, inexpensive plastic strap locks usually take the form of small discs with holes in the middle and a set of ridges on a rotating upper portion. These can be installed by pushing the guitar knob through the central hole and using the ridges to twist the lock into place. After doing this for each knob, the strap should remain in place no matter how you twist or pull it while playing.
 The "premium" option when it comes to strap locks is a special set of interlocking metal fasteners. This type of strap lock is a little more expensive than basic plastic options and requires you to modify both your guitar and your strap, but offers total protection from slippage. To use this type of strap lock, you'll need to remove the knobs from your guitar and install new ones that are specially designed to interface with the lock. You'll also need to secure the locking mechanism inside holes of your guitar strap. When everything is in place, the locks should "click" into place on the knobs. Once locked, the strap can't be removed except by deliberately pulling the release on each lock.
 Though strap locks are generally fairly cheap, there are free alternatives. For instance, one easy trick is to place a tight-fitting rubber washer over the top of each knob after placing the strap on the guitar. The rubber washer will hold the strap in place while playing, making it more difficult (but not impossible) for the strap to fall off of the guitar.


You can find rubber washers at your local hardware store - you'll usually want the 5/16" variety. Alternatively, if you drink beer or soda that comes in an old-fashioned bottle with a locking cap, you can remove the washer from the underside of the cap and use it for this purpose.

