 Assure your parents that any risks associated with lip piercing are significantly reduced by choosing a piercer certified by the Association of Professional Piercers. This organization screens and approves piercing businesses according to their compliance with general standards, including licensing and the use of proper sterilization facilities.Try asking your parents to do a search with you for an APP-certified piercer in your area, using the organization’s member search page., If they seem to be unsure about letting you get the piercing, ask your parents to go with you to an initial consultation with a piercer at an APP-certified business. The piercer should explain the procedure, possible complications, care for the piercing, and a timeline for healing.Having a clearer understanding of these aspects will help your parents decide, and most likely reduce their fears about the risks., While at the piercing shop, ask an employee about recent spore test results. Every reputable piercing business should have these. They show proof of the proper working order of the autoclave, which sterilizes the piercing equipment and jewelry.Make a point to ask about these test results yourself. This will demonstrate to your parents that you're taking the whole process seriously, and are genuinely concerned about health and safety issues related to the piercing.
 Try not to give your parents the impression that they need to decide right away. If they feel that they’re being pressured to give you an answer, there’s a greater chance that they’ll just say “no.” Remember that this is probably a major decision for them, so give them time to think it over and discuss it with others. This also shows them that you’re mature enough to be able to wait some time for an answer.


For example, you can introduce the idea by saying something like, “Mom, I’d like to ask you something pretty serious. I know this might be a hard decision for you, so please don’t feel like you need to decide right away. You’ll probably want to take some time to think about this.”