 If you’re standing up, try sitting down to dispel your anger. Sitting, lying down, or otherwise attempting to make yourself comfortable can help trigger your brain to help you relax. Your body associates relaxed postures with being relaxed.If you are standing during a confrontation with another person, you could say, “Let’s sit down and try to work this out.”
If you can’t sit down, try not to pace or tense your body. Soften your stance as much as possible. You can also try visualizing yourself relaxing on your bed or sitting in your favorite comfortable chair.
 Stretching can help relax your muscles and release tension. Even just a minute or two of gentle stretching could help you relax and re-center yourself.Focus on the areas where you normally hold tension, such as in your neck, jaw, or shoulders, and work on loosening up the muscles in these areas.


You could also try yoga to relax. If you are familiar with some poses, take a minute to do one that you find relaxing and centering. If you are unfamiliar with yoga, try taking a class to learn some great stretches!

, Spend a few minutes walking to calm down. Getting outside is ideal, but if you can’t, walk around your office, home, or school. Aerobic activity can help lower your stress levels in just a few minutes.Exercising daily can help your stress levels stay lower all day, even before you get angry. You could get into the habit of taking a walk every morning or evening.
If walking isn’t your favorite activity, you could try some other aerobic exercise to receive the same stress-reduction benefits, such as biking, running, or swimming.
 If you find yourself unable to remain calm in the situation, excuse yourself from the person or environment before you lose your temper. Figure out where you could go for a few minutes to collect yourself, or schedule another time to deal with the situation if possible.Just make sure to come back to the discussion. Don’t use the break as an excuse to abandon the conversation altogether.


You could say, “I need to excuse myself for a few minutes. I’m finding this upsetting and need to collect my thoughts.”
You could say, “This conversation is upsetting, and I want to talk to you with a clear head, without anger. Can we reschedule this meeting for tomorrow? I need some time to think.”
Excuse yourself and head to the bathroom, your car, or somewhere you can be alone for a few minutes. If the person who is making you mad follows you, you could say, “Please leave me alone for a few minutes. I’m afraid I am going to lose my temper.”
Find a quiet place to meditate. Meditation has been found to lower stress and anxiety levels, as well decrease irritability.Apologize upon your return. You could say, “Thank you for your patience. I’m sorry to make you wait. I needed to calm down.”

, Exposure to a park or other green space for just a few minutes a day can be calming and restorative. If you are feeling yourself getting angry, find a way to take your timeout outside. Better yet, use that time to get in a short walk.Your break doesn’t have to be long. Studies found that just five minutes outside had positive effects on a person’s mood.
 Use progressive muscle relaxation if you feel tension in your body. Try tensing muscles and relaxing them, beginning from your lower body and working all the way up to your head.Sometimes we are given the advice to pound a pillow or take our anger out on another object. This only increases your hostility. If you feel anger or tension in your body, try progressive muscle relaxation to help dispel it.