 Sharpening stones can be found at most hardware stores, and can be used to sharpen any blade you have. Sharpening stones normally have two sides used for sharpening blades: a coarser, grainier side, and a fine side.If you have very dull scissors, you should start out using the coarse side of the stone, and then use the finer side of the stone to finish your sharpening.
If your scissors just need a light sharpening, you only need to use the fine side of the stone.
 Place a towel underneath your sharpening and lubricate it with either water or honing oil.









Stores sell “honing oil” in the same area that they sell sharpening stones, but any oil, or even water for that matter, works just fine for lubricating the stone.
 Remove the screw attaching the scissor blades together. You do this so you can sharpen each blade separately, and have more mobility when sharpening the blades.


More often than not, a flathead screwdriver small enough to fit in the screw’s head will work in unscrewing the scissors’ blades from each other.
 Place one blade of the scissors on the stone with the inner side of the blade (the flat, inside part of the blade that comes in contact with the material you’re cutting and the opposite inside part of the other blade), facing down. You want to create a nice, sharp angle between the inner blade (the part you’re currently sharpening), and the cutting edge (the top edge to the inner side of the blade). Where those two edges meet, is the area that needs to be sharp to cut things. Grip the handle of the scissor blade, and slowly pull the blade across the stone toward you, keeping the edge of the blade flat against the stone.








Repeat this action slowly and carefully until the blade has been sharpened. This should take about 10-20 pulls.
Repeat this step with the other blade of the scissors.
You should practice on some old scissors until you fully get the hang of how to sharpen blades.
 Grip the handle of the scissor blade, and tilt the blade toward you until the cutting edge (the beveled edge that meets the inner side of the blade) lies flat on the stone. With the blade horizontal to you, slowly pull the blade across the stone toward you, keeping that beveled edge flat against the stone. Match the angle as closely as possible and continue to slide the blade forward. Repeat this action carefully until the blade is sharpened.









If you started on the coarse side of the stone, finish with a few swipes on the finer side of the stone to give a nice, smooth finish.
If you have never sharpened scissors this way before, you might find it difficult to judge when the edge of the blade is completely sharpened. Consider this trick: before you start sharpening the blades, run the tip of a permanent marker across the edge of the scissor blade. Start sharpening the blade, and when the marker line has be sanded away off the edge, you’ve successfully sharpened the blade., When you’re finished sharpening the scissors, there might be some rough burrs of metal along the sharpened edges of the blades. These burrs can easily be removed by putting the scissors backs together, and opening and closing them a few times.Then use the scissors to cut through some kind of material like paper, cardboard, or fabric. This will further ensure the little burrs get knocked off the blades.









If the scissors are sharp enough for your liking, you’re finished. If you want them to be sharper, repeat the sharpening process.
 Use a damp paper towel to wipe down the blades of the scissors and clean off any stone bits that may have collected on the blades while you sharpened the scissors.

