 Once you've learned what kind of you humor you enjoy, try including it in your conversations with friends. Try telling jokes you've learned, and don't be too disappointed if they don't make your friends laugh. Try to tell your joke as if you commenting on the weather. A casual delivery is often the funniest part of an absurd comment.


Make up jokes. Look for the absurdity of a situation you are in, or an illogical decision you made, and try to tell it like a funny story.
Write silly captions for the photographs you take. Do the objects in your photographs appear to be doing something other than what they are doing? Saying they are doing something they are obviously not is one easy way to joke.
 Most conversational humor focuses on shared circumstances, whether it be the weather or the workload. Jokes about commonalities don't have to be particularly funny: their first function is to increase a sense of connectedness. If it's snowing outside, say it's a good day for a picnic.
 Jokes about acquaintances should not show that acquaintance in a bad light. If you are making fun of a mutual friend, for instance, try to joke about a positive aspect of that person, rather than a weakness. If a colleague is always on time, say you set your watch by them. If your child writes a good paper for school, say they'll be promoted to teacher next.


Avoid jokes that comment on the appearance of others, even positively. The ways appearances are evaluated is inevitably radicalized, classed, and gendered. Joking about someone's appearance is likely to put them in an uncomfortable position, and may look like a power move on your part.
 Joking with yourself is an excellent way to relax and move on from stresses.It is also a crucial tool for dealing with the vicissitudes of life. Learn to take your problems lightly, and laugh at your mistakes. When you make a mistake or have a disappointment, laugh at yourself, and think of how to turn it into a story later.


To see the humor in a situation, you need to take a step back. This bit of critical distance can put things in perspective.
Developing a sense of humor helps you develop resilience, and can ease you through your darkest times.