 Reward good behavior in your dog and ignore misbehavior. You'll need to be consistent and over time, your dog's behavior should improve. For example, if you want your dog to let you brush it, begin by rewarding your dog if it lets you just touch it with the brush. If it then barks at you and wants you to stop, just ignore the behavior.


If your dog's behavior doesn't improve over time, put it in its crate for 5 minutes if it misbehaves. Ignore the behavior so it associates the misbehavior with a time out.Never hit or yell at your dog. Your dog won't understand why you're being aggressive and will only learn to fear you.
 One of the simplest things you can do is to take away whatever is causing your dog to bark. For example, if your dog barks at people out the window, cover the window or remove its access to the view. You can also teach your dog the quiet command and reward it for good behavior. If you know your dog is going to start barking, command it to do something else that will distract it.For example, if you see people start to walk by outside, command your dog to go to its place or lay down.
 You'll first need to figure out why your dog whines. It may be because your dog is anxious, wants attention, or is just saying hello to you. If your dog is just saying hello, keep your greetings calm and short so it stops whining. For an attention seeking little dog, you'll need to ignore the whining. Instead, reward the dog when it's being quiet.If your dog is anxious, you may need to work with the vet to determine the cause of your pet's anxiety. Your dog might need medication or behavior therapy.
 If your little dog nips or bites, it probably wasn't trained at a young age. Teach your dog when it's being too rough by playing with your dog. Let your dog play and nip at your hand. When your dog bites firmly, exaggerate a yelp and stop playing for 10 to 20 seconds. This will teach your little dog that it's being too rough.If your dog's behavior doesn't improve, you may need to contact an Applied Animal Behaviorist (CAAB or ACAAB) or a board-certified veterinary behaviorist (Dip ACVB).

