 Are you Christophobic because you have no desire to emulate those that "spout" Christian rhetoric, but are actually just critical, judgmental, etc.? Christ terms these spouters "hypocrites", who ignorantly bar the door to your entry, and "stumble, being disobedient to the word, to which they also were appointed". Recognize that God isn't a religious Being, and Christ railed at leaders of Established Religion during His time on earth; meaning that you may be allowing someone who "claims" Christ but whom Christ would not claim, to keep you from Him. Understand that most people don't aim to be hypocrites; it is just human nature to try to have one's cake, and eat it, too; in a sense. You should follow your instincts, and run from anyone coming at you with this, "Verily, I say unto thee," jazz, if they aren't also showing you by their walk.


The Bible says not to be too bad, or too good! Of course, this should be taken in context; we are working toward "perfect", spiritually, which is not "perfectionism", which always relates to material things; you may have become Christophobic encountering Christians of this nature, who after all, are only people imperfectly trying their best. Quite possibly, you might be the one meant to show them how to be more perfect in a spiritual sense.
Church, to God, is not a building or place; it is a body of spiritual people. You can't help but wonder whether Christ would even enter a building with a cross on the roof, the emblem put on Christians by the Romans. God has already torn down a couple of temples, and undoubtedly countless of these hardened "churches" -- as He requires that His Church be made of "living stones."
Understand that most of the concepts in this matter that people undoubtedly have, have been passed down to them through imperfect human understanding, and are just incorrect, if not completely wrong- which could easily be keeping you from Christ.
There are un-cultish preachers and pastors who know and preach what they see as the truth, the "Kingdom of God", in a non-"Witness" way. Just to scratch the surface here, a couple of things:

Heaven is not your final destination, and nowhere in the Bible does it say this. A couple of verses would seem to indicate that you may go there temporarily; but these verses should be interpreted in the context of the whole.
Heaven is God's Realm, and He made the earth for us; and gave us free will to run it (but we are still under His authority). After the End Times a new heaven and earth will be created. "Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the Holy City, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, 'Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away." (Revelation 21:1-4)
The Bible describes hell in terms that had to pass down through the ages and remain compelling, and fire is a very compelling image. Hell is a spiritual place, and your current idiomatic use of the term, although probably incomplete, is a great working definition for you, i.e. "The toilet just overflowed; I'm in hell". Of course, as you mature, toilets overflowing become much less upsetting, and, "My 16 year old daughter just told me she's pregnant, I'm in hell", becomes closer to a truer understanding of this concept.
This is not meant to imply that you may not end up in hell, but that it is not a place that has a material location. In Revelation, you will find that hell, proper, does not even exist yet; that comes later.
There are abundant examples, and Prov 9 is a good one; the simple woman's guests were supposedly enjoying themselves. Is 13:8 ...their faces will be like flames..., is a description of the actual faces of those people.

You may be Christophobic, having heard of all this singing and praising God constantly, and relating it to what you have deemed "hypocritical spouters" doing; understand that these singers and praisers aren't singing and praising as their primary function- they are doing this while they go about their day because of their new reality--because things are so awesome to them, that they can't help singing and praising.

God has an angelic choir already, and He isn't recruiting you to spend your day prostrate before Him, praising His Name. There is, and will be, plenty of work and other stuff to do.


Examples abound for understanding, to those with open eyes. This might be a bit off topic, unless you are Christophobic.

God gives people children (who trust their parents implicitly, at least until they disillusion the children; until they discover that we have lied to them- there is no Santa Claus; I am not a princess, etc.), so that we may dimly comprehend His position as a Father, and how He should be trusted, etc.--must be trusted, in order to correctly handle the complete power and control we are grasping for (and in fact already have, and abuse) unknowingly.
He gives us a desire for greatness, which currently manifests, for many people, in a desire to be a multi-zillionaire Rock Star.
He gives Man a Best Friend, that he can look to for unwavering support (and incidentally, a clue as to what emotion you should be experiencing most of the time).

The next time life has taken its toll on you, and you're really down (it's just a little test), have a peek at your dog, who is the same position you are in (actually, even more subordinate), to get a clue about what is really important, and what emotion you should be experiencing.


He also gives us a Realm, the earth (or 'material plane', which may be translated 'universe'), which is currently just being used as a "sandbox", and free will to run it, with all of the privileges, responsibilities, and consequences that that entails- while it is easy to blame God for horrible things, like someone claiming to represent Him, and then barring the door against your entry, see that this is childish, like being mad at dad for your brother's offense, as children can.
Don't worry, the same thing that a good father seeks to do to that brother here on earth will happen to that offending brother; maybe through you. The parallels are endless.



;
, If you are comfortable with that, the concept of showing someone love even if they are not currently acting very lovable, or "being the grownup" in the transaction, as best you are able, then you are already most of the way there. This is further expanded in step 5."...let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth." I John 3:18

, Children are very literal, and (mis)understand phrases such as "stay here for the present". As an adult, recognize that phrases such as "eat my body", and "drink my blood" have spiritual meanings that are only pointed to by their literal translations.
Furthermore, words such as "sin" and "sinner", just to choose a couple of the more religious-sounding ones, are simply legal terms that you may translate "crime" and "perpetrator", or "offense" and "offender".All that these terms are trying to deal with are the offenses that you may perpetrate on someone, friend or foe, in your daily life--because you have Free Will--and what the various reactions you might manifest upon realizing that you have hurt someone--whether intentionally or not--will manifest in their own turn. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Be willing to "confess"--or "hey i messed up, i'm sorry, how can i fix it, did i even mess up, let me know..." are all that is being discussed here. And being blind to your faults, not apologizing, not being able to apologize, even, as many cannot do, is a sign that you are ego-centered, which is "death" to God.


An important note that may aid you in your Christophobia is that things are not always going to be like they are now; we are in the child-rearing stage. To God, you are a child, whether you are 5 or 50; and you probably haven't even started college yet! Actually, a 5 year old would not even qualify as a child yet, to God, having not yet reached the "age of accountability".
 Much of His phrasing, while containing spiritual truths, was meant to be understood in this light. For example, to the Jewish leaders, degenerate and mired in dogma, "drink my blood" was possibly the most offensive single thing Christ could say. The point here is not to let the dogmatic concept of Christ that has passed down to us through established religion be your guide. It could even be argued that "prevailing human wisdom" and Christ are anathema. The Bible will seem contradictory to those not reading with their "third eye"."Those who can make you believe absurdities can make you commit atrocities". - Voltaire

, While God never condemns, He is perfect, and any imperfection separates from God. While this seems harsh, sin, any sin, = death, and must be paid for with death in a perfect world (where these things don't happen, even accidentally).
You have felt this death, or diminishment, whenever someone put you down, rightly or not; and quite possibly you wanted to kill them at that moment. As you have surely experienced, even a "look" can be condemning. It can be said that you have accepted Christ when you refuse to perpetuate death, and overcome the gratuitous answer you feel they deserve; instead, answering from "love" (knowledge)(which is quite often just answering with silence). However, you are probably not always able to act perfectly (demonstrate knowledge, show love, be the grown-up) to an offensive "neighbor"--who hasn't laid awake at night, reviewing how they might have acted differently in a certain situation?
It's quite possible that you were having a bad day, and your neighbor was the one showing love! Even if you unintentionally belittled someone for your ego's sake (and who hasn't?), you now have a mechanism to wipe the slate clean, even if you aren't able to physically apologize (you'll never see them again, perhaps); to keep you from obsessively returning to it, night after night.
When a mature person recognizes that they have caused some slight of another individual, they go apologize, which can be very hard to do; for a beginning understanding of this concept, if that's all you do, apologize to the air, you will once again have accomplished 9/10ths of the idea. If you are physically able to apologize, you must do this- until you do, you will even feel the death (diminishment) that only a sincere apology can release you from.
You have Christ to thank for this ability to apologize, even if you are unable to do so physically, as the sentence for this sin is death, pronounced by you, in a spiritual way, upon yourself! Understand that acceptance of Christ is partly just accepting that since you have (already) been forgiven, you must show forgiveness.


Since this may help you with your Christophobia, but leave you wondering if it is adequate for your purposes, a parable from the Bible: A father had two sons that he wanted to go and work in his vineyard; he approached the first son, who said, "yes, father, i will go"- but he never went. The second son said, "no, father, i cannot go", but relented and went and worked in the vineyard. Which son did his father's will? This is known as the parable of the two sons.
The parable of the separation of the sheep and the goats, which you can read online, expands on this.
These concepts can be difficult to actually put into practice, especially at first; start with "fake it 'til you make it" if necessary, and understand that the benefit isn't always immediately apparent. What you will be doing is setting up a positive feedback loop; you will be radiating Life, and not affirming death. This is going to generate profound consequences, many visible, some not; the person that intentionally sent "death" your way in ignorance, expecting you to attempt to save face and reply in kind (by spouting more "death") is now lying awake, puzzling over how they received Life for death.
 Yes, there are many sides to Christ, and a time for everything. Christ was known for personally turning the other cheek, which made His fewer condemnations, always in defense of us all, that much more effective. This illustrates that the time for forgiving of a habitual, grave sin has an end, but you should first grasp (and implement) the former idea, that of forgiveness.
The Bible outlines the acceptable progression from there, in the event of an offense repeated upon you, but briefly; after going, in private, to your "brother" and confronting them with the offense, with forgiveness, if you are re-offended in the same manner by this person, go to him with a couple of mutual friends; then, if that fails, bring your complaint to the assembly (a common group of peers) for them to mediate, and finally, if even your assembly doesn't convince him to stop, eject the offender.
This is a powerful method for the remediation of offenses; see how as humans we are tempted to do it backward, to go right to rejection, often even waiting until the offender has left, then tattling to all the peers in common, then, maybe, later, some private, healing conversation.
Christ has the advantage of us here in that He is more able to cut to the heart of a matter, to know what should be done; but you can develop this also.
 Christ calls you to (try your best to) be good, even when no one is looking, and you may never get "credit" for it; and, to admit when you are wrong. Christ has no need for "fair weather" friends.

