 One sure-fire way to earn coins for Habbo is to complete surveys and corporate offers through the official Habbo website. To do this, first, visit the "Earn Credits" page under the "Credits" tab on the official Habbo site. Sign in and pick an available offer, then follow the prompts as directed to earn your credits. Keep track of your credit deliveries by using the "Support" link on the credit offer page. Eventually, you should notice your new credits in your profile's purse.


Another similar opportunity is the Watch & Earn service. The premise is simple: you watch an advertisement, and you're given a random prize (usually cheap furniture, but sometimes coins). To access Watch & Earn, click the Watch & Earn button in the top right corner of your screen (it will only appear when video offers are available).If you use offers and surveys outside of the official Habbo.com website be careful to verify their legitimacy. Some third party sites may offer coins for completing surveys and offers in a way that seems similar to legitimate methods but could actually be a scamming attempt. Some things to consider when judging a websites intent are the age of the domain, the URLs status on security websites like McAfee and Norton and whether you are being asked to do anything dangerous like download executables. Under no circumstances should you enter your Habbo password outside of the official Habbo login page.;
, There are dozens of games to be played in Habbo. Some are official Habbo creations, while others are made by the users. Some are just for fun, while others are high-stakes. The latter can be a source of coins if you're lucky or skilled enough to win consistently, so consider trying your hand at these sorts of games as a source of coins. Below are just a few games that sometimes award coins:


Falling Furni
Don't Hit My Wall
Trivia
Bingo

, In Habbo, there are coins to be made from both sides of the gaming equation. While some games are free to play, others (especially games made by the Habbo community and third parties) can require coins. Three common "pricing" options make it possible for the host to profit from a game — usually, the host must be paid in either coins or furni (which can be sold or traded for coins):P2P (Pay to play): A spectator must pay to join a game that's in progress.
P2S (Pay to stay): A player who has lost the game can pay to keep playing.
Rev (Revenge): A player pays to make another player of their choice lose.
 If you think you have what it takes to be a Habbo mogul, start buying low and selling high! Furniture (called "furni" by Habbo users) is the cornerstone of the Habbo economy. In fact, buying furni is a huge reason for why Habbo users want coins in the first place. Furni is available at basically every price level, so even if you're starting with next to nothing, it's possible to work your way up from the bottom if you always sell furni at a profit. In 2013, over a million items were traded in the Habbo marketplace, so there's no shortage of in-game commerce to take advantage of!For the most profit, try to get your hands on seasonal and rare furni. When items are hard to obtain or are only given out for a limited amount of time, they're inherently more valuable than when they're commonplace. For instance, if you grab a limited-edition item and hold onto it until it's no longer being produced, you'll be able to demand a very high price for it because people who want it will have no other way to get it.
 One odd type of game in Habbo that can potentially win you big coin prizes is called a "grabber" (or sometimes a "rare grabber"). Grabbers are essentially games of pure chance. In grabber, various prizes are laid out in a square grid. The player randomly selects two numbers from 1-6 (like rolling two dice) and wins the prize that's in the corresponding square on the grid.While the prizes can sometimes be lucrative, because you must rely on pure luck to win, they're often not a wise long-term investment.


To determine whether a grabber game is profitable or not, find the game's average payout like this: Add up all of the coins in the grid (if there are furni, use their coin value). Next, divide by the number of squares in the grid. For instance, if there are a total of 20 coins in a typical 6x6 grid, we would divide 20/36 = 5/9 = 0.56. This means that, on average, you'll win about half a coin. If you have to pay more than this to play, the game isn't a smart investment.
Note also that 6x6 grids aren't always used. For instance, if the same 20 coins above were arranged in a 3x3 grid, there would be a payout of 20/9 = 2.22 coins per square on average. However, because you're rolling two numbers from 1-6, the nine squares in the 3x3 grid represent only a quarter of your total combinations! In other words, 3/4 of the time, you'll win nothing at all.
 Your Habbo experience doesn't have to be limited to simply interacting, trading, and playing games. Believe it or not, some Habbo users even work in the world of Habbo. To find a paying job, look for a room that's advertised as "hiring" or "paying" in the navigator (restaurants and cafes are good places to look). When you find one, talk to the owner and tell them you'd like the job. Careful — you may be asked to list your qualifications or prove you're not a "noob!"


Note that compensation rates for in-game jobs will usually be very low — after all, you're not really working. However, even if you earn just a single furni per week, for instance, you can use these furni items to start trading and amassing your wealth. Get creative — no matter what you're paid, try to turn it into cold, hard Habbo coins!

, Occasionally, one-time events in the world of Habbo offer you the chance to earn coins in-game. These can take many, many different forms. Some involve special contests or games, others are events used to correct the Habbo economy after a major patch or modification to Habbo, and some defy classification. These promotions never last forever, though, so be ready pounce as soon as you see one!


One example of a limited-time promotion is a seasonal rare furni giveaway. These events, which are often put on for a holiday, sometimes involve the sale of limited edition furni. Because these rare furni are so valuable, it's possible to profit greatly if you buy one and hold onto it until its value increases., Habbo boasts a vibrant, active community of over 5 million unique users per month. Unfortunately, as with any community of this size, a small percentage of the members are bad apples who don't have qualms about cheating an unsuspecting newcomer out of their hard-earned coins. This sort of deception can take many forms — the most direct are schemes that aim to steal your login information so that the scammer can take your coins and items. Below are a few common examples of this tactic:Phishing: emails or messages from someone claiming to be a Habbo staff member or moderator asking for your username and/or password. Real Habbo staff members and mods will never ask for these details.
Password-blocking scams. Often used to trick new users — the scammer pretends that Habbo automatically censors a user's password by typing a fake blocked-out password in the chat window (e.g., "Check this out! Habbo censors your password. ********* See?"). If a naive user tries this, their password will appear in the chat window uncensored.
 As of August 2014, casinos have been essentially banned in Habbo — games of random chance that award furni are no longer allowed and there is a hard limit of three dice games per room.Before the ban, not all casinos in Habbo operated fairly, making gambling a risky source of income. However, since the ban, the gambling that remains has become even more illegitimate and informal. Don't rely on improvised games of chance to make money — it's usually easy for the dealer or organizer to steal from you, especially if you need to provide your bet or wager up-front.
 Never, ever give anything (especially rare furni) to someone you don't strictly trust. Once you give something to another player, it's theirs. No matter what they promise they'll do for you once they have your items, there's nothing preventing them from simply taking them and walking away. Because of this, you shouldn't ever give other players your items under any circumstances unless they're a proven friend. Below are a just a few examples of the sort of lies players may use to get you to give up your assets:


Offers to duplicate your item (this is impossible)
Offers to give you moderator status in exchange for your item (moderators aren't chosen like this)
Threatening to block your account (real moderators will never do this maliciously)

, When it comes to getting Habbo coins, if an offer seems to be too true, it probably is. For instance, a common scam run by malicious third-party sites unassociated with Habbo is to offer to instantly generate cons for your account for free. Though this offer may sound appealing, in reality, there is no way to get unlimited coins for free. Sites that offer to do this may ask for your login information, force you to complete surveys, or worse before you're given your free coins. In any case, you'll never actually get the coins you ask for, so don't bother with these scam services.


Some coin generator sites can appear remarkably legitimate, but this shouldn't be taken as a sign of their actual legitimacy. For instance, some coin generator sites use a ticker displaying the names of users who have supposedly just given themselves coins (e.g., "User12309 just generated 9999 coins.") to entice new users into falling for their trap.
 If you come across a scam attempt, or, worse, if you're the victim of one, don't let the scammer get away. Instead, report the scammer to a moderator by using the Call For Help (CFH) tool. Moderators have the administrative power to stop the scam, and, if necessary, remove the offending players from the community. Though it's certainly not guaranteed, there's a chance you may even be able to recover any coins or furni you've lost.


Most important, however, is that by reporting a scam, you're preventing the scammer from cheating other Habbo users the way they attempted to cheat you. Habbo is a participation-based online community, so look out for your fellow community members to keep the Habbo experience safe and entertaining for everyone.

