 Most rabbits need a litter box, especially if they are an indoor rabbit. There are a variety of a litter boxes, so choose the best one that provide for your rabbit’s housetraining needs.


Start with a simple rectangular litter box. Choose a size that doesn’t crowd the cage and still gives the rabbit plenty of space to hop around.
Find a small, medium, large, or extra large litter box based on the size of you rabbit. Smaller rabbits may need a small litter box, since they may not be able to hop in and out of larger ones.
Use newspaper between the litter and the box itself. This can help limit the amount of expensive litter you need to purchase. Watch to see if the rabbit chews the newspaper, since you may want to get rid of it if that’s the case.
Clean the litter box regularly. Negotiate how often to clean it, since a dirty litter box can turn off the rabbit from using it. However, if you clean the litter box too often, the rabbit may think he is not supposed to use the litter box.
 Rabbits are playful creatures who like to chew, toss, dig, and explore. Provide your rabbit with stimulating toys so she will not get bored while she is in a cage.Supervise your rabbit when she is playing. Any toy can be dangerous, so make sure your rabbit does not get hurt.
Rabbits like to chew, so cardboard, wicker, and hay are fun for rabbits. Be careful that they do not have any chemicals such as varnish on them when you give them to your rabbit.
Find toys that you can toss around the cage. Rabbits are interested in movement and like to explore things that move.
Look for toys that dispense food. This will encourage rabbits to keep playing with fun toys that give her something to eat.
Old towels can also be a fun toy for rabbits. Observe the rabbit to make sure she does not eat towels or any of the above toys.
Toys bring you and your rabbit closer together. Having playtime with toys will form a closer bond with your rabbit.
 Rabbits need water on a regular basis, so you need to have water available to them all the time. Choose either a crock or water bottle for your rabbit. Some rabbits prefer one or the other, but either one should work well for your rabbit.Crocks are small ceramic bowls that you can put water in. Choose a crock that’s sturdy and won’t tip over.
Cleaning crocks can sometimes be a pain. Since the crock sits on the floor of the cage, it can get dirty. Make sure to clean your rabbit’s crock regularly.
Throw out any crocks that have chips or cracks, since they can potentially injure rabbits if they ingest chips from the broken crock.
Water bottles are another option for your rabbit’s cage. They are usually suspended from your rabbit’s cage, so you can avoid much of the cleaning involved with crocks.
Suspended water bottles usually need to be refilled about once a day. Inspect the bottle carefully when you refill it to make sure there are no leaks.

