 During the process of creating change, you might become tired or frustrated. Though it is important to be honest with your staff, it is also important to model the way for them. Show them your passion and confidence in the new changes so that they feel enthusiastic about them as well. Refrain from making pessimistic or critical comments. Instead, remain hopeful and excited for the future., In addition to your passion, it is important that you encourage a positive environment in the workplace. Come in each morning on time and with a smile. Greet everyone you see warmly. If someone has an innovative new idea, support them rather than shutting them down. Encourage and incentivize your staff to work hard.Encourage good morale in the office by doing team builders and social outings with your staff.
 Compliment your staff when they do well, particularly in the midst of this change. If you have added new responsibilities to any of their roles, then consider paying for training related to this new job. Doing so will ensure that your staff feels competent in their ability to do their work well., When putting any changes into place in your office, consider doing so in stages. People can be overwhelmed if everything changes at once, but if you do so incrementally, it can feel much more manageable and tolerable. Develop a multi-staged plan over the course of a few months or even years., During this time, be very mindful of the allocation of work within your organization. Perhaps you have shifted roles and responsibilities and now some have much more to do than others. Be mindful of this and make any changes necessary and possible. Ask your staff if they feel comfortable handling the work they’ve been given.Make sure to acknowledge their concerns about their new job description. Then, appeal to their sense of teamwork and your company’s vision statement to encourage them to be flexible and adaptable.
You might find also that some staff are looking for more to work on. Enlist them to help.
 A workplace can become toxic quickly due to one person because misery loves company. If you become aware that someone is gossiping or spreading negativity, then address it right away by speaking with that person one-on-one. This will help to prevent the negativity from spreading.