 The next time you're at the market, look for foods you like. A good rule of thumb is that if they would work well in a sandwich, they would work well in a wrap, but because a wrap is enclosed, you can also include things that might not handle well on a sandwich.;
, The anchor for a good wrap is usually a large flour tortilla, though you can use corn if you prefer them. You may be able to find colorful variations that include things like tomatoes or spinach. If you don't want to buy tortillas, or you can't find them, remember that you can also make your own.


Whatever tortilla you use, lay it on a plate or clean cutting board and arrange the contents on top of it.






Warm the tortilla in a pan with a bit of oil, if you want it warm.
 You can use cold cuts or you can prepare your own meat by grilling, pan-frying, or any other method you want. Don't forget to season the meat if you're cooking it yourself. Chicken, turkey, beef, ham, and pork are casual options.
 Shrimp and fish make good, lighter additions to wraps. You can also use canned tuna or salmon, inside or outside of a tuna salad mixture.


Generally, use meats or seafood. Seafood tends to have more of a delicate flavor and texture that can be overwhelmed by heavier meats.
 The sky is the limit, metaphorically, so try all kinds of things. This is a great way to pack some delicious nutrition into a compact package. You can make an entire portable salad right there inside the tortilla if you want.


Try lettuce of all kinds, spinach, sprouts, chopped bell pepper (cooked or raw), broccoli (steam it lightly if you prefer), tomatoes, olives, mushrooms, and anything else you like.
 While they're not as frequent an addition to sandwiches or salads, you may find you like the bit of sweetness or tartness that fruits add. Try bits of pear or apple, grapes, raisins, or any other fruit you think might taste good with your combination of fillings.
 Slivered almonds, toasted, chopped walnuts, sunflower seeds, or sesame seeds can add a pleasant crunch and a bit of elegance to your wrap.
 Watch the fat content if you're dieting. If you love mayonnaise, cheese, cream cheese, or ranch dressing, you can compromise and use a smaller portion. Otherwise, try to add flavor with less fatty foods. Try mustard, barbecue sauce, low fat sour cream, yogurt, kefir, light salad dressings, or oil and vinegar.
 Salt and pepper are common choices, but don't forget other fresh or dried herbs and spices, like basil, oregano, cinnamon, or chili powder.
 Place the fillings down the center strip, stopping short of the ends. Fold about three inches of each end in toward the middle. Then roll the rest of the tortilla over around the fillings. Roll snugly.
,, Lay down lettuce pieces, then the ham slices, then cheese over the ham. Lay a slice of tomato, pepper and cucumber on top of the cheese, all stacked. Sprinkle oregano, salt and pepper over the wrap. Add a little oil if wished. Wrap up and enjoy.

