 Physical activity helps reduce stress in the moment and prevent it in the long-term. Do your best to get at least 30 minutes of daily exercise. Try going to the gym, riding your bike, jogging around the neighborhood, taking a martial arts class, or doing yoga.Be sure to talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise routine, especially if you have any issues like an existing heart condition or joint problem.
Keep in mind that your exercise routine does not have to be strenuous or extreme. It is more important to exercise regularly.;
, Stress interrupts sleep and a lack of sleep causes stress. Break that vicious cycle and avoid further stress by getting your sleeping habits in check. It can be difficult to get enough sleep when you’re stressed, but there are steps you can take to ensure a full night’s sleep.Try to go to bed and wake up at the same times every day.
Swap your mobile device for a good book when you’re relaxing before bed.
Avoid eating a big meal before going to bed.
Try to reduce your exposure to bright lights an hour or two before bedtime.
Go outside once per day to help with your circadian clock.
Develop a bedtime routine to start training your brain when to get sleepy.
 Like exercise, meditation can alleviate stress in the moment and in the long run. Try to set aside about 20 minutes a day for meditation, quiet reflection, or mindful prayer.If you struggle with anxiety, then meditating in the morning may help to set the tone for a calm day. If you struggle with insomnia, then meditating before bed may help you to sleep.


Listen to calming music if it helps put you in a meditative state.
Try to meditate in a place that’s free of noise or other external distractions.
Wear comfortable clothing if possible.
Consider using a meditation app or looking up guided meditations on Youtube.
 Natural environments can put us at ease, encourage mindfulness, and reduce stress. Find a nearby beach, park, or hiking trail and take regular strolls. Spend time reading or just hanging out in your backyard., Journaling prevents and manages stress by helping you process and release emotions. Take about 20 minutes per day to write about your day, including things that might have been stressful. Take some time every few weeks to regularly read back your entries.