 A stand-up electric scooter will cost at least $1,000. The Uscooter costs $1,000, EcoReco’s M5 costs $1,250, and Go-Ped’s costs about $1,500. Scooters can be bought on Amazon or on each company's respective website., Make sure your scooter is fully charged ahead of time. By plugging it in once a week for a few hours, you should be good to go.Using the foot brake also recharges the UScooter. It has a regenerative braking system.
Be aware of your scooter’s limitations. The UScooter has a 21-mile range.
 Electric scooters can travel up to 18mph without any kicking required. Make sure to wear a helmet even if you already know how to ride a scooter., Your feet should both be planted on the deck and should not need to leave the deck unless you need to get off of the scooter. Place your feet next to each other, facing straight forward in the middle of the deck.When going at speed, you can angle your feet to the same side for a more aerodynamic stance.
 Press the throttle button with your ride thumb to speed up. Continue to press the throttle to go as fast as you desire., Press the brakes with your left thumb to gradually slow down. Use the foot brake at the back of your scooter as another way of slowing down. Simply press down on the brake by moving one foot towards the back of the scooter and keeping the other one planted in the front., Be sure to make gradual turns or you will fall! Slowly rotate your handlebars to the right or left, depending on which direction you wish to turn., Press your scooter's release button with your foot and fold the scooter in half until it clicks in place. Fold in the handlebars as well. Folding your scooter allows you to easily transport it and store it when you can’t ride it.The UScooter has a red release button near its deck.
 Make sure to stop at stop signs. Always yield to cars and pedestrians. Don’t go at full speed on crowded sidewalks.


Make sure it is legal to ride the scooter in your area. Laws are still being made about where you can and can’t ride an electric scooter. To find out the laws for your area, check with your local DMV.