 Recognition involves more than naming an employee of the month. Instead, you must also create a culture of gratitude.Begin by asking staff whether they feel appreciated. For example, you can create a survey on SurveyMonkey or ask them in individual meetings.


Also ask people what their idea of a fun event is. Look for patterns. For example, most of the fun events probably involve food.
Ask employees how they would prefer to be recognized. Publicly? Individually? Cash? Non-cash rewards?

, Time is valuable, so having an open-door policy tells your staff you value them. Make sure to set aside your work if they do come in to talk. It’s rude to be scrolling through your email as staff members are trying to talk with you.
 If they can’t think of anything, then just thank the colleague for being there.


Don’t make people sit in a conference room as they thank each other. This is too much of a chore. Instead, announce “Thank-You Thursdays” by email and leave it to employees to thank each other.
Remember to set the tone and thank each member of your staff. Your employees will follow your lead.
 Mentoring helps seasoned employees and new hires flourish. You give established employees a boost of confidence by trusting them enough to mentor.Mentoring also allows the mentor to recognize the mentee’s accomplishments, thus increasing the self-confidence of new hires.
 Encourage your staff to take classes outside of work and reimburse them for the tuition.


Also pay for employees to attend trainings or an annual conference.
You can also create a learning library. Buy books, audiobooks, and videos that employees can check out and take home. Also solicit their input about what material the library should stock., You can change the culture by having fun events for all staff members. This differs from individually recognizing people. Instead, you are giving a thank-you to the entire office, which is much more inclusive.For example, schedule something fun on Mondays to ease people back into work.You can buy coffee, donuts, and bagels for your staff to enjoy.
Schedule a dinner for the entire team once a month and pick up the tab. By getting to know your employees in a social setting, you can find out what motivates them as well as what triggers negative reactions.
Also think about shutting down the office early on a Friday afternoon so that everyone can start the weekend early.
 It can be very easy to overlook part-time employees as well as temps. You shouldn’t. They want to feel recognized just as much as your full-time staff.Include them in team dinners and praise them during staff meetings.
 Blame is the worst kind of recognition. Blame is also contagious, so your office can soon descend into a culture of back-stabbing.Actively discourage blaming in your staff meetings as well as in your individual interactions with staff.


For example, you can say, “It’s not really important who is to blame for the printer running out of ink. I’m just interested in making sure we have the problem fixed so it doesn’t happen again.”
Also own up to your own failures. This can create a sense of security in the office, as your team members realize they can fess up to mistakes without fear of punishment.
Of course, sometimes you need to know who is at fault so that you can help them learn how to avoid making the mistake. Call employees to your office and ask what happened. Stress that you aren’t going to punish anyone, you just realize training has fallen short somewhere.

