 Binding is the effect of pushing breasts back towards the body, creating the appearance of a flat chest. It's most often used by transgender men or nonbinary people, who may have to bind their breasts down, but it's also sometimes used by cisgender (non-transgender) men who have gynecomastia, or enlarged breasts due to excess fat and breast tissue.


Binding for extended periods of time will break down the breast tissue, creating "floppy" breasts, so it's not a good idea for cisgender women who just want their breasts to appear smaller. Minimizer bras are probably a better choice.;
, A common sight in the media is the transgender boy who has tape or an ACE bandage wrapped around his chest, trying to bind his chest down. Never use these at any cost. Tape is very bad for the skin, and bandages are designed to compress, so every time you take a breath, you'll be constricting your lungs and ribcage. Using either of these materials to bind can result in chest pain, torn skin, broken ribs, severe lung problems, or even a fatal punctured lung;additionally, they can also prevent a mastectomy (or surgical removal of the breasts) due to damaged ribs.


If you have absolutely no other choice than to use a bandage, do not wear it for more than an hour. Never use tape under any circumstances. Tape can rip your nipples off.
Some people may suggest binding with saran wrap (plastic wrap). Avoid doing this. Saran wrap isn't breathable, and will leave you swimming in your own sweat, as well as still having the same dangers that come with using a bandage.
 In a pinch, this technique can be good because it's cheap, easy, and does not constrict your chest very much. Get hold of a snug camisole with a built-in no-cup bra. There should be a band of elastic that rests right below your breasts. Put the camisole on backwards, shorten the straps, and position the elastic across the largest part of your breasts (most likely right across the nipples). Fold the bottom of the camisole up twice, and make sure the back and front are even. You can also put a second camisole on the same way for added flatness.


This method may not work if your chest is larger than a B-cup.
 A safe way that discreetly makes your chest appear flatter is wearing sports bras. Buy a bra or two. Try them on; make sure they're properly sized and that they are comfortable. You can also wear two, with the second one inside out. It sounds odd, but it works for some.


Unlike binders, sports bras can be used for as long as you want, as they don't provide much compression around your ribs. If you plan on going somewhere for a long time, consider wearing a sports bra rather than a binder.
 To truly bind your chest safely and properly, you should invest in a proper binder. They are safe and can be bought from the internet; they come in different sizes and can make you look and feel much better. Make sure your binder is the proper size, of a safe material, and never get one that's too small for you.


The average cost of a chest binder varies between websites, but well-known companies such as Underworks (US-based) and the Love Boat Shop (Taiwan-based, but has an English website) will range from thirty to sixty US dollars. If you can't afford one, try searching for sites that will donate new or used binders and apply to receive one, or check out clothing swap sites for trans people.
Do careful research on the binder you want to buy. Some binders are no better than bandages. There are plenty of reviews on websites and social media (Tumblr is a good source for this due to its large community of transgender and nonbinary members). If in doubt, stick to a more well-known company, even if it costs more.
 There are a few of those "unwritten rules" to wearing a binder. There are a few most commonly agreed on things that you should never do while wearing a binder:


Never exercise or engage in sexual activity with your binder on. These activities often cause you to breathe more heavily than normal. However, wearing a binder during these will restrict your breathing, and may cause you to pass out.
Avoid wearing your binder for more than 8 to 10 hours. If you're in doubt about which one, stick with 8 hours maximum. Remember, some people's bodies can handle more than others. If you start to feel pain, discomfort in the chest, or like you can't breathe, take off your binder at the nearest opportunity. If you're out in public, go into the restroom and take it off there.
Ease into wearing your binder. Work up to binding for eight hours; don't start with that right away.
Don't sleep with your binder on. Because your breathing slows when you're asleep, and most people sleep for more than 8 hours, sleeping in a binder is not a good idea and should be avoided. If you do accidentally fall asleep with your binder on, take it off when you wake up and refrain from using it for the rest of the day.

Never double-bind. Double-binding is the practice of wearing two binders at the same time. However, double-binding can have the same effect of wearing a binder that's too small, or a bandage; it can result in minor injury, rib breakage, or so forth. If your binder doesn't do a good job on its own, you may want to just try a different brand or type of binder.
 Regardless of what you're using to bind your chest down, it's still important to take proper care of it. Sports bras can easily go through the normal wash cycle, but binders are a little more complicated; they often need to be washed in cold water, then hung out to air-dry. Check the website of where you purchased the binder to find out if there are any specific washing instructions.


If you only have one binder, you may not want to wash it every day, which is fine. Just make sure that your binder doesn't smell. Use deodorant, and consider wearing a thin shirt under your binder to keep it from smelling so much. Make sure that the shirt is of a breathable material - you don't want to be sweating.
If you no longer need an old binder, whether because you grew out of it or because you got top surgery or decided to permanently stop binding, donate it or offer it on a clothing swap site if it still has some life left in it. What may no longer fit you could be perfect for another trans or nonbinary person. There are plenty of programs that you could donate your old binder to and have it shipped out to someone who needs it. Wash it before you send it, though!

