 Pour 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of almond oil into a dark-colored glass bottle. Add 1 to 2 drops of one of the essential oils listed below based on your need. Close the bottle, then shake it to mix the oil blend. Apply a few drops of the blend to a freshly-washed face, then store the bottle in a cool, dry, dark place.Aging skin: chamomile, clary sage, frankincense, geranium, helichrysum, myrrh, palmarosa, rose, or sandalwood
Dry skin: chamomile, geranium, helichrysum, lavender, myrrh, palmarosa, rose, or sandalwood
Sensitive: chamomile, lavender, geranium, or palmarosa

, Combine the ingredients listed below in a glass jar, preferably a dark one. Apply a few drops of the oil to your face every night after you have finished washing it. Store the bottle in a cool, dry, dark place.2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) sweet almond oil
4 drops of carrot seed essential oil
4 drops of sandalwood essential oil
4 drops of rose or lavender essential oil

, Pour the ingredients listed below into a 2-ounce (60-milliliter) glass bottle, preferably a dark one. Close the bottle, then shake it to mix everything together. Apply a few drops to your face in the morning and/or evening.2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) rosehip seed oil
2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) sweet almond oil
10 drops cypress essential oil
10 drops geranium essential oil
7 drops frankincense essential Oil

, Place the ingredients listed below into a glass jar. Set the jar into a pot filled with 3 to 4 inches (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) of boiling water. Let the ingredients melt, then stir them together. Pour the mixture into a 4-ounce (120-milliliter) glass jar. Let it sit at room temperature until it hardens, then put the lid on. Apply the cream to your face after washing it every morning and/or evening. Store the jar in a cool, dry place.¼ cup (60 milliliters) almond oil
2 tablespoons (26 grams) coconut oil
2 tablespoons (28 grams) beeswax
½ teaspoon vitamin E oil
1 tablespoon (15 grams) shea butter

, Combine all of the ingredients in a glass bottle--a dark-colored one would be the best. Massage a few drops of the oil onto your body in the evening before going to bed. Store the bottle in a cool, dry, dark place for up to three months.2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) rosehip oil
1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) almond oil
6 drops frankincense essential oil
6 drops rose essential oil
4 drops geranium essential oil
2 drops myrrh essential oil

