 Once you start to get over the initial pain of rejection, it's time to start moving on. However, you can't do this if you don't believe you're worth it! Start to reaffirm yourself mentally. You can use whatever positive thoughts you want, but the following three work well: You are beautiful/handsome (whichever you prefer). You are intelligent. Your crush is foolish for not accepting you.


Never feel like you're weak or helpless without this person. Admire your independence. Putting your former crush on a pedestal diminishes yourself.
 Asking someone out and getting a "no" is bad enough, but when your crush is actually rude back to you, the embarrassment can be almost unbearable. The shame you may feel will gradually start to fade — this will go faster for some people than for others. Don't continue to focus on your negative feelings from the past, replaying them over and over again in your head. Instead, let them go and pursue new, positive emotions instead.


Remember that you can never change the past. This means that it's illogical to worry about it. Why worry about what you can't change?

, Healthy, mature people don't make fun of the people who have crushes on them after they confess the way they feel. They don't tease them afterward. If your crush did this to you, there is one silver lining: you now know that your crush is an immature, insecure person. It should feel good to know that the person you've been worrying about is definitely at fault.
 Over time, you should start to feel better. You should gradually start letting go of the shame and embarrassment from your experience and start focusing more on your own value. However, if your old crush works his or her way back into your life, this person can throw you off the path to recovery. If you can help it, you don't want to talk to him or her before you're 100% better. If s/he tries to get back into your good graces, don't be afraid to ask for some space.


If your former crush won't get the message, be direct. It's OK to say, "I don't want to talk to you for a while. Leave me alone."

, Your end goal is for the person who once caused you so much embarrassment and anxiety to become basically unimportant to you. This will take lots of time and patience, but if you follow the instructions above, you should gradually show signs of improvement. Eventually, you will probably find it funny that you once cared so much about this person.


When you're ready to leave your former crush behind for good, start looking for someone who respects you and cares for you, rather than someone who will belittle you for the way you feel. Remember: happiness is the best revenge.

