 If you're not sure if spotting is the hobby for you, check out a book at your local library before investing in purchasing one.;
,






For the casual spottee/person waiting for a flight at the airport: Since you probably didn't plan on having your flight delayed and you probably don't have a camera in your carry on, you are pretty much confined to observing, which is just fine.
 Since a good portion of the times you get a good look at aircraft, they are flying overhead, you may only have a few moments to lock vital information about the aircraft into your brain.
 Look for the type of engines. Decide between the following:


Jets; or
Propeller driven
Gliders are also a possibility (no engines, no propellers).
 These are as follows:

Wing mounted - Most jets and propeller driven aircraft have their engines wing mounted.
Fuselage mounted - The engines are attached to the fuselage at the back of the plane.
Nose mounted - The engines are attached to the fuselage, inside the nose of the aircraft. This is most common on single engine light aircraft.
Tail mounted - Not to be confused with fuselage mounted engines, tail mounted engines are actually in the tail.
Combination - Some aircraft such as the DC-10 and L-1011 have a combination. They have two-wing mounted engines and one tail mounted.
 Look at the position of the wings (if you are looking at an airliner and can't decide if the wings are low or mid, mid is your best bet).


High - In this configuration the wings are attached to the top of the fuselage.
Mid - Most commercial airplanes have this orientation. The wings appear to sprout just above the bottom of the fuselage.
Low - This is mostly found on small general aviation planes. The wings are connected to the fuselage at the base of the fuselage.
 The tailplane is the horizontal piece that sticks out of the tail.


High - Connects at the very top of the tail (the part that sticks straight up at the back of the plane).
Mid - In the middle of the tail.
Low - At the point where the tail connects to the fuselage.

