 Incorporate details that they enjoy (Favourite colours, places, activities, patterns, etc.) into the room.;
, Make sure to include:


A Bed






A Dresser or Wardrobe
A Desk with a Matching Chair
A Bookshelf
A Mirror
Any Other Mandatory Furniture Pieces You Need.(Guitar stand, a rocking chair, etc.)

, For example, if your son/daughter has an old toy they never play with, ASK THEM IF IT IS OKAY to give to charity. If they say yes, put it in a cardboard box labeled "For Charity". If they say no, keep it. You do not want to rid them of a favourite object.
 Make sure it is small enough to fit in their bedroom. Stereotyped styles are white-painted wood for girls, darker-natural wood for boys. You do not have to stick to those styles, but the furniture showroom probably will have it organized that way.
 This is the time a basement or storage place comes in handy. Clean this way:


Remove all precious items first, like instruments, heirlooms, or stuffed animals.






Put pens, pencils, markers, crayons, hair accessories and brushes, and other small items in labeled plastic bags.
Put your clothes, shoes, socks, and other things your child wears in wardrobe boxes that you should put in the basement.
Take books, notepads, paper, notebooks, and other paper items to the basement or storage room.
Bring toys, video games, DVDs, CDs, and other non-electronic entertainment items to your storage area.
Turn off and unplug electronics and lighting and put them in your storage place.
Bring your furniture to your storage place.
 Vacuum and/or mop the floors, wash the windows, dust the ceiling fan; Do everything to get that old room clean.
 Make sure to choose a color that your child will grow with, because their tastes WILL change. Good colors for each gender can be found in the "Tips" section of this article.
 Wood has always been popular, but carpet can be good if your child is clumsy. See "Tips" for more information.
 Choose white, a timeless classic, for the ceiling fan paint, and a gender neutral light cover.
 Arrange the things you bought like in the floor plan. If you discover that it doesn't work, try another format.
 Put up the blinds and curtains (You will need both!), add the bedding, bring in some lamps that match the room, add some style to the bland, boring, teen-cave.
 If you redid the closet, place clothes and other associated items into their spots. Add books to the bookshelf. Place treasured toys and stuffed animals in discreet, opaque bins in the bookshelf. Put all of the stuff back.
