 One easy way to teach your community about human trafficking, which will in turn help combat its causes and effects, is to incorporate information into your conferences, trainings, manuals, and other relevant materials.For example, the American Bar Association has created best practices for businesses, training for lawyers and members of the law enforcement community, and has boosted awareness for pro bono opportunities to ensure victims are well taken care of., Meet with, or write, your government representatives to discuss human trafficking. Consider contacting everyone at the local, state, and federal level. Let them know that you care about human trafficking in your community. Furthermore, ask what they are doing to address human trafficking. Request the introduction of bills, discussions in committees, a particular vote on a particular bill, and other means of taking action., Make people in your community aware of human trafficking by legally distributing trafficking materials in public spaces.For example, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services offers newsletters, campaign materials, and contact information that you can use and distribute to help raise awareness.In addition, the Department of Homeland Security has launched the Blue Campaign, which strives to protect the victims of human trafficking and bring those responsible to justice.The Blue Campaign offers a resources page where you can find media printouts, videos, and campaign materials that you can print and distribute., Try to get a group of concerned citizens together to watch a recent documentary on human trafficking. If you cannot find a documentary or do not have access to one, watch training videos and other materials offered online. After you watch the videos, discuss them and open up a dialogue. See how people might feel about human trafficking and how you might be able to get more people involved with the fight against it., A lot of school curriculums fail to recognize and address current issues facing the world. Even if schools do address some of these current issues, human trafficking is often left of the list. Encourage your school to incorporate the issue into their curriculum.Some organizations, for example Frederick Douglas Family Initiatives, actually has a curriculum teachers can incorporate directly into the school day.Take this knowledge to your local schools and ask them to introduce the information to their teachers and students.


In addition to teaching children about human trafficking, talk with parents, teachers, and administrators about the risks of human trafficking on school-aged children. Bring materials issued by the U.S. Department of Education to show them., You can do something as simple as setting up alerts on your phone and computer to receive up-to-date news on human trafficking.For example, you can set up a Google Alert about human trafficking. After the alert is set up, you will receive notifications whenever a news article arises that concerns human trafficking., Write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper discussing the issue of human trafficking in your community.This can help bring awareness to another group of individuals that may not get online or walk around public spaces where you might be handing out resources.
 The internet allows you to start a petition and circulate it to millions of people instantly. Using sites like change.org, you can create your own petition calling for a specific action to be taken on human trafficking (i.e., starting task forces, creating victim hotlines).Get online and create one of these petitions. Once you do, send the link to everyone you know and ask them to sign it. If your petition gains enough traction and signatures, community members might be forced to listen to your concerns., If you are a business, refuse to allow traffickers to use you. In addition, provide internships, job/skills training, and hire victims of trafficking to help them get on their feet. If you are a medical provider, extend low-cost or free medical services to victims of trafficking. If you are an attorney, offer pro bono services to victims and anti-trafficking organizations., Encourage companies to get rid of forced labor by investigating and eliminating trafficking within their supply chains. Ask that companies publish their findings and what they are doing to fight traffickers.Some websites, for example chainstorereaction.com, offer pre-written letters that you can send for free to companies of your choice. These letters discuss human trafficking and what companies can do to combat it.The U.S. Department of Labor even keeps a list of goods that have been produced using forced labor.Check this list often and refuse to buy anything produced through forced labor.
You can also take a survey to find out about your "slavery footprint." Using the website and taking the quiz can help you discover your unintended connection to human trafficking.