 If you are considering asking your friend to prom, especially if you have feelings for them, you might want to think before you speak. Consider all of the reasons why you want to ask them and write them down. This will help you be better able to ask them with confidence when you see them.;
, Call or text your friend and let them know that you want to talk to them about something. Assure them that it is nothing serious. Try to meet somewhere that is quiet like a park, coffee shop, or even one of your houses.


If you are asking them to prom because you like them as more than a friend, you may want to do so outside of school so that you have more time to talk.
You can also talk on the phone, if you wish.
 Once you have met up, be very honest as genuine with them. Tell them why you want to go to prom together and present all of the pros to them. You might want to find out if they have already said they would go with someone else, too.If you are asking strictly as friends, you might say “We have so much fun and I want us to go to prom together so we can really have a good time. What do you think?”
If you are interested in them as more than friends, you can say “Lately, I’ve been thinking that I might like you as a bit more than a friend. And I wouldn’t want to go to prom with anyone but you. Will you be my date?”

, After you have spoken your piece, it is now time to hear them out. Perhaps they already have a date and don’t want to back out on them. Maybe they were not planning to go to prom or had not considered going with you and will need some time to think. They might also be completely on board with the idea and be ecstatic about going with you.


Whatever their reaction, listen to them and accept their answer., Your friend might not be able to give you an answer on the spot and that is okay. Don’t pressure them to give you an answer immediately, but tell them that you’ll give them a few days to think about it. Don’t bring it up to them again until after that time has passed., Once your friend gives you an answer, accept it without judgement. Don’t try to change their mind if they say no. If they say yes, enjoy the moment and begin making preparations for the big day.


If they say no, begin thinking of others to ask or simply go alone or with other friends.

