 Don't pick somewhere that echoes or is closed in. Try out in the open field with lots of dirt mounds and trees to hide behind. Rural and outdoorsy areas are fantastic, as you want as many places to hide as possible. A large backyard with lots of obstacles will also work.;
, Give each team time to prepare battle plans before the war begins. Successful teams make plans together.

Get a good set of players. 10 on 10 is great, but as long as you have at least one person to fight, you'll have fun. A proper team includes 7-8 players.
 If somebody is less suited to running around, make him or her a sniper. Try to include everybody and give everybody a suitable role. If you have new people, just make them shadow your best fighters. Also, arrange the formation of the players that are playing with you.


Have snipers on either side of the field, a machine gun in the front and a machine gun in the back.
 Make some targets and practice shooting at least an hour a day. Get some extra ammo and get your team mates to shoot at you so you can practice hearing darts and dodging. Become a Nerf ninja! Practice cool moves like double duck somersault, cartwheels or back flips.you can also practice a blitzkrieg strategy or winning by intense rushing

, See the terrain, and if possible, set some traps for enemy; it's not cheating. If, however, you've been invited to a Nerf-Out, be sure to play by the rules set by the person in charge.
 Keep your best gun as the one you're holding, but carry a secondary weapon, and even a spare, if you have a shoulder or back strap for it. Remember, guns are not everything, if you are good at Nerf and have good skill you will win with any gun.


A good primary is the Nerf Stryfe with a Rampage clip in it. A good secondary would be the Strongarm. Try making a holster for a Retaliator or Hammershot . If you are not good at sniping, but are good on offense and strong, consider using a Havok Fire machine gun. they are not quiet, but they are quick and accurate, easily helping you to finish off anyone trying to do away with you.
 Have the leader in front, then the bombers and foot-soldiers. Make sure your newbies are staying in a safe position, and they know what they're doing.

Always have defense in case of an early attack.
 Carry lots of ammo, and make reloading as easy as possible. If you have a bandolier, use it.


If you are low on ammo, use it wisely. Only shoot if you are absolutely positive you won't miss.
If you need to reload, get behind cover before reloading your weapon.
 If you want, you can shoot the hostage before you deliver the note, however some people may see that as cheating.



Wear quiet shoes and be silent. Sneak up on enemies and grab them. You can try using them as a body shield if you want, or just keep them trapped, and use their weapons.
 Hide in corners if an enemy comes and wait for them to get close, and then shoot. If your gun is too long and they're too close, rifle butt. In the game you're supposed to act like your in pain for a minute, so take this opportunity to shoot your enemy and pick up your darts when you're done.


Have a camo shirt or blanket to cover yourself and snipe the opponents.
Beware of others hiding around a corner. You don't want to get shot going around a corner. Use a tactical entry into any rooms.
 Dropping your gun is a bad idea, as the enemy can pick it up or you could be without an offense.You could use your jammed gun for a shield or you could fake a shot and run away.
, Run if you can't hold your ground. It's better to run away and come back with reinforcements than to get killed.


If you are surrounded, focus on a single side and make an escape. You have to be very careful, so that you don't get shot.
 Make it large but secure.


Have an ammo dump a your fort. Make sure you and your teammates have ammo at all times.
 If you see a dart coming, use your gun to shield it. If you shield successfully, they'll need to reload, so shoot now while they're weak. If you're on the other side of this, and your opponent uses their gun as a shield, hide before reloading, and be prepared for them to shoot quickly.
 To take down machine guns, come at them from behind. Or you could possibly take the two people with the biggest guns with you so you have protection.


Use a Nerf grenade called Lanard Scatter Blast Foam Dart Grenade. This is a great way to clear up a fort.
 This is called being a double agent; however, some people may see this as cheating.


If possible, steal valuable weapons from enemy base if you are under attack. Steal ALL if you think you can get away with it, and make it back to your base without dying.
,

If you need a Nerf shield, there is a shield in the N-Force series, and one comes with the Stampede.







