 Buying sixteen shirts and twelve pairs of jeans won't make any great-looking outfits. In fact, buying more accessories leads to making more impressive outfits, so remember to keep an eye out for this.;
, Remember to not go over the set budget. This will give you great financial skills for the future. Make sure to "okay" this said budget with your parents/guardians. Make sure it is not too low, though.
 This will allow you to get a taste of other people's styles, but also stick with yours. And a true friend will tell you if you look fantastic or not.
 Great brands are American Eagle, Aeropostale, Abercrombie and Fitch, etc. Make sure these shirts fit your body shape, and make you look good. Make sure to enforce your favorite styles in these shirts. V-Necks and Scoop Necks are great suggestions!

, Boot-cut or skinny - jeans look great with everything! Boot-cut looks great with stylish flats and skinny looks great with casual tennis shoes and posh boots. Try to lean towards light colors in boot cut jeans and dark colors in skinny jeans, unless they are tapered.
 I recommend two jean skirts, one dark and one light. They look amazing when layered, and boys often like it when girls show a little bit of a feminine side.
 These are to go with your skirts. Make sure the legging colors are solid, as they make you look more mature, and definitely make sure they match your skirts. They should still stand out, so don't wear white on white or black on black.
 Colorful Converse look amazing with skinny jeans! High-Top or Low-Top, black or blue, they all look amazing and are great for running. Also, stylish boots look good with skinny jeans! I recommend silver or black flats with boot-cut jeans, skirts, and leggings. Shoes make the outfit, as they say, so make sure they match!

, This is the most important part. Get some beautiful headbands or flower clips for your hair. Buy some eye-stopping jewelry too; Claire's is a great place for cheap but nice-looking jewelry. Dress scarves, earth-colored belts, nice sweaters/jackets, and magnificent hats look good too! You may want to buy a small make-up bag too, which is referred to the next step.
 Unnoticeable Make-Up makes you look better, and can go unnoticed for a whole day! Get some moisturizing chapstick (make sure you buy it from a good brand). Buy some shiny, nontoxic lip gloss in light shade. Apply thoroughly and lightly, and make sure you apply after the chapstick. Finally, spray some good-smelling, mature perfume over you, but make sure it is light and not excessive! You want yourself to smell good, not intoxicating!

, As you grow, hygiene becomes more important. No one wants to be around or likes a sweaty, bad-smelling kid. If you want to attract your crush, you have to have good hygiene. Buy some gentle soap for you showers, as you should take every day, and some antiperspirant deodorant, as you should apply every day.
 Moisturizing lotion make your skin look soft and feel soft...and feel good. Facial cleanser is good too, because it prevents acne and other skin blemishes. Also, since you should brush your teeth every day, you should get whitening toothpaste and refreshing mouthwash.
 If you go to school thinking, "What will my friends think?" then that's completely wrong. You have to believe in yourself. If you think it looks good, then it looks good. Total friends will never make fun of your clothes. If you can't shake it, shop for some confidence.

