 Try not to belong to a label, instead, try meeting a lot of different people, and hang out with them all.;
, Try out different looks that Davey favors, such as wearing:



Nail Polish in a variety of colors. Davey favors a pretty teal green color.
Different dark lipsticks, but nothing glossy

Eyeshadow, especially glittery or dark varieties

, You could also try a Monroe piercing, since Davey had one for a while. Use Anatometal jewelry.
 Besides the average stubble of a few days without a shave, Davey never has much facial hair.
 Davey tried to overly waxed look for some time, but has since left them more natural.
 Also, remember that Davey does not like those who copy his tattoos. Make sure you won't regret your ink later in life.
 Davey is an avid reader.
 However, do this only if you believe in it, and do not do it just for Davey. Do your research, and don't be a "vacationer" vegan or vegetarian. If you're not ready to take the plunge and give up meat, try one of Davey's favorites: Vegan cupcakes.
 Straight Edge is for life though, and is a commitment not to be taken lightly.
 In his formative years he used Manic Panic to dye his hair various colors, or had it dyed blonde, but more recently it has been either dyed black or left it's natural brown color with blonde bits. Some styles Davey has worn are:


Slightly longer than shoulder-length
Gelled back
Cut short and gelled up
A devil lock
His hair all grown out on the right side of his head down to his shoulder and short on the left side of his head and short in the back.
The above style with the longer side cut to his ear

, Just be happy with yourself and your life.
 Davey loves going to new shows. If you have read AFI's blog on Myspace, the entries usually mention something about having seen a movie.
 It may start out as punk, but do what you like best. Davey enjoys many kinds of music. Some artists he enjoys are Queen, Morrisey, The Cure, The Misfits, and Depeche Mode.
 Both Davey and AFI guitarist Jade Puget are in the Blaqk Audio side project.
 Your lyrics and music is one aspect of yourself, but Davey himself has said that he is a very optimistic person.
 Davey is very talented, and has his own style. Find your own way to sing, and you to could become a chart-topper.

