 If bullies will not back down, your last resort is to defend them physically. Make sure there is no other way out of the situation before resorting to physical violence.



Learn karate or other martial arts. Consider joining a dojo with friends so you can learn to defend others.
Take a self-defense class. While you don’t want to hurt someone, it’s important to be able to defend your friends. Try to learn the basics of self-defense to protect them.
Do muscle building exercises. Be strong enough that if someone tries to hit you that you are strong enough to block them.
Stay light on your feet. Make sure you are nimble enough to get out of any bad situation as quickly as possible.
Be aware of your surroundings. Know if the bully has other friends around and if you will be outnumbered.
 Online bullying is different than in-person bullying and requires different tactics. Make sure to tell others to keep their personal information, including posts and photos, private. They should not share so much online that can be used against them. Don't give out personal information. Tell others to keep information like address, phone number, and other important information (social security number, etc) out of online environments.
If you are uncertain what others should share, check with your parents, teacher, or a trusted adult first.
Before your friends post any photos on Facebook, tell them verify with their parents if it’s a good idea or not.
Be careful of what you say or put on your profile. You never know who could see and read it.
 Protecting others does not mean becoming a bully yourself. Be careful to not start bullying a bully when you try to protect others. Think about if you feel better when you verbally or physically defend others. If you get pleasure out of it, becoming a bully may be a problem.
Consider if you use your size, especially if you are bigger, to intimate others. Make sure you are approaching others without being physically imposing.
Reflect on how others react to you. If they seem scared or nervous around you, you may be bullying them without realizing it.

