 The Society on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment has designed a set of PSEs, exercises specific to scoliosis that should be performed with a physiotherapist. Talk to your doctor about referral to a treatment specialist. Attend physiotherapy at least 2-4 times per week for best results.Working with a professional is recommended so that you can learn the best exercises specific to your exact spinal curve.
 Exercises have been designed to improve posture, reduce pain, and increase flexibility for those with scoliosis – though these have not been scientifically proven to improve the curve of your spine. However, curve-specific exercises may help improve the shape of your spine by retraining your brain to know what is “correct” posture. Be sure you’re aware of what your spinal curvature is, and try these curve-specific exercises:One sided (C-shaped) thoracic curve: Sit up tall with your spine as straight as possible. Reach in an upward diagonal direction, slightly forward from midline. Hold the posture for as long as you can.

Right-thoracic, left-lumbar S-shaped curve: Lie on your back on a flat surface. Place your right hand on your right lateral chest, basically over the sides of your right ribs. Place your left hand on the left side of your pelvis. Leave your hands where they are and do not flex your spine, and try to bring your hands closer together by squeezing your abdominal muscles. Try to have your upper body shift to the left and your lower body shift to the right, just using your abs.

For left-thoracic, right-lumbar curve, switch the hand positions.
 The side plank exercise has been shown to improve spinal curvature for some people. Start out by doing this exercise every day for 10-20 seconds for the first week. Then hold the pose for as long as you can on a daily basis. Only do this exercise on the weaker, convex side of your spine.Turn onto your weaker side with your legs out straight and stacked one on top of the other, and feet and hips on the ground. Put your elbow right underneath your shoulder to prop up your body. Align your head with your spine to make a straight line between your head and your feet. Hold this position.
 Yoga practice can help to stretch the tight muscles around your spine to improve pain, and strengthen your back muscles.Do Downward Dog and hold it for as long as you can, which can be an especially effective posture for scoliosis.Try to do a little bit of yoga stretches on a daily basis.
 People with scoliosis, or those who have been treated for it in the past, can still participate in many types of physical activity including sports and regular gym exercises. Find an exercise routine that works for you and stick to it. It is good for your overall health, and scoliosis should not prevent you from participating.If you are particularly worried about a certain type of exercise, or if you experience pain or other complications after exercise, contact your doctor.

