 One subtle, yet powerful, way for you to communicate your devotion with a loved one is to talk about the future. Assure your loved one, in a quiet way, that you are moving toward a shared future together, and that you’ll always be there for him or her.Make plans for a future vacation you can save up for.
Talk about what you will do after a big life change (after we finish school, after the kids go to college, after I get this promotion, etc.)

, You can simultaneously communicate your devotion and fortify it within yourself by expressing your gratitude on a regular basis. Aim to tell your loved one something you are grateful for (something about them, or something they have done) each and every day., An important component of being devoted to someone involves allowing yourself to be vulnerable. It means disclosing your thoughts, feelings, and emotions. It means allowing your loved ones to witness your weaknesses as well as your strengths.Talk about your fears.
If something is causing you anxiety, share that with your loved ones.
Discuss your dreams and wishes for the future.
 Acts of devotion, by their very nature, work to diminish the ego and place emphasis on the needs of others. Encourage this process by working to be humble. This will make it easier for you to empathize with your loved ones.Work on being humble by first, recognizing your limitations. Understand that you are not the best at everything.
Don’t be afraid to make mistakes, and admit when you have made them.
Finally, don’t take the credit when it is not due. Instead, thank and credit others who deserve it.
 Another good way to show your devotion to the people you love is to practice patience and understanding. When someone you love does something to make you upset or angry (which they inevitably will), stop and take a few deep breaths and then listen with a goal of understanding what your loved one is trying to communicate.Don't try to respond or come up with a response to your loved one while he or she is sharing. Just listen with the goal of understanding what your loved one is saying.
If something is unclear, then clarify by saying something like, "I think I understand what you are saying, but I want to make sure. What you're saying is ___?"

