 Use a pair of scissors to cut several circles from red crepe paper. Then layer the circles loosely on top of one another.


You can also opt to cut a more traditional flower shape.You can fold and crease the petals to give them more texture and dimension if you like.;
, One option for creating the center of your flower is to use small black beads that resemble seeds.


To do this, thread approximately 20 black beads onto a piece of flexible craft wire, making sure the wire is bent at one end to prevent the beads from slipping off. Then twist the beaded wire into a tight spiral shape.
Leave enough excess wire to create a stem for your poppy and then poke the bare end through the center of your petals, securing it with a dab of glue.
If you want the center of your flower to be a bit wider, you can add a small black piece of paper between the petals and the beads.
 If you don't have beads on hand, you also have many options for creating the center out of paper.


The easiest option is to simply cut a small circle from black or green construction paper, decorating it with paint, beads, or sequins if you like.
If you want a more elaborate design, try cutting a long, thing strip of green construction paper and wrapping it into a tight coil, securing it with glue so it doesn't come apart. Then wrap a wider piece of black paper around the green coil, making sure the two pieces are flush at one end. Secure this with glue as well, and then use a pair of scissors to cut vertical slits in the black paper, creating a fringe. You can use white paint to embellish the ends of the fringe if you like., In order to finish assembling your paper poppy, you must add (or complete) your stem.


If you used wire to attach the center of your flower, you will already have a stem, but it will be bare wire. To dress it up a bit, wrap green crepe paper tightly around it, attaching it with craft glue. You can also create crepe paper leaves on your stem if you like.
If your flower does not have a stem yet, you can attach a green pipe cleaner or stem wire for a stem. Depending on how sturdily you need your stem to be attached to your flower, you can opt to glue it to the back of the flower or poke a small hole in the center of the flower, wrapping the pipe cleaner through and gluing the center of the flower on top of the hole.