 If someone is posting deliberately offensive material, try to avoid responding. The person may be looking for an argument. By telling them off, you are not changing their mind but rather feeding their desire for attention.For example, if someone says, “Everyone who supports this team is an idiot,” you may want to ignore it and move on.
If you see someone posting hate speech, the best thing you can do is not engage them personally. Report them to the website. If they are threatening violence, call the police.
 If the person reacts with insults or threats of violence after you have already started a debate, stop talking to them. There is probably little you can do to change their mind, and the conversation may only continue to frustrate you., If the other person starts harassing your profile, private messages, or other friends, you can block them. This will prevent you from seeing their new posts, and it will stop them from being able to contact you.


On Facebook, go to the downward arrow symbol on the upper right corner of the page. On the left toolbar, click “Blocking.” Put the person’s name or email in the box, and click “Block.” You can also go to their profile. Click the “…” button that appears over their cover photo, and select “Block.”
On Twitter, go to the person's tweet, and press the “…” button. Select “Block.” Or you can visit their profile. Click the gear icon, and click “Block.”
On Instagram, visit their profile, and click the “…” button. Tap “Block User.”
If you want to stop people from commenting on your YouTube videos, go to their profile, and click the “About” tab. Press the flag button before hitting “Block User.”

, If the other person is harassing you, posting graphic content, or threatening violence, you should report their post to the website instead of responding directly to them. The website moderators can remove the post and possibly ban the abuser..


Nudity, hate speech, and violence can all be reported to Facebook. To do this, click “Report Post” on the photo, status update, or comment.
On Twitter, pornography, violence, threats, harassment, and hate speech are all banned. To report someone, click on the “…” button, and hit “Report.” Select from the options the type of banned behavior it is. For example, you might select, “It’s abusive or harmful”
On Instagram, click the “…” next to the post you want to report. Tap “Report,” and follow the instructions.
To report abusive content on Snapchat, visit their support website, and click “Report a Safety Concern.” Follow the instructions to report the post.

