 They might have a number of reasons why they don’t want to have a video game, so you’ll need to be prepared to refute all of their arguments. Make a thorough list of all the reasons you can think of that they would say no to your request. Draw from previous arguments they may have made about video games to help flesh out your list. Some example might be:


Too violent
Too expensive
You didn’t play with the last game they bought you
You’re not doing well enough in school to get a new video game
You spend too much time playing video games;
, When you’re in the heat of the moment during a conversation with your parents, you might not be able to think as quickly or as clearly as you’d like. It’s always best to plan your points ahead of time. Write down all of your refutations of your parents objections and commit them to memory, so you’ll remember them when you need them.


Point out that there’s research that suggests that playing action-oriented video games actually improves people’s ability to process information quickly.Point out that interacting with technology is an important part of life that’s actually necessary for employment these days.,

The order in which you present the points of your argument is very important, so you should place them in the best possible order in an outline before you talk to your parents. Because they will likely say “no” at first, you want to put the most important parts of your argument at the beginning. End your argument with the most positive points of your argument, including promises for how you will earn this privilege.

Some examples of early/major points might be: a demonstration that you understand the difference between violence in video games and in real life; promising to get a part-time job to help pay for the game; promising to adhere to a strict schedule so that you don’t spend too much time playing the game; promising to raise your grades
Some examples of closing/minor points might be: promising to give the game up if you fail to meet any of the more important terms of the agreement, such as letting your grades slip; promising to do extra chores around the house for a month or two as added incentive; etc.
 Speaking from notes allows you to make more eye contact with your audience, which makes them trust and believe more in you. It also makes you look like you know your argument inside and out, and that you’re speaking from conviction. However, speaking from notes is a difficult task to master, so if you’re more comfortable, just write out your argument like an essay for school. You can read from it when you talk to your parents.


Speaking notes should outline your argument as concisely as possible, without too much detail. You don’t want to look like you’re reading your whole argument; you want just enough detail to spark your memory so you can explain the point in your own words.Use symbols or visual clues on your outline to help jog your memory more easily and quickly than words. For example, you might put words that you want to speak slowly, with great emphasis, in bold. You might leave a blank line or a line of asterisks where you want to take a pause for emphasis.
 You want to be as familiar with your points as you possibly can be before talking to your parents. Present your argument from your notes or speech where your parents can’t hear you.


Deliver your presentation into a mirror so you can practice making eye contact with your reflection.
 Don’t drop your request on them out of the blue. Instead, bring up the game without asking them for it for a week or so. Tell them, in casual conversation, that you tried out this new game at a friends house, and that it was so much fun! They’ll probably know that you’re buttering them up for your actual request, but at least they won’t be surprised when you ask them.
 Actually, they’ll probably be able to tell that you’re trying to slide a request in under the radar, and get mad at you for being sneaky. Find a time when your parents are relaxed and in a good mood, and can focus on talking with you for a few minutes.
 When it comes to decisions like this, both parents are going to have to agree on the purchase. Even if one parent is more likely to say yes if you approach them alone at first, he or she will still have to run it by the other parent before buying the game. It’s better to just talk to both of your parents at once, like ripping off a bandaid.
 Ask them ahead of time to let you give your full presentation without any interruptions. Show them the speech or presentation notes you’ve prepared for this discussion; hopefully, they’ll be so impressed, they’ll start softening their position on the video game issue before you even begin your argument!


If you don’t feel comfortable speaking from notes, feel free to type out a full speech and read it directly off the page.
 When making an argument, you have to make sure that your parents can hear and understand you! Speak loudly, and make as much eye contact with your parents as you can without losing your place in your presentation.
 The last thing you want to do is undo all your hard work and preparation by sounding rude or childish. Being polite and respectful throughout demonstrates to your parents that you’re taking the discussion seriously, and that you’re mature enough to have your request granted.


If your parents say no at first, don’t immediately lose your temper. The argument’s not lost yet! Calmly consider any reasons they may give you for their refusal, and do your best to offer solutions to their concerns.
 Even after all your hard work, your parents might still say no. If that’s the case, you should drop the issue after exhausting the argument. Nagging them will only irritate your parents and make them less likely to grant the next request you make.

