 Be confident. Confidence radiates and attracts others. People like it and they also like originality and variety. So be yourself, and don't act like someone you're not. It's okay to be different because if everyone were the same, how boring would that be? Very.;
, Designer brands would help. Be creative but don't go crazy. If you don't feel like spending a lot of money on clothes, then just dress nice. If you're wearing the best brands, it can still look bad if they're not matching and worn in good taste. Don't change your style. Enhance it.
 Mascara's nice too but don't go overboard. Less is always more with makeup. Don't cover yourself up- you want a fresh, clean, look.
 If your hair gets frizzy, then use hairspray. Be careful when using heating irons- they can cause damage. There are gels you can put on your hair that can protect it when you're using a straightener or curler, etc. Don't get freaked out. You can still straighten your hair and it doesn't cause that much damage. Just don't use a curling iron every day. Some cool hair tips: Depending on the person, blowdrying your hair can make it straighter, more curly, more poofy, etc. Long, full and shiny hair is a sign of good health. From personal experience, lots of people seem to prefer straight hair. Short hair is cute. French braids are sexy. Long, beachy, waves are really pretty.
 Teeth are the second thing people notice. But most people spend way more time and money on their hair. If you've got yellow teeth, try whitening toothpaste, bleaching strips, and take really good care of your teeth. Brush and floss at least twice a day. Don't leave the house without doing that. Mints and breath strips are good if you've got morning breath. If your teeth are crooked, you might want to consider braces or a retainer. You'll have to look into that.
 Foundations can cover up spots. Blush is nice but don't lay it on too thick. Concentrate on bringing out your eyes or your lips. Use some lip gloss and lipstick and even lipliner if you want to bring out your lips. Don't use too much!

, 8 big glasses a day! Keep hydrated and you'll feel great, lose weight, and get perfect skin! Never go to sleep with makeup. It's not healthy for your skin and looks messy in the morning anyway.
 Try to be optimistic. the glass is always half full. Being stressed makes you moody and if you take it out on others they won't appreciate it.
 It's all about enjoying life right? So do it! Have fun, go to parties, live your life the way you want it!

