 Though makeup is one of the best (and certainly most popular) ways to improve the look of lips, it is imperative you choose the right kind of makeup for the job; otherwise, the makeup might actually work the opposite way you want it to! As a rule, you'll want to avoid darker lipsticks when aiming for bigger lips. Clear or nude shades of lipstick are a much better match in this case. Moreover, picking a concealer and lip liner that works for your skin tone can make or break the cosmetic approach. Knowing what will, and will not work for your lips is a crucial first step. Generally speaking, you want to choose a colour that won't conflict with your natural tone. If you're not certain what might work or you specifically, enlist the help of a sales associate in a cosmetics store; most often, they'll know specifically what shades are best suited to each skin type.
 A good concealer will erase the natural lip lines, allowing you to draw your own. Spread the concealer carefully, making sure you get it on and around your lips evenly.
 A lip liner is used to distinguish the boundary between your lips and the rest of your face. If you want to make your lips appear larger, draw on the lip liner slightly beyond the edges of your lips. When paired with lipstick, this larger canvas will give the impression of fuller lips. Once you have purposefully overdrawn your lips, lip stick and gloss should be applied evenly to the newly defined area.


A blunt-tipped pencil will not apply color as evenly as you want, while a sharp-tipped pencil will result in clean, crisp lines.
Don't try to get away with too much! Overdrawing lips only works well in moderation; going too far will make the effect look inauthentic.
 With your lip liner as a guide, apply lipstick to the extended area evenly. With a concealer in place, the overdrawn lipstick should create the illusion of fuller, plumper lips. Again, using nude tones like peach and pale pink are best-suited to this end., Making a slight, fake 'shadow' underneath your lips is a helpful trick to give them a deeper look. Pencil the underside of your bottom lip with a brown, or white eyeliner. Make sure to keep the line very subtle; this technique is best kept as an accent. If you're using a white eyeliner, another subtle line across the top of your upper lip will add to the impression.
 With the lipstick evenly applied, using a bit of lip gloss will give your lips an authentic shimmer. There are many different textures to lip gloss, including translucent, lacquer, milk, transparent, and iridescent. In this case, a neutral tone is most recommended. That way, you'll get a striking smoothness to your lips without losing any of their natural appeal.

