 That may seem practically impossible, but it saves lots of time and energy. If you do have to fight, look at the fourth step.;
, Younger siblings have many ways to annoy you. It seems as if it's just an unusual talent. Pretend like they aren't there and continue doing whatever you're doing. They'll feel like they're talking to a wall and stop.


If you're doing homework, take extreme measures and either tell your mom or look at them straight in the eye and say, "Stop. I'm doing homework, I need to concentrate, please."

,
Tell them everything. Don't skip out on any details: the thing you think isn't very important can be a complete game changer.
Don't let your mom/dad/grandpa/alien mother-in-law/etc. fall for the "Sweet Look" (big eyes, whimpering, and a little curled lip to get what they want). Sure, it helps when wanting to go to the ice cream store, but not during an argument. Keep your straight face and pretend like the look isn't happening. If your mother falls for it, don't talk back. If she really starts to scream at you, say, "I'm telling the truth. I didn't hit her, kick her, or give her that bruise. She got that yesterday when she was running on the playground."
Don't let your sister/brother get away with lying. The number one outcome of this is: "Was that true?" You need to say: "No." If it is true, don't lie. It will get you in even more trouble.
 Sure, you don't have to be best friends with your sibling. But try to make peace!

, They don't have the power to tell you, "You're going to take me to the shop" or "Get me my book. Now." They cannot boss you around all the time, but that doesn't mean you can always tell them what to do either! Respect has to be on both sides.
 They can destroy your belongings, get in the reach of personal business (like a diary, phone, school project) or important papers, or trash your room. If possible, put up a padlock. If not, talk to your parents and let them know that you want your room to be just that: yours.
 If they say no, then put belongings where they can't get to them.
 When they first get in your room ask them to "please get out". When they come in for a second time say "I am going to ask you nicely one more time, please get out". When they come back a third time, it is to mess with you because they know that you are not going to ask them nicely. So just simply ignore them and they will get bored and leave.

