 Before spending too much time pursuing a business, you need to lock down whether the owner is willing to offer financing. Many don’t, because they believe it is too risky or too much work. However, many business owners will consider owner financing even if they don’t advertise it.;
, Don’t go ahead with a purchase unless you know the business is financially healthy. Request the following records, and review them with an accountant if you don’t understand them:profit-and-loss reports for the past three to five years
cash flow analysis
bank statements
tax returns from the past three to five years
inventory list
current contracts and leasesemployee contracts
sales lists

, You want to physical stand in the business before making an offer. Stop by and look at the equipment and inventory to make sure everything is there.Visiting the business also gives you a chance to talk to current employees.
 Some businesses are difficult to value. You can hire a professional appraiser to perform the appraisal. This person will also analyze the financial documents provided by the seller to check that they are accurate.


You can find an appraiser at the American Society of Appraisers website.Appraisers charge about $8,000 to appraise a business that is worth $500,000 or less.If you can’t afford that, then try to value the business on your own using software, such as BizEquity.
 The seller will pull your credit history just as a bank will.Accordingly, you should go through your credit history and clean it up as best you can.


Look for common errors, such as accounts inaccurately listed as in default or debts that aren’t even yours that appear on your credit report.

Dispute any errors with the credit reporting agency that has the inaccurate information.
 Business owners want to see that a new owner won’t destroy their business. Accordingly, they’ll want to see that you are experienced in the industry.Pull together a resume to show the owner.


If you don’t have experience in the industry, then play up your business background more generally. For example, you might want to buy a hair salon. You’ve never worked in one, but you might have managed a fast food restaurant, so you can highlight your management experience.
 Your statement should include the following information:total assets, such as bank balances, retirement accounts, and real estate
total liabilities, including loans, mortgages, and credit card balances

, It’s typical for owners to stick around after the sale to advise you about the business. Generally, they might stay 60-90 days after the sale.Discuss with the owner how involved they want to be.


Feel free to get the owner to stay on as a consultant for as long as possible. For example, you might want them to be a consultant for six months or more. You’ll need to draft a consultant contract in this situation.
 Based on your own research, you should settle on a number you are willing to pay. This might be less than what the seller wants, so you’ll need to negotiate. Make the first offer and be prepared to justify it.For example, you can justify a low offer by pointing out that sales have been sliding for the past three years.
An owner might be upset by a low offer, but ask questions to create uncertainty about what a great deal the business is. For example, you can say, “What if the business loses its largest customer?” or “What if a competitor opens up down the road?”
Avoid telling the seller how much you can afford. Often, they try to get this information out of you at the very beginning of negotiation.
Don’t agree to a higher interest rate in exchange for a lower price. This will only cost you more in the long run.
 Generally, sellers don’t finance the entire purchase price. Instead, they cover 30-60%.You need to know as soon as possible whether you must seek other financing. Discuss the amount the seller will loan and other details, such as the following:


Interest rate. You’ll need to pay the seller interest, just as you would pay a bank for a loan. Typically, owners charge about 6-10%.
Length of the loan. Loans usually last for five to seven years. The loan should be sufficiently long that your monthly payments are manageable. If not, you might default.
Refinancing. Once your business is up and running successfully, you might want to refinance so you are free and clear of the seller. Make sure that the seller doesn’t penalize you for refinancing. In fact, the seller might require that you get a loan and make a balloon payment at the end of the loan’s term.
 To cover the remaining purchase price, you might need a loan. You should research the options available. In the U.S., your two options are bank loans and Small Business Administration (SBA) loans.Banks will give you loan, but you must have excellent credit and some form of collateral. You also need a large down payment, often up to 30% of the purchase price. You can visit any bank in your area and ask if you qualify for a business loan.
The SBA doesn’t make loans. Instead, they guarantee a loan in case you default. You can get up to $5,000,000 with an SBA 7(a) loan, but you’ll need a good credit score (680 or better), collateral, and at least a 10% down payment., If you can’t get a loan, then find other sources of financing. Consider the following options, and weight the positives and negatives:


Ask friends or family for a loan. People you know might lend money with a low interest rate. However, you might feel uncomfortable asking them. Furthermore, family might want a part of the business in return, which you should resist.Use your retirement savings. You might be able to use a ROBS, or Rollover for Business Startups. Essentially, you create a retirement insurance plan in the new business, and roll your own retirement savings into the plan. The plan then buys shares in your company. By using a ROBS, you put your retirement at risk if the business fails.Take out a home equity loan. Your home is probably your largest asset, and you can tap the equity now to buy a business. However, you’ll put your home at risk by doing this. If you default on your repayments, the bank can seize the property.
 You’ll need to make a down payment if you seek a bank loan. However, you should also provide some sort of down payment even if you don’t get a bank loan. Offer at least 10 percent of the purchase price. For example, if you agree to buy a business for $250,000, offer at least a $25,000 down payment.


The larger your down payment, the more you demonstrate your commitment to the seller. It gives you some instant equity in the business as well.
 There are many documents involved with buying a business, so a lawyer is essential. The lawyer can help you negotiate with the seller, if necessary. You can find a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral., There’s more to the sales agreement than purchase price. For example, the owner might want to include certain conditions to protect themselves. You may have to negotiate the following:


If you default, the owner might want to retain the power to take back the business within 60 days of you missing payment.The seller might also want you to agree to keep the inventory at a certain level, in case they need to take over the business again.
 Once you’ve hammered out the details, the seller’s lawyer (or your lawyer) should draft a sales agreement. It should identify the assets you are purchasing. Review it to make sure you agree with everything.
 There are many documents involved when buying a business. Go over each one with your lawyer. For example, complete the following:A promissory note for the seller’s loan.
Any security agreements for assets you are using as collateral.
Your closing or settlement sheet.
A bill of sale, which transfers ownership of the business’ assets to you.
Any tax forms that you must file with the government about the sale.

