 As you read professional literature, newspapers, magazines, trade publications, and internet articles, be thinking about your clients. When you find an article which would be helpful to them, take the time to send them a link or a copy along with a short note explaining how you feel it will be of help or interest to them., Write a newsletter that details events, new products, and other information that the clients may find useful. At the time of signing up a client, ask for permission to send company information to their email address. That way, you have authorization to send your regular newsletter to your clients periodically., Make a plan to get in touch with each client every few months or another set period of time. Set alerts to reconnect with them on your calendar or through another method that works for you.


It may effective to reach out to clients are certain times, for example the beginning of each fiscal quarter. This way, clients will begin to expect your calls and will schedule time for you.You can also set reminders to help you remember special occasions in your clients' lives. Send a note or card on special occasions such as birthdays, anniversaries, children's birthdays, or graduations.
For special occasions, do something that is unique to the client. For example, a birthday card might include an airplane if the client recently earned their pilot's license., Give clients souvenirs which they are likely to keep with your contact information on them. Pens are popular items, but may get lost, plus they are common. You might consider calendar magnets, novelty items such as desk games, or helpful tips on a magnet (and/or wallet-size card). People will often display inexpensive trophies., If you are a workshop leader, party planner, etc., consider presenting your client with a framed photograph of the event or certificate, which they might display at the office. Be sure your contact information appears on the item.


When you give a certificate or photo to a client think about what you would like them to do with it. For example:

A framed certificate or photo is ready to be hung on the wall.
A photo or certificate in a nice folder is likely to be placed in a filing cabinet., Two to three weeks after completing your business with the client, send them a simple survey. This survey should be very brief, and simply ask customers about what they liked and if they have any suggestions for you. This shows clients that you care about improving your service or product.


This survey can be sent through the mail, but it is much easier to organize and send your survey online.