 No matter how pretty or nice you are, no one's going to like you if you look or smell dirty. Take regular showers, and use a light-scented body wash and a loofah. Use a sweet-smelling lotion after your bath/shower. Use deodorant if you want. Brush your teeth twice a day and make sure to wear clean, fresh clothes. Also don't do anything gross in public like pick your boogers or something.;
, Don't wash your hair every day, only wash it 2-3 times a week. If your hair gets disgustingly oily in a day without washing, invest in a good dry shampoo. Use a good shampoo and conditioner and make sure it smells subtle but pleasant. Try to let your hair air dry and use heat as less often as possible. Use a heat protectant if you must use heat on your hair regularly. Don't bleach or dye your hair too much either. Curl it, straighten it, put it in a bun, ponytail, braid, anything you want. Or you could just leave it down. Use some cute hair ties and hair accessories. Switch up your hairstyles and make sure they look cute with your outfit. Make sure it is tangle-free and soft.
 You can't be wearing Hello Kitty long sleeved T-shirts and huge, grey sweatpants every day. Shop at places like Forever 21, H&M, Aeropostale, Brandy Melville, Lulu Lemon, etc. Own a lot of black leggings. Those go with anything. Make sure not to go too crazy with patterns or colours. For example, if you wear a striped shirt, try to wear solid-coloured pants. Black and white is a timeless trend. Wear what you think looks nice on you and also keep in mind your comfort. Poky clothes just ruin your day. Also get one pair of good runners (Nike is a good brand), some Uggs, a pair of converse, and some cute flats. Good shoes take you good places. Wear jewelry tastefully and try to wear real jewelry instead of fake jewelry.
 Being healthy solves all your problems. You have shiny hair, strong nails, porcelain skin, and you feel great. Indulge in junk food but don't go overboard, and try to eat healthy foods too. Eat lots of fruits and veggies as well as protein like chicken, eggs, nuts, tofu, etc. Drink lots of water and get a good amount of sleep in. Sleep is one of the most important things ever. Try to get some exercise in each week. You could play a sport, ride your bike around the neighbourhood, go to the gym, do some crunches and push ups at home, anything you want. Just get that heart beating and muscles working.
 Try to be as organized as possible, as it makes school much less stressful. If you aren't an organized person, make a plan to be organized starting the next school year. Listen to the teacher (this is like 60% of being a good student), take good notes (use colourful gel pens to make it more fun), study (read the textbook, use index cards, study with a friend, etc.), and just try your best. Be confident that you're going to ace that test/project/assignment. Try to participate and ask questions if you don't understand as well. Also make sure to do your homework. At all times. No excuses. Getting good grades makes your future that much brighter and it makes you feel good about yourself. People also see smart people as more attractive and enviable.
 If you're that girl who always keeps a smile on her face and positive thoughts, everyone's going to like you. Make sure to smile even when you're feeling down and laugh whenever you feel like it. Even if no one else is laughing. Try not to be negative or looking at the floor all day. Just remember to be yourself and be nice to everyone.
 Something like "couch potato" or a twist on their name or some kind of inside joke is always fun. Make sure to only tell your closest friends who your crush is just so you can talk about him with them and not keep your feelings bottled up.
 If you're really quiet or shy, this is the most daunting step. Try to get him to notice you by making eye contact when he does talk to you, or laughing at his jokes. Make sure to walk confidently and be slightly bold. If you want to do something old-fashioned, try to "accidentally" bump into him in the halls. Your books will go everywhere and if he says sorry you could say something like "That's okay it was my fault too." This just gets him to notice you. He can't like you if he doesn't even know you exist. If you're not afraid, try to make conversation with him and get to know him a bit more. If you're laughing about something no one else knows about with your friends, you can get noticed too.
 Do really subtle things like play with your hair or smile directly at him. Try to tease him a little and steal his stuff once you're a bit more comfortable with him. If you want, you could add some physical contact in by nudging him with your elbow or even hugging him once you get really comfortable.

