 Bleach, renowned for its ability to ruin colored fabrics by turning them white, is a useful tool for distressing old shirts. In this method, a dilute solution of bleach and water will be used to simulate the dulling, fading effect that years of wear can have on bright-colored clothing. This method is best for strong, bright hues (cherry red, traffic cone orange, and so on), but doesn't work as well on dark shades. For obvious reasons, it's also unsuited for whites.


As always, only distress shirts that you don't have a special attachment to. You don't want to lose a treasured shirt because you accidentally spilled bleach on it.
 Use a suitably-sized container (like a large plastic bucket) as a container for your dilute bleach mixture. Mix well before proceeding. Note that a 16-to-1 ratio is the same as the ratio between gallons and cups, so if you're using a gallon of water, you'd use 1 cup of bleach, 2 gallons (7.6 L) of water would warrant 2 cups of bleach, and so on.


You may want to consider using a bathtub or a laundry sink to do your bleaching. These are convenient because they allow you to simply wash your mess down the drain when you're done.
 It's important to ensure that the shirt (or shirts) you're bleaching receive(s) an even soaking of bleach. Applying more bleach to some areas of the shirt than others can create an uneven, splotchy appearance. To counter this, start stirring as soon as you add your clothing to the bleach bath and stir continuously for about five minutes.
 After about the first five minutes, you may begin to stir less frequently. Be sure to monitor your clothing for color loss as it soaks. Stir every few minutes (no less frequently than every five minutes). Most shirts are ready after about half an hour to forty five minutes, but many may be ready earlier.
 When your clothing has lost as much color as you'd like it to, remove it from the bleach bath and rinse it thoroughly, removing any remaining bleach. Machine wash with warm water and line dry.
 As noted above, the uneven, splotchy look of a poorly-bleached shirt is generally something most will want to avoid. However, if you're interested in replicating this look, it's quite easy to do so. Mix bleach and water in a spray bottle as above, then bunch up your shirt with rubber bands. Spray the shirt in a few locations with your bleach mixture and allow it to sit for about half an hour, monitoring for color change. When your shirt is how you would like it, remove the rubber bands, then rinse and wash as above.


Consider adjusting the concentration of your bleach mixture for more or less contrast. For instance, if you use completely undiluted bleach, you'll get splotches of white or near-white against your shirt's natural color.

