 It's the pink icon with white "lyft" text. Depending on your model of phone, it will either be on the Home Screen or in the App Drawer.

If you haven't downloaded Lyft yet, you'll need to do so from your device's respective app store (e.g., the App Store for iOS or the Google Play Store for Android).;
, This may also say Get Started in some app versions.,, This will prompt Lyft to send a text with a verification code to your phone.

Whenever you log back into Lyft after signing out, you'll have to verify your identity in this same manner.
 The text should say "Your Lyft code is ####" wherein the last four characters are your specific code.

Make sure you don't close Lyft when you do this.
You may need to wait a few minutes for a text if you're in an area with poor service.
 If you didn't receive a text or you've let your code expire, you can tap Resend code to get a new one., You'll do this in the provided "First" and "Last" fields., This should be an email account to which you have the password.

You can also upload a picture from this screen if you wish to do so.
 Doing so will verify that you've read the Terms of Service listed here., You can tap Not now to enable them later or OK to start receiving notifications right away. Now that your account is set up, it's time to add a payment method to Lyft., This is in the top left corner of your screen. Doing so will open your profile menu., It's below the Ride History option., Your payment methods include the following options:

PayPal
Add credit card

, These will vary based on your selected payment method:


PayPal - You'll need your PayPal email address (or the registered phone number) and your password. Once you've added these details, you'll need to tap Log In and then Agree & Continue on the Terms of Service page. This will add your PayPal information to Lyft.

Credit Card - You'll need your credit card number, expiration date, security code (CVV), the ZIP code you use for the account address, and your region. Once done, you'll tap Save in the top right corner of the screen to add your credit card to Lyft. You can also tap the camera icon to scan a picture of your credit card, though you'll still need to enter your CVV code and ZIP code manually.
 It's in the top left corner of the screen. Doing so will open the profile menu from which you can select Home to return to the map interface. Now you're ready to order a Lyft!