 The purifying qualities of lemon mixed with the scrubbing effects of salt help to remove all the grime buried deep in your pores. Mix lemon juice with a tablespoon of yogurt, a tablespoon of salt, and a bit of honey. Use this to scrub your blackhead-prone areas for 2-3 minutes and then rinse with warm water.
 Green tea is great to drink, and also great for refreshing your skin. Packed full of nutrients, a green tea scrub works to remove dirt while supplying your face with healthy antioxidants. Mix a fine green tea mix with a bit of water and rub over your face. If you want, you can leave it to set for 2-3 minutes after your scrub, and then simply rinse off with warm water.
 Baking soda is one of those magical substances in life that is great for myriad purposes. Besides being a natural cleanser, the fine grain of the powder clears away dead skin cells. Use baking soda and a bit of water to create a paste, and then gently scrub in a circular motion over the entire surface of your face. If you have particularly bad blackheads, dab a thick coating of the paste to the affected area and allow it to dry for 5-10 minutes before rinsing off.
 Cornmeal is used as an abrasive exfoliant when combined with your regular liquid facial soap. Mix a teaspoon of the cornmeal with your favorite face wash and scrub your face gently in a circular pattern. Be careful not to scrub too roughly, as this could inadvertently damage your skin. Rinse the soap and cornmeal off with warm water.
 Possibly the best smelling exfoliant, the lactic acid of milk combined with the tough granules of nutmeg remove your blackheads quickly and in a pain-free manner. Mix a tablespoon of milk (particularly buttermilk) with enough nutmeg to create a paste. Apply this mixture to your face while gently scrubbing to remove dead skin and dirt. Then use regular warm water to rinse the mixture clear of your skin., If you aren’t up for making your own exfoliator at home, look into exfoliating products at your local beauty supply or drugstore. Use these on a regular basis to help clean out your pores and remove your pesky blackheads. Exfoliating your skin and how often depends on your skin type: If you have oily or combination skin, you should exfoliate about 3-5 times per week. If you have dry skin or even sensitive skin, please only exfoliate once per week. With normal skin, you can exfoliate daily. In any of these cases, please remember to exfoliate gently and don't overdo it as this was cause you further problems if you irritate your skin.

