 If you know you're in a mood, do your best to act as if you feel calm and content. When you're moody, your brain selects and attends to anything that matches your current mood, meaning that you want to get rid of any negative thoughts and expressions that it can feed off of.So, if you are smiling despite your bad mood, you will respond to yourself (and others will join in) with congruence. If you smile, others will smile back. Further, your mind will mistake your faking it with the body's real smile, summoning happier thoughts and ideas than if you were frowning.


For example, if your mood makes you feel too homely to leave the house, put on your favorite shirt and leave as if you have all the confidence in the world. The goal is to engage in behaviors that are inconsistent with your feelings so that you have the momentum for a real change in mood.;
, You are most motivated to change your mood when preparing to enter a new environment, including going from being alone to being with others.If you can go to a different place entirely, think about what you are looking for. Relaxed and well-ordered environments tend to be help. If you are unable to leave where you are, see if there's anything you can re-arrange to make the environment more pleasant, like trash that can be thrown out, or another room you can move to that you find more peaceful.


Going from inside to outside has an especially strong impact on mood. If it's possible to take a break from what you're doing and spend some time outside, take it! Natural environments have automatically uplifting qualities.
 While yoga, weight training, and cardiovascular exercise have all been shown to improve emotional states, even a brisk walk can be an effective mood changer., There are different techniques depending on which of these, relaxation or stamina, you believe you need to improve the mood. These techniques can be learned here.



Music as a mood-changing tool can also be used to help feel into the negativity of the mood, so it may be worthwhile to indulge your craving for sad music. With either sad or upbeat tunes, make sure that you are aware of how you are being affected without going overboard and wondering whether it's "working yet".
 After you assess who you need to avoid and who you cannot, try getting in touch with someone whose presence you find comforting and uplifting.


You can simply call or text someone, letting them know that you're feeling down and want to check in. Make sure that they know where your mood's status, and that you do not need their help diagnosing it. The best contact in moments of extreme moodiness are brief affirmations and well-wishes that will relax you rather than challenge you to fake happiness in conversation.
 Ask the part of you that is totally caught up in the mood what is so upsetting and what it needs. Let your mood be a messenger of whatever is bothering you so that you can decide whether or not to take action. You may then ask what would make it feel better in the immediate moment (like screaming into a pillow or smashing an egg)


Be careful, ladies. Women have a tendency to spend more time than men ruminating (without benefit) on the negative mood, so use this tool with caution.You may want to put a time limit on how long you spend focusing exclusively on the bad mood.
 If there is a reason that you can point to, is there anything that you can do to change it? If you can't put your finger on why you feel the way you do, is there anything that you can tell yourself to feel better? Even though figuring out what's going on may not change your mood entirely, it will give you a better idea of the best things you can do to alter your state of mind.
 Since it's not always possible to make a change in your physical location, try envisioning a time when you felt very differently from how you do now. The happier and more positive the memory is, the more capable of transforming your current mood it will be!You can increase the effectiveness of channeling positive memories by using visualization techniques. Visualization techniques help you enliven the memory by helping you use visual cues. You can learn more about visualization here


, Consciously acknowledging that it’s there, even if you don't like it, will put you more at peace.Sometimes it's best not to shy away from your mood or resist it aggressively, knowing that it will pass in due time. In these cases you may want to lay low until you're feeling a bit better (out of respect for others and for your own long-term goals).
 By eating anti-inflammatory nutrients with regularity, it will be easier for you to regulate your stress and energy levels. Additionally, easing up on your sugar, alcohol, and caffeine intake will help make your energy level more consistent throughout the day.Both of these will automatically eliminate many possible causes of moodiness. The following is a list of anti-inflammatory foods:Eggs
Green tea
Dark chocolate containing at least 70% cocoa
Warm milk
Hummus
Dark, leafy greens
Walnuts
Avocados
Asparagus

,, Alternative, herbal medicines can be very powerful for regulating the bodily functions that contribute to your mood.Here’s a list of herbs that help alter mood and control mood swings:St. John’s Wort
Passionflower
Ginseng
Rhodiola Rosea
Kava Kava

, Studies have shown that after only a few days of shortened sleep, many people experience worsened mood and decreased ability to regulate negative emotions If getting more sleep regularly is not an option for you, make sure that you allow yourself to take catch-up naps after nights of shorter sleep. You can learn to improve your sleeping habits here.
 When moodiness is not just occasional but chronic, it may be a sign that you have taken on something in your life that you cannot handle.Take stock of the obligations and commitments that shape your daily life. In order to ensure that you stay healthy and kind to yourself, don't be afraid to re-negotiate your responsibilities when possible.


For instance, you may be the friend that everyone relies on--a very laudable role. However, constantly answering frantic calls from people in your life, in addition to professional work and duties at home, might be causing stress that you are unaware of. Moodiness from overload, even if you are doing things that you feel happy to do, is common.
 If you find that your moods are too overwhelming to effectively help yourself, you may want to seek out a qualified therapist.Therapy can provide a place for you to safely delve deeper into chronic moodiness. There, you will have help unpacking and resolving hangups from your past that contribute to your moods in the present. You will also be assessed for a possible mood disorder and offered more intensive treatment options. In the absence of identifiable triggers, severe mood swings may very well have a chemical component., In addition to more serious psychological causes of moodiness, hormone imbalances can greatly impact mood. By seeing a doctor and talking about the specifics of your moods, including any physical symptoms, you will know if you have a hormone imbalance or other health issue that is the root cause of your moodiness.


Men who have a hormone imbalance may also experience other symptoms. Decline in sex drive, a loss of muscle mass, weight gain in the abdominal area, joint pain and stiffness, hair loss, insomnia, and urinary problems are all commonly reported.Women who have a hormone imbalance may also experience hot flashes, night sweats, irregular menstrual periods and frequent headaches or migraines. Weight gain, insomnia, pain or stiffness in the joints, drastic changes to skin and hair quality, heart palpitations and abdominal bloating are also seen frequently. 