 Go over to your layers panel and highlight the layer or layers you want to merge together. Right-click and peer down to the bottom of the menu that appears. You should get the options:


Merge Layers (or, if you only selected one layer, "Merge Down")
Merge Visible
Flatten Image;
, The layers will combine, taking the name of the lower layer, into one. Note, however, that you cannot do this if either layer is invisible or locked.


This option is replaced with "Merge Layers" if you have multiple layers selected.
You can also press ⌘ Command+E or Ctrl+E


, Shift-Click or Ctrl/Cmd-Click on all the layers you want merged to highlight multiples. Then right-click on one of the layers and select "Merge Layers" to combine them all.


They layers will merge into the top-most layer, and keep that name., This is a good way to combine lots of layers quickly. Instead of clicking all the layers you want to merge, simply uncheck the little "eye" to the left of each layer you do not want to merge. Then right-click on any still-visible layer in the panel and select "Merge Visible." Only those layers with the "eye" will be merged, the others will be left alone., This combines all visible layers, then copies them into their own layer. Your smaller layers are all intact and untouched, allowing your to keep them for later if need be.


For Macs, you hold the ⌥ Option.
For PCs, you hold theAlt.
 Flatten image is usually reserved for the very end of the project, right before saving the final, finished image. It takes all visible layers and makes them one combined layer. If you have anything that isn't visible, it will ask you if it should discard it. Basically, Flatten Image takes everything you can see on the canvas and combines it into the only layer in the panel., Merging layers is useful, but you will lose some of your closer control over your image. Make sure you merge layers only when you're done working on the individual pieces.
 There are two other ways to get to these exact same menus, so just use the one you're most comfortable with.


Click on "Layers" from the top menu. Your options for merging will be near the bottom.
Click the small triangle and lines icon in the upper right corner of the layers panel. Merging will be near the bottom.

