 To help you be imaginative, it is helpful to see what imaginative people have created. Perhaps you can create similar things. One place to look for the creations of imaginative people is in books. Fiction authors have to spend a lot of time being imaginative.


Imagination is sparked by learning. When you read, you are exposed to new ideas. Therefore reading can boost your imagination.Read classic literature that you have never read before.
Also read nonfiction so you can learn, such as biographies or histories. Try reading about Benjamin Franklin, Walt Disney, or Steve Jobs.
 Many cinematographers create narratives from their minds, just as fiction authors do. You can learn to be imaginative by watching films you have never seen before. Rent movies in genres you have never explored.


Before selecting a film, be aware that your body may react in different ways to different genres.For example, you may lower your blood pressure by laughing at a comedy, but increase it by being fearful during a horror movie.
Watch creative movies like Toys, The NeverEnding Story, or films by directors like Stephen Spielberg.
 Read articles on the web to learn and grow in your mind. Tons of content is available for consumption online. This content covers almost any topic you can think of. Just type an idea into a search engine and click on a link. Seeing what others have produced can give you some imaginative ideas of your own.


For example, if you type “imagination” into an internet search, you may find articles exploring that concept or dictionaries defining it.
 Pick up a magazine and flip through it. Perhaps go to the local art museum and take a walk around. The combination of text and images can be very inspiring in a magazine or art gallery. You may even want to cut images out of a magazine to hang up on your wall. Wall hangings can be both imaginative to make and inspire you to be more imaginative.


Pick up prints of famous paintings at the local art store. Put them up on your wall as inspiration.
You might find Van Gogh’s ‘’Starry Night’’ to be inspirational, or Monet’s ‘’Poppies’’.

