 This can be achieved by laying outside in the summertime (free), going to an indoor tanning bed ($3-$10 at a salon), getting a professional spray tan (recommended...about $25 at a tanning salon) or a do-it-yourself instant tan from home ($10 - $20 available at Walmart type stores).


Having a tanned body and face instantly slims, because the darker tone of your skin makes flaws and imperfections go unnoticed.





;
, Whatever you're trying to hide...arms, belly, back fat, or simply everything, a nice fitting black top will be so flattering every single time.
, They are undergarments that instead of just going to your hips like regular underwear, they go all the way up to right below your breasts. They're made out of stretchy and compressing fabric, so it holds in all of your flab, rolls and extra inches. You can basically buy these anywhere they sell clothes. They can range in price from anywhere from $9 to $200, depending on the quality of the item.
 They instantly elongate your legs and make your butt, hips, and thighs just look generally smaller. Make sure you find a pair of jeans that FITS. I know that sounds like a simple tip, but so many women don't know how to do that. Try to find jeans that cover up your love-handles and are long enough to cover up your shoes. High water pants are never flattering on heavy people. However, appropriate capri pants (whether its your dark jeans rolled up, or real capris) are very flattering. Know the difference.
 Lifting and separating the girls makes your waist look smaller, because it creates a difference between your torso and your breasts. Think about it, when your breasts are hanging down and creating volume in your mid section, they can be confused with being a bulky top half. Get a good bra that really shows them off and makes them look their best! Remember: If you got it, flaunt it!

, Play it up with glamorous make-up! Are you the kind of girl who believes that her hair is her glory? Go get some fabulous highlights and a great new hair cut! Do you think you have some weight to lose, but your arms are always toned and sexy? Go for a sleeveless top! If you're not sure if you have a favorite body part that you want to show off, then do little things for yourself like buying a great smelling perfume, whitening your teeth, or paint your fingernails a shiny shade. All of these little things will take people's minds OFF of the weight and on to your best assets.
 Throwing your shoulders back, sticking your boobs out, and sucking your belly in will make you look taller, leaner, and more confident. Practice walking around your house like that and it will soon come naturally.
 The small shoes will only make your legs look way bigger then they actually are. Instead, opt for a nice open toed chunky heel.
 Carry a big purse, have big sunglasses, wear a big necklace...all of these things make you look more proportioned to your accessories.
 Walk in there like you own the place, and you are ready to blow them away. If you have that kind of confidence, others will feel the same way about you. When was the last time you saw a meek and scared woman in the corner hunched over and thought to yourself "Wow...who's that girl???" That;s right. Never.

