 Improving your relationship with your husband is the best way to make him genuinely miss you. You can start by considering his point of view instead of focusing only on your own. It's human nature to think about our own individual needs, but good husbands and wives also think about their partners' needs. Take some time to consider what your husband needs to be happy in life, and do your best to give it to him.For example, your husband may need some time to spend by himself pursuing a hobby, or he may need more quality time with you.
If you're not sure what your husband's needs are, ask him what you can do to help him be happier.
 Your husband probably does a lot of little things for you every day. While it's easy to overlook all of these little things, acknowledging them and thanking him for them can go a long way in showing your husband how much you appreciate him. The next time he fixes something around the house or makes you breakfast, be sure to let him know that it means a lot to you.He may also really like it if you brag about him to others once in a while. For example, when you're out with friends, you might say, "My husband made me the most delicious dinner last night."

, If you want him to think about you in a positive way, communicating well about conflicts is important. Every marriage has conflicts, and it's how a couple deals with those conflicts that determines how successful the relationship will be. If you want your marriage to be happy and healthy, keep the lines of communication open and discuss each and every conflict as it arises.Even if you need to take a break from a conversation, never leave it unfinished for long. Your goal should be to find a resolution that works for both of you.
Listen to your husband and try to understand his perspective, even if you disagree.
Be sure to say what you really mean, even if you think your husband may not like it. Dancing around the issue will not help resolve it.
 Personally attacking your husband is the way to make him want to see less of you, not more. Sometimes small arguments can turn into big blowouts because emotions are running high. To avoid this, consider taking a short break from the conversation when you feel like you're about to start yelling. If you both have a little time to think, you may be much better able to talk rationally.The break can be a few minutes or an entire day, depending on how much time you need to cool down, but be sure to return to the conversation. You don't want to leave the conflict unresolved.
 When you find yourself in a disagreement with your husband, it's important to be open instead of defensive. This means resisting the urge to criticize your husband or his point of view.The less defensive you are during disagreements, the less defensive your husband will feel the need to be. This will make your conversations much more productive.
 Both you and your husband are bound to make mistakes and hurt each other's feelings during the course of your marriage. When this happens, you have the choice to let the mistakes damage your marriage, or to let go of them and move on.It's important to forgive your husband for mistakes he has made in the past, as continuing to dwell on them will only create more tension in your marriage.
You will make mistakes too, and when you do, you must be humble enough to admit it and apologize.

