 The most important step in sobering up after drinking is to stop drinking. The moment you feel like you've had enough, or too much, stop drinking anything with alcohol in it. This will allow your body to process what you've already consumed and start the process of sobering up.


Don't try to taper off your drinking or switch to less alcoholic drinks. Stop entirely if you are too drunk.
Don't let anyone pressure you into drinking more than you are comfortable with.
 If you feel like you need to vomit, don't fight the urge. Throwing up is your body's natural response to alcohol poisoning. Vomiting can also help remove whatever alcohol is left unprocessed in your stomach and can help you to recover more quickly. If you feel the urge to vomit, allow yourself to do so., If you are able to do so, eating something after heavy drinking can help you to sober up. Eating while drinking is always a good idea and can help your body process the alcohol at a slower pace. Having a meal or something to eat will help keep your head a bit more clear than if you had gone without eating.It's unclear which foods are best. Try eating whatever you are in the mood for.
Eating anything at all will help you to sober up faster.
 Drinking water after drinking alcohol can help lessen the inebriating effects of alcohol and help you to sober up. Drinking more water will have an effect on how much alcohol is present in your bloodstream and may help you to process alcohol faster by increasing the amount you urinate. Never neglect drinking water when you are trying to sober up.It's a good idea to try and drink a glass of water for every alcoholic drink you consume.
Alcohol has a dehydrating effect on the body. Drinking water will help you stay hydrated.
 Moving can help give you something to focus on and help you process the alcohol slightly faster than normal. By getting in some physical activity, you will increase the amount you are perspiring, which can remove some alcohol from your system. Try to do some simple exercise or activity that keeps you moving in order to stay focused and sober up.You might try dancing to help you sober up.
Going for a brisk walk can help you stay focused while you sober up.
 There isn't a surefire way to sober up faster than your body is able to process the alcohol you've consumed. The only proven way to sober up is to wait for your body to fully remove the alcohol from your bloodstream. Although you can take steps to help the process, you will still need to wait around one hour for every drink you've had before you reach sobriety again.Don't attempt to drive before you are fully sober again.
Each drink takes about one hour to be processed.

