 When you first create a fantasy football team on the DraftKings app, you will see three statistics for each player: fantasy points per game (FPPG) opponent rank vs position (OPRK), and the salary, or the cost, to pick a player for your draft. High FPPG numbers are an early indicator of that player’s ability to score points as determined by DraftKings. Green OPRK ranks mean that a player’s opponent in the coming match is expected to fare poorly against that pick, while a red OPRK rank signals that the potential pick may not fare well against his opponent. Picks with high salaries tend to perform better, which is why players are willing to pay more for them.;
, FPPG, OPRK, and salaries will only serve as a rough guide for you to draft your team. In-depth research, however, will reveal key differences between seemingly equal players. When researching your players, keep an eye on the following points:


Injuries. Find another pick if the player incurred an injury in practice or in recent games that could affect their performance.
Consistency. A player who is able to gain more points through consistently executing successful passes and receptions will be much more valuable than another player who scored one or two lucky touchdowns.
Receptions. DraftKings puts a lot of points on receptions, so a player that is able to grab a lot of receptions in most of his games has the potential to bring in more points for your team., The scores of your players are not affected by the success or defeat of their league team. The team of your quarterback (QB) could be clobbered at the NFL or CFB, but your QB of choice could still bring in huge points on DraftKings if he’s been consistently passing more than 300 yards in his games. This is why the individual performance of your pick’s plays is more important in the DraftKings scoring system than the performance of the team.


Do away with fandoms and rivalries for the meantime. A fantasy football manager who picks (or ignores) players out of passion instead of their performance will almost always lose against another player who does otherwise.
 There’s a big difference between the scoring system DraftKings uses for the NFLand the CFB. DraftKings rewards points for defensive plays in the NFL, while only offensive plays will be scored in the CFB. This means that while you need to consider both offensive and defensive capabilities for NFL contests, you only need to look for CFB players that excel at offense if you want to maximize points on the DraftKings app.
 A player generates 3 bonus points for 300+ passed yards, 100+ received yards, or 100+ rushed yards. These bonus points are usually earned by ‘elite’ players that demand a high salary in exchange for their strong performances. If you are able to stay within the $50,000 budget though, elites who can consistently bring in these bonus points could mean the difference between victory and defeat in contests.


This is especially important to remember when filling up your FLEX position. Paying good money for a high-performing wide receiver (WR) or tight end (TE) has the potential to generate a lot of points on top of the WR or TE you picked up for their default positions in the team.
 DraftKings lets players swap players in their lineups even after the first game of the day kicks off. This is an invaluable tool for the proactive fantasy football manager, as it lets you sub out underperforming players for high-risk, high-reward ones that could make up for the lost points. Late swaps also let you switch to safer, more reliable options if you have already achieved a comfortable lead over your opponents.