 Though you may be thrilled when you can tell your dog is excited to see you when you get home, you can’t allow your dog to jump up on guests. This may frighten some folks, and risks injuring children or unsuspecting visitors. Fortunately, training dogs to avoid this behavior is simple. When they jump up on you and try to rest their paws against your leg or body, simply turn away.Indicate that they do not get attention by jumping up. More to the point, give them less attention than you normally would by ignoring them outright.
Prevent inadvertent rewarding that may confuse your dog. Direct other people that spend time around your dog not to acknowledge them when they jump up. If others happily pet and speak to your dog when they jump up, this will teach them that doing so gets them attention.
 For instance, whenever your dog greets you or another person quietly and keeps all four of their paws on their ground, reward them immediately. Similarly, if a dog goes to their bed and sits quietly while you and your guests are sitting down for a meal, reward the dog for doing so.A quick pet and a friendly verbal acknowledgment can do the trick, while providing a treat can also help convey that you favor what they’re currently doing.
To reinforce the idea of rewards for good behavior, provide a treat for desired behavior when you train your dog something new.
 Practice introductions when anyone visits, especially preceding any events that will include lots of people in your home. Keep your dog on a leash, direct them to sit beside your before opening the door, and reward them if they stay calm when new people arrive at your home.Tell visitors to ignore jumping or barking and only acknowledge the dog when the dog is being calm and friendly. This will not only help teach the dog not to engage in undesired behavior, it will also help reward positive behavior.
Keeping your dog on a leash is another way as visitors arrive at your party will also help prevent them from bolting out the door.
Even if your dog does not bark at visitors or attempt to bolt regularly, they may be more likely to do so during a party.

