 Any leafy herb or citrus zest can be added using this method. Here are a few ideas, along with estimated amounts to use for every 1 cup (240 mL) sugar:



Rosemary, dried rosebuds, or dried culinary lavender are all aromatic flavors. Lavender will produce an especially strong scent. Set aside about 3 tablespoons (45 mL) per cup (240 mL) sugar.Mint makes a sugar that works well in baking and cocktails. Try using 1/2 cup (120 mL) of loosely packed mint leaves.Basil is a more unusual flavor for sweets, and may pair well with lime. Use about 1.5 tbsp (22 mL).Lemon, lime, orange, or any other citrus fruit can be zest and added to sugar. Zest the fruit's colored outer rind, avoiding the white pith. Use the zest from two fruits for a moderate flavor, or several more for a stronger one.
 Fresh leaves and citrus rind should be dried before adding, to avoid clumping the sugar with moisture. There are several ways to accomplish this:


Lay them out on a layer of paper towels, without overlaps, and microwave in 30 second bursts. Check between each burst, and remove when the herbs are crisp.Turn an oven to the lowest setting, lay the herbs on a baking sheet, and warm for about 20 minutes, or until dry. Using an oven at a higher setting is not recommended, due to the risk of burning the herbs.Leave the herbs in a location with a light breeze, to dry for 8—24 hours. Direct sunlight may reduce the flavor.
 Sugar will infuse much more quickly if the other ingredients are ground in a spice grinder or coffee grinder. This will also produce a more evenly colored and textured end product.


A food processor might work, but it may not turn the ingredients fully into powder.If using dried lavender, you may prefer to leave the flowers in the sugar whole, and strain them out before using the sugar. The lavender flowers (or scoops of the lavender sugar) can then be used to infuse a couple more batches of sugar before they lose their potency., White granulated sugar is less likely to clump than most other sugars, making it a good choice for these moisture-containing ingredients. Feel free to experiment with other options if you prefer.
 The sugar should infuse overnight, and continue to taste stronger over the course of the next few days. Store in a dry, airtight container to protect the sugar from humidity and microorganisms.


Use citrus zest sugar within two weeks.