 With the adhesive softened, place a plastic wedge or scraper on the body panel of the car and press the wedge between the badge and the metal of the vehicle. With softened glue, the badge should pry up from the metal with fairly little force. You may want to approach the badge from a few different angles in order to make sure the adhesive lets go uniformly, otherwise you run the risk of breaking the badge.Be careful not to apply pressure to the scraper unevenly or you risk damaging the paint.
This method may result in breaking the badge. If you intend to sell or reuse the badge, you may want to opt for a different method.
 Take a ten to twelve inch length of dental floss or fishing line and wrap the ends around your index fingers. Pull the length of line between your fingers through the loose adhesive on the side of the badge opposite your body. You may need to create a sawing action my moving your hands back and forth to pull the line through all of the adhesive. Once done, there should only be a bit of adhesive residue left on the vehicle, but the badge itself should come off.Pull the line toward yourself, cutting through the adhesive attaching the badge to the body.
More force will be required to cut through the adhesive if it isn’t sufficiently warmed.
You will most likely be able to remove the entire badge without breaking it using this method.
 If you don’t have a plastic wedge or any fishing line, you can also remove the badge with a credit card. Once the adhesive has been properly warmed, slide your credit card under the badge and pry up slightly. Work your way through all of the adhesive by sliding your credit card around at different angles and separating the badge from the metal.Make sure the side of the credit card with the numbers is facing out so you don’t scratch your paint.
The warmer the adhesive, the easier it will be to separate the badge from the vehicle using your credit card.
 Once the badge has been removed from the body of the vehicle, there will still be residue left over from the adhesive that was used to attach it. Spray an adhesive remover like Goo Gone on the residue, then use a clean microfiber towel to rub the remaining residue off the vehicle.Rub the adhesive remover over the residue in a circular motion.
Be careful not to spray the adhesive remover in too large an area, as it will remove wax and can damage clear coat.

