 To start, you want the right basket for your spa kit. You do not want a relaxing spa day interrupted by fumbling to find items. Look for a basket with multiple compartments so you can separate items by type.Before choosing your basket, think about what you're gong to include in your spa kit. Try to separate the items by type so you have a sense of how many separate compartments you'll need.
Pick a basket that's big enough to hold all of your items comfortably. It can be stressful to have to dig through items that are crammed into a basket.;
, You want to be able to pamper yourself with comfortable, high quality towels. Choose nicer towels for your kit. If it's within your budget, splurge on higher quality towels at a local department store. You can also opt for soft wash cloths in your spa kit..Think about color and decoration as well. Choose towels in an attractive color with a nice pattern. Attractive items will help you better pamper yourself.
 Invest in nice items to use in the bath or the shower. Go for items that are a little fancier than what is normal for you. If you usually wash yourself using a wash cloth, get something like a loofah, body sponge, or bath brush for your spa kit.Choose an item that feels nice on your skin. For a spa day, you want to bathe with something soft and soothing.
 If you're doing a spa day at home, it can be a nice touch to have everything you need in your kit. This way, you won't be scrambling for items when enjoying a soothing bath or shower at home. Include basic bathroom items, like razors, nail clippers, shampoos, and body washes.If you don't want to take up too much room with everyday items in your kit, go for travel sized versions of your regular bathroom products.
 In your spa kit, try including cosmetic products meant to clean and cleanse your face. Moisturizers and masks can be applied after you get done in the bath or can be left on while you're bathing.Find a face mask at a local beauty store. There are a variety of face masks targeted at cleaning and purifying the skin. Pick a mask catered to a skin issue you have. For example, if you want to cleanse your pores, look for a pore cleansing mask.
Look for a quality facial moisturizer. It's always a good idea to moisturize your face after using a mask. Pick a moisturizer designed specifically for your face. You can often find quality facial moisturizers near where acne products are kept.
 A chocolate bath is a popular treat at many commercial spas. You can buy chocolate bath kits online or a local department or beauty store. A chocolate bath kit can be an excellent addition to an at home spa kit. You can soak in a chocolate bath while letting a face mask soak into your skin, for example.Chocolate baths are chocolate-based liquids you pour into a tub of water. You end up with a bath that smells like chocolate, which may also help moisturize your skin.
 If you want to pamper yourself with a spa kit, make sure to stock up on lotions and creams. Look for creams designed for specific body parts. For example, an exfoliating foot cream can leave you feeling fresh at the end of a long day. Include this in your spa kit.Go for moisturizers that are high quality. Spend a little extra at a department or beauty store on a fancy moisturizer for your kit. If you enjoy scented products, choose a scent you love.
 After enjoying a day of soaks and face masks, you may want to finish up smelling nice. Add a small amount of cologne or perfume to your kit. After you finish up with your baths and scrubs, you can spritz yourself with a sweet smelling fragrance at the end of the day., Bath salts can be a nice touch when taking a warm bath at home. Stop by a local department store, beauty store, or store that sells products like perfume and lotion to pick up some bath salts.Choose a scent you enjoy. You will love taking a warm bath if you're covered in a fragrance you love.
 Many people enjoy scrubs that help you remove dry or dead skin cells from various parts of the body. This is a process called exfoliation. Using exfoliating scrubs at a home spa day can help you feel refreshed after getting out of the shower or tub.You can buy general exfoliating scrubs, which you can use on areas where you have a lot of dry skin. You can also opt for an exfoliating scrub made for a specific body part, like your lips.
 You do not want to use your every day soap for a home spa kit. When packing your kit, select slightly pricier soaps with a fragrant smell. You can give yourself a nice bath using a quality soap during a home spa day.


It can be fun to try to match all your scents. You can similar scented shampoo, soap, bath salts, perfume, and so on.
 If you use makeup, you may want to wear some just after enjoying a spa day. Therefore, it's not a bad idea to keep some makeup supplies in your spa kit. This way, they'll be readily on hand after you get out of the bath or shower after a spa day.If you really want to treat yourself, consider getting slightly fancier makeup than usual. You can have, say, a special lipstick you only get to wear on spa days.
 Burn a CD or make a playlist of your favorite relaxing songs for your spa kit. You will be able to relax and unwind while playing soft music in the background as you enjoy baths and face masks.If you're stumped on what music to add, you can look up playlists on websites like Spotify and Pandora that include relaxing music.
Try investing in a device to play your music as well. A small set of speakers, for example, can be hooked up to your smart phone to play music that will help you unwind and relax.
 The proper lights can help set the mood for a spa day. If you're having a spa day, you may want the lights a little dimmer. Try picking up some tea lights, candles, or Christmas lights to string up for spa day. Keep them tucked in your kit so you can break out the right mood when you're ready to relax., You could consider adding products that are a little unconventional to your spa package. In addition to regular products for soaks and scrubs, consider trying some a little out there.Buy special mustard powder made for a mustard bath. Many spas offer mustard baths for massages and baths to help moisturize skin.
Some spas offer beer baths, as beer may help balance the pH in skin and prevent fungal infections. Try adding a couple of cans of beer to your spa kit and pouring them into a bath.
 If there's anything you enjoy specifically as a treat, add it to your spa kit. You do not have to limit your kit to items you would use in the bath.


Try flowers. Many people enjoy the scent of fresh flowers. Leaving a bouquet of flowers near the sink, for example, can make you feel pampered on your at home spa day.If you enjoy a special type of drink, like tea, include some tea bags in your spa kit. You can enjoy a relaxing cup of tea in the bath.
Do you like reading in the tub? If so, include things like books and magazines.

