 Different shades of pink are more or less flattering depending on your skin tone. Before selecting a pink eye shadow, think about what shades would look best on you.If you have darker skin, a bolder shade is better. It will fade slightly when applied to your skin, and lighter shades may not show up well. For darker skin, a bolder pink is best. A pink with a purple undertone, for example, can work well.
For lighter skin, cooler pinks are better than bolder shades. Shades that are too bright may be overpowering on lighter skin.;
, Different colors go better with different eye colors. Before choosing a pink, think about what shades of pink would potentially go well with your eyes.If you have brown or hazel eyes, you're lucky as a wide variety of colors will go well with your eyes. You will be able to choose from a variety of shades of pink, from very light to very dark colors.
If you have blue eyes, silver undertones can really bring out the color. Go for a pink eye shadow that has a slightly silvery appearance. You can also go for a lighter pink, as colors with pink undertones tend to go well with brown eyes.
If you have green eyes, more reddish colors might work well. While you don't want to pick something too red, as this can look sickly, a plum pink or grayish pink would probably work well with your eyes.
 Even considering your skin tone and eye color, finding the right shade takes work. The colors of the whites of your eyes, as well as any dark spots or dislocations or blemishes on your face, can also affect how well a shade will look on you. It's a good idea to select a variety of pink shades at a department store and play around until you find something that's flattering on you.To save money, see if you can find small, sample sizes of eye shadow.
You can also buy cheaper eye shadow when you're experimenting. When you find an eye shadow you like, you can buy this color in a more expensive, higher quality eye shadow.
 When choosing a shade for yourself, you want to avoid something that's too red. A reddish shade of pink can make you look sickly. Anything with a reddish undertone should be avoided when selecting the right eye shadow., With any eye shadow regimen, you should always start with primer. This can help hold your eye shadow in place and make it stand out.Use your ring finger to apply a very thin layer of primer to your eyelids.Make sure to use primer sparingly. Too much primer may not dry completely before you apply eye shadow, making your eye shadow look smeared.
If you plan on applying eye shadow near your eyebrows or under your eyelids, apply a light layer of primer here too.
 To start, add your chosen pink eye shadow to your upper lash line. Use a corner brush, which is a think, pointed brush, to run a line of eye shadow all your upper lash line.You're going for roughly the same line you would draw when applying eye liner.
Once the line is in place, use another brush to blend it upward slightly. You want a strong line of pink near the lash line. The color should then move upward, fading slightly as it reaches the brow bone.
As you move the brush, use a motion like a windshield wiper to distribute your eye shadow.
 Your crease is the area between your upper eyelid and your brow bone. Once your lids are covered, you can apply a layer of your chosen eye shadow to your crease. You should use an eye shadow brush to apply. Choose a slightly smaller brush that can comfortably fit in your crease.Start in the center of the eyelid. Dab some eye shadow here, and then blend it out in either direction.
You want the eye shadow to be brightest at the center of your crease and then to fade out towards either corner of your eyes.
Use small, circular motions to apply the eye shadow across the crease.
 Brown or black eyeliner works well with pink eye shadow. Apply a small line of eye shadow running along your lash line. Then, add a couple of layers of mascara to finish off your look., This may make it look like you have pink eye or an eye infection. Avoid applying pink eye shadow below your waterline or on your waterline.If you want to add a bit of pink circling your eye, add a layer of eye liner above your water line. Then, apply the pink below the eyeliner. This will create a slight barrier between your eyeshadow and waterline, preventing a sickly look.
 If you have bloodshot eyes in the morning, pink eyeliner can bring out the red. This will not be flattering. If you notice bloodshot eyes, use eyedrops before applying pink eye shadow., You do not have to wear pink eye shadow on its own. If you like a particular shade of pink but it clashes with your eye color or skin tone, you can try blending it with different colors.Eyeliner works well as a blending medium. If your choice of pink clashes with your eye color, create a barrier by drawing a stronger, thicker line of eyeliner on your lash line in brown or black. The pink will match well with the brown or black liner, which will match with your eyes.
You can also use a more neutral eye shadow, like brown or black, near your lash line and the corners of your eyes and use pink eyeshadow on the crease.

