 In addition to the grants housed under the FAFSA program, the US federal government offers a number of additional discretionary grants. These grants are awarded using a competitive process. Begin looking for these grants up to one year prior to the school year you seek to fund.


Visit the US Department of Education website at https://www2.ed.gov/fund/grants-apply.html.
Read about grants available for the following school year.
Find a grant for which you are eligible.
 Discretionary federal grants are awarded through a competitive process. As such, application requirements will vary from award to award. Determine the specific requirements for the award to which you are applying.Common requirements include:


Online application which asks for basic personal information.
A personal essay explaining your eligibility for the award, as well as what makes you special.
Proof of acceptance into a particular program.
Resume or Curriculum vitae.
Previous high school or college transcripts.
 Once you have determined the specific requirements for the grant you are applying for, gather or create each document one by one. Be sure to ask a parent or teacher to read over and proof-read any documents for you. Once you have compiled all needed documents, submit them by mail or online prior to the due date.
 US Federal discretionary grants are awarded through competitive processes. Most of these awards are intended to fund specific kinds of research across a variety of fields. Some of these awards are open to undergraduate students, but many are geared toward graduate students and professionals. Additionally, some are intended for US students/professionals, and some for international students/professionals. These grants are prestigious, competitive, and carry significant awards (up to $80,000 in some cases). Federal discretionary grants are handled by seven different federal offices.These are:


The Institute of Education Sciences
The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
The Office of Innovation and Improvement
The Office of Postsecondary Education
The Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services
The Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education
The Office of English Language Acquisition

