 If you experience gas problems regularly, consider avoiding or limiting these foods:


Legumes. Beans are difficult to digest because they contain a sugar called oligosaccharide that the body cannot break down because it doesn't produce the right enzyme to do so. The oligosaccharide molecules remain whole through most of the digestion process and produce gas in the small intestine.
Foods high in fiber. Fiber has many health benefits, but eating a large amount of grains and fibrous fruits and vegetables can lead to gas. Don't stop eating these beneficial foods altogether, but you might want to avoid the ones that seem to give you the worst gas.
Dairy products containing lactose. Many people are slightly lactose intolerant; that glass of milk you have in the morning might be contributing to gas.
Soda and other carbonated beverages.
Fried foods and other fatty foods.
Artificial additives. Sweeteners like sorbitol and mannitol lead to gas and diarrhea.
 Taking fiber supplements, laxatives, or antibiotics can cause gas. These irritate the bowels and remove the bacteria needed for properly digesting food.
 Taking the time to chew each piece helps to break down the food before it enters your stomach and intestines, creating less work for your digestive system. Chewing with your mouth closed can also help, since swallowing a lot of air can lead to gas.
 Changing the order in which you eat food can prevent the production of gas. Eating protein with or before fiber and carbohydrates allows your digestive system to work properly.When you begin eating a meal, your stomach produces hydrochloric acid in anticipation of digesting protein. If salad or bread hits your stomach first, the acid gets used up before you ingest meat, fish, or another protein. The protein then ferments and leads to gas and bloating.
Health food stores sell hydrochloric acid supplements that you can take to help you digest protein. These should be taken after the meal, so your stomach has the chance to produce as much acid as it can first.
 In order to properly digest your food, your digestive tract needs a good supply of healthy bacteria. Fermented foods supply your body with the type of bacteria it needs to break other foods down.


Try yogurt, kefir, and other cultured dairy foods. Make sure the label says that the product contains probiotics.
Kimchi, sauerkraut, and other fermented vegetables also have good probiotic properties.
 Health food stores carry enzyme tablets or pills that supply your body with enzymes it lacks to help you digest beans, fiber and fats. Taking these before or during your meals will prevent the production of gas.


Beano is the most common over-the-counter product engineered to prevent gas caused by beans.
Other supplements are geared toward preventing gas caused by carbohydrates and fats. Think about what foods in your diet seem to stimulate the production of gas, and buy the right type of supplement accordingly.
Activated charcoal is another over-the-counter gas treatment that can be taken both before and after meals.

