 Firstly, you need two pans for this, one for the veg/chili/garlic and one for the meat.


Put only a teaspoon or two of oil (preferable groundnut oil, but it doesn't matter) in the veg pan, once hot, add the chopped chili first, this infuses the oil with the chili heat and flavor. The first thing you put in the pan is essential.





;
, if you don't have the seeds, and you only have the powder, then add a touch of this now instead, not all at this stage.
,


You don't need a lot of oil at all, as the meat gives off some good juices. The meat starts to sweat the fat off itself as it starts to brown, once this has happened, pour 95% of the fat juice from the meat into the veg pan, so essentially, the veg is now cooking in meat fats. They soak up that flavor and make them really really tasty!!






Next put some more of the cumin into the veg, not all of it, and a little bit of salt and black pepper.






You want the lamb (or if you really want to use beef, go ahead) to be brown but not burnt, keep it moving, sprinkle a touch of cumin on the meat, stir it round, remember, you don't need it 100% cooked, as you're still gonna be stewing it a little later on.






Making sure you don't overcook it here is key to keeping the tenderness of the lamb.






Once the meat is at a point you're happy with, and the veg is nicely softened a little (the peppers won't soften so much but they are now packed full of flavor and burst in your mouth when you eat them), add the meat to the veg, or veg to the meat, which ever pan is bigger.






Add your chopped tomatoes and your chili kidney beans stir around and add all the cumin now, don't be shy with it, it's what gives a good chili real flavor. Add a decent amount of black pepper and salt to taste.
 At this point, depending on how confident you feel you can try experimenting with a few different flavors, you could grate a little nutmeg in now, add a touch of paprika or even cinnamon. Feel free to experiment.
 remember do not think you've put in too little of this, as you can overdo it easily. 10drops max.
,,,, Also works well with tortilla chips, sour cream , and garlic bread.
, The grated carrot and onion give it texture too and the soft lamb is delicious, and because of the RED beans and general red color of the dish, and the YELLOW peppers, and the GREEN peppers, that's why I've named it "Traffic Light Chili".
