 Just because you don’t have any clear glass ornaments lying around, doesn’t mean you can’t make some gorgeous filled tree ornaments. Clear plastic wine, champagne, or margarita glasses all work great as improvised bulbs, or you can use some new or used lightbulbs.If you’re using old light bulbs, check to be sure that they’re not browned or yellowed from exposure. Clean out all used materials with rubbing alcohol or cleaning spray in order to remove unsightly dust and stains., Now that you’ve got your bare components gathered, you need to get rid of extraneous functional elements. If you’re dealing with plastic stemware, chop off the bulk of the stem with some heavy scissors or shears. If you’re using light bulbs, pull out the brass contact, filaments, glass insulator, and fill tube with a pair of pliers and a screwdriver.You should leave a half inch or so of the plastic stem on the wine glass. This will make it easier to sever the stem, as well as leave a pointed surface to which you can attach the ornament hook.
Be sure that an adult performs this part of the task if there are any children present. Also be sure never to use fluorescent bulbs, as the inner coating is toxic., Using ornament hooks you’ve purchased at a hobby or art store, adhere them to the top of the glassware stem or the metal bottom of the light bulb. Hot glue works well for this task, but rubber cement or super glue can also be used in a pinch.If you don’t have any ornament hooks handy, you can use ribbons instead.
 You can use almost anything to fill your ornaments, so get creative! Plastic or foam beads can be found at any crafts store, or you can use colorful cake sprinkles, bright candies such as M&Ms, or popcorn.If you’re using old light bulbs, you can make your ornament look like a snowman by filling it with all white beads or glitter.
 While old light bulbs have a built-in lid to close in the filling, you’ll need to create your own top if you’re using plastic stemware. Cardboard coasters are sufficiently sturdy for your purposes and require minimal effort to trim to size, but you can also use scraps of thick cardboard or foam and cut them into circles. Glue the makeshift lids to the rim of the glass and hold it steady before trimming off any overlap.If you have some small, plastic Christmas trinkets laying around, you can glue them to the coaster to create something resembling a mini-snow globe. Just be sure to use only a dusting of glitter or beads in these ornaments so that the figurine will be visible.