 Find a quiet room and draw the curtains so there is no light to distract you. If you are trying to clear your mind in your office, close the door and pull the blinds so you have a moment alone.Seek out a space that is quiet and isolated so you can process your emotions and release any stress or tension. Try to find a spot with no phones, computers, or co-workers or friends who can interrupt you.;
, This technique can help you relax the major muscle groups in your body.Sit on a yoga mat or lie down.
Start with your facial muscles. Frown hard for 5-10 seconds and then relax your facial muscles.
Scrunch up your face or knit your eyebrows for 5-10 seconds and then relax your muscles.
You should feel a noticeable difference between the tense and relaxed muscles.
Tighten and release other muscle groups, such as your shoulders, arms, chest, and legs, until you have tensed and relaxed individual muscle groups throughout your whole body.
 Once you have found a quiet space where you will not be interrupted, you can do a simple meditation exercise to clear your mind.Close your eyes and sit still for 30 seconds.
Focus on your breathing. Take deep inhales and exhales through your nose. Try to slow down your breathing so it is deep and long on each inhale and exhale. Do this for about a minute.
Continue to breathing slowly and deeply for two more minutes. Picture a calm, natural space, like a beach, a lake, or a forest.
Take another minute to sit and breathe. Open your eyes once the five minutes are over.
 Breathing exercises can help to reduce your stress level and calm down. Sit in a quiet space, with your back straight, and try the 4-7-8 exercise.Place the tip of your tongue against your upper front teeth. Exhale through your mouth, making a whoosh sound. Close your mouth and inhale through your nose to the count of four.
Hold your breath for a count of seven. Then, exhale through your mouth, making a whoosh sound, to the count of eight.
Inhale again and repeat the cycle three more times for a total of four breaths. Make sure you always inhale quietly through your nose and exhale with a whoosh sound through your mouth.
Continue this cycle of breathing 5-10 times. Don’t worry if you feel slightly lightheaded after practicing this breathing exercise. This is a normal side effect and indicates you are releasing stress and tension in your body.
 Finish your meditation by putting on music that calms and relaxes you. Look for mixes online with calming music, like a Classical or ambient music mix.You can also create your own mix with music you find calming and relaxing.

