 When planning a healthy eating menu for people, it may be difficult to decide what to include and what not to put in the healthy eating menu as you may not know the tastes and preferences of your guests. The best thing to do is stay neutral in your healthy eating menu. Ensure that you have a combination of dishes for both vegetarians and non-vegetarians. In this way, everybody will have a taste of what they like.;
, When shopping for a healthy eating menu, go for fresh produce and try to avoid processed and packaged foods. Not only are these foods usually unhealthy but they also contain additives which some of your guests may be allergic to. When shopping for a healthy eating menu you can also go for the natural spices such as rosemary leaves and fresh ginger instead of going for the ground powdery stuff.
 A healthy eating menu would not be complete without and assortment of fruits that are high in fiber and natural sugars. A fruit salad makes a great desert as compared to cake or ice-cream in a healthy eating menu. This is because rarely are people allergic to fruits and they are full on nutritious quality.
 If you are going to include animal protein in your healthy eating menu, you can go for fish protein as it has a high protein quality or other white meats. Red meat is not always an advisable choice in a healthy eating menu. For the vegetarians, legumes are a must in the healthy eating menu as they are an excellent source of proteins and fiber.
 Focus on vegetable oils when preparing your healthy eating menu for both the vegetarian and non vegetarian dishes. Vegetable oils contain good cholesterol that can be easily metabolized by the body.
 All the foods in a healthy eating menu should be cooked from scratch. Your healthy eating menu should not contain restaurant bought foods as it cannot be deemed healthy when you have not overseen the process of preparation and inclusion of the ingredients mentioned above.
 Ensure that you have enough of dark green vegetables in your healthy eating menu as these are not only a great source of fiber.

