 That kind of assumption would be a problem. That has not been the pattern of success. One must launch -- go get your share by starting small but dreaming big.
 All parties could love creating pure opportunities and jobs in the private sector, if possible.
 But progress may be painfully slow for millions of families. Be sure to include your town or city and postal zip code to avoid having your emails or letters ignored as from anonymous person.


Consider rallying with other people to shout with a PAC, T.E.A. Party or the newer "Coffee Party", or a formal political party, etc. for renewing the economic ideals and incentives for the long term, long run, for the American light, medium and heavy industries to help create the atmosphere for small business and working for profit.
, Signs of unbelievable ideas that bring on decline are all around us:The lower 20 floors of the new World Trade Center is to be enclosed in glass made in China?
Who ordered the new 28-foot statue of Martin Luther King Jr. for the Mall in Washington from the Chinese workshops?



, -- but first maybe you should get mad -- and then get into business in whatever works for you and create jobs.


Remember what made the U.S. a most dynamic nation in the world and can do so again: Consider the importance of educating the motivated and innovative young people. In their new book, Harvard economists Claudia Goldin and Larry Katz when the U.S. became the world’s richest nation at the beginning of the 20th century because we developed industries and educated more of our kids than anyone else., "40,000 college seniors applied this year to Teach for America, the volunteer teaching corp."Consider starting a charter school (state chartered), private or church related school. Find or organize a group, club -- or more likely your kind of church that is interested in having a school; your church can furnish the class building, Chapel area, playground, cafeteria area, and parking lot, etc. Start with daycare, two preschool classes, then increase in the next year to include one or two kindergarten classes, and keep expanding.
When enough of you kindergarten graduates want to go to your first grade, then register first graders early as possible in the Spring for the Fall of that year; if can you build that up to two first grade classes, then start one second grade. This can grow to middle school (if you have few students then 3rd and 4th graders may be taught together in one classroom; also the 5th and 6th grader in another -- with different textbooks per grade level). Check related accredited schools for regional and national, private organizations for certifying teachers under guidelines for full accreditation after a period of time. State related accreditation, certification, may or may not be required in your state for private or church related schools.
 MIT president Susan Hockfield notes that "investment after World War II created waves of new industries and jobs in electronics, nuclear power, aerospace, communications, and computing."Don't be slow relative to other hungry competition. As "New York Times" columnist Thomas Friedman points out, we "have only a tiny handful of the top 10 global companies in emerging green industries" so far in the U.S., It is here to stay. You shouldn’t be scared off nor discouraged by hard work and competition. That’s not who you are, if you have the kind of ambition required to do this innovating.
 Try using "free job search tools" such as one at Parade Magazine, parade.com.