,


Draw a vertical line in the middle of the head so you know the center of the face.
You can draw on a different angle for her pose. Add two L-shaped lines for her jaw guide.
For her body draw a rounded trapezoid with a rectangular trapezoid connected to the top.



For the limbs and legs, just draw some lines. It all comes to the artist’s preference.
For her neck just draw a rectangle to connect the body to her head.



Draw 2 short parallel lines for her cheeks.
For the hands, just draw rounded ovals.



On the center of the face, draw her small nose and exaggeratingly large lips. Make sure to make the lower lip big and the upper lip thin.
Add two almond-shaped figures for her eyes. Make the eyes skew a little from the center.
On the top part of her head, draw a horizontal line for her bandana. Also, add a 4-petaled flower on the end of the bandana band.



If you want to show some fingers, draw simple lines for your guide.
For her bangs, draw some curvy and wavy lines.



Basically, Lagoona’s hair looks like waves so you might want to keep that in mind when drawing her hair. Aside from that, it’s just simple lines and curves.



For her fins, add triangles on her legs, her wrist and beside her bandana.
Add two circles inside her eyes for her iris.
For She usually wears a vest blouse so add a vest to her body as well.
By now, you should have her basic skeleton.



Put in mind the overlapping lines and parts that should be hidden.
For her limbs and legs, just add some width from the bone. It doesn’t matter if your legs look weird. The drawing style for Monster High defies logic and proportional rules.
Don’t forget to add her board shorts and webbed fingers.
The lineart might not look perfect and crisp but it should look neat when the pencil is erased.



You can add details like scales, jewelry and different accessories. Don’t forget to add some eyelashes and the inside lens (which is just 2 small circles overlapping a big one).
Try to add more if needed. Don’t be afraid to add more lines than what is necessary. You can add lots of trinkets on her clothes. Try adding some flowers or pearls.
 and remember Lagoona has some freckles.

