 Respect their independence by offering assistance with daily living objectives.


Physical restrictions preparing meals or completing household tasks such as laundry.
Signs of neglect or elder abuse.
Maintaining schedule of medications.
Timeliness paying bills.
Keeping up with general appointments.;
,


Wheelchair access will require home remodeling that may include installing a wheelchair access ramp or modifying a bathroom.
Upgrade land-line and cell phones with hearing enhancements or larger buttons.
Provide walking and seating aids when mobility becomes difficult due to arthritis, after an injury, surgical procedure or other condition.
Consider assistive technology options for reading such as an electronic reader, audio and Braille.
 Becoming involved in your elder loved one's health care can help them feel secure about challenges ahead. Health and wellness is a critical area that may need the guidance of a medical professional.


Assist in maintaining schedule of medications.
Supervise changes in medication or therapy.
Monitor significant shifts in mood such as extreme sadness, anger or irritability.
Notate changes or difficulty of mobility not observed previously.
 Grief can go through stages that may include depression, withdrawal, guilt, blame and loss of appetite.


Include your senior loved one in family activities and celebrations.
Encourage participation in senior citizen programs.
Recommend individual or group grief counseling.
Offer to listen whenever he or she would like to talk.
 Paying bills and completing tax returns may become difficult or forgotten. Patterned behavior may be a sign that assistance is needed.


Plan time to help with paying bills, grocery shopping or going to the bank.
Explain the risk of scams and how they can affect life.
Offer assistance with legal issues.
 Maintaining documentation of the living conditions, physical differences and personality changes may indicate signs of declining care or elder abuse.


Is he happy to see you with open arms or a handshake?
Is the living environment clean?
Is your loved one clean and properly dressed?
Are there any bruises, scratches or pressures sores on their body?
Is communication with staff pleasant or hesitant?

