 Figuring out the reasons you typically drink can help you cope emotionally. You can realize what role alcohol plays in your life, allowing you to find other means to fill that role.First, think about when you tend to drink. Do you drink socially on the weekends? Do you usually have a beer or two after a long work day?
Once you've identified situations where you typically drink, think about why you're drinking. If you, say, usually have a few beers alone Thursdays and Fridays, maybe the stress of work makes you want to unwind. Think about other things you could do to unwind. Maybe you could go for a long walk instead or give yourself a treat, like a bowl or ice cream, instead of reaching for the booze.
 There may be certain situations or moments in which you're more tempted than others. Try to identify times where triggers to drink occur. Once you've identified these triggers, try to alter your schedule to avoid them.For example, maybe your office has happy hour on Fridays. In order to avoid attending, try to schedule something just after work on Friday. If you, say, have a spin class at the gym every Friday, this is a great excuse to skip out on happy hour.
 It can be hard to stay motivated if you lose track of the reasons behind your goals. When you start feeling tempted to drink, get out a pen and paper and write down all the reasons you quit.Think about your mentality when you began dry January. Why were you motivated to quit drinking? Was it to shed holiday weight? Was it to remind yourself how to entertain yourself without alcohol?
Write down as many reasons you can remember in regards to why you quit. You can keep this list on hand and consult it when you need added motivation.
 It can be hard to quit drinking all by yourself. Try asking friends and family members for support. You can let people know not to invite to events where there is a lot of alcohol. You can also ask a friend or family member to do dry January with you. The two of you can keep one another motivated throughout the month.Oftentimes, people feel it's appropriate to encourage others to drink, even after they've politely declined. If you have friends or family members that say things like, "Come on, just have one," politely let them know you don't need this extra pressure.

