 Remove all fridges, phones, and anything else that can raise your Sim's hunger motive. Removing the phone might not seem necessary, but keep in mind that your Sims could use it to order pizza (or Chinese food if you have University). Your Sims will whine, cry, and yell at you for not feeding them; ignore them and wait. After they whine and cry for awhile, they'll curl up into a ball and die.;
, Get a Sim that is bad at cooking. Buy the cheapest stove, or even better, a microwave. Cook a big dinner and then let it burn away. For maximum effect, fill the room with plants and wooden furniture, and delete the door. Remember to remove any fire alarms, as this will automatically call the fire brigade. If all of your Sims are good cooks, buy the decoration that shoots fire. You can find it in Decorative/Misc. Simply place it adjacent to any item in the room, including your Sim.


Buy a fireplace and a heart-shaped rug. Place the rug in front of the fireplace and light a fire. Before long, the rug will catch fire. You can also buy a rug made of flowers, found in the Decorative/Misc. section.
 Make your vampire Sim walk outside during the day! They will use their hands to shield their face and turn to ash.
 If you have University, a Sim who reaches the top of the Natural Science career will be rewarded with a Cowplant. Neglecting to feed the Cowplant will make it attempt to lure Sims with its cake-shaped tongue and eat them. Typically a Sim will die upon being eaten, with a few exceptions (if their hygiene is very low, for instance).


After a Sim is eaten by the Cowplant, have another Sim milk the plant for a delicious, life-extending drink.
 If you have Apartment Life, your Sim has access to elevators. Make your Sim ride a broken elevator when their needs are low. They will walk out dizzy, then die.
 If you have Apartment Life, you can purchase a Murphy Bed (a bed that folds out from the wall). If a Sim with low motives sleeps in a Murphy Bed, it can fold in on them and crush them.
 The Sim is outside in a storm when lightning strikes him and he dies. No one goes outside because Max was mean.
 The nicest way to go. Grandma Mary is 97 and she meets the Grim Reaper and two lovely hula girls. The hula girls do a dance and Mary packs her bag, holds the Grim Reaper's hand and dies.
 Noah gets hit by hailstones as big as Soccer Balls. Noah dies and everyone wakes up and runs outside and cries. So sad.
 Milly goes and tries to fix the radio in a puddle of water that Jim was meant to clean up. She has no mechanical skill so she gets electrocuted and dies. Jim thinks she wet herself and slept so he cleans up the puddle and realizes she's dead.
 Get a pool with no ladder, just a diving board. Make your Sim jump into it. They will soon drown. Or, if you have Seasons, tell them to jump into the pool; you won't need a diving board. A relative can't plead with the grim reaper because they can't access the death site, so the drowned Sim has no opportunity to be revived.
 Create a family of about 8 Sims and just put them on a lot. No house, nothing else and just hit that fast-forward key until the grim reaper shows up. Once everyone's dead, exit, but do not bulldoze the lot. Place another family on the lot (feel free to build a house this time if you like). Do this often enough and you will have a lot full of urns and tombstones in no time. Living Sims can be scared to death by the ghosts.
 If you wait long enough, a satellite will fall down and crush your Sim. Note: this is neither a speedy nor efficient form of death and is about as likely as alien abduction at any given moment.
 After you've killed all of the other Sims, their ghosts may very well scare the living daylights out of your survivors.
 Put your Sim in a narrow hallway filled with rotting food/dirty dishes. Stepping on a tile with rotten food carries a small chance that a swarm of flies will engulf your Sim.
 Also, you can't die from a cold, but colds turn into pneumonia, which can kill you.
 Enable the movement cheat (type "move_objects on" exactly as it is seen here, minus the quotes, into the cheat box. The cheat box can be displayed by pressing Ctrl, Shift, and C at the same time) and, in Buy Mode or Build mode, use the Hand tool to drop your Sim into the room.
 Go through the menu until you see the spawn option. Click on it, then go to Rodney's death creator. A little tombstone will appear next to your Sim, click on it, and chose the way your Sim dies.
 Shift+click a sim, then click "Kill", then click "Die by flies". This will force death by flies. To do this to a townie you must first have the boolProp cheat activated, shift click on them and click "Make Selectable". Then you can kill them.
 This program comes with many of the methods listed above, such as "Dying of Fright", sickness, fire, satellite, so on and so forth. There is also an option to have your sim die of old age. Find it here. You must register for a free account first, however.
, Hold shift and press your sim, press spawn.
It will come up with a large selection of actions. Press Rodney's death creator.
It will come up with a tombstone in your home.
Press the tombstone and there will be a variety of ways to kill your sim.
If you choose to delete this tombstone, you can sell it in the shop or simply hold shift and press force error.
It will come up with a large blue rectangle. Press delete. The tombstone will be gone. If you wish to do the need-dragging, you must go to a location on the sims, or reload the neighbourhood and go back to the home. You will then be able to drag the needs up!

