 You'll need a large space to work in, so clear a decent-sized area--you'll be working with panels that are 5 feet (1.5 m) long. You'll need:


Tissue paper (24" by 30" (61 cm by 76 cm)
Cutting pattern (available at Web Weather for Kids)
Scissors
Straight pins
Rubber cement or glue sticks
Pipe cleaners
Propane stove or other high-heat apparatus;
, This will make one 5 foot (1.5 m) long panel (1.5 m). Use your glue stick or rubber cement to keep the two pieces together. Make sure it's secure! If air escapes, the balloon won't fly.


Do this for seven more panels, for a total of 8 5-foot long panels.
Plan out the order of the colors for the look of your balloon, but don't glue them together just yet.
 Make sure they are straight, so each panel is the same as the others.


Pin the panels together with your straight pins to ensure the tissue doesn't move as you're cutting. This will help prevent rips and tears, which are detrimental to the success of your balloon.
 Use 1 inch (2.5 cm) of overlap on each panel, gluing on opposite sides as you go. After you glue all the sides together, it should fold out like a fan.


After you have formed a line of panels, glue the first and last panel together with their open sides. This will form a ring. Make sure glue is placed up and down the entire line of each panel.
 It's easiest to do this with the balloon flat. Glue it over the top hole in the balloon.


It's much better to make this circle too big than just barely big enough. Tissue paper is light enough that an extra inch or two won't affect the weight of your balloon and thus its ability to fly.
 You're going to start with your pipe cleaners to give it permanent structure.


Form the pipe cleaners into a circle the size of the bottom opening.
Position the pipe cleaners on the inside about 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the edge.
Fold the tissue over the pipe cleaners and glue it into place.

If you don't have pipe cleaners, you can use wire. It should be at least 24 inches long (61 cm) and 16 gauge. You will also need wire cutters.
 If there are any precarious spots, fix them now. Patch them with pieces of tissue paper cut to fit.


If you'd like, you can attach a small tag with your name and address now. Tether it to the bottom with fishing line.
 Take a minute to fully allow the hot air balloon to fill with hot air.


A couple of hair dryers will also work, among other things.
You'll feel it start to resist being held down. When it reaches that point, give it a gentle push and watch it fly.

You may find more success in the morning, night, or during winter, depending on your location. Cold weather makes the difference in temperature more stark and thus more effective.



