 You cannot be sued for damages resulting from a child's criminal behavior if you did not have custody and control of the child at the time the acts were committed.If you are divorced or legally separated from the child's other parent, a copy of the custody order or a court-approved parenting plan can show that you do not have custody of your child, or did not have custody when the criminal act occurred.
Likewise, if the child is considered a ward of the state, you cannot be held accountable for damages caused by the child's criminal activity, even if you are the child's biological parent.
While some states hold parents accountable for damages caused by the criminal activity of children up to 21 years of age, you may be able to escape liability by proving that the child is independent of you.
For example, if your child left home at 18 years of age, got a job, supports herself, and you do not claim her on your taxes as a dependent, the court may rule you are not accountable for damages or losses caused by her criminal activity.
 In some cases a juvenile court will order restitution as part of a juvenile adjudication. If restitution is complete, the victims typically cannot sue the child's parents for any more money.Because the law recognizes that children typically cannot compensate their victims, any order to pay restitution assessed in juvenile court will be paid by the parents.
Some states do not order such restitution without first having a hearing. At the hearing, you have the opportunity to defend yourselves and prove that you were responsible parents who should not have to pay restitution for your children's crimes.
However, once restitution is paid, victims typically aren't allowed to demand more money from the parents for additional losses, even if those losses weren't covered by the restitution order.
 In some jurisdictions, you will not be held accountable for damages resulting from crimes your child committed after he or she voluntarily left your home with no intention of returning.You must be able to show that the child voluntarily abandoned your home. You could have your child testify to this fact, or you could produce a police report in which the child was reported missing.
 You also may have a defense against parental accountability for juvenile crime if you can provide sufficient evidence that you did what you could to keep your child on the straight and narrow.In some states, this is not a valid defense, although proof of diligent supervision over your child may mitigate damages.
Witness testimony from the child's teachers or coaches could assist in proving you made an effort to keep your child from engaging in criminal activity.
If you enrolled your child in any camps or programs designed to improve discipline or teach avoidance of criminal activity and bad influences, proof of that also may demonstrate your good faith effort.
Other witness testimony from relatives, friends, and neighbors can support your claim as well.

