 The best way to prevent meningitis is to make personal hygiene a priority. Wash your hands throughout the day. You should wash your hands after using the bathroom, before and after eating food, before and after preparing food, and after handling animals, sneezing or coughing, and interacting with a sick person.Strive to wash your hands for about 20 seconds. It can help to hum the "Happy Birthday" song twice to keep track of time.
Wash your hands completely. Do not neglect the backs of your hands, beneath your fingernails, and between your fingers.
Make sure to rinse your hands under warm water and dry them with a towel.;
, Meningitis can be spread through the saliva of a sick person. Therefore, practice basic personal hygiene. Never share drinks, straws, or utensils with others. This is especially important if the person in question is sick., Make sure to cover both your mouth and nose. This can limit the amount of germs in the air. You may want to carry a handkerchief or tissue if you sneeze or cough frequently.Remember to wash your hands after sneezing or coughing.
 You can be infected with listeriosis when pregnant, which is a bacteria that can cause meningitis. This can affect your health, and the health of your baby. Listeriosis can be caused by eating contaminated food.Make sure to cook all meats, including things like deli meats and hot dogs, up to 165 F (74 C).
Check labels when purchasing cheeses. Do not buy any cheeses made from unpasteurized milk.
 Babies are at an increased risk for meningitis as they're too young for vaccination. However, people of any age group can develop meningitis. If you live among a large group of people, you're at greater risk. Take extra precautions if you live in a community setting, like a college., Some forms of meningitis are preventable with certain immunizations. Check your medical records to see when and if you received a vaccination for meningitis. If you need a vaccination, make an appointment to receive one as soon as possible.The haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine is usually recommended to young children. However, if you have a disease that compromises your immune system, talk to your doctor. He or she may feel you would also benefit from receiving this vaccine.
 Meningitis can be serious and even fatal if left untreated. Make sure you're vigilant about symptoms, especially if there is a meningitis outbreak in your area. Symptoms include the following:Nausea.
Vomiting.
Increased sensitivity to light.
Confusion.
Neck stiffness.
 Late symptoms of meningitis can include seizures and a coma. Therefore, it's vital to seek treatment as soon as symptoms develop. Meningitis can be fatal without prompt treatment.If you have an infant, symptoms may be difficult to recognize. Infants with a meningitis infection may vomit, be irritable, and appear slow and inactive. If you notice any of these symptoms in your infant, take your baby to the doctor right away.
 If you're caring for someone infected with meningitis, you may want to take antibiotics to prevent an infection. Antibiotics may also be recommended if you're living with someone at an increased risk of a meningitis infection. Talk to your doctor about trying antibiotics if you live with or care for someone with a meningitis infection or someone who may develop one., Alcohol can lower the body's immune system, limiting your ability to fight off infections like meningitis. Therefore, it's a good idea to refrain from drinking most days. When you do drink, do so in moderation.Moderation is defined as up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Binge drinking can lower your immune system. This is drinking more than five drinks for men and more than four drinks for women in a two hour period.
You should stick to having one or two drinks each day, if that. If you do not currently consume alcohol, do not start.
 Having a healthier overall diet can boost your immune system. There are many supplements and special diets meant to boost immunity, but research on their effectiveness is limited. For best results, stick to a basic healthy diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains over any fad diets or dietary supplements.Eat a wide variety of fresh, frozen, and canned fruits and vegetables. You should try to add some fruits and veggies to your plate at every meal. Look for ways to add fruits and vegetables to a meal. For example, add some spinach to a mac and cheese recipe.
Look for ways to prepare your food in healthier ways. Grill your chicken rather than frying it. Swap out dry, high-fiber beans for meat in a recipe.
Always choose whole grains over white bread, pasta, and rice. They have more nutrients and are more likely to leave you with a healthy immune system.
 Regular physical activity has an excellent effect on your immune system. Try to get in some physical activity every day. If you've been sedentary for a long time, discuss lifestyle changes with a doctor.Choose a form of physical activity you like, as you'll be more likely to stick to it. For example, say you hate running. Don't try doing a daily jog. Instead, opt to go swimming at your gym a few nights a week.
If you have a busy schedule, try to fit your workout into your established routine. For example, start walking or biking to work instead of driving.
 A poor sleep schedule can have a negative impact on your immune system. If you're looking to boost your immune system, fighting off a potential meningitis infection, work on prioritizing sleep.Stick to a sleep schedule. If you go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, including weekends, your body will adapt to a natural rhythm. This will make it easier to fall asleep at night and wake up in the morning.
Practice a bedtime ritual that relaxes you, like reading a book or taking a warm shower. Avoid electronics, however, as the blue light emitted from laptop and phone screens can make sleep difficult.
Avoid napping, especially in the afternoon, as this can make it hard to sleep at night.

