 A curfew isn't mandatory but many teens actually do better when they know what time they should be home. Putting limits on where they can go and what they can do will help them recognize that their behavior does matter.


Be reasonable and reward good behavior. If your teen is hanging out with friends you know and calls to check in, relax. They are giving you a reason to trust them; show them you recognize and appreciate their good behavior.
Explain your reasoning behind each rule. This will let your teen know that rules aren't just in place to make them unhappy. If you can't think of a good reason, chances are that rule should not be put in place.
 Saying, "You're grounded!" is no good if they are out and about the next night. Make sure your imposed boundaries have a reason to be obliged by.


Stick with it. It may be hard at first, but having a routine allows both of you to know what to expect. Your teen will know the consequences of his/her actions without you having to explain them outright.
 If you suspect a school problem is evolving, they may be privy to information you are not.


Teachers will be happy to keep your meeting confidential. Putting a bug in their ear that your child's behavior may be on a slippery slope is not embarrassing; teachers are there to help and may be unaware of any problems at home.
 They need all the time in their world to find out who they want to become. Holing themselves up in their bedrooms may not be the worst thing. Allow them their time.


This is especially necessary if your teen is prone to anger. They need time to cool off. Demanding apologies while they are still raging will only escalate the situation.
 This can be in any way you deem appropriate. Give them a list of chores or ask them to help around the community for their allowance.


Encourage them to get a part time job. If they don't seek one out themselves, ask around your area for potential employers or neighbors who need jobs done.
 Make sure you're active first! Make family dinners and game nights a regular event. Letting your child know they are a part of the family and matter will make them feel culpable for their actions.


Set a good example. If you're constantly online and emailing at the dinner table, they'll have no reason not to mirror your behavior. If you expect them to be involved, be involved yourself.

