 This form, provided by the Michigan Unemployment Insurance Agency (UIA) will help you to collect all the information you need in one place. You can a fillable PDF with spaces for all the necessary information at https://www.michigan.gov/documents/uia_1538_81121_7.pdf.


NOTE: This form is for your own records, to help you gather the necessary information so that you can fill out you application more easily. Do not submit this form to the Unemployment Insurance Agency.;
, If filing online, you only need to enter the numbers, which are necessary both to confirm your identity and so that the UIA can be sure you have not filed for unemployment benefits simultaneously in another state.If you file in person at a Problem Resolution Office, you will need to have your social security card and driver's license with you., You will need to provide a mailing address where information about your claim can be sent, as well as a phone number where UIA staff can contact you. If you do not have a phone, you will need a number where UIA staff can leave a message., If you have no bank account, you can have your benefits sent directly to a debit card issued by the UIA.If you do have a bank, you can get the debit card or choose to have your benefits deposited directly into your account. If you decide to have your money direct deposited, you will need:The ABA check routing number: a 9-digit code, it is the first number listed at the bottom of your checks.
You bank account number: the number at the bottom of your check that follows the routing number. Be sure not to include the check number, which typically follows the account number.
 If you are not a citizen or national of the United States, you will need your registration number along with the expiration date on you alien ID or immigration documents in order to register for unemployment., The UIA will use your employment information to calculate your eligibility and your benefits, which are based on the gross wages paid you in the first four of the last five completed calendar quarters preceding the Sunday of the week in which you file your claim. Quarters run from January 1 to March 31, April 1 to June 30, July 1 to September 30, and October 1 to December 31. If possible, collect W-2 forms from the last 18 months; they contain your employer’s Federal Employer Identification Number, which will speed the process. In addition, for each employer you will need:Employer’s name and payroll address
Beginning and end dates of employment
Quarterly gross earnings for you most recent period of continuous employment with them
Wages that do not count towards benefits include: minors working limited hours during school or during the summer; wages of legislators, judges, and elected officials; wages earned while working for a church, unless that church has elected to have coverage; and self-employment or work directly for a spouse.