 There are many different types of essential oils sold in health stores, drug stores, and online. You will need to choose an essential oil that can treat indigestion. Empirical research is limited regarding essential oils and indigestion, but anecdotal evidence, as well as some smaller studies, find certain essential can help with stomach problems.


In one study, inhaling the scent of orange slices seemed to improve nausea in cancer patients. Therefore, orange essential oil may be a good option. A similar study found an increase in nausea in response to bergamot oil, so you may want to avoid bergamot in your treatment.Peppermint oil has been found to treat indigestion in some cases. However, if your indigestion is related to gastroesophageal reflux disease, peppermint oil can actually worsen indigestion.Advocates of aromatherapy sometimes advise ginger oil, lavender oil, spearmint oil, grapefruit oil, and geranium oil for stomach problems.;
, You should never use essential oil before diluting it first, especially if you're using it directly on your skin. Essential oil should be diluted in a carrier oil, like olive oil or vegetable oil, or diluted in water prior to use.If you're applying essential oil directly to your skin, most adults need a dilution of 1 to 2.5%. This means you will use 6 to 15 drops of essential oil per ounce of a carrier oil.
If you're using essential oil in a bath, it's safe to add 2 to 12 drops of essential into a teaspoon of a carrying agent. For a bath, vegetable oil, whole milk, or honey would work well as a carrier.
If you're inhaling essential oils, place 3 to 7 drops of the oils into a pot of boiling water.
 It's not advised that you use essential oils on children, as they tend to have more sensitive skin. However, if you decide to do so, make sure you dilute the essential oil more so. For children, you will need a .5 to 1% dilution. This means you should only use 3 to 6 drops of essential oil per ounce of a carrier oil.In general, it's not a good idea to use essential oils for children under two.
Oils high in menthol, like eucalyptus and peppermint, can be very dangerous to use on children. If you're treating a child with essential oils, stay away from essential oils that are high in menthol.
 You can use aromatherapy by simply inhaling essential oils. Ginger oil can treat indigestion for some. Usually, you would add your essential oils to a pot of boiling water. After the water boils, remove it from the heat. Then, cover your head with a towel. Lean over the water and inhale the steam.One recipe advises you add 1 to 2 drops of ginger to a pot of boiling water. After removing the water from the heat, lean your head over the pot and inhale the steam for about 5 minutes.
Make sure to close your eyes when doing so. You also want to make sure the towel covers you and the bowl, as this will allow you to breathe in the oils.
 Many people also advocate massaging essential oils into the skin as a form of aromatherapy. For indigestion, it may make sense to massage the abdomen. While you should always dilute essential oils prior to use, it's particularly important when using essential oils directly on the skin. A combination of peppermint, lavender, and ginger can be used for indigestion.Mix 4 drops of ginger, 4 drops of lavender, 3 drops of peppermint, and 5 teaspoons of a carrier oil.
Use this mixture to massage the abdomen, making sure to work your abdomen in circular motions going in a clockwise direction.
 Many people bathe as a form of aromatherapy, allowing themselves to breathe in essential oils through the steam of a bathtub. A bath may be soothing anyway if you are experiencing indigestion.Remember, you should only use 2 to 12 drops of essential oils in a bath, and make sure to pair it with milk, honey, vegetable oil, or another carrier oil.Dilute the oil with a carrier oil before adding it to your bath. To help the oil mix with the water, it's a good idea to mix it into some shampoo or bubble bath before adding it to your bath. The oil should produce a sweet aroma that you can inhale as you bathe.
Use an essential oil known to help with indigestion in your bath. For example, things like ginger, peppermint, or orange essential oil may work.
 An aromatic spritzer is made by combining essential oils with water. You can then spritz a room lightly, allowing you to take in the scent and possibly relieve indigestion. Remember to choose essential oils, like orange essential oil, that's been effective for some with treating indigestion. You should only add 10 to 15 drops of your chosen essential oil for every ounce of water. Shake the mixture well before dispersing.You can spray your spritzer in a room and stay there for a few hours. See if symptoms of indigestion pass. It may make sense to spritz your bedroom before going to sleep at night, as you'll end up breathing in the oils in your sleep.
Be careful if you have pets. You may want to keep pets out of a room that has been spritzed with essential oils.
 A diffuser is a tool you can buy online that helps with aromatherapy. It is sort of like an inhaler for asthma, which you can use to inhale the scent of essential oils. Mix a combination of cardamom, grapefruit, spearmint, and geranium essential oils and then use your diffuser to inhale the scents.Mix 5 drops of cardamom, 5 drops of grapefruit, 5 drops of spearmint, and 3 drops of geranium oil in a small bowl. Place the wick of your diffuser in the bowl and allow it to absorb all the oil.
Place the wick back in your inhaler. Screw the wick back on completely. When you feel the symptoms of indigestion coming, try breathing in the oils and see if your symptoms improve.
 Under no circumstances should you apply an essential oil to the skin without diluting it first. Essential oils can cause skin irritation and rashes if used directly on bare skin, so always dilute your oils first.If you've never used essential oils before, you may want to use diluted oils on a small portion of your skin. Watch for a reaction before massaging them elsewhere on your body.
If you have an allergic reaction, you will notice red, flaky skin, pain, and irritation. Cease using the essential oils. The rash should clear up in a few days., There is little empirical research on the effectiveness of aromatherapy, and essential oils are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration.While not usually harmful, they may not effectively treat your indigestion. If your symptoms do not clear up on their own, or get worse, make an appointment with your doctor. You may need antibiotics, prescription drugs, or over-the-counter medication to treat your indigestion.


If your rash does not clear up within a few days, contact your doctor. You should also talk to your doctor if you notice more serious symptoms developing, like oozing, pus, difficulty breathing, the rash spreading, or if the rash becomes very painful., Peppermint oil may be effective for treating some symptoms of indigestion. However, for specific health problems, peppermint oil may worsen symptoms.Peppermint oil can worsen the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease, and may make gallstones worse.
Peppermint oil should not be used on children as it can inhibit breathing.
 There is not a lot of information on essential oils and pregnancy, so most healthcare providers advise that women err on the side of caution. It's best to avoid essential oils altogether during pregnancy. However, if you want to use aromatherapy anyway, stick to something like a bath, and only use a couple of drops of essential oils. Ingesting essential oils, or applying them directly to the skin, should be avoided.Parsley seed and pennyroyal oils may be particularly dangerous during pregnancy. You should avoid these oils when you are pregnant.

