 This pretty much applies to everybody including inmates, guards, and any other prison staff. Remember, nothing in prison is free.


Be skeptical of why anybody is being nice to you. Ask yourself, “What’s in it for them?” Since most inmates are aware of the “don’t trust anybody rule,” there is probably some ulterior motive for them approaching you.
It is okay to talk to prison guards and staff, but be careful what you say because anything and everything you say, no matter how insignificant you think it is, can be used for or against you.
Prison guards will not protect you and even if they did, you still have to go back to your cell where everybody knows you live. It is better just to keep your mouth shut regarding any information you have on another prisoner.
Most important is to trust yourself. After all, you are the only one you can trust in prison.
 Easier said than done, but try not to show fear, anger, happiness, or pain. Other prisoners will prey on your emotions. Simply put, emotions are your biggest enemy because it reveals weakness, which both inmates and guards will use against you.


Since most prisoners are bored, they have plenty of time to practice their manipulative skills against you. They will provoke your anger and destroy your happiness.
It is important to remember that the prison guards and staff are always right and they are never on your side. In other words, treat them nicely and with respect to keep them out of your hair.
Avoid challenging or intimidating inmates, guards, and staff as well. No matter if you are right or wrong, you will be the one to suffer.
 Staring is rude no matter where you are, but it usually won’t get you into too much trouble unless you are in prison. As you walk through the prison, keep your eyes forward and don’t stare or it could be misinterpreted.


You should not stare, but neither should you walk around staring at the ground or might run into somebody, causing a whole new set of problems.
In general, staring usually means two things, either sexual interest or hostility. As you can imagine, neither is what you want to happen in prison.
 If you enjoy being completely miserable, then tell a guard something about another inmate’s transgressions. This will surely earn you several near death beatings. It is best to see and hear everything, but to say nothing.


If you are ever questioned about an incident by prison guards, make an excuse and never answer the question.
Be careful where and how you talk to guards. If you are hidden or seem too friendly, this will most likely be interpreted as snitching. In this case, it is best to avoid talking to any prison staff.
Not only do other prisoners hate snitches, so do prison guards. If you ever upset a prison guard, your name will emerge as a snitch to your enemies regardless if it is true or not.
 There is simply no other way to deal with prison guards and staff other than with respect and deference. They control everything and they are the final word. If you get on the wrong side of a guard, they could potentially be your worst enemy in prison.


The prison runs on its own economic system. This system includes prison guards who will not hesitate to use you as collateral.
Choose who you talk to and what you say very carefully. Anything you say or tell the guards can be used to hurt, manipulate, or betray you no matter how innocent you think it is.
Avoid discussing religion, politics, race, and personal feelings. These are topics that will easily get you into hot water if you take the conversation in the wrong direction.

