 When you come to something that is really significant, speak a little louder or more slowly. This doesn’t mean that you should shout at someone, or make yourself hard to understand. Speaking a little more emphatically at points, however, will make you seem convincing.For instance, if you are telling a potential client that your product is the best on the market, slow down and emphasize as you say something like “Our product beats ALL of our competitors’ by 25%.”

, Generally, you should just try to talk normally, even when you are trying to sound convincing. A natural tone and normal phrasing will do the job all by itself.Using big words and clichéd phrases aren’t going to make you sound credible. Stick to language that is easy for listeners to follow.
Speak at a volume that is close to others' around you rather than sounding high-pitched or like you are mumbling.
 If you sense yourself getting nervous, starting to speak too fast, or doing something else that makes you seem unconvincing, slow down for a moment. Take a deep breath, and then continue., A good speaker will stop when appropriate and let others take a turn. Sharing rather than dominating a conversation shows that you have the confidence to listen to others and still hold onto your own thoughts. This will ultimately make what you say more believable.This is important even when you are talking to your parents. Give them a chance to talk, hear them out, and try to convince them of your point of view.
 The way you phrase what you say matters as much or more than the actual content of it. If you are trying to sound convincing, this means avoiding saying things like:“Well, um..”
“I think that maybe I…”
“This might be the case…”
“I don’t really know.”
“If I were , then I could .”

, Being as specific as you can while you speak shows that you mean what you say. Try do include as many details, stories, facts, etc. as you can when speaking to others. For instance:If you are making a sales pitch, don’t just say something like “Our product has improved efficiency for a lot of people.” Instead, say something more detailed, like “99% of our customers report that our product has improved their efficiency by tenfold or more.”
If you are trying to convince your parents to let you stay out late, don’t just say something like “You never let me do what you want!” Try saying something more specific, like “You said if I improved my grades we could talk about letting me have more privileges.”

