 Intense exercise is not the first step, but work up to more vigorous exercise. Short bursts of energetic effort, such as running short dashes, inter-spaced with relaxing to not lose your breath, called interval training, improves your heart's efficiency by about 10 percent more than the usual aerobic exercise done at a steady pace.









Build up until you're performing at your maximum, safe heart rate for the last interval, then you can cool down. Change up your routine periodically -- pace, machine, incline plane, stairs, weights, dance, water, route, hills -- to make your heart pump blood more effectively with fewer beats.

For runners: If you run on a treadmill, use the interval setting. If you run outdoors or on an indoor track, then warm up for 5 minutes. Then run fast for 1 minute and jog slowly for 1 minute. Repeat the interval 6 or 8 times before cooling down for 5 minutes.

For swimmers: Swim ten 50-yard freestyles, resting for 15 seconds between each pair of swims. As you swim, swim aerobically, raising your heart rate but not raising it too much, not swimming too hard so that you become really out of breath.On the bike: Warm up for 90 seconds. Then, pedal at a moderate energy burst for 30 seconds. Slow back down to a cardio rate for 90 seconds before performing another energy burst for 30 seconds. Each 30-second energy burst should be more intense than the last., Wear earplugs, if you need to reduce the noise levels in your room. Sleep disturbances from noise can increase your heart rate as much as 13 bpm.
 People who hold their urine until their bladder is really full will increase their heart rates by as much as 9 bpm. A really full bladder increases sympathetic nervous system activity, which constricts blood vessels and forces your heart to beat faster.
 Even better, take calamari oil which is much richer in DHA, a most important type of omega-3. Dr Oz recommends taking "daily fish oil or some other source of omega-3 with at least 600mg of DHA" A single daily fish oil capsule may reduce your heart rate by as much as 6 bpm within as little as 2 weeks. Researchers think that fish oil helps the heart to respond better to your vagus nerve, which regulates your heart rate.
 Eat heart-healthy foods which help your body to regulate its heart rate. Try eating more salmon, sardines or mackerel, whole grains, green leafy vegetables, nuts, and foods high in potassium like bananas and avocados.







