 It’s hard to rebuild trust when someone feels that you’ve betrayed them in this way. You should also avoid gossiping to your friend about other people. When you do this, it plants the idea in their head that you might also gossip about them, too.


When you gossip with someone, it can sometimes feel like you’re bonding with them because you’re sharing privileged information together.
However, this is not a healthy way to bond with your friend. Nothing positive ever results from gossiping.
If you hear other people gossiping about your friend, stand up for them. This will very clearly demonstrate your loyalty.
 Be true to your word and avoid making promises that you can’t keep. If you do break a promise and it’s something minor, be sincerely apologetic and try to make it up to them in some way. The damage is usually minor in this situation. If you break an important promise, however, things are going to be a lot harder to make right.


Depending on the nature of the broken promise, gaining their trust may no longer be possible.
The best approach is to avoid making promises that you can’t keep. Always try your best to keep the promises you do make.
 Support your friend’s dreams and goals, even when no one else does. Encourage them when they lose hope.Always have their back and show them that you can be counted on to be there for them. When someone knows that you are going to be supportive, they will feel more comfortable sharing things with you.


For example, "Darrell, I know how much you want to get into film school. I know your parents don't agree, but I think you have what it takes to get in. I got a really nice camera for Christmas, but I honestly don't use it much. I want you to have it..."
Being supportive doesn’t mean always being in favor of everything they do, especially when it’s harmful or dangerous for them.
Always try to make it clear that you want the best for them.If you aren’t supportive of something, explain to them why. Be honest with them.
For instance, in a negative situation, you could say, "Whitney, I'm your best friend and I want the best for you. I would never be unsupportive of any of your choices unless I felt truly worried about you. I honestly feel like your new boyfriend is a bad influence on you..."
Make sure that you remember important dates as well, such as anniversaries, birthdays, and other special dates in your relationship.
 If you see a friend struggling, do what you can to help them through it. For instance, if your friend is failing a subject in school, don’t just sit back and watch. Offer to help them with their homework and study with them.


If you step in to help them with something when the chips are down, without even being asked, they will feel like they can count on you.

