 This will give you a general idea of the size range you are looking for. Most sporting goods stores can provide sizing charts, which can help you determine the right length or weight range for a bat based on your child’s height, weight, and age., You can get a good ballpark estimate of how long your bat should be based on your child’s age. These estimates are based on the average height and weight of children in a particular age range, and so will only give you a range and not a specific length. For example, in fastpitch softball, a child 5 to 7 years old would use a 24- to 26-inch (61 to 66 cm) bat, 8 to 9 years old would use a 26- to 29-inch (66 to 74 cm), and so on. For each year older, add approximately 1 inch (2.54 cm) to the bat length as a general rule.If the girl you are buying a bat for is exceptionally large or small for her age, you may need to select a bat outside of the expected size range for her age group.
 For example, if she weighs less than 60 lbs. (27.2 kg) and is 36-40 inches tall (91-102 cm), she should probably use a bat that is about 26 inches (66 cm) long., Once you have selected a bat that you feel is in the right length range, try several measurements to make sure the length is appropriate and comfortable.Have the girl extend one of her arms straight out to the side, at shoulder level. Place knob of the bat at the center of her chest and align the bat along her arm, with the end toward her fingertips. If she can comfortably touch the end of the bat with her fingertips, it is probably about the right length.
Place the knob of the bat in the center of her chest and hold the bat so it is extended straight out in front of her. Ask her to reach out and grab the barrel (widest part) of the bat. If she can do so comfortably, the bat is probably about the right length.
Stand the bat up vertically against her leg while she is standing up straight. A bat of the right length should come up to about mid-hip level.
 Softball bat weight is sometimes described in terms of “drop,” which is the difference between the bat’s length (in inches) and weight (in ounces). For example, a bat that is 33 inches (83.82 cm) long and weighs 23 ounces (0.65 kg) has a drop of -10. The smaller the drop number, the higher the bat’s weight relative to its length.In general, children under 10 will be most comfortable using bats with a drop of -13.5 to -10, while older children may be comfortable with a drop as small as -8.
If the girl is exceptionally small or large for her age, you may need to adjust the bat drop accordingly.
 The weight of the bat should ultimately be determined by what is comfortable for the girl and what her playing style is like. Longer, lighter bats will allow for faster hits, while shorter, heavier bats deliver more powerful hits.Ask the girl to hold the bat out in front of her with one hand and swing it back and forth. If she is unable to do so without dropping it, the bat is probably too heavy for her.
Consult your coach or a specialist at your sporting goods store if you have any concerns about selecting the right weight.
 All bats are tapered at the handle, but the diameter can vary. Some children prefer a smaller handle, especially if they have small hands. A smaller handle provides for a quicker wrist rotation when swinging the bat. However, a thicker handle can reduce the vibration or sting that comes from not hitting the ball in the correct area of the bat ("sweet spot"). Make sure the handle’s diameter and materials conform to your team’s requirements.