 Pour over coffee is made by pouring hot water over coffee grounds, and letting the resulting liquid drain through a filter into a cup or carafe. To make pour over coffee, you'll need a:Kettle or saucepan to heat the water
Coffee filter
Dripper that sits right on the mug or a Chemex coffeemaker to hold the filter
Alternatively, you can use a fine-mesh strainer lined with paper towel or a coffee filter to make pour over coffee in a pinch. Place the strainer over a coffee mug, line it with the filter, and prop the strainer up against something to hold it in place;
, Measure the water for your coffee and pour it into a kettle or saucepan. Bring the water to a boil. The ideal temperature for water to make coffee is between 195 and 205 F (90.5 and 96 C).Use six ounces for a regular cup, and eight ounces for a large cup.
When boiling your water, add extra to the kettle to account for evaporation and moisture loss.
 Peel open the filter and set it into the dripper cup. Pour a bit of boiling water into the filter and let it drain into the sink. This will remove dust and warm the dripper.


When the water has drained, set it on top of the coffee mug you'll use to drink your coffee.
You can also use a Chemex coffeemaker for pour over coffee. Open the filter and set it into the neck of the coffeemaker. Do not rinse the filter, as the water will drain into the carafe.
 Measure the coffee grounds out and place them in the coffee filter. The ideal water-to-grounds ratio is 16 ounces (473 ml) of water and 5 tablespoons (28 g) of coffee, which makes two large cups. To make a single cup, use half the water and half the grounds.To grind your own beans, measure out 2 heaping tablespoons of beans and grind them to a medium-fine grind.
 Once the water boils, let it rest for a few seconds to let the boil settle. Then, pour just enough water over the grounds to saturate them, and let the water sit for 30 seconds. Pour the remaining water to make your coffee.You may have to add water incrementally to prevent the dripper from overflowing.
 There are many ways to drink coffee. Some people like it with milk or cream, some like it with sugar, and some like it with both. Other people prefer coffee black, which means with nothing added.

