 Make sure most of you have experience in cheerleading and/or gymnastics. If none of you do, teach yourself some basics and enroll in a gymnastics class. Gymnastics is a must. You all must be able to do a cartwheel, round off, handstand, and split before you even start doing cheernastics. Cheerleading is the easy part, no need for spotters to do some jumps, kicks, and arm motions. For gymnastics, it gets tougher with tumbling, stunts, and extreme moves. So, if you want to do cheernastics, gymnastics is a must unless you are on a school or all star cheerleading squad. On school squads, you won't learn much tumbling, but they may teach you back handsprings, handstands, cartwheels, and round offs. You can teach yourself back bends, walkovers, and the Valdez. Save the tucks, aerials, and flips for gymnastics class.
 You can use your own pom-poms and megaphones if you have any. Your outfit should be dance shorts, a tank top or top with your squad logo, cheer shoes or white tennis shoes, and a hair bow.
 Choose cute and cool color combinations that are cute and awesome together. They need to go well together and everybody on your Cheernastics squad should have those colors. These will be the colors of your outfit. For example, if your squad colors are purple and white, wear white dance shorts and a purple and white striped shirt. Your hair bow should also be that color. Or, do your school colors in case you want to try out for your school squad after this.
 Your name should be something that is fun, original, and short. It can be something like "Tumbling Trio", "Dancing Divas", or anything you like. Your logo should have and abbreviation of your squad name. If your name is Fly Gals, your logo can be a flyer and say FG. You can do whatever you want as long as it is cheer related. Don't go by your school team name, as this is a little corny.
 Go on YouTube and learn a few by heart. Or, make your own cheers. Remember to add a chant to them. You should also learn a few dances. Practice them together everyday until you have them down pat. Improve your cheers by keeping stiff motions. Improve your chants with a loud and clear voice. Improve your dance by flowing with the music and letting go. You should really focus on jazz, hip hop, and modern dancing. You can find free videos on Activity TV and YouTube. You can also learn some cheerleading motions and routines.
 Motions include: bow and arrow, daggers, punch, hands on hips, L, K, T, broken T, touchdown, low touchdown, high and low V, diagonals, buckets, and candlesticks. Jumps include: toe touch, herkie, hurdler, pike, spread eagle, tuck, T, around the world, abstract, and many others. Kicks include: front, 45 degree, and side. Cheerleading tumbling includes: back handspring, front tuck, back tuck, aerial, cartwheel, round off, handstand, front handspring, back bend, rolls, walkover, among others.
 You all need to be in an oversplit, be good at gymnastics, have wonderful endurance, and be strong. So, you need to stretch 4 times a day, take a gymnastics class once a week, run 3 days a week, and do strength training 3 days a week. If none of you take gymnastics, you will have to look up ways to train for tumbling moves, but never attempt them without a coach and/or spotter. Practice gymnastics everyday.
 If you win make your team something cool or go do something fun together. Example gifts include shirts with your team name, emergency cheer kit, a makeup kit, and stuffed animals of your mascot. Things to do together can be a movie, lunch, sleepover, or hanging out in the park.

