 Because water-based paints are soluble with water, they're often quite a bit easier to fix than their oil-based counterparts. The first thing to do in the case of a water-based paint stain is to add some warm water to the affected area. Dab a washcloth in some warm water and press it gently against the stain, letting the warm water soak into the jeans fabric. , Once you have let some warm water soak into the stained area, it should be ready for some real cleaning. Add one tablespoon of laundry detergent to half a cup of water and stir. Once the two have mixed into a consistent solution, rub some of it onto the stain with your damp washcloth. Rub the stain in a gentle circular motion; if the stain is sufficiently big, begin rubbing the outside perimeter of the stain and gradually work your way inwards. Rubbing as such will minimize the risk of spreading the paint stain around further. , While a light detergent solution should work, it is likely that it won't have solved the stain problem entirely. If that is the case, using an Isopropyl rubbing alcohol solution and dabbing it on the stain should work towards lifting the paint away from the fabric.


Nail polish remover works too as an alternative to traditional rubbing alcohol, but may prove damaging to fabric. If you're at all concerned whether it's going to leave a stain of its own, do a test scrub of the nail polish remover on a part of your jeans that won't be easily seen, such as the inside or the bottom of a pant leg. , The bristles of a toothbrush will offer the abrasiveness and precision needed to fix a stain. Once you have your rubbing alcohol in place, scrubbing away at the stain should see results within a minute of exertion. Use some more rubbing alcohol and apply it to the stain if you're not yet getting the results you'd like.
 Once you've done all of this, the next best thing is to give it a proper once-over in a washing machine. Water-based paints are usually subject to cleaning in a laundry machine, and whatever bits you couldn't get out should be fixed (or at least lessened) after being put through a cycle.


As always, remember to wash your clothes according to their respective labels.
 If there's still a noticeable coloured blotch on your jeans after trying all of this cleaning, you can still try to remove the colour by getting a fabric pen from an arts and fabrics store. Find one that best approximates the colour of your jeans and dab it over the stain. While this is essentially trading one stain for another, the sameness of colour should make it harder to detect by the human eye.

