 In chip budding, the diameters of the scion and the rootstock should be the same diameter. If they're not, you'll have to cut them differently so that the green layers match up when combined.


Chip Budding is one of the easiest ways to graft, and is particularly good for fruit trees.
 Make a small angled cut about 1/5 to 1/4 the rootstock's diameter into the rootstock. Slice your knife downward at this depth for 1 1⁄4 to 1 1⁄2 inches (3.2 to 3.8 cm). Remove your knife without severing the bark. Move the knife upward a small amount and then cut back in and downward to meet the end of the initial slice to create a small notch. Remove the chunk of bark from the rootstock.
 Use the chunk cut from your rootstock as the model for your scion, using the scion bud as the center point of the new cutting. You want the scion to fit into the space made in the rootstock as neatly as possible.
 Slip the scion down into the notch at the bottom of the rootstock cut. Make sure that the green layers of the scion and rootstock are touching all the way around the edges. If they are not, the graft will fail.
 Wrap a stretchy rubber material around the rootstock to hold the scion in place. Polyethylene tape is preferable. Be careful not to jostle or cover the bud.


Some of the specifics of this process will depend on what kind of tree you are growing and what kind of material you're using. For example, if you use grafting tape and grafting an apple tree, you had better cover the whole thing with the tape, as the tape will protect the bud from drying, and it will be torn by the bud as it grows. But other materials may not give the same protection, and may be more difficult to tear. Large buds are difficult to fully cover, and can be exposed to air. It depends on the fruit.
 In about a month, the rubber you wrapped around the rootstock may loosen and fall off. If it doesn't, gently remove it yourself so that the area will not be constricted.
 If the bud looks plump and healthy, it is probably alive. If it looks shriveled, then it has died and you'll have to start again.
 The next spring, once the bud has begun to sprout leaves, make a sloped cut 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) above the successful bud. Remove all other growth below the bud to promote growth through the grafted bud.

