 Rifles after discovering Laser Rifles). This also frees up store space, allowing you to not build more General Stores.;
, Attempt to preserve all alien corpses and artifacts.


Don't throw grenades into a square that is near a corpse if you can help it.
Try to kill all aliens that you have already researched (or already have that particular rank of alien).
More advanced weaponry will also help to increase the percentage of aliens that you kill.
 Make them build items and then sell them. Laser weapons are a great product to sell. So are any other items that don't require any materials to produce. Some examples are:


Laser weapons, as mentioned previously
Motion Scanners
Medi-Kits
Alien Alloys

, At the end of every month, right before the end of the day, take your Engineers and Scientists off of their projects, leaving only a few behind to preserve the progress, and transfer them to another base. At the end of the month, their salaries won't be paid because they were in transit. When they arrive, send them right back and get them back to work.
 Contrary to some players' beliefs, you do not need a small radar and a large radar at the same time. They sweep just as fast.
 This effectively doubles your defense value for only $15,000 dollars a month. For example, if you had two Fusion Ball Defences and one Grav Shield, the monthly cost is only $43,000, which is cheaper than four Fusion Ball Defences ($56,000).
 Soldiers cost money too, and older soldiers who have more experience will be better, allowing you to make even more money.
 They are effective, and they require no ammunition. The ammo you save from not using plasma weapons can then be sold. Use plasma weapons when you need to kill something that is heavily armored (or that you want to make absolutely sure you kill, such as a Chryssalid).


The same does not go for craft weapons. A Plasma Beam does not use Elerium when fired. It is a better choice than the Laser Cannon because it is more powerful. It also allows you to intercept any UFO (except Battleships) without a chance of return fire due to its long range.
 When one operative shoots, give the used gun to another operative, so that less clips will be used. This rotation also allows the operatives to improve evenly.
 They cost much more money than an operative. Of course, it is up to you to weigh the pros and cons.

Pros: Infinite ammo for tanks with laser or plasma weapons, does not hurt morale as much when destroyed, great armor and health, excellent scouts (this goes double for Hovertanks), not effected by psi attacks, instantly repaired at end of mission, no salary, cannot be fatally wounded or stunned.
Cons: Very expensive, ammo is very costly (with the exception of plasma and laser), not maneuverable in winding corridors (such as alien bases) due to time unit usage, can go up one tile staircases but get stuck at the top, takes up lots of space, poor reactions, takes more damage from grenades, aimed shot means nearly nothing, can go berserk (on rare occasions) and cause lots of damage, instantly gets killed (but not infected) by a Chryssalid's bite.

