 It can be difficult to work with the hair at the back of your head, and you'll be working within some time constraints. Having a friend to help you speed along the process and make sure the rollers are tight can ease your mind.
 These can usually be found at supermarkets, pharmacies, or beauty supply stores.
 If you've having someone help you, make sure he or she reads the instructions as well. Pay particular attention to any time limits.
, Use a rich protein conditioning treatment (one might have come with the kit you purchased). You should NEVER condition your hair before a perm as the perm solution won't get into the hair properly will not set properly.


Do not wrap your hair in towel turban when you get out of the shower. The added friction can knot and damage vulnerable wet hair. Instead, carefully pat your hair with a towel until it's more damp than wet.
If you must comb your hair again, carefully and gently comb with a wide-tooth comb, working tangles out as you move from the ends toward the scalp.
 Perm chemicals are not designed for use on the skin. Always wear gloves that will resist the chemicals (usually any kind of plastic glove will work).
 Don't forget your ears! Outline the entire crown of your head with the jelly. This will keep any of the chemicals from dripping down your skin.
 Underneath the towel, wear clothing that you wouldn't be heartbroken to lose, such as an old T-shirt and sweatpants.
 Use non-metallic clips to hold back the sections you're not working with at the moment. You can also use any hair clips 

, There are many kinds of rods available to produce a variety of different kinds of perm.


When wrapping the hair, start and the top and wrap down.
Put on perm paper on the back of hair and front and roll hair on to rods.
Avoid bunching or clumping your hair around the rods.
The tightness of the curl depends on the size of the rod. The tightness of the wrap and how long the perm solution stays in the hair.
For the most natural-looking curls, use a straight or cylindrical rod. This allows you to wrap your hair around the rod at the same width from top to bottom.
Unless you are very confident in your abilities, avoid the home use of spiral or concave rods.
 Begin at the scalp, as that gives it longer to work in that area. Carefully massage the perm solution into all of your hair.
 Leave the perm solution in for the amount of time needed for your desired effect.
 It is vital to get rid of all of the solution.
 The neutralizing solution begins the process of re-forming the broken proteins in your hair.
 Hold your head upside down and shake it gently. Be sure not to let the towel damage your new curls as it will take up to 24 hours for your perm to set. Do not comb your hair while perm is in, only massage or blot.
 Learning to care for your perm is an important step in any hair regimen.

