 All of the symptoms of iodine deficiency are related to its effect on your thyroid. Your thyroid is a gland in your throat that regulates your metabolic processes, such as growth and energy in your body. If you don’t have enough iodine in your diet, this can lead to iodine deficiency disorders such as:Goiter: This is when your thyroid enlarges, or develops a goiter, as it tries to keep up with the demand for thyroid hormone production in your body. Iodine deficiency is the most common cause of goiter. If you have goiter, you may experience symptoms like choking, especially when lying down, and difficulty swallowing and breathing.
Hypothyroidism: This is when you have an underactive thyroid gland, as your thyroid can’t make enough thyroid hormone to keep your body running normally. If you have hypothyroidism, your body’s processes will start to slow down. You may feel colder, tire more easily, your skin may get drier, and you may become forgetful or depressed. The symptoms for hypothyroidism are variable so the only way to confirm you have this disorder is to get a blood test. Patients with thyroid disorders should not automatically start an iodine supplement because there are certain types of thyroid disease that are contraindications for iodine supplements.
Pregnancy related issues: Severe iodine deficiency in mothers has been associated with miscarriages, stillbirth, preterm delivery, and congenital abnormalities. The children of mothers with severe iodine deficiency during pregnancy can have mental issues and problems with growth, hearing, and speech. In fact, even mild iodine deficiency during pregnancy may be associated with low intelligence in children., Iodine is released from your body when you pee. Thus, the best way to determine if you have iodine deficiency is to speak to your doctor and have her do tests on your urine.She will then be able to look at the results and check if you have an iodine deficiency based on the iodine concentration in your urine sample., If you already have thyroid problems, like hyperthyroidism, too much iodine can actually worsen your thyroid disorder. Follow the minimum amount of iodine required for you, based on your age and gender. Adults should not exceed 600 mcg/day of iodine to avoid consuming too much iodine.Some people who move from an iodine-deficient region, such as parts of Europe, to a region with higher levels of iodine, such as the United States, may also develop thyroid problems since their thyroids have gotten used to taking in small amounts of iodine. This may then put them at risk of developing hyperthyroidism.