 Rape-related post-traumatic stress disorder can cause a wide range of symptoms. Pay attention to how you have been feeling, emotionally and physically. As you are preparing to meet with your doctor, keep a record of your symptoms.Common symptoms of rape-related post-traumatic stress disorder include:Re-experiencing the rape in the form of intrusive thoughts, nightmares, and flashbacks.
Withdrawing socially, such as isolating yourself, feeling emotionally numb, or losing interest in things, such as family, friends, work, and hobbies.
Using avoidance behaviors, such as avoiding situations and places that trigger memories of the rape.
Feeling like you are always on alert or hyper-aware of your surroundings, which may cause trouble sleeping, difficulty concentrating, and irritability.;
, Overcoming PTSD will take time and the help of a licensed mental health professional. Tell your doctor that you would like to seek therapy for your PTSD and ask for a referral to a therapist in your area.Your therapist may use something called cognitive behavior therapy to help you. Cognitive behavior therapy can help to change the way that you think, which may reduce instances of re-experiencing the rape, such as in the form of intrusive thoughts.
Your therapist may also use exposure therapy to reduce the effects of your triggers. This involves exposing you to your triggers in a progressive way. Each time you are exposed to one of your triggers, you will use a relaxation technique to calm yourself down, such as deep breathing, yoga or meditation. Over time, your triggers should begin to affect you less and less.
 You have gone through a traumatic experience. It is common for rape survivors to use avoidance behaviors to cope. However, using avoidance can affect the way that you experience other emotions as well, such as sadness, joy, anger, etc.Allow yourself to feel a wide range of emotions. It is normal to experience sadness, fear, grief, guilt, and anger.
Don't be hard on yourself for being emotional. Say to yourself, "I'm feeling angry today, and that is normal."
Work with your therapist to find healthy ways to express and manage your emotions.
Talk to friends and family about your emotions. Don't be afraid to be honest. You can try saying, "I'm having a really sad day. Don't take it personally if I start crying." Talking about your feelings can help you to process them.
 Dealing with PTSD symptoms is extremely difficult. You might feel an impulse to withdraw socially, even from your loved ones. However, you should try to avoid isolating yourself.Instead of withdrawing, make an attempt to be around other people when you are coping with PTSD. A support system can help you deal with the trauma.
PTSD can affect your nervous system, making you feel unpleasant symptoms, but being around people you trust may actually have a calming effect on your nerves.
Turn to someone who is a good listener. You want to be able to talk about your experience without fear of judgement.
If you feel unable to talk to someone you know, consider joining a support group. Being around other survivors can be therapeutic.
 When you have PTSD, there are many things that can "trigger" negative emotions. You may find that you become upset in certain situations or that you avoid these situations entirely.Keep a journal where you record your triggers so that you can discuss them with your therapist. Common triggers include:


going near the place where the rape occurred
certain sounds, such as a specific song that was playing when the rape occurred
certain words, such as your attacker’s name

, A physiological symptom is one that has an impact on your body. For example, many rape survivors experience exaggerated responses. You might find yourself jumping in response to small noises that you would not have noticed before the rape.You might also experience mood swings. It is not uncommon for rape survivors to feel rage at mild irritants, such as finding the milk carton empty.
Be patient with yourself. Don't put pressure on yourself to stop having extreme reactions.
Instead, try to find ways to cope. For example, if you find yourself feeling angry, focus on your breathing. Breathe in slowly for 5 counts, breathe out slowly for 5 counts. Repeat until you feel calm.
Sleep deprivation is another common physiological symptom. Many rape survivors have difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep.
Ask your doctor to help you deal with difficulty sleeping. He might recommend meditation or even medication.
 PTSD is both emotionally and physically draining. While you are coping with surviving a rape, it is important to take care of yourself. This includes trying to remain physically healthy.Eat a healthy diet. Try to get balanced amounts of lean proteins, complex carbohydrates, and plenty of colorful vegetables.
Don't forget breakfast. Starting your day off with a nutritious meal can help give you the energy you need to make it through a tough day. Try Greek yogurt with granola.
Exercise. Physical activity is known to reduce stress and boost your mood. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.
Try to rest. It can be difficult to sleep when you are dealing with PTSD, but rest will help speed the healing process.
Keep your room as cool and quiet as possible. Try to go to bed at the same time each evening and wake up at the same time each morning.

