 You could use the information contained within the budget to reduce your unnecessary spending by, for instance, eating out less and putting more money into a savings account that helps you meet your goal for financial health. If your expenses surpass your income, you have no choice but to adjust your spending habits or you will soon be out of money.


The easiest solution to getting your family budget out of the red is to cut back on discretionary spending.Instead of eating out every weekend, for instance, eat out just once a month (or not at all).
If your child gets an allowance and your discretionary spending is too high, reducing their allowance to a more reasonable amount is a good idea. A standard allowance converts the child's age to a dollar amount. A ten-year old, in other words, should then get $10 each week.Ref>http://content.moneyinstructor.com/671/allowances-for-kids.html</ref>
When your child asks why their allowance is reduced, remind them of the results of the family budget. Say, “We are all going to cut back on our spending a bit so we can have money for things we really need.”

, The longer you take to repay a loan, the more interest will accrue. Plus, depending on the kind of loan you have, you could be threatened by a change in the interest rate at any time.


Refinancing is the process whereby you negotiate with the bank or issuer of the loan for a lower interest rate and a longer repayment period. While this can ease your financial obligations now, you will typically end up paying more in the long run.Contact the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (https://www.nfcc.org/) if you have serious debt that you need help with.
Do not pay for services that promise to reduce your debt.
 Your family budget will likely reveal that you’re spending more money than you thought you were. In order to protect you and your family against any unforeseen expenses, you should work on building a buffer that will cover at least six months of living expenses. Now that you know exactly what you spend each month, you can multiply your average monthly expenditures by six to figure out how much you’ll need to save to create an adequate buffer.


Explain the buffer to your kids. Say, “Do you think it’s important to save money?” If they say yes, ask why. If they say no, explain that when emergencies occur, it is smart to have the money on hand so you can solve them quickly.
 Paying with a credit card, by contrast, makes your expenditures essentially invisible. If you wish to increase your monthly savings, use cash.


You could create expense limits for yourself and your family by filling envelopes labeled for specific purposes with cash at the beginning of each month. For instance, you might put $100 in an envelope labeled “gas” if your family spends about $100 each month on gas. That way, your family has a goal on how much should be spent on gas each month. Encourage your family to find alternatives to driving like taking public transit or riding their bikes.
Your family should use cash too. Don't pay your kids' allowances with gift cards or gift certificates. Birthday money should be given as cash as well.
 Get a subscription streaming service instead of paying for cable. Use coupons from Groupon and Living Social to find deals in your area on restaurants, fitness clubs and salons. Make it a game for your kids to add up how much you’ll save at the grocery store when using coupons. Figuring out how to save more money will ensure that you can easily live by the family budget that you made.

