 Before the actual networking begins, your host should provide you with some brief instructions. Listen carefully to avoid confusion. Pay particular attention to:


Details about who rotates and who remains seated.
Instructions regarding who speaks first.
Information about how long you will have to speak with each person.
 Smiling makes you seem approachable and helps you make a positive first impression. In addition, smiles can be contagious; you’ll affect the attitude of those around you.
 When it is time for you to speak, smile, offer a firm handshake, and introduce yourself. Give your brief elevator speech. Aim to be calm, confident, and positive.
 When it is time for the other person to speak, listen carefully. Remember that this person is charged with listening to you; you owe the person the same courtesy. Besides, this person may be a good connection for you to have.
 People love to talk about themselves. After the other person’s elevator speech, take the time to ask a few open-ended questions. Actively listen to the answers, and strive to create a conversation that could be mutually beneficial. Exchanging ideas and learning about one another may yield an important connection.
 If you are comfortable taking notes, feel free to do so. This will help you retain information about each person (more than what is on the business card). Your notes might include:


Names of other people to contact.
Company names.
Shared ideas.
Items for your to-do list.
 Exchanging business cards is important during a networking event because it leaves each person with valuable contact information. You can use this information to connect with the person in the future.
 There are various ways to end each brief meeting on a positive note. In general, you should shake hands and thank each person for his or her time. In addition, you might say something like “good luck” or “nice talking with you.” If you’ve agreed to do something for the person or contact them again, affirm your plan to do so: “I will email my contact and get back to you shortly.”

, After the speed networking event is over, you should follow up with people with whom you had positive or productive conversations, even if you cannot assist each other with anything immediately. Follow through on anything you promised to others, including sharing information or introducing them to others. Helping other people reach their networking goals will make you feel good, but it will also make a lasting business connection who may later return the favor.

