 Like self-tanning lotions, spray tans also contain the three-carbon sugar dihydroxyacetone (DHA), that reacts with amino acids to add color to the skin. Spray tan solutions are generally more concentrated, however, and require anywhere from one to three layers to reach the desired level of tan.
 Experts advise choosing a spray tan product with a lower percentage of DHA so that you can gradually add color. You can always make yourself darker, but once you spray it on, there's no going back.


Additionally, seek out products infused with erythrulose, a sugar compound present in raspberries. This compound will allow your tan to last longer and produces a healthy glow.
If possible, choose products that contain a small amount of green pigment. The green pigment is present in order to balance out any orange that occurs from the spray tan., For people with very fair skin, one layer of spray tan will be sufficient for creating a beautiful glow. For people with tan or dark skin, you may need several layers. Just start slow and gradually add more pigment until you reach the desired color. The most important thing to remember with spray tans is not to overdo it. Fake-looking, orange skin is not attractive.
 Make sure to get rid of all of the dead and rough skin on the outer layer of your body before getting sprayed. Choose an exfoliating scrub that is oil-free and contains some sort of rough beads or granules that will polish your skin. Use a loofah or a washcloth in the shower to scrub your body., Unlike self-tanning lotions, you really need a professional to perform a spray tan on your body. You can either visit a tanning salon with a spray machine or hire a private professional to come to your home and spray you in your shower. The first option will be much cheaper, however.
 Depending on the strength of the tan and your original skin tone, a spray tan can last anywhere between five and 10 days. Moisturize with lotion every day to make your tan last longer. To keep a golden glow, touch up your tan as it begins to fade.