 Product labels give nutritional information based on serving size, not the entire contents of a package.Serving size is generally listed in both volume amounts and weight measurements. The weight is usually listed in parentheses next to the volume amount. For example, 1 cup of this product weighs 250 grams (8.8 oz).;
, If you have a food scale, use the weight amounts rather than the volume amount to get a more accurate measurement. If you do not have a food scale, use measuring cups and spoons to get as accurate a measure as possible.


If you are using a food scale, you may need to use a bowl to contain the food you are weighing. Weigh the bowl empty first. Write down the weight of the empty bowl and subtract that amount from the total once you have added the food.
 Doing this will give you the number of servings you will consume. For example, if your food weighs 500 g, divide by 500 by 250 (the weight of each serving) to calculate that you will be consuming two servings. Similarly, if you have measured out 2 cups of food, divide by 1 to calculate that you will be consuming two servings.


Many labels will list the volume of serving sizes in fractions, such as ½ cup. To convert fractions to decimals for easy entry on your calculator, divide the first number of the fraction by the second number. For ½ cup, take 1 divided by 2 to equal 0.5. If you have measured out 2 cups of food with a serving size of ½ cup, divide 2 by 0.5 to equal 4 servings.
 For example, if the product label lists 20g of carbohydrates, that means there are 20 grams of carbohydrates per serving size.
 Because fiber is not digested before it passes out of your body, it does not count toward your total carbs.Fiber comes in two forms: soluble and insoluble. Soluble fiber can help regulate the body's use of sugars and help keep blood sugar (glucose) in check because it slows down the absorption of glucose from your GI tract. Insoluble fiber promotes regularity with bowel movements.


Dietary fiber is often listed separately on a nutrition label, just below the total carbohydrates line.
 For example, there are 20 g of carbohydrates per serving. Multiply 20 by 2 (if you are eating two servings), which equals 40. You will be consuming a total of 40 g of carbohydrates with the serving size you measured out.

