 These muscles often become tight along with your neck, especially if the problem is related to bad posture. If these areas feel stiff, try this quick exercise to loosen up before the other stretches:Stand with your feet together about two feet (0.6 meters) from a corner.
Raise your elbows to shoulder height, with your forearms straight above them. Lean your forearms against the two walls.
Lean forward until you feel a stretch in your chest and shoulders, but do not feel pain. Support your weight mostly with your legs, not your arms.Hold for 30 to 60 seconds.
 These muscles extend along the side of your neck, down to your collarbone. Besides improving neck flexibility, strengthening these muscles can aid with breathing problems, since they lift the rib cage. Here's one exercise to target your scalene muscles:Sit up straight at the edge of a chair, with your chin pulled back to center your ears over your shoulders.
Grip the edge of the chair with your right hand to stabilize yourself. If you need to, place your left hand over your right collarbone to keep it flat.
Tilt your ear toward your left shoulder.
Optionally, stretch further by raising your chin slightly, and turning your head toward your left shoulder.
Hold for 30–60 seconds, then repeat with the other side.
 The trapezius muscles over your shoulder blades are important for controlling head movements. Constant tension here may cause headaches. You can stay right in your chair to exercise these:Grip the edge of the chair again with your right hand.
Rotate your head toward your left shoulder. (It's important to do this first.)Bring your chin down toward your chest.
Place your left hand on top of your head and gently press toward the left shoulder.
For a greater stretch, lean your torso slightly to the left as well.
Hold for up to a minute, and repeat for the other side.
 The name of this muscles sounds like "levitate the scapula" (shoulder blade) because that's exactly what it does. Tension here is often the cause of neck pain from sitting in one position, especially if you feel a tender spot at the top of your shoulder blade. Here's how to stretch it:Stand or sit with a wall on one side.
Bring the elbow nearest to the wall up above your shoulder. Rest it against the wall.
Turn your head away from the wall and tuck your chin down. You should feel the back of your neck stretch.
Use your free hand to pull your head slightly further in the same direction.
As always, stay here for 30–60 seconds before trying the other side.

