
Rags.
3/8"-drive ratchet and appropriate sockets.
1/4"-drive ratchet and 10mm socket.
Newspapers.
A large coffee can for cleaning parts in.
A container for the waste oil.;
,,, It is held to the engine case with a number of very small nuts.


The oil sump plate may have a drain plug in the center.
From 1973 onwards, VW left the drain plug out to make sure that the sump plate and screen were removed for cleaning with each oil change. You can fit an original plate with a drain plug from an older beetle model.It is o.k. to clean then the sump plate after every 2nd oil change. Modern motor oils last longer.



If the oil sump plate has a center drain plug, unscrew it and let the oil drain into the pan.
If the oil sump plate doesn't have the center drain plug, loosen (but do not remove) the small nuts around the perimeter of the sump plate.

Once most of the nuts are loosened the oil will start to drain from around the sump plate.
Once the oil has completely drained, remove the nuts from around the perimeter of the oil screen sump plate.
,


Make sure that none of the old gasket remains stuck to the sealing surfaces. Remove with a scraper if necessary.
Clean up the sealing surfaces on the bottom of the engine case with a rag. Clean the sealing surfaces thoroughly to assure the new gaskets will keep your oil in where it belongs.



Place the oil screen and gasket into the engine where it goes, then put the other gasket on.
Put the sump plate over the screen and start the nuts (with new crush washers on each one) and the center drain plug (where applicable). Some experts recommend replacing the stock oil plug with a magnetic oil plug. The magnet will pick up metal particles preventing them from circulation throughout the oil system.
DON'T use gasket-goo or other sealants.



DO NOT OVER TIGHTEN THE SUMP PLATE NUTS!
The proper torque for these nuts is only 5 feet (1.5 m)-lbs.
If you tighten them anymore, you're likely to either strip the stud or pull it out of the case.
, Use a spout or funnel if necessary to prevent oil from spilling onto the top of the engine.


Wait a few minutes to allow the oil to drain into the sump, then check the level on the oil dipstick.
Add oil as necessary to bring the level to near the top mark. DO NOT overfill.



While the engine is running, look under the car and check for leaks around the cover plate.
Tighten the nuts if necessary.
 Recheck the level on the dipstick and add oil if necessary.

