 Absolutely no exceptions. Poppy has the most flawless skin on her face, and you must have too. Find a regular beauty regime for your face, and stick to it. Deal with zits properly and make sure you are always fresh-faced. Poppy also has amazingly smooth skin. Wax or shave your legs and underarms, and shower once a day, with soap. Moisturize as soon as you get up in the morning (preferably with a scented lotion) and after your shower at night. Exfoliate once a week to get rid of yuck dead skin cells, and you should try out a body conditioner to give your skin a treat. It takes 21 days to develop a habit, and this is a habit you absolutely must have if you ever want a chance of being like Poppy Moore.;
, You need the beautiful, I-just-came-back-from-Hawaii glow. Never ever use tanning lotion! It is tacky and so not couture, but instead use expensive little self tanners like Poppy has. You could try sunbathing on a sunny day, just sprawl out on a towel and rotate sides every 15-20 minutes. Don't forget sunscreen! Poppy Moore may have an amazing tan, but she is never, ever seen with a burn or skin cancer!

, Poppy has a generally great body. Try to maintain a slim figure and a flat stomach. Work out only at the gym 3-5 times a week and work on all you muscles to keep them toned and tight. Run cardio for 20-40 minutes every day/second day to build endurance, and instead of a malnourished slim body, you will have a lean lithe one that Poppy has. Poppy is a pescetarian from Monday to Wednesday (this means are vegetarian except for fish, and in some cases, chicken) and a vegan from Thursday to Sunday (No animal products). Also, Poppy does a lot of sport at Abbey Mount, so you can do that instead of gym, but still keep the diet.
 She has a great style that's all hers. It is kitsch, new and totally her. Only wear designer clothes.
 They will help you and you will help them. Be able to tell if girls are just hanging out with you for money, status, etc. Get true friends that you fit in with and who truly like you for you.
 Poppy has little tanners, iPods, phones, laptops, and Macs. Try to get a phone and an iPod. Most of these things are obtainable. You can get tanners anywhere online.
 Poppy doesn't always have the cleanest room, but she hates regular people's germs. Always keep sanitizers with you on the go and big bottles at home.
 They'll always be able to keep in touch no matter what then.
 If you're having a bad day, write about it. If it's a good day, write about it too.
 Poppy can do anything when she sets her mind to it. Be able to create the cutest outfits and create for others.


But remember, don't change too fast! People may think of you as a wannabe.

