 If you plan to use the bike for camping or commuting, a touring bike to carry your belongings will better suit your purpose.;
,, Some people will tell you that "Steel frames offer a more comfortable ride. Aluminum weighs less, and is more efficient, but is less comfortable. Carbon fiber offers the best in comfort and performance, but is out of the $1000 price range." The quality of a frame varies drastically, so the above is not always true. Frame geometry and design are also important.
 Not only do they have a considerable impact on the ride feel of the bike, they are also a significant portion of the weight equation. Not only do they weigh as much or more than the frame, they account for rotating weight, which has a much larger effect on the ease of acceleration than the fixed mass of the frame. If you can find a bike with light, strong wheels, it will be a great bonus. Ask your bike shop what kinds they recommend.
 At $1,000 your best hope is to get most or all Shimano Tiagra components. Shop around to compare specs, but components are only one aspect of a road bike.
 Ride each bike to determine which fits you best. Bear in mind that if you have never ridden a proper road bike before they will all feel uncomfortable at first, so get some advice on fit from someone with a bit of experience.
 So what you want to pay attention to as you test ride the bikes are the ride 'feel', and the fit/setup of the bike.
 Stand over the frame, and B. ride the bike (possibly in a trainer) and adjusting the seat (height, forward / back), and handlebars (height, stem length). Keep in mind that there are several variables in the fit of the bike. The distance from the seat to the pedals is directly related to your leg length, and they will adjust that distance by raising or lowering the seat. The distance forward to the handlebars, and the height of the handlebars is not so easily adjustable, and is set first by the size and geometry of the frame, along with the stem. Get the position about right with the frame size, and fine-tune the fit by swapping out stems.
 You will have to make trade offs. Even though bikes in the $1000 price range are very good, you won't get the best of everything. If you think you won't be completely satisfied with the bike you'll get for $1000, consider buying one with a nicer frame, but lower spec components; they will be easy to upgrade one by one as you get the money.

