 It presents with sudden onset chest pain, shortness of breath, and the ensuing signs of shock. A massive PE can be investigated for by getting a TEE (transesophageal echocardiogram) or CT angio of the chest.. This is the fastest way to determine whether one is present and, if so, its exact location., It presents with decreased breath sounds on the affected side, a trachea (windpipe) that has deviated from the midline, chest pain and problems breathing. It most commonly occurs in younger individuals following an accident or trauma. However, it can occur in anyone, often after a change in pressure such as an airplane trip.


A tension pneumothorax can generally be diagnosed clinically, and treated immediately when it is suspected as the cause of obstructive shock.
 The more blood that pools, the less effective circulation becomes, which is what leads to the signs and symptoms of shock.


A cardiac tamponade often presents with anxiety, sudden chest pain that gets worse with deep breathing or coughing, trouble breathing, lightheadedness and/or fainting, and pale/grey/bluish skin that results from poor circulation., This, in turn, puts stress on the heart by causing the space in which the heart beats to become more and more enclosed. "Bacterial pericarditis" (an infection of the pericardium - the sac around the heart) may also cause obstructive shock by a similar mechanism.


Constrictive pericarditis often presents with trouble breathing, a swollen abdomen as well as swollen legs and ankles (due to the back-up of blood that has trouble getting back into the heart), and chest pain, as well as possible signs of obstructive shock in more severe cases.



Aortic stenosis often presents with chest pain, lightheadedness and/or fainting, a gradual decrease in exercise tolerance over time, palpitations (the feeling of unusual heartbeats), and a heart murmur that can be heard through a stethoscope.It is a condition that gradually gets worse with time and, in the most severe cases, may lead to the signs and symptoms of obstructive shock.
 Sometimes a "thrombolytic" (clot-busting) drug can be considered to treat a large pulmonary embolism. However, in cases of severe shock, surgery or a catheter removal is usually the fastest and most effective way to remove the PE and thus relieve the obstruction.
 This procedure is called a "needle decompression." Following insertion of the needle, treatment of the pneumothorax, and stabilization of shock symptoms, you will get a chest tube for ongoing management to prevent any recurrence of the tension pneumothorax.
 This procedure also involves using a needle. However, in this case, the needle is used to remove fluid from the pericardial sac.Removal of the fluid (normally blood) from the pericardial sac in turn relieves the pressure on the heart, and removes the obstruction that was the underlying cause of shock.


Of course, it is key to determine what caused the cardiac tamponade in order to have complete and lasting resolution of shock.
The needle pericardiocentesis can be done repeatedly, if necessary, to alleviate pressure on the heart until the underlying cause is resolved. In other cases, a surgical procedure known as a pericardial window is done to relieve the accumulation of the fluid.
 If this is unable to be resolved and treated promptly, the heart sac (pericardium) may need to be cut open surgically to relieve pressure on the heart, and to resolve the symptoms of obstructive shock.
 This, in turn, will allow blood to exit the heart and to more effectively supply the body's vital organs. The IABP intervention has been shown to relieve symptoms of obstructive shock when aortic stenosis is diagnosed as the underlying etiology (cause). The aortic valve should be evaluated, and replaced if it meets the criteria.
 A blood pressure above 90 mm Hg systolic is needed to provide adequate blood flow and oxygen to the body's vital organs. Anything below this (which is typical in shock) compromises vital organ function and may lead to multi-organ failure and even death, if not promptly treated and reversed.


A doctor can provide medications (called "vasopressors") to contract the blood vessels, and in turn increase the blood pressure.
A doctor can also provide medications (called "inotropes") to increase the contractility of the heart, which improves the perfusion to the peripheral tissues.
 Ways to increase blood volume include:


Administering IV fluids such as normal saline or Ringer's lactate. Both of these add fluid volume to the blood vessels, helping to improve blood pressure and blood flow to the vital organs.
Administering a blood transfusion in cases where the patient is anemic. A blood transfusion is less frequently helpful in cases of obstructive shock (as opposed to other types of shock). However, in cases of severe shock, it may be considered as a last resort.
 If you are not a trained medical professional, call 911 and get the person to the hospital as quickly as possible.



Click here to learn how to perform CPR until professional medical help arrives.

