 If you’re not familiar with Macs, it’s the icon that looks like a gear. If your friend doesn’t keep it on their menu bar, you can also get to it by clicking the Apple logo in the upper left corner of the screen and selecting System Preferences from the drop-down menu.
 This will open the Keyboard options. You should see a general Keyboard pane with options like Key Repeat and using F-keys as standard function keys.
 At the top of the general Keyboard pane, you should see a menu bar that also includes Text, Shortcuts, and Input Sources. Click on the last option.
 On the left side, you will see a list of the keyboards they have enabled for their computer. To add to the list, you just have to open the source options by clicking on the plus sign.
 Once you select a particular language, you should see one or more options in the right window. You can pick your keyboard choice from there.


There are a couple of approaches you can take. If you really want to freak your friend out, you could switch their keyboard to Cyrillic or Chinese characters. But if you want play a subtler prank, there are several European keyboards whose main keys are very similar to English. Both German and Czech switch the “z” and “y” keys while maintaining the usual QWERTY layout with modifications to punctuation keys. Other keyboards don’t use ⇧ Shift+2 for the @ symbol, but again, have largely similar layouts to the American version.
 The option or options that you chose from the source menu should all be listed on the dropdown menu. Select your desired keyboard input from the list. Once you’ve selected a new input, the flag icon on the menu bar will change to that keyboard’s country of origin.
 The flag icon should disappear from the top menu bar. The keyboard will change, but your friend won’t immediately notice anything different, and they’ll have to take a few extra steps to change the keyboard back.
 Only do this if you switch to a keyboard based on the Latin alphabet. You want them to be able to get back into their computer eventually. But if the letters are switched around, as with the Dvorak keyboard, it will take them a little extra effort to unlock their computer., You just have to re-open System Preferences and return to the Keyboard preferences pane. Make sure that "Show input menu in menu bar" is selected, and then select the correct keyboard language from the dropdown menu on the menu bar.

