 The major risk factor for melanomas is exposure to Ultraviolet (UV) light. This exposure can be from the sun, tanning beds, or tanning lights., The presence of moles on the skin is another risk factor. Most people have moles. They are pigmented and often slightly raised areas of the skin that are non-spreading tumors. Someone who has more than 50 moles is at a higher risk for melanoma.If you have moles, make a habit of keeping an eye on them. Normal moles are usually evenly colored and can be flat or raised above the skin a bit. Moles are usually round or oval and smaller than about ¼ inch.
Some people have a condition called dysplastic nevi, which are atypical moles. They look different than a normal mole. Usually, they're larger, and sometimes they differ in color, texture, or shape than a normal mole. These atypical moles increase your chance of getting skin cancer, and sometimes melanoma can happen inside the dyplastic nevus., Another risk factor for melanoma is skin color. People who have fair skin, light hair, and freckles are at a greater risk for melanoma.It is thought that since these are people who also are at higher risk for sunburn, UV radiation from the sun plays an important role in the development of melanomas.
However, even those with darker skin can have melanoma on the lighter areas of their bodies. These areas include the soles of the feet, the palms of the hands, and under the nails.
 Since UV exposure can lead to melanoma, a history of sunburns is a risk factor for skin cancer. You are also at risk if you sunburn easily. If you have had multiple sunburns, check yourself regularly.If your sunburns were severe, you are at a higher risk. Severe sunburns include peeling, blistering, or other adverse side effects.
 There are other risk factors for melanoma. If you have a family or personal history of melanoma, you may be at risk. People who are older are at a greater risk, as are people who have weakened or suppressed immune systems.


If you live at higher elevations or close to the equator, you are at higher risk because of the elevated level of UV rays.Men tend to have higher rates of melanoma than women.
Individuals with a condition known as xeroderma pigmentosum have a higher risk of melanoma.

