 Eating junk food may be fun, but it will not help to get you out of your funk. There are some other choices you could make, however, that can help boost your mood:Coffee: A U.S. study, including 50,000 women conducted over 14 years, showed that women who drank coffee regularly suffered the effects of depression less than non-coffee drinkers. Yippee, another good reason to enjoy your morning coffee!
Salmon and sardines: Omega 3s found in seafood such as salmon and sardines increase the amounts of the neurochemicals dopamine and serotonin in your system, which help in the regulation of your mood. These levels can also be increased by consuming walnuts and ground flax seed.
Saffron: This spice can be used in rice or to make steeped tea, and has been found to make serotonin more available to the brain, providing you with a feel-good effect. This natural effect is similar to the effects of the antidepressant prescriptions fluoxetine and imipramine.
Carbohydrates: The reduction of carbohydrates is the focus of many diet plans. The downside to this idea is that you can get depressed or anxious when you are low on carbohydrates. Try opting for a low-fat, high carbohydrate diet that includes low-fat dairy, whole grains, fruit and beans.
Dark Chocolate: Yeah, finally something sweet! Dark chocolate contains an antioxidant that combats cortisol, which acts as a stress hormone. While all chocolate contains this antioxidant, dark chocolate contains more cacao, so it has higher levels. While this is a tasty way to cut your cortisol level, remember that chocolate also contains more calories than other options, mentioned above!;
, Even with the most positive of attitudes, we can all have a bad day! It is easy to skip your workout routine, because you just are not in the mood. In fact, that is one of the last things you should do! Exercising is not only beneficial to good health and burning calories, it also supports a positive frame of mind. Here are ways that exercise works to improve your mood:Exercising builds muscles and muscles need oxygen. As you workout, your oxygen flow is improved as your muscles build, leaving you feeling energized and positive.
The oxygenated blood that helps to build your muscles also improves how your brain functions. During exercise, there is increased communication between your brain and nervous system. This makes your brain sharp and gives you an invigorated feeling.
Aerobic exercise increases a number of naturally occurring chemicals in the brain, including epinephrine and dopamine. These chemicals promote a positive and energized mood after a workout. Doing aerobics regularly can even change your brain chemistry, making some people feel addicted to exercising.
Socializing is a great way to improve you mood. Join an exercise class. You will meet some new people and get some exercise at the same time. You could also meet up with a friend to go for a jog in the park or swim some laps at a local recreation centre.
Set realistic goals for yourself when you are exercising. If it has been a number of years since you have participated in a regular workout, or never exercised on a regular basis, start with small goals. Setting aside some time to exercise will also provide an outlet for you to escape the pressures of work or a busy home life.
 Sitting down to read a good book is always a great way to relax. There are also different relaxation techniques that can do yourself to help you relax when you are stressed out or feeling blue.Take time to meditate. Sit on you bed or the floor cross legged (or sit in a chair if you prefer). Close your eyes and repeat to yourself "I love myself" or "I am at peace", keeping one hand on your abdomen. Feel the air filling your lungs. Continue to breathe in and out, synchronizing your breathing as you repeat your mantra.
Practice some relaxation techniques. Take some deep breaths, inhaling and exhaling slowly, concentrating on the sounds of your breathing. Close your eyes and completely clear your mind of all other thoughts.
Get in tune with your body. Lay down and and close your eyes. Take the time to assess and feel how stress affects your body. Start at your head, work slowly down to your neck, then your back, until you reach the tips of your toes. This will both relax you and make you realize how being stressed or sad affects your body.
Use a decompression technique. Wrap your neck and shoulders with a warm towel for ten minutes. With your eyes closed, relax your face, neck, chest and back. Take a tennis ball or foam roller and place it in between your back and a wall. Apply careful, but firm pressure onto the ball. After about 15 seconds, move the ball to another area and hold it again for 15 seconds, and so on.
 Sometimes you find yourself working so hard to make everyone around you happy, or get a whole bunch of things accomplished at work or at home, you forget to take a little 'me' time..


Treat yourself by looking forward to a long, luxurious bubble bath at the end of your day. Burn some of your favourite scented candles, keep the lighting low and just lay in the bubbles and relax.
Take out your problems physically. No, that does not mean going and socking the guy in the eye who hurt your feelings at work. Try going to the gym and getting your frustrations out on the punching bag. Maybe you could go for a walk and throw stones into a pond to rid yourself of what irritates you.
Make a phone call or visit close friends or family members. Sometimes members of your family can be your closest confidantes. They may even provide you with input from similar experiences that they have had in their lives.
Create yourself a jar of positivity. Take an empty jar and some slips of paper. Write little notes that prompt amusing memories or small anecdotes that make you smile. When you are having a funky day, stick you hand in the jar and get ready for a chuckle.
Play some of your favourite music and dance they blues away. Be as corny as you want, and if you dance in front of a mirror, you will be guaranteed a smile. If you want to sing as you dance, wooden spoons make great microphones!

, Come on, SMILE! IT'S GOOD FOR YOU! As the saying goes: "It takes 37 muscles to frown and 22 muscles to smile, so SMILE. It conserves energy!"