 Depending upon your situation, the tightness of your pants may be making your erection worse. Try discreetly loosening your pants. Sit down behind a table or desk and unbuckle your belt. If needed, unbutton and partially unzip your pants to give your erection more "breathing room" with less pressure.Be conscious of where you are. Don't be obvious. You don't want to be mistaken for some sort of pervert.
If you have a bit of privacy, applying a cold pack to your crotch (outside your clothing) can soothe discomfort and encourage your erection to dissipate as well.If you've ever been in a cold swimming pool or outside on a cold day in shorts, you know that the penis and testes tend to retract towards the warmth of your body.
 While taking a cold shower is often considered the way to "cool off" raging sexual desires, a warm bath can actually provide a soothing, comfortable environment that may bring your erection to a faster conclusion.Light exercise, like walking on a treadmill or simple aerobics, can also help provide distraction and a shift in blood distribution.
These alternatives are often used as initial efforts to end a possible case of priapism, in which the pooled blood becomes trapped in the shaft of the penis. If you have an erection that lasts for more than four hours for any reason, seek medical attention immediately. If not treated quickly, priapism can lead to permanent damage, including but not limited to erectile dysfunction.
 This may not be easy to do with an erection, but urinating can sometimes make an erection go away. Urination causes pleasant, relaxing feelings in your groin, which can make an erection feel less "tight" or "urgent."Waking up in the morning with an erection is common for men of all ages. It can occur with or without the prompting of sexually-arousing dreams. Despite the degree of difficulty in hitting your target while you have an erection, urinating can often help bring it to a conclusion quickly., When it comes down to it, the most effective way to end an erection is to bring it to its natural conclusion. Barring a medical condition, ejaculation almost invariably causes an erection to end.Discreetly excuse yourself from the situation and find a private area: a bathroom, a bedroom, or anywhere else you feel sure that you won't disturb anyone. Do your business, clean up, and return to the situation relieved and ready to go.
Avoid masturbating in public. If you do find yourself in a public place with an erection, find somewhere relatively private to do your thing. A lockable bathroom stall will do in a pinch, as long as you aren't loud or obvious about what you're doing. Public masturbation is illegal in many places, and you might disturb people if you aren't careful.

