 A pyramid is a three-dimensional shape with a polygon for a base, and lateral faces that taper at an apex (the point of the pyramid).A regular pyramid is a pyramid in which the base of the pyramid is a regular polygon, meaning that all of the sides of the polygon are equal in length, and all of the angles are equal in measure.We most commonly imagine a pyramid as having a square base, and sides that taper up to a single point, but the base of a pyramid can actually have 5, 6, or even 100 sides!
A pyramid with a circular base is called a cone, which will be discussed in the next method.
 The formula for the volume of a regular pyramid is V = 1/3bh, where b is the area of the base of the pyramid (the polygon at the bottom) and h is the height of the pyramid, or the vertical distance from the base to the apex (point).


The volume formula is the same for right pyramids, in which the apex is directly above the center of the base, and for oblique pyramids, in which the apex is not centered.
 The formula for this will depend on the number of sides the base of the pyramid has. In the pyramid in our diagram, the base is a square with sides that are 6 inches in length. Remember that the formula for the area of a square is A = s2 where s is the length of the sides. So for this pyramid, the area of the base is (6 in) 2, or 36in2.


The formula for the area of a triangle is: A = 1/2bh, where b is the base of the triangle and h is the height.
It is possible to find the area of any regular polygon using the formula A = 1/2pa, where A is the area, p is the perimeter of the shape, and a is the apothem, or distance from the center of the shape to the midpoint of any of its sides. This is a pretty involved calculation that goes beyond the scope of this article, but check out Calculate-the-Area-of-a-Polygon for some great instructions on how to use it. Or you can make your life easy and search for a Regular Polygon Calculator online., In most cases, this will be indicated in the diagram. In our example, the height of the pyramid is 10 inches.
 Remember that the formula for the volume is V = 1/3bh. In our example pyramid, that had a base with area 36 and height 10, the volume is: 36 * 10 * 1/3, or 120.


If we had a different pyramid, with a pentagonal base with area 26, and height of 8, the volume would be: 1/3 * 26 * 8 = 69.33.
 The measurements of our example pyramid were given in inches, so its volume must be expressed in cubic inches, 120in. If our pyramid had been measured in meters, the volume would be expressed in cubic meters (m3) instead.3
