 You will need a roof over your head. If you are sure that you will stay for a long period of time, you should find a house or apartment in advance.


If you're being put up by your company, triple-check the accommodations they will be providing and if things don't seem to add up or the size/feel isn't right, make sure to bring it up with your supervisor or whomever is in charge of the decisions (if you aren't the one making the call). At the least you want to have your concerns registered, but hopefully they can be addressed and you'll feel more peace of mind.
Make sure if you're paying for the location you'll have enough money to plan for unusual circumstances. Determine if you're liable for damage and/or if you'll be in charge of your own maintenance. Have extra cash saved for these things as well as for a few months of payments on the lease/rent/mortgage should something cut off your paycheck or source of funding.;
, Every country is different in their visa regulations. What's more, it also depends on where you're coming from. You may be able to go to the country for a visit, but do you need a visa to stay? Or maybe you need a visa to even get past the airport? Make sure you have all this in line before you take the leap.


Does your school or work get your work or student permit in order for you? What are the deadlines and the time constrictions? Do you need to alert your banks, too? How about licensure, taxes, or other paperwork?

,  This will help you to get used to the new environment and learn the language faster.  The sooner this happens, the better you will adjust. It's wise to move to the country with a job in hand; if that's not possible, it should be your first priority.


However, you do not necessarily have to get hired; you can also go to school.  Whether you go to school or work, you keep yourself in touch with local residents, practicing their language and learning about their culture. In addition to padding your pocketbook, of course.
 Most people end up developing a minimalist lifestyle where they only own clothing, a laptop and a few personal items while living abroad. Your remaining stuff should fit in one large case plus hand luggage. The fact of the matter is that you don't need your things at home and you won't likely need them when you get back – you'll know how to get by without them. So why not get some cash for them?


eBay and Craigslist are great methods for getting rid of your stuff and getting a pretty penny in return. But word of mouth, local ads, and social media are great, too.
 This cannot be said enough. Every country has a wikipedia article, countless entries in countless encyclopedias, and that's great, but it's not enough. Find out about the culture! Do people there follow traffic signals or are they more like suggestions? Do they tip after meals in restaurants? What is the predominant religion and what impact does it have on those who might not practice it (such as you, the traveler)?


Try to visit for a week or so before you move if at all possible. This can give you a good head on your shoulders and help you know what you're getting into.
As far as money is concerned, you should find out the average cost of living in this country.  Plan your budget ahead, so that you can pay not only for room and board, but also for your secondary needs.
More importantly, you should know about this country’s laws, which will help you avoid various problems with the police and make it easier for you to stay safe.  

, If it's hot throughout the year, leave your winter clothes behind (or vice versa). What's more, find out about the culture to see what's acceptable and what's not – for example, in some Muslim countries you have to cover your knees and shoulders in public and leave behind any clothes or items that aren't accepted or you won't be able to take into the country.


Check the prices in the country you're moving to. If furniture and clothes there are really expensive, it may be better to bring a few more things with you, depending on the distance you're traveling.
 If, of course, that language is different than your own.  Otherwise, you could feel lost in that country. It would be great if you already spoke some of the language by the time you moved so that you could communicate with the locals.


Although it is possible in many countries to survive speaking only English, if you are truly eager to become a part of your new country, you should master its language.  

,  After the move, those goals should serve as milestones on your path to assimilation, reminding you of the reason why you moved. Did you move to make more money? See the world? Meet different people? Advance your career?


Often moving abroad is what you make of it – you could love it or you could hate it, depending on what mindset you go in with. If you embrace adventure and the wildly different culture, it could be the best experience of your life. 

, One of the toughest moments of the moving process is leaving everything behind and starting over.  If you do not want to suffer in your new environment, it is important to be realistic with yourself about what you're leaving behind. Only after that will you be able to make the next step and move on.  Otherwise, you might miss home so badly that you will be tempted to give everything up and move back.


Consider the phrase, "Once you leave, you can never come back." And in a figurative sense, it's true. If you come back, the place will not be the same. What's more, if you come back, you will not be the same. It's important to realize this before you leave and if it's a sacrifice you want to make.
 On a regional level, have a map of the cities around your destination and maybe figure out what kinds of transportation (public trans/car/bike/foot) will get you around, as well as related costs and potential time investment. Also do this for the city you'll be in as well.


Find the path to the most common probable destination of your day and week; if you're going to study abroad, find the path or paths to your university from your home. If you're going to work, find several paths there and back. For all of these, attempt, if possible, to ascertain the safety of the route. After that, explore what landmarks might be along or near all of these routes. Not just amazing things like the Eiffel Tower or a sports stadium, but also grocery stores, food vendors, clothing boutiques, restaurants, supply/hardware stores, banks, postal boxes and fueling stations.
 Clerks in these places ought to have a cursory knowledge of their surroundings to provide you with their local expertise or at least direct you to someone who can help. All of this of course hinges on knowing where you will be living.


Know where you can go to be entertained!Try the favored activities of your new host country, but even something as simple as a movie theater or a bar can be a nice familiar base of entertainment when all else fails. Be ready to expand past your comfort zone and try everything once.
 This should be enough to pay for a few days of meals and a day or two of traveling if in a remote area or if in a decent city – it should be at least enough money to make it to the airport.


Always have some of your home currency, too, and know where you could exchange it (again, most banks are helpful for this).
 It typically takes around three months or so to feel fully settled in a new environment, so don't worry if you're still feeling homesick or anxious after a couple of months. You will only have a good idea of what long term life will be in that place after you have been there for a while. Don't put pressure on yourself to feel comfortable just yet.


Make sure you have someone you trust in your new destination and make sure you always have enough cash to leave the country. It's never good to feel trapped or stranded. These two things will set the stage for you slowly becoming comfortable.
 This will give you a chance to practice and get you integrated more quickly into the country.  If you think you do not speak the language well enough, you can take some language courses where you can meet other immigrants from around the world. Don't get intimidated – languages are hard, and most cultures are used to outsiders being less than fantastic at their mother tongue.


If you think you are fluent enough, you could also find a significant other, which would be a great way to learn the language and its idiosyncrasies because s/he will help you.
 Join a club, say yes to all invites, and reciprocate with the friends you'd like to keep. Be natural, open and kind. Try to adapt to the local social rules, engage in local social activities, and don't miss any chance you're given to go to a union with family or friends.


Sociability is probably very different than where you come from, but you don't have to worry about keeping your status anymore – right now you don't have any, so enjoy the anonymity.
Intuitively many people tend to search and join with people from their own country when they travel to give them a feeling of familiarity and safety. This helps a lot initially, but always be aware and try not to fall into the trap of ending up living in a microcosm that would be a replica of where you come from. Try to engage in social relationships with locals and not just those of your own kind.
 This may mean getting a driver’s license and a car as soon as possible.  Of course, if you intend to live in a big city, you can use public transportation.  However, you may need your own vehicle to become fully independent.


Even if you have never driven before, it is never too late to become a driver.  Having a car will make you feel completely different and make it feel like the world has opened up in front of you.
 If you are not satisfied with the quality of your life in your home country, moving abroad can give you a new start.  Once you have moved, you will not have your friends, your job, or familiar surroundings.  It will be a good starting point to build a new life, avoiding the mistakes you made in the past.  


For example, if you have been dreaming of quitting smoking, relocating overseas might be a good chance to do it.  To sum it up, immigrating is the best time to start improving yourself and being the person you've always wanted to be.
  The first few months you might be tempted to give up everything and go back.  To not let that happen, you need to have faith in your own ability to succeed.  You should keep in mind the reason that brought you here.  You will have to be reminding yourself that every problem is temporary.  The more challenged you feel, the stronger you will eventually get.


When you first get there, everything is bright and glaringly new and different. As the days pass, you'll know what to expect and eventually it will just become an everyday thing. The things you found alarming (in a good or a bad way) will eventually just be commonplace. Give it time.

