 Avoid feeding your kids immediately before their game. If their stomach is busy digesting food while you’re they are to play a sport, they could experience stomach cramping or aches. Plus, their body will not be able to contribute the maximum amount of possible energy to their sport, because some will be used for digestion.If your child eats three or more hours before their game, they should eat a small meal with carbs and a moderate level of protein. For instance, if they are eating at 12:00 and their game is at 4:00, it would be acceptable for them to have a meal.
If your child eats between one and three hours before their game, they should eat only a small snack that has more carbs than protein. For instance, if their game is at 4:00, they could snack sometime between 1:00 and 3:00.
Have your child eat at different times before their games. Monitor their reactions to see what makes them feel best. Ask your child, for instance, "Do you think you played better when you ate a meal or do you think you played better when you had only a smaller snack closer to game time?";
, Even if your kid has the best snack before the game, if they have not eaten since yesterday, it will do them little good. A substantial breakfast will help provide energy to use later in the day. Try whole-grain cereal, yogurt parfait, or whole grain and fruit muffins.If your kid has an away-game and you must travel, grab some healthy breakfast items you can eat on the go, such as bagels, bananas, apples, string cheese, yogurt cups, juice boxes and low-fat milk., Protein helps muscles grow stronger and recover quickly. There are many options for feeding your kids protein. For instance, you could try:Yogurt with fruit and nuts mixed in
A handful of nuts, or a mixture of nuts, raisins, and chocolate nibs
Oatmeal with a spoonful of protein powder, milk, and fruit bits

, Carbohydrates — or “carbs” — give your kids the energy they need to perform at the top of their game. Carbohydrates are available in abundance in foods like brown rice, whole-grain cereals and breads, and starchy vegetables.


They might enjoy vegetables like potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn and peas. Try a small baked potato or sweet potato with cinnamon.
Some athletes try “carb-loading” — eating an excess of carbs before an athletic contest or event. There’s no need to give your kids more carbs than they need. Don’t insist that your child eats a certain volume of carbs before their athletic contest. Kids are good at knowing their limits and should eat until they feel full before an athletic event.
Many of the high-protein foods listed in the step above also have high carbohydrate content, which make them good choices.
 Feeding your kids high-fiber foods might make their stomach upset during the game. Certain fruits (like strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, and pears) and legumes (like peas, beans, and lentils) should especially be avoided.It’s okay to consume high-fiber foods after the game.
 If you know that your child performs well when eating a particular set of foods, don’t encourage them to try a whole other set of foods right before their game. Doing so might result in even better performance, but it could also result in upset stomach, cramps, and decreased athletic performance.If you and your child want to adjust their athletic diet, try doing so before a scrimmage or practice session. Evaluate the results by asking your child if they think they felt and performed better after eating the new diet.

