 Before you purchase The Sims 3, you should ensure that your computer can run it. Sims 3 is getting older, so most modern computers should be able to run it with minimal effort. Still, if you're trying to run it on an older or budget computer, it's good to know what you'll need to get the best experience.


Windows - Windows XP or newer, 6 GB hard disk space, 1 GB RAM, 128 MB video card. You can see your current system specs by pressing ⊞ Win+Pause.
Mac OS X - OS X 10.5.7 or higher, 6 GB hard disk space, 2 GB RAM, 128 MB video card. You can see your current system specs by clicking the Apple menu and selecting About This Mac.
 Steam is a game storefront and launcher for a variety of different games, including The Sims 3. It is available for free from the Steam-powered website.
 In order to use Steam and purchase The Sims 3, you will need to have a free Steam account. You can create an account through the client after you install it, or you can create one on the Steam website while the client installs.


You will need a valid address and credit card in order to purchase games on Steam.
 Open the Steam client and log in if you haven't. Click the "STORE" link at the top of the window. At the top of the Store page, you will find a Search bar. Type "Sims 3" into the search bar and either select The Sims 3 from the automated results or from the search list if you click the magnifying glass button.


Once you confirm your purchase, you will be given the option to install the game immediately or later.
 You can click the "Install" button that appears after purchasing, or you can click the "LIBRARY" link at the top of the Steam window. This will open a list of all your Steam games. Right-click on the game in the list and select "Install game".


You will be shown the disk space required as well as the disk space available.
The progress of the download and installation will be displayed in your games list. The download speed and the completion percentage will be displayed next to the game title.
 Once the download and installation has finished, the game will be ready to play. Double-click Sim 3 in your Library list, or click it once and then click the "Play" button that appear in the game details frame.

