 The Health app introduced in iOS 8 allows you to create a Medical ID that can be accessed by emergency responders without unlocking your iPhone. You'll find the Health app on one of your Home screens.;
, This will open the Medical ID section of the Health app.
 You'll be taken to the ID creation screen.
 The Medical ID will pull basic information from the "Me" contact on your device. You'll typically see your name and birthday already filled in.
 As you scroll down, you'll see several entries that you can add more data to. Each of the following sections allows you to enter brief notes:Medical Conditions - List any conditions that emergency responders should know about.
Medical Notes - Enter miscellaneous notes related to your health in this field.
Allergies & Reactions - Enter any serious allergies or reactions you experience here that may affect responders.
Medications - List any essential medications here so that they can be administered by responders if necessary.
 Tap the "add emergency contact" entry to add a contact to the ID. Your contact list will pop up, allowing you to select the person you want to add.
 There are several more entries you can fill out with more medical information, which can help responders. This information is not added to your Health Data in the Health app, it is only used for the Medical ID:


Tap "add blood type" to specify your blood type in case a transfusion is necessary.
Tap "add organ donor" to indicate whether or not you are an organ donor.
Tap "add weight" and "add height" to enter your weight and height.
 You'll see your completed ID displayed on the screen.
 You can change the information on your Medical ID at any time in the Medical ID tab of the Health app. Just tap the "Edit" button and then change or delete information on the ID.


You can delete the entire Medical ID by scrolling down to the bottom of the Edit screen and tapping "Delete Medical ID."

, This will allow anyone to open your Medical ID when the iPhone is locked. This is essential to use the Medical ID if you lock your iPhone.


Be aware that there is a privacy concern with this. Anyone that can pick up your phone will be able to see any of the medical information that you've entered. This can be useful for responders, but can also lead to nosy coworkers and friends discovering your medical information.
If you don't keep your iPhone locked, you don't need to enable this and responders will be able to find the ID in your Health app. It is highly recommended that you use a passcode or Touch ID lock on your iPhone.
 This will display the passcode screen.
 This will open the Emergency dialer.
 The Medical ID will be displayed on the screen., The Medical ID is a great system, but not everyone knows about it. There's a good chance that responders won't even think to look at the Emergency section of your lock screen to open the ID. Consider carrying a bracelet or card with the information printed on it as well

