 Think of a perfect idea to make a movie. It could be an idea, a dream, changes in your surroundings etc.;
, Write down all the characters in the movie and what their role is. Click here to learn about how to come up with great ideas about character making.
 Come up with a storyline that the characters will be involved in. Try not to force yourself to think of a "great Hollywood blockbuster", just follow your heart.
 Write out all the scenes and lines the characters will be in. Make separate sheets of dialogues for actors.
 Get actors to play as your characters in the movie and producers for financing (i.e. providing money for) the movie.


For action movies, it is good to hire an action choreographer for choreographing fight and stunt scenes. Its not necessary if you can come up with cool action sequences yourself!

, If doing scenes in a closed area or inside a building, try making appropriate sets according to the scene to give the movie a professional look.
 Make your schedule about when and where you would start shooting the scenes and inform all the cast about the schedule. This would help all of the cast and crew to be prepared and having been done their homework before the day of the shoot.
 Check every instrument and equipment like camera, tripods, microphones (if using them) etc are working well. This would avoid any faults and errors at the time of the shoot thereby saving you from the frustration of delays and loss of budget.
 Arrive at the location earlier then the rest of the crew and explore if the location is good to shoot under the given circumstances (look for bad weather or the crowd present at the place.)

, Make sure the scenes would be shot the right way, for example you shot a great scene only to discover the shadows of the whole crew behind the camera could be seen on the shot you just took!

, After all the things are made ready, approach the actors and/or actresses and remind them about the scene and what they have to perform in the scene. This is the main job of the director to make sure actors perform their best on every scene.
 The way you will shoot your scenes in the movie would also part your movie from the "unprofessional." Try taking shots the following way to get the best out of every performance :


Take long shots. Taking a long shot would give you the overall view of the particular scene and all the actors and props inside the frame of your movie. A long shot is basically a shot taken from a far place.






Car and character chase scenes consist of shots taken from a far place. This makes the scene good as the audience could see where the person is running towards and people following him etc.


Taking shots with a full view . A full view shot is a shot with only your characters and a background behind them.






These shots look good when used in depicting a close combat fight.


Taking medium shots. Medium shots are quiet like closeups but not too close to give facial details (from head to torso.)






Try taking these shots for scenes with discussion going between 2-3 people. This gives the scene a little "what's going on?" kind of feeling.


The closeup shot. Closeup shots are best for showing a specific important scene of a character or a particular thing.
 Don't just stick up to a few shots, instead take several shots from different camera angles so that you'll have a lot of shots to choose from while editing the movie.
 After you've transferred the collections of shots of scenes from the memory device of the camera to your computer, you are ready for editing the movie in your computer. Click here if you are not sure how to transfer your videos from your digital camera to your computer.
 Delete the scenes that you find the least interesting. Show scenes from different views that you've shot using camera angles. Cutting smaller clips and mixing them with the same clips of that particular scene will make them more interesting.
 Adding effects make the movie more interesting, either if they are visual effects or sound effects.


Some fight scenes are also choreographed with music, and sound effects give them more of a "Wow" feeling!

, At the beginning and at the end of the movie, add titles and credits. Adding credits and titles displays the names of the crew members along with the work they did on the movie.
 After backing up the whole project on your hard drive, burn the final product on a DVD.
 Give the idea or completed film to a publisher. Make sure you edit your movie before you send it out to any publishers.
 Use various video-sharing websites like Youtube, Dailymotion etc. To learn about how to make trailers for your movie click here. Uploading trailers of your movie will make you aware about the movie reviews from the audience.

