 Sit the teen down and have a serious discussion about the possible physical injuries she could sustain due to the duct tape challenge. Though the game may appear fun or funny in an online video, doing it to yourself or to someone else can be a whole different matter.Because the rules of the game simply require someone to be duct taped until they cannot move, the teen could be duct taped to a wall, while sitting in a chair, or while standing up. Trying to remove yourself from layers of duct tape in these positions could cause serious physical injuries, from pulling a muscle while trying to remove the tape with your mouth or one hand to falling over and hitting your head when you try to remove the duct tape.
Some duct tape challenges involve duct tape over your mouth, thereby making it more difficult to free yourself. Putting duct tape over the mouth can be a breathing hazard, as you are at risk of suffocating or choking.;
, If the teen does not seem convinced of the physical risks of the duct tape challenge, it may be useful to discuss a real life example of a duct tape challenge gone very wrong. You may find these examples online or through word of mouth from other parents who are concerned about their teen participating in the game.


For example, you may tell the teen about 14 year old Skylar Fish, who injured himself while trying to get out of the duct tape wrapped around him by friends. Fish was standing up when he was duct taped and fell as he tried to get the duct tape off. He hit his head on the corner of a window frame and crushed his eye socket. He also suffered a brain aneurysm that required 48 staples in his head and lost the sight in his left eye due to his fall.Skylar Fish is just one real life example of the serious physical risks of the duct tape challenge. Though this example may seem extreme, Fish’s injuries were due to a fall on his head, which anyone could potentially do while trying to free themselves from duct tape.
 You may also want to back up your discussion of the physical risks of the challenge by showing the teen videos and images of real life injuries due to the game.


The video and images of Skylar Fish is pretty graphic, so only show it to the teen if you think it will get your point across.Make sure you frame the video of Skylar Fish's duct tape challenge within the context of the injuries he suffered as a result of attempting the challenge. Though your teen may not show an immediate reaction to the documentation, she will likely end up thinking more about her safety and the hazards associated with the challenge later. Some teens need time to internalize what their parents and authority figures tell them.