 If you’re doing a PhD or a master’s degree, you’ve already chosen your general field of study. Now, you need to narrow that field down to choose a specific topic. In order to do this, read an introductory book if you’re not already doing so as part a class. Try to read as widely as possible; you never know what’s going to catch your eye.


If it’s a field like literature, try exploring different authors.
If it’s a scientific field, begin with an area that interests you. Start reading more about that topic.;
, The most important thing when choosing a topic is making sure you are passionate about it. You will be working on the topic for a significant amount of time, investing part of your life into it. If you are not passionate about it, you will fizzle out, and you may find it difficult to finish your dissertation. Wait for something that makes you want to keep reading about it and that makes your heart beat a little faster.


Also, if you’re not excited about it, you won’t be able to write in a way that gets your readers excited about it, either.
 Once you’ve narrowed down your topic a good amount, research more deeply. This will allow you to identify a very specific topic that can serve as the basis for your dissertation proposal.


Maybe your field is literature, and you’ve narrowed down your topic to Charlotte Brontë. Now you need to narrow even more. Keep reading all you can. Do you want to write about how Brontë portrays women? Maybe you want to write about how she uses setting to set up her story.
If you’re topic is more scientific, begin narrowing down the field. Say you’re interested in Mendel’s theories of genetics, but you want to update his experiments. Start reading about contemporary genetic experiments to get an idea of how you can narrow your focus.
 A truly unique topic is of paramount importance, especially if you are writing a PhD dissertation. That type of dissertation is meant to show the university that you are ready to enter the academic world as a researcher and thinker. Therefore, any topic you do should be original, though of course you will build on other people’s thoughts and ideas.


However, your final committee will expect it to be a unique discussion of the topic or a unique experiment exploring a scientific hypothesis.
 He or she can be instrumental in helping you choose a topic, especially if you don’t know what direction you want to take. Your advisor will bring a second opinion and expert guidance to your topic, allowing you to better approach your proposal


Once you have a specific topic (“Charlotte Brontë’s Use of Color in Jane Eyre and Its Effect on the Narrative” or “Modern Mendel: Genetic Traits in Mice”), you will write a proposal.
 It is not a problem if you’re not exactly sure where your topic is going to go; your dissertation can and probably will change over time. Your advisor and/or committee are mostly looking for the way you are planning to begin your research. You haven’t done enough research at this point to know exactly how your dissertation will develop, but you will make an educated guess at it.


With a scientific hypothesis, you should have an educated guess about how the experiment will turn out. But your experiment and research will prove your hypothesis or not, and that is an important part of the process.
 Like an essay, you’ll need an introduction, a body, and a conclusion. In your introduction, you are laying out the general ideas you want to discuss. Talk about why you think it is an important topic. You’ll need to include a basic thesis or hypothesis in the introduction.


The thesis is the main argument you will make throughout the paper, while the hypothesis is your guess on how the experiment will turn out.
In this case, Jane Eyre and color are your main ideas or Mendel’s theories and your hypothesis about how your experiment will turn out. Even though it may change, you still want to present your argument in your proposal.
 In the body, you are basically going to give an idea of what the dissertation as a whole will look like. Think of it like an outline for the bigger paper, discussing the main ideas you are going to cover, in addition to organizational structures like chapters and sections. Of course, you haven’t written the dissertation yet, so you don’t know exactly how it will look. However, your reader wants an idea of how it will go generally, although he or she knows that it will change over time.


Make sure you know where your topic fits into the critical discussion. Talk about similar research that has been done, and how your topic is similar and different. Establish your parameters.
In a scientific paper, you do have a better idea of how the dissertation will turn out.

In the dissertation, you’ll need a discussion of methodology, a literature review (an overview of what’s already been said/experiments that have been done on the topic), details on the experiment, and the conclusions drawn.
In the proposal, talk about some of the literature you’ve already explored and discuss the methodology you plan to use in your experiment.
 Breaking up the body into sections depending on the contents of each one will allow the reader to more clearly understand your thought process. A variety of sections will illuminate the different ideas and methods that you will include in your dissertation.


One section will be methodology: How are you going to do your research? What type of critical theories are you going to use to make your argument? Name specific people whose theories you’d like to look into more thoroughly.
In another section, outline your chapters/sections. Let your reader know where you’re going with this paper. For each paragraph or section, take a paragraph to discuss it; give the main ideas, and spend the paragraph discussing how you see that idea developing in that chapter.
 Talk about how the sections will come together as a whole. Yes, each chapter will have its own mini-thesis or topic, but all of those need to work together for the overall thesis. In a scientific proposal, you obviously cannot talk about the conclusions yet, but outline how your thinking fits together to form the basis of your hypothesis.


Generally, you want to make a thorough outline of what you want to talk about in your dissertation.
Nonetheless, it should still be concise and to the point. You are not actually writing your dissertation, just giving your reader an idea of where it will go.

