 Choosing which software or program to buy can be a bit overwhelming because there are so many choices, each with their own strengths, weaknesses, and goals. While there are definitely some popular software, and more expensive software, brand and price are not always indicative of the program itself. Your best bet is to look at program websites and read about each, then look up reviews, and ultimately decide which program will best meet your learning needs and goals.


There are excellent free programs available, which you should not overlook.
Many programs now have free trial periods or even complementary apps that work in tandem with programs that you can download and try before you purchase the software.;
, Podcasts are a great and free way to learn Spanish with audio tools and are readily available on almost any modern phone, tablet, or computer. You’ll find, with a simple search, an overwhelming number of instructional podcasts designed to help you learn or improve your Spanish speaking, reading, and writing abilities., Your local library likely has excellent audio learning resources available for you to borrow. Because CDs, cassettes, and other language-learning materials are likely kept in different areas of the library, you would probably do best to ask your librarian for assistance in finding exactly what you need.


If your library branch doesn’t carry what you want, ask your librarian if the materials can be transferred from another library in the county to your branch.
 Bookstores are a great place to find a variety of Spanish-instruction materials, including audio lessons, software, and books. Bookstores offer several titles in one place, and also give you an opportunity to look at packages before you buy. Additionally, because you’re buying the materials, you can keep them as long as you want, rather than have to return them.


You have a lot of options when choosing a bookstore: national chain bookstores, locally-owned stores, new and used stores, and even online new and used booksellers.
 Deciding if you’ll be a casual learner or a serious language learner has nothing to do with aptitude or ability, or even how good of a student you are. Instead, it means figuring out how fluent you’d realistically like to be. If you’re interested in casually learning Spanish, say, as a tourist, then learning from tapes are a great choice. If you want a little more fluency, you might consider another method.If you’re planning on taking a trip to a Spanish-speaking country, and are primarily interested in conversational Spanish, instructional audio materials, such as Duolingo, might be a great choice for you.
Or if you’re interested in fluency, you might consider language-learning software, like Rosetta Stone, Fluenz, or Pimsular.And if you really want to learn the fundamental building blocks, Babbel might be good options for you.
You may not be in a position to spend a lot of (or any) money on a program, and will find excellent free programs available, such as Duolingo and BBC Languages.
 Make learning Spanish part of your everyday life and play your lessons as often as you can. Incorporate Spanish in every way that you can, which is especially easy because audio lessons are so portable. This means that you can take work with them when you’re on the go, such as on your daily commute to and from work, cleaning the house, on an airplane, or even while grocery shopping., When learning a language, regardless of instructional method, you will need to respond and repeat words or phrases when prompted to do so. Typically you will hear a voice say the word or phrase correctly, and then you will be given time to repeat what you’ve heard. Respond with confidence. Speak loudly, clearly, and give it your best shot. You will improve your pronunciation and retention when you respond this way.


Don’t feel awkward if you’re having difficulty sounding exactly like the voice on the program and might be inclined to mumble. Speak clearly, with confidence, and your pronunciation will improve with practice.
 As with anything, sometimes we start a project enthusiastically and then our enthusiasm can start to lessen a bit. Using tapes or CDs to learn Spanish is a great method, but you might not see immediate, tangible results. Don’t let that deter you. Learning a language is a complex effort. Set goals or milestones for yourself so that you can keep track of your progress and stay enthusiastic about your lessons.For example, you might reward yourself when you master a new verb tense, or you might reward yourself when you’ve learned 25 vocabulary words.
 You may find that you outgrow the program that you’re working with, as you master the basic lessons and need to move on to more advanced lessons. Don’t force yourself to stick with a program that doesn’t meet your needs; instead, research advanced Spanish-language programs, again looking at manufacturer websites and reviews, to determine what’s right for you.


You may be hesitant to invest in another program if you’ve already spent money on the basic lessons, and that’s understandable. Consider selling your basic language program to supplement the cost of a new, advanced program.
 Learning any new skill takes time and practice, and learning Spanish is certainly no exception. Setting goals will help you make note of your progress, but in between those goals, don’t get impatient or frustrated. Keep with it, knowing that you’ll likely have setbacks (just like you did when you learned your first language), and keep practicing.You might have difficulty rolling your Rs, known as trilling. That’s normal and understandable. Keep trying – be patient, practice, and it might just happen for you.
You may get frustrated that you forget verb how to conjugate irregular verbs.
Think back on what you’ve accomplished, give yourself the time that you need, and get back to your lessons.
 Consider supplementing your audio lessons with real-world resources that expose you to Spanish as it is spoken every day. Spanish-speaking television shows, especially telenovelas, “slow Spanish” news downloads, music, and Spanish-speaking radio stations will expose you to a variety of vocabulary, dialects, and rapid speech that you might not encounter in your audio lessons. Also, the internet is full of podcasts and videos that are meant to supplement your audio instruction., The best place to use your newly acquired language is in a country where Spanish is the native language. Plan a vacation in a Spanish-speaking country, if you can, and try out your newly-acquired language skills.
 You can also sign up with international pen-pal websites (don’t worry, you don’t have to give any personal information at all), in which you correspond over the computer with people who speak Spanish and want to learn your native language. You’ll write to them in Spanish, and they will offer feedback, and potentially great conversation, in your native language.Penpal relationships can be educational and rewarding. If you’re not comfortable with this route, though, consider signing on to foreign-language message boards.
 Join a meeting website or even ask at your library to find a local language group. These groups are made up of people that are native speakers, as well as students like yourself. Here, everyone can meet up with the shared goal of speaking Spanish, allowing you to fine-tune what you’ve learned from your tapes.