 These wooden wheeled wonders make moving heavy objects a cinch. You'll want to wrap the edges of your dollies in carpet or fabric. This will prevent the legs of the pool table from being scratched., Distribute your dollies around each corner of your pool table to prepare each for being slid under its legs. Clear the area around the pool table so that there are no objects that might get caught in the wheels and make it difficult to slide the dollies into place.


When clearing objects from around/under your pool table, don't forget to remove any throw rugs, which can bunch and hamper the rolling of your dolly.
 You should be able to do this alone, but since pool tables are heavy, a friend can considerably lessen your effort. Tilt the pool table off the ground from one of the longer sides.Lift with your legs to prevent injury to your back.
 If you are doing this alone, snag the dolly with your foot and push it into place beneath the pool table. Be sure not to overexert yourself in this maneuver or lose your grip; dropping your pool table can damage it. If you are working with a friend, have him roll the wooden dolly into place.


Repeat this process for both legs of the end of the pool table that you are lifting.
 When you raise the other end of your pool table, you will be applying force to the pool table that might cause it to roll backwards on the dollies you have just placed. You'll want to prevent this by locking the wheels, or by placing an object to jam the wheels of your dollies, rendering each stationary.
 Double check that your dollies are within foot-reach or that your friend is ready to slide the dollies into place, then lift the other side of the pool table. Move the other two dollies beneath both legs of that end of your table.
 Unlock or unblock the two dollies. Now you should walk the path on which you plan on wheeling your pool table. Measure all doors that you'll have to pass through and check these measurements against the width of your pool table. Move carpets and other items that might bunch or otherwise jam the wheels of your dollies. A jammed wheel can jostle your table and do damage to it, you, a wall, or one of your possessions., You want to control the speed at which your table rolls. Due to the considerable weight of your pool table, if it gains too much speed it will be nearly impossible for you to stop. If you have a friend, each of you should push the pool table from opposite corners of the same side and, in a controlled fashion, move it through your home.


If you are doing this on your own, you'll want to take a more central position, probably at the end of the longways side, between the two corner pockets.
The weight of the pool table will make it difficult to turn corners. Take this into account when moving it through your home.
 You'll want to remove the dollies opposite your braced dollies first. Before you do anything, check the position and alignment of your pool table. Once you take the table off the dollies, it will again become difficult to move.
 Lift from the middle of the long side of your pool table and have your friend quickly pull the dollies free. Then you should carefully lower it to the ground. If you are doing this alone, you should be able to easily kick the dollies free, and then slowly, in a controlled fashion to prevent damage, lower your table.


Once one set are removed, you can unlock the wheels of the dollies at the opposite side and remove these in the same fashion.

