 It can be difficult to be upbeat about starting a new relationship, especially if did not end the last one. Self-doubts will often creep in. However, you must fight them to start a productive new romance. Don’t see yourself as the victim. We all have those “oh, woe-is-me” type of days, but remember that everyone has been hurt.
Focus less on the past. You may have had many unpleasant experiences during a long-term partnership or even while dating short-term. Obsessing over them won’t make your new relationship blossom.
Conquer fear. You could be on your third awesome date and then start behaving erratically because you are afraid of actually opening up and having a positive experience. Don’t let fear ruin your chances. , Break free of your social circles if dating people from those circles has not worked out. It may feel strange if you are not used to it, but using online dating sites can be productive. Talk to other people who have done it if it seems scary. , In the beginning of a relationship, it is tempting to make yourself sound like the perfect human. However, we all know that no one is perfect. If you create a false persona early on, the relationship probably won’t last. Instead, be truthful about who you are and what you have been through. , If you start dating without identified goals, you might not come off as sincere, which will push a new person away. Spend time figuring things out, and remember that you control your destiny, not your family, friends, or society at large. , You won't keep a new boyfriend or girlfriend for long if you make promises that you will not or cannot keep. If your new partner, for example, enjoys compliments, don’t give any that you don’t mean. Above all else, do not say you love someone if you don’t feel it. , Maybe you hesitated to tell your ex what you really desired in bed. Maybe you weren’t capable of voicing your opinion about mundane things, like what to eat for dinner. Whatever the case may be, pushing yourself in this realm is the most frightening, but it will pay off. , While using online dating sites can result in finding a new lover, be careful about how you interact on sites like Facebook while you are getting to know each other and even after you have been together awhile. A number of negative outcomes can occur if you are not smart about social media use. Jealousy occurs. Your significant other might think that you are having more fun without him or her based on your posts and check-ins. He or she might also misinterpret your interactions, which can cause fights.
Your partner might feel let down. He or she might feel that you don’t value the relationship or your family ties if you constantly enter statuses and photos that are about non-family events. Keep that in mind before you post!
Facebook use is actually linked to divorce. If you supplement real life spousal interaction with Facebook use, you have an increased change of divorce! Unfollow your significant other on Facebook if it leads to problems.

