 Scotland is a very diverse country with many different types of landscapes and themes to suit anyone's tastes. There are various different types of accommodation to suit your fancies also:


If you prefer a simple countryside holiday, then there are plenty of cottages or big country houses you can book. Country houses are popular for a big family event and some can hold up to around 30 people depending on the size. Cottages on the other hand, are nice for either a small family or a couple.
You can enjoy the urban city lifestyle with the variety of hotels. It is great to book your place in a hotel with a penthouse view over the city. This option is convenient if you want to explore downtown and are more of a shopper than a hill-climber or sporty person.
The coastal beach-houses and hotels are also great alternatives if you prefer the salty smell of the sea and the beach entertainment. Aberdeen is an especially popular seaside city with plenty of these types of accommodation.;
, Binoculars are a great way to spot wildlife and maps are almost essential to find your way around the majestic hills or tranquil forests. Sun cream is obligatory in the heart of summer just as warm clothes are in the height of winter. Remember to take a camera to either capture the stunning landscapes or to take pictures of you and your family.
 Airports are present in the main cities and some other places and they are taxis waiting both at these airports and train stations. Many Scottish coach trips are on offer and a car journey is an alternative choice. However, due to the inconsistent weather conditions, you can never rely on Scottish transport as there is always a chance a vehicle might get snowed in or a car creating chaos on an icy road!

, Scotland is very inconsistent in this way and it is best to watch the daily weather reports every day to plan ahead for what you would like to do. One day the sun is shining as bright as ever and the next you have endless torrential rain!

, Scotland has many delicious restaurants and cafes in different locations. Seafood can be a popular menu item like steaks are and Scottish classics like soup, haggis, potatoes, fudge tablet and ice-cream are all present but maybe not all in one dish together! Taste the Scottish cuisine beforehand to be sure that it is too your taste and for most people, it usually is!

, Although Scotland is a relatively small country with the population less than that of London, it is a great country for sport and many different types of it too. Swimming, football, judo, rugby and athletics are all members of a large collection of popular sports. Football is probably the one that most people watch or take part in and there is a variety of stadiums all over Scotland, some with a capacity of up to 60,000 people. Swimming pools are very prominent too and many have the best facilities and equipment to use.
 Whether you would rather scale the rocky mountains or stroll the tranquil forests, the countryside is for everyone. There are many little trails for children and families too with adventures and hunts along the way. For an older or more experienced family or group of trekkers, you can have a go at walking some of the larger-scale walks which can be a holiday in themselves or climb some of Scotland's largest mountains such as Ben Nevis, Ben Macdui and Braeriach, all of which are over 4000ft by a great margin and in the top three highest hills in Scotland.
 There are many different tourist attractions on offer in Scotland for all moods, personalities and ages:


Try out some water sports on Scotland's endless supply of lochs. Some of the most famous lochs to visit are Loch Lomond, Loch Arkaig and Loch Ness. Kayaking and canoeing are popular activities on these lochs and great fun for all of the family.
Visit the castles and battlefields. These take you right back in time when there were countless armies roaming the undulating land of Scotland and battles and independence being fought for. The most famous of these is probably the Bannockburn Battlefield and castles such as Edinburgh Castle, Stirling Castle and Dunnottar Castle.
Take a look at the supply of theme parks and adventure parks. These are great for the kids and include everything from the Blair Drummond Safari Park out in the countryside to the Codona's Theme Park at the Aberdeen Beach.
Visit the museums and information centres. Every city and town in Scotland has some sort of gallery or museum. If you are interested in anything from art to wildlife then you will love going round these attractions. Most have some sort of interactive theme for the children too so you don't feel as if you are dragging them around with you.
Spend time in the city centres and find high-street brands known all over the world and other local businesses. Local bakeries and craft shops are very common in Scotland and are always worth a visit, especially for the keen tourist. The shopping centres are very extensive and in multiple numbers.
 While doing this you might find yourself visiting places in the Scottish islands like beautiful Skye which holds a lot of Scotland's best-kept historical treasures. The castles and battlefields are some of the best places to find Scottish history but everywhere you look, there will be a plaque somewhere or a building commemorating something that a Scot or a group of Scots did.
 Scotland will always be there again tomorrow with the hills waiting for you, the cities luring you to their shops and the countryside beckoning you to have a walk with it. Make the most out of your journey and let it become a possibility for further holidays and visits.

