 You can use the app to create an album to share with others. You’ll be able to control with whom the album is shared, as well as whether other people can add or modify its contents. You must have the app installed and a Google account to use this method., It’s at the top right corner at the end of the search box. The “Create New” menu appear.
, As you tap, checkmarks will fill the circles on each photo.


If you change your mind about including a photo, tap it again to remove the checkmark.
 If you chose photos or videos that aren’t synced, those photos will upload now. In a few seconds, you’ll see their thumbnails, along with a text field that says “Untitled.”

, When you share this album with others, this is the name they will see.
 Tapping it will save the album and pop up your device’s sharing options.
 This will close the pop-up. You’ll want to do this so you can edit your sharing options before putting your album out into the world.
 It’s at the top right corner of the screen. A menu will appear.
, Adjust these options to suit your needs and then click the X to save your changes.


Share: Make sure this switch is in the On position so your desired recipients can view the album.
Collaborate: If you want others to add their own photos and videos to the album, enable this option.
Comment: Turn on this option to allow people to comment on photos and videos in the album.
 Now you’ll return to the album.
 It’s at the top right (next to the ⁝). On Android, it looks s like a less-than symbol (<) with dots at each of its points. On iOS devices, it’s a square with an arrow pointing up. When you click it, the Sharing pop-up menu will appear once more., Sharing options vary across devices, but here’s some tips for sharing:


Tap the icon of a social media app to share with someone who also uses that service. For example, tapping Snapchat will launch the app and display your contacts—tap to select your recipients, and then send the message. The recipient(s) will receive a link to the album.
Type a contact’s name, email address, or phone number in the “To” field. You can share with many contacts, if you wish. Your device will use its default messaging app to send the link to the recipient.
 When you open Google Photos, tap “Albums” and then this album.


Add more photos to the album at any time by tapping the Add Photos icon (a square icon of a painting with a + symbol).
To change your sharing options, tap the ⁝ icon and select “Sharing Options.”
To share the album with additional people, tap the Share button.

