 You can get a complete listing from the IRS. States in the United States of America that don’t charge a any personal state income tax include the following ones:


Alaska;
South Dakota;
Nevada;
Florida;
Texas;
Washington; and
Wyoming.;
, Currently, two states tax interest and dividends, but not wages and salaries. Those states are New Hampshire and Tennessee., Most states will tax businesses, even if that state does not have an individual income tax. Businesses include:Sole proprietorships: Businesses owned by one person and not formally organized with a government office. This includes people who are self-employed.
Partnerships: Businesses owned by two or more people whether or not formally organized with the appropriate government office.
Limited Liability Companies and similar organizations: These businesses are formally organized with the appropriate government office to limit the liability of the member(s).
Corporations: These businesses are formally organized with the appropriate government office. They do not have to be large and can be owned by a single individual stockholder.
Cooperatives: These businesses are formally organized to meet a need for their membership.
Nonprofit organizations: These businesses are formally organized with the appropriate government office and must meet strict IRS rules regarding retention of profits.
S Corporations: These businesses are formally organized with the appropriate government office as a corporation, but are taxed on the individual level.
 When you find a form online, make sure you are using the most recent one. Forms change from time to time and you want to make sure you are not using an old one.


Instead of using the same form you used in previous years, go online and get a new form every year. This will help ensure you are using the most recent one.
Also, look at the form for a date. Some states will provide a year on the form itself. For example, in California, their income tax form has the year on it.If you live in California, make sure you are using the form with the current tax year on it.
 Most state income tax forms will have directions or booklets that help you fill out the form correctly. When you find the form you need, see if there are directions that go with it.


For example, in California, there is a booklet you can download with the state income tax form.This booklet will walk you through the process of filling out the state income tax form itself.

