 If your friend wants to stop your apology and vent her emotions, you should let her. Part of the apology is hearing why your friend is upset, if you haven't already, so that you can both work together to do better in the future. That means listening when your friend expresses her emotions to you, even if it's in the middle of your apology.To show you are listening, nod along with what the person is saying. Once your friend is finished, you can offer a summary to show you heard her, such as "What I hear you saying is you're the most upset about the fact that I left you to fend for yourself in an unfamiliar place."

, When you apologize to someone, it must come with no strings attached. That means you shouldn't expect an apology, even if you think you deserve one, and you certainly shouldn't ask for one. That turns your apology into something where you expect reciprocation. Of course, you'd like the other person to apologize if they've done something wrong, but that shouldn't affect how you apologize to them.That doesn't mean you should let your friend trample on you all the time, just that an apology should be given without expectations. If your friend routinely hurts you without apologizing, he is not a very good friend, and you may want to consider ending the relationship.
 Even if your friend doesn't offer an apology, it is acceptable to ask for forgiveness. Asking for forgiveness actually helps your friend, too, as it is a way to release anger and mend the friendship; therefore, it's an important step in an apology.For example, you could use a simple, "Will you forgive me for my mistake?"
You could also give the person some time with, "I know I made a big mistake, and it may take you some time to forgive me. I understand if you need space, but I hope you can forgive me eventually."

, Once you've apologized for your mistake and been forgiven, it's time to let it go. Trying to make up for the mistake is also appropriate, but the point is, you don't need to hold on to your guilt forever. Doing so will only hurt you and your friend, as it can put a burden on your relationship.