 While you don’t have to cull your closet as carefully as you would when pitching to a thrift store, you should be a good neighbor and offer only unsoiled and intact items at your garage sale. Go through all your kids’ outgrown clothing and keep a sharp eye out for stains, discoloration, tears, or stretched fabric.
 You might think that putting out clean, ready-to-wear clothing is a common courtesy, but you’d be surprised how many people forget this step at their garage sale. Not only does this simple measure ensure that you adhere to yard sale etiquette, but it also boosts your items’ appeal and price point.If you don’t have time to iron each and every item, hang them up as soon as you remove them from the clothesline or dryer in order to prevent wrinkles before they begin.
 Instead of posting generic signs around your neighborhood that announce solely the date and location of your yard sale, be specific about what you’re offering! Since parents everywhere are in-need of good, cheap clothes for their growing children, they’ll be much more likely to go out and find your garage sale if you specify kids’ clothing on your advertisements.


Use bright colors and large lettering to make your sign as catchy and legible as possible.For example, add a note on your signs saying, “Huge selection of gently used articles of children’s clothing!”

, You’ve probably been to a garage sale or swap meet where you have to dig through big bins of tossed-together clothes. While this may be an no-hassle way of presenting your items, it’s hardly the most effective or appealing way to display clothing and entice buyers. Instead, hang your items on a mobile closet or rack so that buyers can see individual articles, or fold and organize them on large tables or shelves.If you don’t have a rolling portable closet, use a ladder and an old curtain rod propped between the rungs!Just because you’ve arranged your items with care, doesn’t mean that browsing buyers will show them the same courtesy. Keep your clothes optimally displayed by revisiting your racks throughout the sale and tidying up as the day goes on.
 Oddly enough, pricing your items is actually a good way to sabotage your yard sale game. Instead, have people inquire about individual items and ask what price they had in mind. Often, interested shoppers are willing to pay a much higher price than you would have listed. Alternately, if the listed price is too steep for a potential buyer, they’ll usually take this price point as ironclad without inquiring or haggling for a lower price.Instead of indicating specific prices, hang encouraging signs over your racks saying things like, “Great bargains,” or, “Don’t be shy! Ask about pricing!”

, Garage sales aren’t just meant to earn some extra cash over the weekend. They’re also designed to clear out those unused, extraneous items cluttering up your home and storage space, so keep this goal in mind as the day wears on. Encourage people to purchase and thin out your inventory by introducing special rates and BOGO promotions in the afternoon.

