 Before making bingo into a slightly more complicated math game, you should introduce your child to this family favorite by playing a few games with standard rules. This will familiarize your child with the ground rules as well as show them that it’s an enjoyable activity.


If you have a set of bingo cards and prompts already, great! If not, simply print out a free set from online game portals or make your own using a word processor., Take your existing bingo cards and some index cards or ping pong balls which you can write on with a marker. On these index cards or balls, write different formulas which equal the different numbers on the bingo cards. For example, if the cards have a space with the number 27, write out an equation like 20+7 or 36-9.This can be adjusted according to your child’s sophistication. If they’re still on a very basic level, create your own bingo cards with numbers that only go up to 20 or 30. If they’re more advanced, make the equations more complicated, such as 5+50-30+7.
You can also switch it around and make it so that the bingo cards show equations and the prompts are solutions. This way you read out a number and your child looks for equations on the bingo card which equal that number.
 Once your child is comfortable with bingo, tell them you’re going to use the arithmetic they’ve been learning in school to switch up the game and make it even more fun. Show them the new equation prompts and review some answers, then play a few example rounds.


Make sure you wait to introduce this game to your children until they’ve been using arithmetic in school for at least a day or two. You want them to be practicing learned concepts rather than overwhelming them with new ideas and skills.
 The importance of challenging students at all levels—and particularly those who are gifted—has been documented repeatedly in pedagogical studies, so make sure your child’s favorite math game doesn’t lag behind their skill sets.Keep an eye on your child’s homework and incorporate multiplication, division, geometry, and exponents when they get to them in school.

