 These methods are more powerful than the basic methods described above, but they may harm the fabric or carpet as well as remove the stain. If you are concerned with possible effects these substances may have on the color or texture of your material, apply them to an unobtrusive corner of the object first. Wait 10 minutes, then blot with a towel and see if the material has been affected.
 Mix three parts liquid dish soap together with one part rubbing alcohol and let sit on the material for 10 minutes before rinsing in hot water or blotting with a wet towel.Run clothing through the laundry under normal settings. Alcohol is a powerful solvent, meaning that the oils in the mustard stain may dissolve in this alcohol-based cleaning solution.


Liquid glycerin or "glycerol" has similar properties to this mixture and can be used in its place.

Note: If using this method on an article of clothing, place the clothing over a towel or other absorbent material first. The alcohol mixture will likely soak right through the clothing.
 While this is not always successful, sometimes you can make a dry stain easier to remove by making it wet again with the original source of the stain. After applying the mustard, wait 5 minutes, blot thoroughly with a towel, and treat as described in the clothing or furniture sections.


Only use the same type and brand of mustard as the one that caused the stain: the oils and turmeric that caused the stain was made to dissolve in that particular mix of ingredients.Note: Take care to apply mustard only over the original stain, and not to rub it onto a larger area when blotting it out. Do not test the "fresh mustard" method on an unstained portion of the material.
 Mix one part white vinegar with two parts water and apply with a spray bottle or sponge.Let sit 10 minutes, then blot with a wet towel. Run clothing through the laundry. Vinegar is a less powerful stain remover than alcohol or detergent, but because it has different chemical properties, it will sometimes work on stains that the previous substances fail to remove.
 Hydrogen peroxide may cause fading or discoloration, but it is sometimes used to treat carpet stains. Apply 3% hydrogen peroxide to the stain and let stand one hour. Blot with a dry towel and repeat if necessary. Exposure to light will cause the hydrogen peroxide to deteriorate into water, so no rinsing is necessary.