 Revise your profile and edit out all depressing or downer material. Most people are not looking for a partner in misery. It helps to focus on what you do want, not on the deal breakers. Tell your readers that you “love hiking and being outside” not that you “hate the indoors.”Don’t discuss your ex in your profile. Nothing kills a romantic mood quicker than rehashing the past. These are all conversations that can take place if your relationship progresses.Don’t write about how you are so surprised to be considering online dating. This can come off as dismissive and superior to those folks who are considering it a viable option (which includes you at this point!)., The goal is generally to meet up with someone so if you lie it will eventually catch up to you. Look for someone who accepts you as you are, not some fantasy version of you. Provide an accurate age or age range. Include recent photos on your profile., Posting an online dating profile can make you feel vulnerable and some people respond to this by pushing aside modesty. Try to avoid the appearance of bragging in your profile, especially regarding your personal appearance. Write about your hobbies without overly praising your own abilities too.You might say, “I find that playing the piano is a great way to unwind at the end of the day. I’m actually pretty good at it too.”

, Unless you are after a one-night stand and nothing more, be very cautious about how you employ sexual references. Everything from your online handle to your hobbies could be interpreted the wrong way unless you closely edit them., It is not good if your final profile reads like an old-fashioned dating ad. Even if you like long walks on the beach, you may want to leave that for a later conversation. Focus instead on what makes you stand out from the crowd.Instead of saying that you enjoy eating with friends perhaps mention your favorite restaurant and dish. Or, recount a favorite dining story.
 “I will tell you later” comes across as more lazy than mysterious. Fill all of the blanks in your profile out, even if you have to get a bit creative with your information or approach. This tells profile readers that you are willing to put the time and effort into a potential relationship.