 While the number of flowers will vary based on the length of the lei and personal preference, most money leis require anywhere from 40 to 60 flowers. Based on that amount, determine how many bills of what denomination you need to create the lei. If you need extra flowers, you can create more from paper and intermix them with the money.A typical money lei could, for example, consist of 30 $1 bills and 30 paper flowers, 50 $1 bills or even 20 $5 bills and 20 flowers. The variety and amount is up to you.;
, First make a 1/2-inch (1.3cm) fold across one of the short sides of the rectangular bill.
 Turn the bill over and make a 1/2-inch (1.3cm) fold in the opposite direction on the same side. Flip the bill back over and make another 1/2-inch (1.3cm) fold in the same direction of the first fold.


This begins an accordion-style folding pattern.
 Continue folding 1/2-inch strips in alternating directions until you have folded all the way across the bill. Your bill should have the appearance of an accordion.
 The rubber band will keep the bill in place so you can attach the decorative ribbon.
 Tie the rubber-banded area of the bill to the necklace with a slender, 6-inch (15.24cm) piece of colored ribbon. You can tie it in a bow or any decorative knot.


You'll find it's easiest to evenly disperse the bills if you tie them to the string in between the beads. That way you can place them a determined number of beads apart.
 When the two ends meet, the bill will form a circle. Secure the ends together with a thin piece of double-sided tape.
 Continue folding additional bills until you have the desired number of money flowers secured to the necklace. Space the money flowers evenly throughout the length of the necklace.
 If you feel the lei is too sparse. it's easy to create matching paper flowers. If you prefer, you can also make extra flowers for the lei out of pretend money instead of paper.


Cut colored paper into money-sized rectangles. You can choose a single color or a variety of colors.
Fold each paper rectangle in the same accordion style you folded the money. Wrap a rubber band around the center in the same manner, as well.
Attach the folded paper to the necklace Just as you attached the money, use a small piece of tape and ribbon to attach the paper flowers to the necklace. You can add as many paper flowers as you like in between the money.
 Try tying colorful silk flowers, candy or even jewelry intermittently throughout the necklace.
 Choose small childhood mementos, baby toys, special charms, sea shells, ticket stubs - anything that brings to mind a treasured memory.
 Then fold and tie the notes in the same fashion as the money flowers.

