 Be sure to involve your child in the selection process. Take their preferences, opinions, and suggestions into account as you both choose the right dog.


Ask them, “Which type of dog do you think you’d like best? Do you prefer any specific breeds? Would you rather get a purebred dog from a breeder or adopt from a shelter?”
Ask them about how much time and energy they have to care for a dog: “Will you be able to take the dog out before school, then go on a long walk after soccer practice? Since you’re pretty athletic, would you prefer to have a dog you can be active with over one that’s more of a lapdog?”

, Bring your child with you to the pet store in order to instill a sense of responsibility and to keep them involved in the ownership process. Have them help you select the dog’s leash, collar, and other necessities:Food and treats that are marked appropriate for your dog’s breed, age, and size. Consult with your dog’s vet about choosing an appropriate brand.
Food and water bowls.
Toys, including a ball or fetch toy and chew toys.
A bed and, if you choose to crate train your dog, a size-appropriate crate.
 If your child hasn’t gone with you to pick up the new dog, have them introduce themselves using “dog language.” Have them stand sideways, get into a low posture, and extend their hand with a closed fist for the dog to smell.After a successful scent introduction, have your child pet the dog on its back for a few moments.
If the dog doesn’t feel like meeting anyone new at that moment, don’t force any interactions.
 Have your child assist you teaching your dog commands, like sit, stay, and come. First, say the command clearly and firmly, then guide your dog into the appropriate position, and offer a treat as soon as the dog is in position. Repeat the sequence 10 to 20 times per training session.


Say to your child, “Watch me give the command and pay attention to the tone of voice I use. Always make sure you use commands consistently, and try to use the same tone of voice whenever you give the dog a command.”
In addition to commands, give your dog mental exercise by teaching it to fetch and play hide and seek with treats and toys.

