 Carrie is described as having long, mousy hair in the novel, but she's been played by many actors with varying hair colors - the 1976 movie portrayed Sissy Spacek with a slightly reddish tint to her hair; the 2002 variant involved a dark-haired actress, Angela Bettis; the 2013 reboot starred Chloë Grace Moretz, a blonde; and the musicals portrayed her with many different hair colors. Regardless, Carrie's hair is long, usually reaching down to her shoulders at the minimum, and she often uses it as a "curtain" to hide her face.
 While this may not seem like much of a Carrie thing, it's mentioned in the novel that her clothing, picked out by her mother, is extremely unflattering so that she doesn't attract the attention of boys, as her mother considers this to be sinful. You don't have to take this to the extremes that Carrie's mother did, but try deliberately wearing clothing that doesn't quite suit your body type to emulate how Carrie dresses.

Try to avoid wearing fashionable clothes and just getting them too big or too small. Carrie's clothing is stated specifically to not be considered fashionable, and in all screen or stage adaptations of the novel, her clothing is never anything close to fashionable regardless of the time period it's produced in. It's even stated in the book that Carrie wishes she could wear what the other girls wear.
Optionally, you can also wear a cross necklace. In the 2013 remake of the movie, Chloë Moretz is seen wearing a silver cross necklace. You don't have to wear one, though; the original novel is set in the 1970's, before wearing cross jewelry was common.
 Carrie is an outcast, regardless of whether you read the book or just watch one of the movies or musicals, and is subjected to constant bullying from her peers - the "shower scene" is a good example, as when Carrie gets her first period, the other girls pelt her with pads and tampons rather than helping her, and don't stop until the teacher comes in and stops them. In the 2013 movie, this is even recorded by Chris, posted online, and then replayed at the prom after the blood is dropped on Carrie! Act shy and like you're scared of what others say about you or do to you.

Carrie is shown to have low self-esteem in the 2013 movie, as she starts crying after Tommy asks her to the prom and asks why someone like him would be interested in her. This isn't elaborated on much further, but it shows: all that bullying has taken a toll on her.
 Carrie was shown to be very talented at sewing; she made her own prom dress, as well as several of her other dresses, and her mom was a professional seamstress. You don't have to be that good at it, but learn how to sew something simple., Carrie is a devout Christian, although she does stray from her mother's idea of Christianity due to how her mother considers everything sinful. It's even stated in the book that Carrie isn't allowed to sleep with a pillow because her mother says pillows are sinful, and she wasn't taught about puberty for that reason, too! You don't have to become Christian or change your religion to be like Carrie, but if you're already Christian, show it off a little more., In the novel and a few of the movies, Carrie was shown to be fiercely protective towards those who were kind to her, such as Mrs. Desjardin, Sue (after realizing she wasn't in on the prank), and Tommy. However, those who bullied her relentlessly were no match for her telekinetic powers, and Carrie killed quite a lot of people (such as Chris and her gang of friends), destroying the entire town of Chamberlain in her rampage. Obviously, don't kill people or cause anyone physical harm, but if someone is rude to you, show that you're mad., Despite how abusive and overly protective Carrie's mother was, Carrie loved her like nothing else, and deeply regretted having to kill her, even though it was in her own self-defense; in the movies, she even let her house collapse on her after she killed her mother. You don't have to love your family that unconditionally - if your family is dysfunctional and abusive, it's probably better not to - but show a loving respect for your parents., Clench your fists whenever you get too angry or sad. Look like you're holding back - gritting your teeth, trembling, and "clenching" the muscles in your face can make you seem like you're on the verge of letting a telekinetic wave loose.