 A migraine, in simple terms, is a chronic neurological disorder. It is characterized by recurrent headaches as well as other symptoms such as vomiting and seeing “flashes of light” (known as aura). To better understand migraines, various renowned medical authors have split migraine symptoms into phases. They are;


Prodrome
Aura
Attack
Postdrome
Not every patient will suffer from each phase. Only one particular phase may occur and then nothing else. However, the opposite can also be true.
 The attack phase of a migraine is the headache itself, which can be mild to severe. The pain can be throbbing and on both sides of the head, and is usually felt behind the eyes.


There is usually a sensitivity to light and a handful of patients prefer to stay in a dark room. It is during the attack phase that patients can feel extremely nauseous and have a few episodes of vomiting.
The attack phase can last anywhere between four hours to 72 hours depending on how well treatment works and whether the patient is on medication or not.
 Vast research has been going on for over two decades on migraines, their effect on the body and the constant search for a potential cure or at least more effective treatment options.


Unfortunately not much progress has been made in finding the exact cause of why a migraine occurs. There has, however, been strong evidence linked to the familial history of the disease with a strong presence amongst first generation of relatives and siblings.
 Other than the potentially severe headache, vomiting is one of the most painful symptoms that one can suffer from during a migraine. However, on the other side of the coin, some patients have reported to have a temporary sense of relief from the migraine after they have vomited, but not all patients feel the same.


It's unclear as to exactly why people suffer nausea and episodes of vomiting along with their migraines. The present hypotheses surrounding this is that migraines occur when nerves in the brain send messages (signals) to the blood vessels to dilate, in particular, the ones that lay on the surface of our brains. Estrogen hormone levels are also thought to play a role, hence explaining the incidence being higher in women than in men.
Continuing on the theory of blood vessels on the brain’s surface getting dilated; neurologists also say that the levels of certain neurotransmitters (the chemicals that help transmit the brain’s signals to various tissues and organs) fall when there is dilation of the blood vessels.
One neurotransmitter called serotonin is believed to be the main culprit. Therefore it is indeed possible that lower levels of this neurotransmitter may be more likely to cause migraines as well as nausea. The link to nausea is credible because a drop in serotonin levels is also witnessed in other conditions like motion sickness, which also gives rise to vomiting.

