


Some devices can toggle the wireless on and off. The toggle may be associated with any key, but is usually the Fn button.
Many desktops do not have a wireless card installed. If this is the case, you will need to install a wireless card first.
You can double-check that your wireless adapter is properly installed by opening the Network Connections window. The quickest way to get to this window is by pressing ⊞ Win+R, typing ncpa.cpl, and clicking OK. Look for your wireless adapter in the connections list. If it is listed as "Disabled", right-click it and select Enable.;
, Swipe in from the right side of the screen, or press ⊞ Win+C on your keyboard.
 The Settings menu is designated by a Gear icon.
 It looks like ascending signal bars. This will open all list of available wireless networks.
 Toggle the WiFi slider to the on position.
 Choose your desired network from the list of available networks. If you don't see your network, ensure that you are close enough to the router to receive the signal and that the network is operational.


If you are connecting to a cellular data network, look for the "Mobile broadband" section and fill in your network information.
 If the network is secured, you'll be asked to enter in the password for the network. If you don't know the password, ask the owner of the network. If you've forgotten your own password, see this guide.
 Check the "Connect automatically" box to enable your device to automatically connect to the network as long as you are in range. This will keep you from having to enter in the connection information every time.


If the password for the network changes, you will be asked to reenter it.
 If you are on a public network, do not allow sharing. This will help protect your files from unwanted viewers.
 Open your web browser and try to visit a website. If you are able to load a website, you have successfully connected to the network. Some public WiFi networks require you to fill out a registration form on your web browser before you can access the rest of the internet.