 The needles of the spruce differ among the various species of the tree. The color of the needles, their measurements, and even the smell when the needles are crushed can be helpful factors in identifying the tree.


The Colorado Spruce has blue or blue-silver needles that are quite sharp and are ¾ to 1 ½ inches long.
The Black Spruce has stubby needles that are only about ½ long.
The Red Spruce has yellow-green needles around ½ - 1 inch long that give off the scent of orange rind when they are crushed.The White Spruce has bluish green needles that give off an unpleasant scent of skunk when crushed.The Norway Spruce has dark green needles that are about 1 inch long., The cones of spruce trees often vary between different species. Particularly pay attention to the measurements and the color of the cones. If the cones of the spruce do not match the descriptions of the most common spruces listed below, use a tree identification guide to help you narrow down the tree specie.


The Colorado Spruce has dark brown cones that are around 2-4 inches long.The Black Spruce has roundish dark-purple cones that are ½ to 1 ½ inches long. The cones grow around the top of the tree.The Red Spruce has reddish-brown cones that are around 1 ½ inches long and are rough in texture.The White Spruce has thin cones that are about 1 ¼ to 2 inches in length. Its cones are light brown and very flexible.The Norway Spruce has very large distinctive cones that grow about 4-7 inches and are light brown in color., Spruce trees also have subtle variations in bark color among species. Though it may not give you an answer by itself, the bark color is also an additional factor to consider when identifying the tree.


The Colorado Spruce has thin bark that forms in small scales. The bark turns from pale grey to brown as the tree ages.The Black Spruce has thin, scaly bark that is dark green-brown in color.The Red Spruce has bark with a reddish hue which is especially visible between the scales of the bark.The White Spruce has ash-brown, sometimes grayish bark.The Norway Spruce has scaly bark that is a gray-brown., For several species of spruce, the shape of the tree is the most obvious distinguishing feature. You can also use the height of the tree to narrow down the specie, but remember that the tree may not be fully grown.


The Colorado Spruce has a squat, pyramidal shape. Mature trees grow 70-80 feet tall.The Black Spruce has a narrow shape and often has a stalk-like top, since the branches at the top of tree are quite short. It grows up to 50-70 feet tall.The Red Spruce grows straight and tall and is conical in shape/ It grows from 60-80 feet tall.The White Spruce has a broad base is often somewhat asymmetrical, especially toward the top off the tree. It grows 60-90 feet tall.The Norway Spruce grows very symmetrically, and often has branches that skim the ground, obscuring the trunk. It typically grows 80-90 feet tall. 