 This test relies on the fact that blood has iron in the form of hemoglobin. When phenolphthalein (colorless) and hydrogen peroxide come into contact with the iron in the blood, the phenolphthalein gets oxidized and turns pink.To perform this test, you will need hydrogen peroxide, rubbing alcohol, cotton swabs, phenolphthalein, a small eyedropper, gloves, and the sample to be tested.


Phenolphthalein cannot be obtained in stores and must be purchased online. It is easiest to purchase a “Kastle-Meyer Test Kit” as it will contain all of the necessary resources.The standard strength 3% hydrogen peroxide is sufficient for this test.
The small eyedropper is optional, it just makes it easier to apply the solutions to the cotton swab.
Always wear gloves when working with biological substances like blood.
 Alternatively, fill a small cup with the rubbing alcohol and briefly dip the swab into it.


The swab doesn’t need to be soaked, it just needs to be moist.
The alcohol increases the sensitivity of the test by making the hemoglobin more exposed.
 With the damp cotton swab, rub it against the substance 4-5 times.You want to make sure a sufficient amount of the substance is on the swab.


If your sample is dry or you don’t have much to work with, you can cut up the fabric into smaller pieces and test that directly. Get the piece damp with rubbing alcohol and proceed to the next step.
You only need a very small piece to work with: the size of a fingertip should be sufficient.
 One or two drops is more than enough for each swab.Be sure to add all of the solutions in the correct order or the test will not work properly.


If you are working with the cloth directly, add the phenolphthalein directly onto the cloth.
 Again, one or two drops is more than enough.As soon as you add the hydrogen peroxide you may start to see the color change.


The hydrogen peroxide reacts with the phenolphthalein and any iron present in the substance.
Again, drip the hydrogen peroxide directly onto the small piece of cloth.
 If the sample is blood, the swab should turn pink within 10 seconds. If it doesn’t change or changes after 10 seconds, the test is negative and the sample does not contain blood.Try testing your sample multiple times to see if you get the same result.
Again, make sure you have added all of the reagents to the sample in the correct order. This could be a source of error if you are quite certain you have blood, but the test comes back negative.
 Just like the catalase test, this test has many limitations. It is often called a “presumptive” test because you cannot guarantee that it is blood and you definitely cannot tell if it is human blood.This test is prone to false positives because many vegetables and some metals will also react. Further analysis of the sample is necessary once you have a positive from this test.