 The trust document contains all of the information about your trust. It explains what kind of trust you want to set up, names the trustee and beneficiaries and transfers assets to the trust fund. You can have an estate attorney draw up the trust document or you can do it on your own.After you write the document, it must be signed in front of a notary., Some states require you to file trust documents with the state so there is a legal record of it. An attorney can advise you about whether or not this is necessary and how to do it.If you decide to use an attorney, find a trust and estates attorney who regularly handles matters that match your concerns and situation. For example, if you are setting up a trust for a disabled child, find an attorney who frequently deals with that area. If you don’t already know an attorney, you can search for one on sites such as FindLaw or Lawyers.com. Look for a trust and estates attorney who is a member of the American College of Trust and Estate Counsel.You can create a trust document on your own without an attorney. Find high-quality self-help materials to assist you. Nolo, a publisher of legal self-help books and software, publishes an Online Living Trust application that can guide you through the process. You can also visit their Estate Planning Library to find books that can help you write the document.Do be cautious, however, as trust laws and taxation of trust assets are complicated. Establishing a trust without legal advice is possible but not recommended.
 Take your signed agreement to a bank or financial institution to open your trust fund bank account. Open the account in the name of the trust. You will need the names and addresses of the trustees. Also, provide the bank with the names and contact information of anyone who will be authorized to access the trust fund account., The trust is considered a separate legal entity, and a separate tax return must be filed. The trust will receive a deduction for any income distributed to beneficiaries, but the beneficiaries are responsible for paying the taxes on that income. You will need to complete Schedule B of Form 1041 (https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1041.pdf) for the trust, and the beneficiary must complete Schedule K-1.