 Good hygiene is important to minimize the risk of infection. Wash your hands with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds., Specify the location of the injection you are giving, and describe how the medication will feel once injected if the patient does not already know.Some medications can be initially painful or sting upon injection. Most do not, but it is important for the patient to be aware of this if it is the case to minimize any distress that may ensue from not knowing.
 Prior to performing the injection, it is important that the patch of skin over the muscle where the injection will take place is sterilized and clean. Again, this minimizes the chances of an infection following the injection.Allow the alcohol to air dry for 30 seconds. Do not touch the area until you give the injection; if you do, you'll just have to clean the area again.



It can sometimes be helpful to distract the patient before injecting by asking them questions about their life. When the patient is distracted, their muscle is more likely to be relaxed.
Some people also prefer to be positioned in a way in which they cannot see the injection taking place. Seeing the needle approaching can cause worry and distress in some, and will result not only in increased anxiety, but also in tensing of the muscle. To help the patient relax, suggest they look in another direction if they want to.
 Start by removing the cap, and then insert it smoothly at an angle of 90 degrees to the skin. If you are just learning to give the injection, do not go too quickly, as you want to ensure you do not push the needle in too far and hit the bone. About one third of the needle should remain exposed. Be careful not to go so fast that you either miss the spot or cause any more damage to the skin than is needed.As you practice and become used to giving the injection, you can increase your speed. The quicker the insertion, the less pain your patient will feel; however, you do not want to sacrifice safety for speed.
It can be helpful to pull up the skin around the injection site with your non-dominant hand (as your dominant hand will be doing the injection) prior to injecting. Pulling up the skin can help you mark your target and make it less painful for the patient when the needle goes in.
 After injecting the needle but before injecting the medication, pull the plunger back a little. Although this may seem counter-intuitive, it is important because if any blood comes into the syringe when you pull back, it means your needle is located in a blood vessel and not in the muscle.You will need to begin again with a new needle and syringe if this happens.The medication is designed to be injected into a muscle and not into the bloodstream, so if you see any red color when you pull back you will need to remove the needle and dispose of it. Prepare a new needle and choose a different injection site — don't try to give the shot in the same place.
Most often the needle lands in the muscle itself. Rarely does it land in a blood vessel, but it is always best to be safe rather than sorry prior to injecting.
 This is because the medication takes up space in the muscle, and the surrounding tissue will need to stretch to accommodate the added fluid in the space. Injecting slowly gives more time for this to happen and causes the patient less pain.
 Do this once you're confident all the medicine has been injected.


Press gently on the injection site with the 2 x 2 gauze.The recipient may feel a slight discomfort; this is normal. Have the recipient hold the gauze in place while you dispose of the needle.
 Do not throw needles into the trash. You may receive a hard plastic container made especially for used syringes and needles. You can also use a soda bottle or other plastic bottle with a screw lid. Make sure that both the syringe and needle fit into the container easily and cannot break through the sides.Ask your caregiver or a pharmacist what your state or local requirements are for getting rid of used syringes and needles.
 It'll be much easier to administer a shot if you understand the mechanics behind what you're doing.


Syringes have three main parts: the needle, barrel and plunger. The needle goes into the muscle; the barrel has markings, either in cc (cubic centimeters) or mL (milliliters), with numbers next to the markings, and it contains the medicine; the plunger is used to get medicine into and out of the syringe.Medication injected intramuscularly (IM) is measured in cm3s or mLs. The amount of medication in a cc is the same as in a mL.
 The human body has a number of spots that are most receptive.



Vastus Lateralis Muscle (Thigh): Look at your thigh and divide it into three equal parts. The middle third is where the injection would go. The thigh is a good place to give yourself an injection because it is easy to see. It is also a good spot for children younger than three years old.Ventrogluteal Muscle (Hip): To find the correct location, place the heel of your hand on the upper, outer part of the thigh where it meets the buttocks. Point your thumb at the groin and your fingers toward the person's head. Form a V with your fingers by separating your first finger from the other three fingers. You will feel the edge of a bone along the tips of your little and ring fingers. The place to give the injection is in the middle of the V. The hip is a good place for an injection for adults and children older than seven months.Deltoid Muscle (Upper arm muscle): Completely expose the upper arm. Feel for the bone that goes across the top of the upper arm. This bone is called the acromion process. The bottom of it will form the base of the triangle. The point of the triangle is directly below the middle of the base at about the level of the armpit. The correct area to give an injection is in the center of the triangle, 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) below the acromion process. This site should not be used if the person is very thin or the muscle is very small.Dorsogluteal Muscle (Buttocks): Expose one side of the buttocks. With an alcohol wipe, draw a line from the top of the crack between the buttocks to the side of the body. Find the middle of that line and go up 3 inches (7.6 cm). From that point, draw another line down and across the first line, ending about halfway down the buttock. You should have drawn a cross. In the upper outer square you will feel a curved bone. The injection will go in the upper outer square below the curved bone. Do not use this site for infants or children younger than three years old; their muscles are not developed enough., Each person has a place where it is best to receive the shot. Consider a few things before you administer the shot:


The person's age. For children and babies up to two years old, the thigh muscle is best. For those three years and older, the thigh or deltoid are both viable options. You should be using somewhere between a 22 and a 30 gauge needle (this will largely be determined by the thickness of the medication — your doctor will tell you which gauge to use).Note: For incredibly small children, a smaller needle is needed. The thigh can also tolerate a larger needle than the arm.Consider previous injection sites. If the person recently received an injection in one area, administer the shot in a different spot on their body. It helps prevent scars and skin damage., Some syringes get pre-filled with the medication. Other times, the medication is in a vial and needs to be drawn up into the syringe. Before administering medication from a vial, make sure you have the right type of medication, it is not expired, and that it is not discolored or have particles floating in the vial.If the vial is new, make sure the seal is not broken.


Sterilize the top of the vial with an alcohol swab.
Hold the syringe with the needle pointed up, the cap still on. Draw the plunger back to the line indicating your dose, filling the syringe with air.Insert the needle through the rubber top of the vial and press the plunger, pushing the air into the vial.With the vial upside-down and the tip of needle in the medicine, draw the plunger back again to the proper dose (or a little past if there might be air bubbles). Tap the syringe to move any air bubbles to the top, then push them into the vial. Make sure you still have the correct dose in the syringe.Remove the needle from the vial. If you don't plan on using it right away, make sure you cover the needle with the cap., When administering an IM injection, the penetrative action of the needle creates a narrow channel, or track, within the tissues. It may be possible for the medication to leak out of the body through this track. Applying the Z-track technique reduces skin irritation and allows for effective absorption by sealing the medication in the muscle tissue.,, Firmly hold to keep the skin and subcutaneous tissue in place.
 Pull back on the plunger slightly to check for blood return, then slowly push to inject the medication.
 This allows the medication to evenly disperse into the tissue.
 A zigzag path is created that closes off the track left by the needle and keeps the medication inside the muscle tissue. As a result, patients should experience less discomfort and lesions at the injection site.


Do not massage the site as this can cause the medication to leak, as well as irritation.

