 Kindness is something everyone likes. It can also help put people at ease, which in turn can encourage participation. Before each class take the time to welcome your students warmly. This shows you care and are ready to enjoy any ways they may participate.Greet your students individually by name if you can as well as an entire class. For example, “Hi Mara, it’s lovely to see you today. Are you having a good day so far?” or, “Hello hello class! It’s great to see everyone today and I’m really looking forward to this lessons. It’ll be a lot of fun.”

, Humor is a great ice breaker. It can help foster feelings of comfort and help students relax. This can encourage your students to share their own comedic side, which in turn may stimulate further participation from others.Keep the comedy appropriate to the age of your students. For smaller children, keep it simple and something each student can enjoy. Use can use more sophisticated material with older students. For example, with first graders you could say, “Wait. What did you say Frankie? There’s something on my head? What it is it? Is it a frog? No, it’s a hat!” Try, “Who remembers why the Dark Ages are called dark? And it’s not just because there was no indoor plumbing” with older students.
 If you notice the energy is your class is waning or the students are not particularly interested in material you’re covering, tell a funny story related to the material. This can easily reinvigorate energy in a classroom.For example, you could say: “Hey guys, let me take a second here while we’re discussing the French Revolution to tell you a little bit more “juicy information” about it. How many of you know that it wasn’t Marie Antoinette who said, “Let them eat cake?”

, Everyone likes to know they have done something well. Praise helps people relax and makes them happy. A well-placed, “Good job!” can go far to encourage all of your students to participate in class, even if they are wrong.Use simple praise, which everyone can understand. For example, you can say: “That’s a great point, Elisabeth!”
Remember that it often takes a lot of courage for an individual to speak up. Many people even get so nervous of making a mistake that they may not speak. You can help them—and others—feel comfortable with praise for speaking up. For example, “Not quite, Rebecca, but you’re on to the answer I’m looking for.”Take the opportunity to offer praise even after class, which may encourage more participation. For example, “You did a nice job in class today, Kate. I’d love to hear you speak up more often. Your comments always add a lot to our discussions.”

