 The only exceptions are when you are, freaked out; apologizing; spacing out; worrying about someone; or if you're crying.;
, Tohru has always been innocent in mind, so dirty thoughts especially are NOT allowed

, Tohru barely wears any at all. But a little light eye shadow and some light eyeliner is good, and concealer if you choose. Pink lip gloss is sweet, and a little mascara- just don't use too much.
 Bowing continually is optional, but get really upset, wave your arms, and such. Just try to act very disappointed with yourself

, Even if someone says thank you, insist it was nothing.
, Try to hold you anger, Tohru always sees the good in people, so if you get angry try to look at things from a different angle. if anything it'll keep your mind busy so you won't be getting angry


Optionally, you can try to be really emotional. If someone yells at you, or treats you badly, start crying...but just a little. if you need to keep a secret, insist you will do so.
 Simple jokes you'll understand, but things such as sarcasm and rhetorical questions, go right over your head .
 A lot. Vacuum, dust, pick up, cook, do laundry, etc. You could even get a part-time job cleaning!


Cleaning can actually be a very calming activity that can keep stress levels down. This is a plus especially when trying to stay positive.
 Be honest and don't gossip at all.
 Never give up, that always been Tohru's motto, even at school she's devastated if she fails an exam.
 She wears no revealing clothing, and wears miniskirts neatly, not showing anything. This means no form-fitting clothes (nothing particularly tight), no cleavage or belly showing, and definitely nothing see-through.
 Tohru wears 'seifuku' (the Japanese school uniform) almost all the time.
 Pair these with pastel coloured ballet flats to add to the overall "sweet" look.
, When you aren't wearing these, wear the plainest sandal you can find or slippers.
 When you wear a dress, or a knee length skirt, wear hose or tights, but when you wear a skirt you have to wear socks!

,, Not all the time, but about 3-4 days a week.
 No swearing or cursing or anything like that. Flirting is allowed, but don't go over the top.
 We're talking light pink, lilac, baby blue, etc. Tohru wears pastel aprons, hair accessories, and has a pastel schoolbag.
 If you're younger, ask your parents to either get it cut at a salon, or for someone to cut it for you at home. It's your decision whether you want to dye your hair brown. If you aren't sure if you'd like your hair that color, buy or ask your parents for temporary hair dye which will only change your hair color for a few days to a week. If you decide you like the color, then you can consider a longer term change.
