 Your feet can be at hip-width, flat on the floor. Take a few deep breaths to relieve tension and relax. Reach both arms forward and grasp your right knee, while keeping your head and shoulders on the ground.You may want to lay a yoga mat on the floor for this stretch.
You may need to lift your right knee up to meet your hands.
Allow your muscle to relax before continuing.;
, Use your arms to pull your right knee into your chest or far as it will go. Take 10 deep breaths, or hold it up there for about 30 seconds. Move it back to the ground. , Grasp your left knee, and relax the quad muscle. Gently pull your knee to your chest. Hold it to your chest as you did your right knee, for about 30 seconds. Return it to the floor., After you've done each side, try doing both legs at the same time. Gently pull your legs up to your chest. Stay in that position for 30 seconds or as long as you can hold it, then return to the starting position., You need to repeat each movement about 3 times. However, 2 times will do if that's all you can manage.You are stretching your hamstring muscle that runs from the back of your thigh to your buttocks and connects with your lower back. Hamstring tightness from excessive sitting or lack of exercise often results in lower back pain.
 If you don't like pulling your knees all the way to your chest, you can try these alternatives. Alternatively, try all three to see which one you like the best and offers the most relief.


One way you can perform this exercise is to keep both legs straight as you lay on your back. Lift your right leg to you, supporting the back of it with your hands. As you reach a 90-degree angle, stop. Make sure your knee is straight, as that is what will stretch your hamstring.Another option is to use a towel. Perform the stretch with your leg straight, but as you bring your leg up, loop a towel over the bottom of your foot. Keep your leg at a 90-degree angle to your body. Pull lightly on the towel to bend your foot slightly towards you, stretching your hamstring. Hold for 30 seconds.Don't forget to switch to the other leg, and then repeat.

