 If the party or event that you are making the candy buffet for already has a color scheme, you should use the same colors. If the party or event does not have a set color scheme, you should come up with one; choose 3 to 4 different colors.Use the color scheme when buying your candy. Many party stores and online stores sell candy in specific colors, such as white and turquoise.;
, If your party has a theme, you would want to replicate some of that theme for your candy buffet. While you may not always find candy that matches that theme, you will certainly be able to find plates, trays, banners, tablecloths, and other decorative items that do., The more different types of candy you get, the more interesting and appealing your candy buffet will be. Consider candies such as: hard candies, lollipops, chocolates, rock candy, and mints.You will need about ½ pound (225 grams) of candy per guest. The more guests you have, the more different types of candy you should get. Here are some numbers to get you started:For large events and weddings (100+ guests), plan on getting 8 to 10 different types of candy.
For small events (fewer than 100 guests), plan on getting 5 to 8 different types of candy.
 Your candy buffet doesn't have to contain just candy. Don't get carried away, however; include one or two non-candy items; you are making a candy buffet after all! Here are some ideas to get you started:Cookies, cupcakes, and macaroons
Marshmallows
Nuts
Popcorn
Pretzels

, You should have large, medium, and small containers. This will not only make it easier to hold different types of candy, but it will also help create depth and make your buffet look larger and more interesting. Clear, acrylic or glass jars and vases are the best for letting the bright colors of the candy shine through, but you can also use other items too. Here are some ideas to get you started:Clear, glass or acrylic apothecary jars and vases
Trays and platters
Cake stands and cupcake stands
Baskets, bowls, buckets, and pails

, Some types of candy, such as lollipops, can be grabbed by hand, but other types should be served with a scoop or tongs. Not only do these make the buffet look more elegant and interesting, but they also make it more hygienic. Here are some ideas to get you started:Clear or metal candy scoops
Colorful spoons
Small, clear or metal tongs

, The larger your party will be, the more candy you will need. This does not necessarily mean that you should get a huge table, however. You want the table to be big enough to fit all of your containers, but not so big that the table looks sparse. Your guests should be able to reach around the different jars and vessels without knocking anything over.

In terms of candy buffet tables, smaller is better., It would be best to stick with a solid-colored tablecloth, as a patterned one will make the table look too busy and take attention away from the candy. It does not have to be anything fancy either—a cheap, plastic tablecloth will work well!, Your table should have three zones: front, middle, and back. The front zone is the area at the front of your table, and will contain the items that get handled the most. The back zone is in the back of your table, and will contain the items that will get handled the least. The middle zone is the space in between and will contain everything else., Go through your container first, and sort them by shape and size. Then, place them in the different zones. Try to place the taller containers towards the center of the table, and the shorter ones towards the side edges. Here is what containers work best in the three zones:The front zone should contain your trays, short/low containers, and decorative boxes.
The middle zone should contain your apothecary jars, vases, small baskets and buckets, and candy dishes.
The back zone should contain your largest, tallest containers, including cupcake stands. You can also use crates to elevate shorter containers.
 Now that you have your containers in their zones, it is time to fill them. Here are some ideas on how you can fill up your different containers based on the zones that they are in:Fill the small zone containers with large, bulky items, such as: cookies, cupcakes, and larger candy bars.
Fill the middle zone containers with scoop-able candy, such as gumballs, gummy worms, candy canes, and chocolate-covered raisins. Be sure to include tongs or scoops with these.Fill the back-zone containers that are easy to grab, such cupcakes and foil-covered candy. Avoid unwrapped candy, as that requires scooping, which will be tricky as the candy nears the bottom of the container.
 Adding things like banners, labels, and centerpieces is not absolutely necessary, but it can really take your candy buffet to the next level. You do not have to use all of the suggestions in this section—instead, choose a few that appeal the most to you, and use them in inspiration!


Don't overdo it, or your buffet will look cluttered. There should be enough space on your table so that your guests can reach for the candy without knocking anything over., You can use the same centerpiece that the rest of the tables have, or you can use a fancy cupcake stand, and fill it up with cupcakes (decorated to match your party's theme, of course). If your event has a cake, you could even use the cake as the centerpiece! If cupcakes aren't your thing, you could use some floral or candle arrangements instead., Keep in mind, however, that the bigger your favor boxes/bags are, the more candy you will need; people usually like to fill their favor boxes/bags most of the way. Another option would be to include some bulky items on your candy buffet table, such as large lollipops, cookies, or cupcakes; these items will fill up those large boxes/bags.Choose paper, organza, or cellophane bags in colors that match your party's theme.Choose mini take-out boxes, gift boxes, or favor tins in colors that match your party's theme., Write or print out the name for your candy (ie: Chocolate Kisses, Gumballs, Gummy Worms, etc) on pretty labels that match your party's theme. You can also write the labels on mini chalkboards, mini wooden pick signs, clothespins, etc. Choose something that works with your decor.Don't be afraid to get creative with your labels either; you can match them to the theme of your party. For example:

If your party's theme is Harry Potter, you can label red licorice as "Licorice Wands." Gold-foil Lindor chocolates could easily become "Golden Snitches."
If your party's theme is pirates, you could call chocolate coins "Pirate's Booty" or "Pirate's Treasure." Seashell-shaped chocolates could be called "Mermaid's Favor."
If you are having a Halloween party, you could call chocolate raisins "Beetle Eyes" or "Troll Boogers," and haystack cookies "Witch Hair."

, The walls are often a forgotten, but very important, part of a room's decor. If you want to draw the focus to your candy buffet, consider hanging a garland or banner on the wall behind the table. You could also hang up pictures or paper cut-outs instead. Whichever you choose, make sure that the colors and themes match the theme of your party.A great example of a matching banner would be a poster that says "Honeydukes" for a Harry Potter themed party. Honeydukes was the name of a popular candy shop in the books.
A great example of matching cut-outs would be paper snowflakes for a winter wonderland themed party. You would also hang long tinsel around the edge of the table to mimic icicles!

, Some colorful confetti scattered across the table can add color without taking up much spaces. You can also use small items, such as flower petals, rhinestones, strands of curled ribbon, or sequins. Whatever you end up using, make sure that it matches the theme of your party. For example, flower petals would work great for a wedding, while rhinestones would work well for a pirate themed party (to resemble treasure).

Confetti comes in many different shapes and colors. Choose one that matches your party's theme. For example, blue and white snowflake confetti would work great for a winter wonderland themed party!

