 These salads demand high-quality, fresh ingredients, so shop at a local market the same day if possible. Tomatoes combine well with many other vegetables; here are a few popular examples:


Greek salad: 2–4 tomatoes (in eighths), 1 large cucumber (sliced thickly), 1 small red onion (sliced thinly). Toss with generous amounts of garlic salad dressing, or a Greek vinaigrette with garlic, oregano, and black pepper.Caprese: thick slices of tomato, each topped with a slice of fresh mozzarella and a basil leaf or three. Drizzle on extra-virgin olive oil just before serving.
For an extra-refreshing salad, combine equally sized cubes of tomato and watermelon. Top with black pepper, a little salt, and vinaigrette. Let stand a few minutes before serving.

Note — If storing tomatoes for more than a day, a cellar or air-conditioned room around 55-70ºF (13–21ºC) preserves flavor better than the fridge or a warm room., Coleslaw is another summer appetizer, that pairs well with barbecue and other strong flavors. The heart of a coleslaw is a finely chopped cabbage, usually paired with other crunchy vegetables (shredded carrot is especially popular), sweet flavors (apple, golden raisins), and a binding dressing made from vinegar and mayonnaise or sour cream. Here's a recipe to get you started.
 If the weather's cold and you need a hearty dinner appetizer, roast a tray of vegetables with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Season with lemon juice and herbs and serve hot.


Include a few vegetables that don't normally go into a raw salad, such as potatoes, eggplant, or cauliflower.
Remember that different vegetables require different cooking times. This example tells you how to combine potatoes, eggplant, bell peppers, red onion, and cherry tomatoes.
 Asian and Asian-inspired salads bring many new techniques to the table. The vegetables are often marinated for an hour or more to add an acidic tang, while spicy, salty, and sweet add a great deal of complexity. Here a couple examples:


Slice cucumbers and sweet onions very thinly, preferably with a mandoline.Marinate in a homemade Asian dressing, or this sesame lemon dressing.

Fumi salad roasts sesame seeds and almonds to add flavor to cabbage and ramen noodles. You can easily turn this into a main course by adding chicken.
Add Asian flavors to any vegetable salad with soy ginger dressing or miso dressing. Go easy on these if you aren't used to them. They tend to be more concentrated than Western dressings.

