 It’s not always easy to tell if your dog came from a place where it was loved or closely cared for, like a puppy mill or kill shelter. If you adopted from a shelter then you know at one point it was left alone. Be aware of the emotional (and sometimes physical) baggage your dog may carry when interacting with you. Try to be a tranquil, calm, and unthreatening presence.For example, speak in soothing tones and avoid any quick hand gestures or movements when near your dog.;
, Dogs communicate through their bodies. If you pay attention to how your dog moves then you will get an indication as to its feelings. Your dog may consistently wag his tail, only stopping when it feels scared. Your dog might also narrow his eyes at a potential threat. Knowing these cues allows you to better respond to your dog’s needs.A dog that is fearful or stressed out may lower its ears and body, preparing for a possible defensive strike. The dog's eyes may dilate and it may begin panting in a rapid pace. Nose wrinkling is a sign of aggression possibly triggered by fear., Almost all dogs crave privacy at one point or another. Designate a dog bed, folded blanket, old chair, or crate as the territory of your dog. This is a place where your dog can go to relax or chew on a bone. You might also leave treats or toys there as well. Giving your dog the space that it needs will only enhance your bond.Make sure that the rest of your home is safe for your dog as well. Relocate all toxic chemicals to an inaccessible area. Hide any electrical cords. It may be necessary to use safety gates to cordon off certain areas., Not all dogs are the same. After you spend some time with your pet you will start to see certain preferences emerge. Your dog may hate (or love) to walk on concrete. Your dog may be afraid of the snow or rain. Your dog may enjoy dry food, but not wet. Remember these preferences and act on them in the future.Part of this is also about setting your dog up to be successful. Don’t put your dog into situations that are obviously uncomfortable for him. For example, it is probably not a good idea to take your dog to a fireworks show., This routine will very much depend on the preferences of your dog. Most dogs need to be fed twice a day while others do better with only one feeding. Experiment with various food brands and types until you find one that your dog enjoys the most. Make sure that you are the only one doing the feeding and your dog will bond with you even more.