 You'll want to allow a little more room than you would normally when driving an automatic vehicle. This will give you time to crawl forward in a lower gear while traffic starts to move forward again.


This way you don’t have to spend time, effort, and wear-and-tear on your clutch shifting, and you won't have to ride your clutch while you wait for traffic to resume.
Stop-and-go traffic will likely be best navigated in first or second gear depending on your engine and how these gears handle in your manual transmission vehicle.
Beware impatient drivers cutting you off and merging into the extra space in front of you., Manual transmission vehicles can exert a braking force called “engine braking” or “shift braking” by releasing the accelerator and shifting safely into a lower gear. You’ll have to wait until the RPMs of your car are at an acceptable level for you to downshift, but when you do, your car will experience a gentle braking effect.

When you release the accelerator, the throttle in your engine closes, creating a partial vacuum that creates engine resistance and slows the speed of your vehicle.
Generally, lower gears will exert a greater braking force on your vehicle., Depending on your region or country, there may be slight differences in driving law, but generally drivers are expected to allow cushion distance between the operator’s car and cars in front. This is to protect manual transmission drivers, as stick shifts often roll back slightly when shifting into first gear.


When shifting into first with little space behind you, or if you are on a hill, give your car a little more gas as you shift into first and slowly let out the clutch., Impatient drivers in stop-and-go traffic will often accelerate faster than necessary to traverse the distance between them and the stopped car in front of them. This is highly inefficient, as the unnecessary higher speeds will cost you more in fuel and not get you to your destination any sooner.For a manual transmission, this is even worse because you’ll have to use your clutch to downshift or come to a stop. A better strategy is to:


Accelerate at a steady speed that is slightly below the flow of traffic. This way you can coast forward in your chosen gear without having to downshift or come to a stop.
This slow-but-steady method will also create a solid buffer between you and the car in front of you. You should, however, be ready to downshift if impatient drivers merge into this buffer space.