 On your first few trips, try to find a hole location that is relatively flat. As your skills increase, you can look for more challenging hole positions. Since you will be hogging a hole, you might need to vary the times you go until you find a time that is not crowded.;
, Putt the ball into the hole from this spot. Aim for the back of the cup. Be aggressive, with no fear of missing. This is not one of those miss and start all over drills.
 This is a good opportunity to refine and define your pre-putt routine. Take time to read the green. If you miss a putt, finish putting from wherever your ball comes to rest. In other words, putt out every ball as if you were playing a regular round of golf. Keep putting until your ball is in the cup.
 Stand at that position and face the hole. Imagine you are looking at a clock and the hole is the center of the clock that the minute and hour arms pivot. This is your 12:00 starting position. From here, move to the one o'clock position, the position directly to your left. Next take a one foot step back so that you are standing two feet from the hole.
 From here, putt your ball into the hole. Again, read the green, perform your pre-putt routine and be aggressive with your putt. Continue moving through the clock and moving one foot further from the hole until you have circled the clock 1-1/2 times. Your third position should be at two o'clock and three feet from the hole. Your fourth position will be at three o'clock and four feet from the hole.
 At completion, you will have putted from eighteen different positions. Each position becoming progressively more difficult. You have just simulated an eighteen hole round of putts.
 The goal is to take 36 or less strokes per practice drill. Remember, putt out every ball, even from two inches. Count every stroke. Be honest with yourself. Keep this up and you will see improvement in your putting. This will translate into lower scores. Which translates into higher confidence. Which again translates into even lower scores.

