 Midwives have played the role of assisting women through the process of childbirth for centuries. Midwives traditionally operate under the philosophy that pregnancy and the act of giving birth can be a spiritual experience in a woman's life, and it's healthier to have as few instances of medical intervention as possible. Many say they have a calling to do the work they do. Midwives have the following responsibilities:


Monitor the health of the mother and fetus throughout the pregnancy.






Provide guidance to the mother on prenatal nutrition and self care as well as emotional well-being.
Educate the mother on available options for labor and delivery, and empower her to make decisions that are right for her.






Guide the mother and child through labor and delivery.
Work with an obstetrician should complications arise.;
, Midwives are incredibly knowledgeable, highly skilled practitioners who take on the highest responsibility: they act as first responders in the unpredictable process of pregnancy, labor and delivery.


Since every pregnancy is different and subject to a range of complications, midwives must be able to act confidently in emergency situations. Responsibility for both the mother and child's life lies in the midwives hands.
Also important is the midwife's responsibility for the emotional and spiritual health of the mother, who looks to the midwife as a leader and guide through the confusing, painful, difficult process of childbirth.
Women who choose to give birth under the care of an obstetrician may work with a midwife who is responsible for acting as the women's advocate in the hospital setting.






Midwives are responsible for standing up for their own profession; in some states, it is illegal to practice midwifery.
 Midwives work with women from the beginning of their pregnancy through the labor, delivery, and for months and sometimes years beyond. Due to the intimate, extraordinarily important nature of their work, midwives must be willing to put their clients' needs ahead of their own.

Midwives must be on call at all times, since they never know exactly when a woman will go into labor.






Labor can last anywhere from a few hours to a few days, and midwives must be present the entire time.






Midwives are often emotionally present for expectant mothers, giving out their cell phone number and email address and making themselves available for questions or as a shoulder to lean on at stressful moments.
Some midwives have to be flexible enough to move to a different city or state, since it's difficult to practice midwifery in some locations.

