 Although the method of applying petroleum-based paints to damaged or pruned trees has persisted (and many hardware stores stock wound-dressing products), it has not been shown to help trees.Wound dressing trees may prevent the trees from forming callouses, which trees use to protected wounded areas.
Dark-colored tree paint—especially paint that contains asphalt—on a tree’s trunk will raise the tree’s temperature, often to a harmful degree., Contrary to helping a wounded or pruned tree, wound dressing can actually be harmful.


Painting tree wounds may interfere with the tree’s growth of “scar tissue”-like wood.Wound dressing can also seal in excess moisture (which is unhealthy for the tree) and can trap harmful bacteria and fungi inside of the tree., In most cases, trees do not need to be painted in order to resist fungal or insect infestations. Trees already have natural methods of protecting and defending themselves from foreign invaders, and do not need human help.If you prefer to take an active role, apply an organic dressing that contains beeswax and lanolin to protect the wound’s surface moisture.
You may also apply a light coating of insecticide or fungicide to the wounded or pruned wood., Unlike human bodies, trees do not “heal” wounded flesh. Rather, they use a process called compartmentalization, by which a tree can internally seal off damaged areas This is a natural process, and one which trees do not need assistance to perform. The scar tissue that develops from compartmentalization protects the tree from fungus and blocks the undamaged parts of the tree from invasive insects.
Just below the bark on a tree are systems that carry nutrients and fluids throughout the tree. These will transfer nutrients within the tree and help compartmentalize when a section has been damaged.
 Often tree wound dressing is applied to poorly pruned trees, in an effort to “heal” them from the effects of poor pruning. If a tree is properly pruned, the tree will not need to be painted.When you prune a limb, cut as close to the trunk as you can. Make the cut close to vertical (do not prune tree limbs at an angle). The vertical cut will have a smaller surface area than a diagonal cut, and will leave the tree with less surface area exposed.
Prune trees in the winter, when their growth has slowed and insect infection rates are lower.