 Use facts to back up what you are writing. A good place to start is looking for reputable sites on the internet, such as government, United Nations and international conservation organizations' sites.;
, Place this sign somewhere at school or where people will see it, and use bright colors to attract attention. Add text that makes it clear why you are concerned about the loss of a species or animal. If you make it local (i.e., select an animal from your area), this will carry greater resonance with the people who read it and may motivate them to do something.
 This will enable you to talk with authority about the subject, which always convinces people more than just saying general comments without anything to back up your concerns.
 This will help and you may even think about getting it published. Use your own words and don't copy anything. Acknowledge other people's ideas if you have relied on them. Distribute your book at libraries, community centers and other places where people like to pick up materials.
 Use the puppet show to send a message about the plight of species and animals that are facing extinction. Write a script so that you are not left searching for words.
 You could even combine a club on a website. Add text about your concerns on extinction, load up photos of your letters, your signs on display and even videos of your puppet show. Make the site interactive - have a place where people can leave comments. If you make it into a club, have a place where people can join. It can also be a great idea to give them volunteer activities to do so that they can join in and help the animals also.
 When you travel, be careful about what you buy. Some souvenirs are made from endangered animals or from endangered tree species from forests that the animals rely on to survive. Prefer handcrafted items made from sustainable resources that benefit both the community making these items and also protect the local wildlife., Many of our fish species are being over-fished and are being pushed to extinction.It is important to only eat fish that are derived from a sustainable source. Even meat and some grains and beans result in habitat loss that endanger local native animals. Always do your homework first and if you discover a food chain that is resulting in destruction of wildlife habitat, return to step 1 and write to your representatives or members of parliament and ask that action be taken immediately to stop this and to foster sustainable agriculture.

