 Take the time to journal about the wonderful times you spent with your dog. By reflecting on the good times you shared, instead of solely focusing on the last few days of your dog’s life, you will gradually replace feelings of guilt with those of gratitude.You can choose to keep your writing private or share it with friends on a blog.
If you choose to share with others, you may benefit from their feedback and their experiences dealing with the death of a dog.
 Similar to writing about your dog’s life, creating a scrapbook is an active way to remember your dog and the good times you shared. You can include your adoption papers and vaccination and medical records, as well as the multiple photos you have of your times together.


The scrapbook will be a wonderful repository of all of your good memories of your dog.
The more positive memories and feelings you create, the less room there is for guilt.
 A ceremony at a favorite dog park or a service at your home with a few close friends is a nice way to memorialize your dog and help you begin to accept its passing. Being in the presence of those who loved your dog will help you take advantage of the support they can offer, instead of being trapped with your feelings of guilt.


You can also scatter your dog’s ashes along a favorite hiking trail or visit a place that was special for the two of you.
 Of course you will never forget the meaningful role your dog played in your life. But you can help others remember your dog as well by making a donation in your dog’s memory to an animal shelter. Or you can plant a tree or garden in its honor.You can also ask friends or family members to donate in your dog’s name as well.
 If you can face being around animals, think about volunteering your time at a local animal shelter. Alternately, you could pursue becoming a foster parent for dogs. There are many needy animals out there who could use your attention, and helping them may be a good way to work through your feelings of guilt.

