 Making the decision to “divorce” a toxic parent can be very difficult. In some cases, cutting contact might be necessary for your mental health and happiness. In other cases, you may be able to maintain a relationship by setting better personal boundaries with your parent. Make this decision with your long-term well-being in mind.It might help to write out a pros and cons list. Write out all the benefits of getting distance with your parent versus any disadvantages you can think of. You might include pros such as "Peace of mind," while cons might be "Missing their presence."

, If you decide to maintain your relationship with your parent, establish that you are an independent adult now. Don’t put yourself in situations where you won’t be able to leave if you need to. Instead, set limits on when and where you’ll see your parent.For instance, don’t stay overnight at your parent’s house, and don’t let them drive you places. Consider meeting them in public instead of at home, so they’ll be less likely to say or do something hurtful.
 If your parent tends to hijack conversations by belittling you or bossing you around, change the topic instead of letting them continue. If that doesn’t work, tell them you have to go, and break off the conversation.For instance, if your mother is criticizing the way you’ve redecorated your house, you could redirect the conversation by saying, “I like how the living room looks now. What did you do last weekend?”

, Set boundaries for what you’re not willing to live with. Then tell your parent what you need from them and what actions you will take if they don’t respect your boundaries.For example, say something like, “Dad, it’s not okay with me that you insult my husband when he’s not here. I need you to stop doing that around me, or I’ll have to leave.”
Only set consequences that you can enforce. For instance, don’t threaten to leave unless you are prepared to do so.
 If your toxic parent ignores your requests, remove yourself from the situation. Stand up for yourself by walking away, hanging up the phone, or following through with another consequence.Your parent might try to test your boundaries to see if you really mean what you say.
If your parent repeatedly disrespects your boundaries and seems unwilling to make an effort to cooperate, consider decreasing or ending your contact with them.

