 While doing these things alone won't necessarily make you lose weight, they can be helpful little tricks to keep you moving on the right path. Sometimes you just have to fool yourself into limiting your caloric intake.


Eat three fewer bites of each meal.
Put your knife and fork down between bites.
Use smaller plates, and fill your plate only once.
Wait to eat until you feel hungry, don't just snack when you're bored.
If you do occasionally eat foods like chips, take a small portion out and put them on a plate. Put the rest away and only eat the ones you put out.
 Learning to manage your cravings for a big slice of cake or a greasy hamburger is possible, with a little creativity.


Smell fresh fruit when you want a snack, instead of eating something.
"Close" your kitchen between meals, especially in the evening after dinner.
Don't keep sugary or fattening snacks in the house.
Some studies show that the color blue is an appetite suppressant. Try getting a blue tablecloth, or blue dishware to eat on.
Wear a rubber band on your wrist, and snap it when you have a craving. Over time, you will form an association between the unpleasant feeling and the craving.
Chew gum. Gum can help curb your desire to eat, helping you to lose weight. Look for sugar-free gum to avoid extra calories or damaging your teeth.
Drink coffee or tea. Caffeine can not only help get a boost of energy when you are feeling sluggish, but it is also an appetite suppressant.
 Commit to losing a certain amount of weight by a certain date with the caveat that you'll pay up if you don't lose. You may enjoy starting up a Biggest Loser Club with your friends. The group support can help you all to keep on track with your weight-loss goals.
 If you're attending a pizza party with friends or going out for a birthday, allow yourself an indulgence. Just make sure that these indulgences don't become daily habits. This can work as a small reinforcement, too, encouraging you to keep working at it.


Try using non-food rewards. When you do something right with your diet and exercise, treat yourself to something. Go to a game with a friend, or get a manicure, a massage or a trip to the movies when you meet your mini-goals. Get yourself that new shirt that you've been wanting if you meet your goal of losing a pound this week.
Don't let a slip-up derail your diet and exercise plan. Get back to it, even if you get off track for a day or two.

