 Depending the senior citizen's physical strength and stamina, you may need a dog with medium to low energy. There are some dogs that truly do need a lot of exercise and this can be too much for a senior citizen to provide.You can find information on dog breed characteristics on the websites of dog appreciation groups, such as the American Kennel Club.Getting a dog that matches the senior citizen's energy and physical activity level is one of the most important considerations you can make. A suitable dog will be a good companion for the senior citizen, not a burden or danger to them.
Remember that a dog doesn't have to be just a couch potato or a high-energy tornado. Many dogs, for example the Welsh corgi, have medium energy levels that are great for active senior citizens.
 Some dog breeds take more work to care for than others. Factors that can create a lot of work include coat type and length, overall size, and temperament.


Along with being cheaper, small dogs are generally easier to care for and to manage physically. This is another reason why smaller dogs, such as toy poodles and Maltese, are generally better for senior citizens., In many cases, older dogs are good matches for older people. They are usually already trained and do not have the energy of a young dog or puppy.Above all, adult and senior dogs just don't take as much energy and patience to care for as puppies do.


Very old dogs can have health considerations of their own that can be difficult for senior citizens to manage. A dog with bladder problems or mobility issues, for instance, may or may not be too much for a senior citizen to handle.
 A great place to meet a lot of potential dogs is at a rescue organization. Rescued dogs are great for senior citizens because they are usually adult or senior dogs, they are often already trained, and they can benefit greatly from getting a new home.There are also senior dog adoption programs that can be great for matching senior citizens with dogs that would be appropriate for them.Some of these programs can also assist in the financial cost of adoption and care if the senior citizen who wants a dog is on a fixed income., Even if all of your research points you towards a specific breed of dog, you need to assess each dog individually. Every dog is different and you need to meet and spend time with a dog to know if it is right for a senior citizen.


Spend some time with the dog and try to judge its temperament. Is the dog calm when meeting new people or when it hears loud noises? Does it have interest in you and want to engage? Assessing its personality and behavior can give you insight into how it would function as a dog for a senior citizen.

