 Keeping your Rex rabbit outside is a bad idea because rabbits are prone to attacks from predators, overheating, hypothermia, and loneliness. Your Rex rabbit will be at a higher risk of an early death if you keep her outside instead of inside your home.Even if your Rex rabbit is safe inside of her cage, rabbits frighten easily and she may have a heart attack from just seeing a predator.
Your Rex rabbit may also develop some antisocial behavior if you keep her outside. For example, she may start to fear people or become aggressive.
 There are lots of different rabbit enclosures to choose from. You can keep your Rex in a single room of your home that has been rabbit-proofed, house your rabbit in a puppy playpen, get a rabbit condo, or select a standard cage.When selecting an enclosure for your rabbit, make sure that you consider:



Size. Your rabbit’s cage should be four or five feet long and about two feet wide. The cage should be high enough for your Rex rabbit to stand up on her hind legs without her ears touching the top of the cage.Floor. Avoid wire bottom cages because they can hurt your Rex rabbit’s feet. Try to find a solid metal bottom cage. If you cannot find a solid metal bottom cage, then you can cover the bottom of the cage in a piece of plywood that covers the entire floor of the cage.Bedding. Cover the floor of your Rex rabbit’s cage with at least two to three inches of bedding. You can use straw, paper pulp, or shredded cardboard.Do not use cedar or pine shavings as your Rex rabbit’s bedding or as litter. Your Rex rabbit may develop respiratory and liver problems from these materials., Rabbits like to hide to when they feel scared or stressed, so it is important to provide your Rex with a hiding place. A cardboard box or a wooden box that has a hole cut out of it makes a good hiding spot.Provide a hiding spot for each rabbit that you have, otherwise they may fight over the spot.
 Rabbits will use a litter box if one is provided for them. Put a small litter box in one corner of your rabbit’s enclosure and fill it with some newspaper and hay. Make sure that you change the litter box every day to prevent it from smelling.Pay attention to where your rabbit likes to go potty and then place the litter box in that corner.
Keep a litter box or two in your house so that your rabbit will have somewhere to go when she is playing outside of her cage.

