 Eye strain is often caused by staring at a computer for too long. When you work on a computer for long hours, you need to be in the right position from it to reduce eye strain. Try to position your face as far as you possibly can from the monitor. 20 to 40 inches, or 50 to 100 cm, is a good distance because your eyes relax at this distance.


You should also put you screen slightly lower than eye level, with the top of the monitor aligned with your eyes when you look straight ahead. This angle keeps your neck in a more natural position, and ultimately causes less work for eyes.In order to accommodate this, you may a need larger screen or bigger font sizes.
While working with screens and monitors, try slightly closing your eyes or squinting if your eyes feel strained. This prevents your eyes from drying out too quickly.
 In addition to the placement of your screen, adjust your monitor settings for optimal visibility. Use the brightness and contrast controls, as well as color settings, to configure a view that causes the least amount of strain. Start by turning down your screen's brightness and turning up the contrast.


Screens that are too bright are hard on the eyes. When there's not enough contrast between blacks and whites, your eyes have a hard time distinguishing between different items, which adds to eye strain., If you suffer from dry, irritated eyes, you may have dust reaching your eyes because of particles on your computer screen. There are electrostatic particles that may be emitted from the computer screen, which can push dust toward your eyes and cause irritation and strain. To avoid this, wipe down your screen with an anti-static solution sprayed onto a cloth.


Repeat this activity daily, which will also cut down on extra dust as well., If you are suffering from eye strain, buy a high resolution monitor. Older monitors cause your eyes to constantly readjust because they tend to flicker more and have a slower refresh rate. You should also use updated software to automatically change color settings when you work at night, such as the software Flux. Computer screens need to be brighter during the daytime, but this can be too much light for nighttime.


This can cause the screen to look too bright at night, even with the lowest brightness settings.
You can adjust your computer screen manually by changing the settings to what is best suited for viewing in dim lighting or at night.