 Pay attention to your dog when loud noises happen. Your dog may jump, cower, or make noises like whining or barking. It may also chew on walls, furniture, or anything it can get its teeth into.Pay attention to less obvious signs. While you may notice your dog being extra whiny, you may not notice that it's following you around more because of a loud noise. Other less-obvious signs include excessive panting or drooling, hiding, or trying to escape. Your dog may also be on alert, looking around to see what's wrong.;
, While some dogs may inherit this trait, others may develop it. Usually, dogs who develop this trait do so because they had a bad experience associated with a loud noise, which in turn makes them fearful of loud noises., Not every dog with this condition responds to all the same noises. Therefore, it's important to pay attention to which noises bother your dog most. That way, you can work to alleviate the fear before it even starts, such as providing a safe space for your dog if you know a storm is coming.For instance, your dog may react to thunderstorms by running and hiding but only react to a loud truck outside by whimpering a little. In that case, your dog is more afraid of thunderstorms.
 One way to help your dog deal with some loud noises is by providing alternatives to the noise. Try turning on the television or some soothing music to help drown out the outside noises, for instance. You can also use white noise to the same effect.Try to cover up triggers as much as possible. For instance, you could play music your dog enjoys on days when there will be fireworks around.
Remove triggers if possible. For instance, if you know your dog doesn't like the vacuum cleaner, try to get someone to take it on a walk while you vacuum. Also, shut windows and blinds when there's a thunderstorm or fireworks outside to help block out the noise as much as possible., Ear muffs can help block out some of the sound, making it less scary for your dog. Of course, you need to get ear muffs made specifically for your dog, which you can find online and at some pet stores. Some dogs may not take to wearing ear muffs, though.Another option is noise-cancelling headphones for dogs.
 Some people think they can help their dog get over the fear by exposing the dog to more of it. While some noise-exposure programs do work to get your dog accustomed to loud noises, throwing your dog outside during a thunderstorm or taking it to a fireworks celebration will only terrify your dog, not make it better.If you do want to try to encourage your dog to be less fearful with noise, try a program developed for this purpose. You can find albums on the internet designed to help. The albums have noises that are disturbing to some dogs, but you can use them to acclimate your do to them. The idea is that you play the noises at softer levels and gradually move to louder levels, so your dog gets used to them.