 Installing new floors is a big task and is fundamental to your home. To be successful, you need to have patience, adequate knowledge, and proper tools. Understand the time, energy, and commitment that is required before starting major projects.If you choose to hire a professional, be sure they are licensed and experienced. Check their references.;
, Sub-floors are typically concrete or cement and develop weaknesses over time. If you place laminate flooring on a weak or uneven sub-floor, the new floor will be compromised and eventually buckle, damage the laminate locking system, creak, or create micro gaps in the new floor. Here are some ways you can check for problems in a sub-floor:Use a level to see how flat the floor is. Lay a four to six foot level on the sub-floor, and see how close you can get the bubble to float between the vertical lines. If you find that the bubble is floating to one end of the level, the floor may be uneven.Use the level to measure gaps. Any depressions that measure less than 1/8" are okay for a new floor installation. If you find gaps larger than 1/8", then you may need to use self-leveling mortar to level the surface.Measure for any areas that peak higher than 1/8". These areas will need to be lowered to create an even surface. Wood floors will need to be sanded down, and concrete floors will need grinding. Mark all of the uneven areas with a felt-tipped marker to keep track., Cheap laminate flooring has a higher chance of being defective right away and over time. Through usage, it may warp, buckle, and develop permanent stains. If you are working with a professional carpenter, ask for their opinion on the best brands. If you are on your own, ask an experienced home center employee, call a contractor, or check online for reviews on products you are considering.


Purchase approximately 15% more laminate than you expect you will need. This will be useful for boards that are damaged, or in case the measurements are not accurate.Check to make sure you buy products that do not contain harmful chemicals.
 Underlayment is a thin, hard layer of either cement board, wood, or foam. It is vital to the overall project because it protects the floor from moisture which can seep in from sub-floors such as concrete. Once the laminate flooring is introduced to moisture, it will absorb into the laminate and expand. Proper underlayment will help prevent the laminate from absorbing moisture which reduces buckling and warping over time. Underlayment also insulates noise, maintains the temperature in your home, and creates a smoother surface.Plywood is the recommended underlayment material for laminate flooring. However, the specific kind of plywood you use will depend on what your floors will be exposed to after installation. For example, if you live in a humid climate, marine plywood is recommended. When purchasing underlayment, check with the professional for guidance on the best type for you.Plywood underlayment is usually cheap and easy to install. It comes in large sheets that are placed down to cover the floor, and it is secured in place with screws along the edges., Flooring that has been left outside, or in a cold atmosphere, is fully contracted. If you start installing the flooring right when you bring it inside, then part of the floor will be installed cold. If the laminate is installed while it is still cold, it will slowly come to room temperature and change in size. Even if there was only a small section that was installed cold, it will expand and put pressure on the rest of the floor. This can cause humps and cracks in the floor and ruin the overall project.Allow your flooring to warm up overnight before installing it.

