 Preferably a non-spiral notebook. This way you don't have to worry about the spirals getting messed up and not being able to turn the page easily. Although it really does come down to your preference. Spiral or non-spiral.;
, This is obviously the most simple step to follow.
 This may not seem important, but actually it is. This helps you remember the pages certain things are on.
 Do this on the very first page. On the top margin, write 'Table of Contents'. Then, create a column for the section, and create a column for the page numbers. In these next steps you will find out the names of the sections you will need to write down.
 Here you will write down all of your achievements. Continue adding to this every time you have a new achievement. It doesn't matter if they are big or small. An achievement is an achievement no matter what.
 This section is for future jobs you are interested in. Whenever a job you possibly would want to do pops in your head, write it down there. Whenever you decide you don't like one of the jobs on the list, mark it out. This will help you decide your career later on.
 I know, you thinking, "Colleges? This has nothing to do with my schooling right now." Think again. It does more than you think... This section is for, obviously, colleges you are interested in. The first and second page is for just simply writing the college name. But, the other 20 pages or so are for listing the college name in the top margin, and writing down the requirements to get into it. This encourages you to reach the requirements of the college, so you can get into that college you dream of.
 You may be confused, but don't be. Community service is an essential part of graduating. Some schools actually require community service to be done, while some don't. Also, community service helps you get into a better college. Make a goal of how many hours you wish to do. Then, every time you do community service, write down what you did, and how many hours you worked. Those hours of community service really help. Trust me, they do.
 This section is for your test scores (e.g. Quizzes, ACT, SAT, Test, Exams, State Tests, etc...). Every time you get a test back with a score on it, write down the name of the test, and its score. Later, you can look back upon them and see how you've improved your test grades, or brought down your test grades.
 The other steps are necessary for the journal, but if you want to add any more, feel free to do so!

, What's the point in making a journal if you don't enjoy it? There isn't one. So make sure you take care of it and enjoy it!

