 What ever feelings you're experiencing, this is going to be a very difficult time for you and your family. Most teenagers do not intend to get pregnant, if they do, it's a terrible shock for everyone, especially her. What you must realize is that your daughter needs your love and support now more than ever before.;
, A short time ago her priorities were probably fitting in at school and studying for exams; but now, her life has been turned upside down. She is most likely feeling far worse than you are.
 Having an abortion, putting the child up for adoption or keeping it all have their pros and cons. Help your daughter research her options so she can decide what is best for her, but she has to keep in mind that this is not to be taken lightly.
 If your daughter is going to keep her child, it means a lot of things are going to change for her and everyone in her life - including you. She must understand that having a child is a lifetime commitment, and raising it isn't all fun and games.
 If he is the type of man that could bring your daughter and grandchild into an abusive or otherwise unhappy life, she really should ditch him. If she's reluctant or feels bad about it, remind her that there are far better men in the world.
 Your daughter must look after herself to ensure a healthy pregnancy, especially if she is a younger teen. Make sure she gets proper nutrition and health care, and that she does not engage in harmful behavior (i.e drinking, smoking, drugs, excess caffeine, risky sexual behavior, etc).
 There are plenty of places where you can find decent quality baby furniture and clothing at a very low price, and inexpensive baby supplies can be purchased from any drugstore.
 In fact, it's rewarding,enjoyable and maybe fun. What is important is to set the boundaries on your role early on, to ensure that your daughter takes her child-raising responsibilities seriously and with commitment. Make sure that that she takes time and effort in trying to take care of her baby or offspring.

