 If you think you are being followed, make false turns. If the driver behind you continues to pursue, go to your nearest police station., Stay in the center lane when possible. Don’t turn your attention to a cell phone or radio.Observe 360 degrees around you through your mirrors and windows.Keep distance between your car and the one in front of you. This enables you to get around the car in front of you if it stalls or if someone suspicious approaches your car.Keep about one-half of the length of your vehicle between you and the vehicle ahead of you, so that you can maneuver out if necessary. As a rule of thumb, you should be able to see the rear tires of the vehicle ahead of you.
 Carjackers use a ruse called “The Bump.” They rear-end cars and steal them when the drivers get out to assess the damage and gather information. If your car gets hit from behind, only pull over and get out when you reach a safe, public place.Stay inside your vehicle with the doors locked and windows shut. Signal to the other driver to follow you and drive to the nearest police or fire station. If you see that the other driver is not following you, take note of their license plate number., Placing paper money (real or fake) or even fliers under your windshield wiper is a trick criminals can use to get you out of your car. If you see money on your windshield and exit your vehicle to grab it, a carjacker can rush into your vehicle and actually run you over as well as steal your car., Carjackers try to take advantage of people’s empathy by creating ruses. If someone is flashing their lights and trying to wave you over to the side of the road, or is appearing to be injured from an accident and is soliciting your attention, don’t stop.If someone was trying to signal that there is a problem with your vehicle, keep driving and pull over when you find a safe public place.
If someone appeared to be injured and needed help, call the authorities or go to your nearest police or fire station to tell them what you saw.
 Most attempted or successful carjackings happen within 5 miles of the victim’s place of residence.Carjackers may surveil cars returning to gating communities and trap you in before the gate opens. If you’re returning home to your own residence, wait on the street until the gate is opened if necessary, so that a car cannot pull up behind you and trap you in.If you are visiting someone else’s gated community, call ahead to have the gate opened.
 Keep your head up, ears open, and eyes peeled when you’re returning to your car. Don’t ignore your gut feeling if you sense that something is wrong. If you see someone standing around in the parking lot, or you merely sense something is not right, don’t proceed to your car. Return to a place where people are and ask for a security escort to walk you to your car. If that is not possible, wait for a group of people and walk with them.92% of carjackings happen to victims who are alone.Look under, around and inside your car.Don’t allow children or packages to distract from your alertness. Make it a habit to look around before putting anything or anyone into the car.
 If you must stop at a drive-thru ATM, have your ATM card ready, keep your car in drive, and pull up as close to the ATM as possible. Check your rearview mirror before stopping.Avoid isolated payphones, newspaper machines and parking lots.
 Not all carjackings happen under the cloak of night. In fact, more than half (64%) of daytime carjacking attempts are successful.Be as alert during the daylight as you would be at nighttime.

