 If you don’t have to wipe any sweat off your brow while on the treadmill or other cardio machine, your workout may be too easy. Increase the intensity of your cardiovascular workout until you begin to sweat., Take a minute after your cardiovascular workout and observe your breath. If it is fairly deep and heavy, it is a good sign. If it doesn't feel any different than if you were sitting at your office desk, you may need to run or cycle harder., The gym is a social place, which is great but can also distract you from your cardiovascular workout. The same thing can be said about other forms of cardiovascular exercise such as walking or jogging with friends. If you spend more time chatting with friends during your workout, it may have gotten too easy for you.To figure out if this is the case, observe whether you can easily talk with a friend while working out. If you can put together a sentence easily while working out, you may not be pushing yourself hard enough., If you find yourself focusing on your book, magazine or television show more than your cardiovascular workout, your workout may be too easy. Look away from the television or magazine for a minute and check your heart rate. If it is below sixty percent of your maximum heart rate, you may not be pushing yourself enough., If your cardio workout is getting way too easy, you may benefit from a new, less boring form of exercise called high intensity interval training or HIIT. Whether you are on the treadmill, bike or swimming, push yourself very hard for between thirty and ninety seconds. Then, go slow for twice that length of time. Then, bring the intensity back up again for another thirty to ninety seconds. Repeat the process for twenty or thirty minutes for a good cardio workout.If you do HIIT training and it is getting easy, start reducing the rest period between periods of intensity. Keep reducing the period of rest until half of your workout is at a very high intensity and the other half is at a low intensity.