 Pay attention to the present moment without analysis, assessment, or judgement. Connect with yourself by sitting quietly and actively pushing away any thoughts that arise, without assessing them as good or bad or important or insignificant. Breathe. Even one deep breath can immediately improve your mood. Focus on your breath to improve your ability to be actively mindful:Notice the physical sensations of air entering and leaving your body.
After a few breaths, your body will become noticeably more calm.
Embrace this calmness. Automatically, the cognitive dialogue in your brain will slow down.
The more mindful you become, contemplative thoughtfulness will increasingly take precedence to emotion in dictating your mood. You will become more calm, more stable, and happier in daily life.
 Think of mindfulness practice and meditation as exercise for your brain. There are a few types of meditation you can try right now:Do a mental body scan. Focus your attention on specific parts of your body, starting with the very tips of your toes. Very slowly, move your focus up to the next part of your body until you reach the very crown of your head. Do not flex or otherwise manipulate your muscles, simply focus on how each part of your body feels, and push away thoughts that label the sensations you feel.
Practice walking meditation. If simply sitting and focusing on your breath doesn’t work well for you, try walking meditation. Focus on the physicality of each step, including the sensation of your feet making contact with the ground, the rhythm and movement of your breath as you walk, and the wind upon your skin.
Eat mindfully. At your next meal, sit at a table and focus your full attention on your food. Set your phone out of sight, and don’t read or watch anything. Eat slowly. Focus on the sensation and flavor of each bite.
 Incorporate mindfulness into you mental outlook and you’ll notice subtle, positive changes in your general frame of mind. You can increase the effect of these positive influences by noticing when it occurs. Note when you do the following:Enjoy everyday rituals. Moments of enjoyment are readily derived from ritual behavior. Pause for a moment over your cup of morning coffee, walk around the block after lunch, or sit with a pet as soon as you get home. These might seem like insignificant acts, but with consistently, they become a source of calmness and stability.
Do one thing at a time. Contemporary lifestyles can easily lead to non-stop multitasking. This makes it almost impossible to focus on anything fully. Focus on one thing to maximize your concentration, productivity, and enjoyment, even in everyday tasks.
Smell the roses. Literally! When you are struck with the beauty or allure of something, stop for a moment to fully enjoy the experience. If you’re with someone else, verbalize whatever it is that you find pleasurable. Sharing your enjoyment amplifies the mental and physical effects of a positive, mindful moment.
Embrace positive memories. When a positive memory drifts through your mind, pause and linger on that thought. You can literally experience positive emotions in the present by recalling them from your past.

