 Another way you can manage your baby’s attachment to comfort objects is to limit how many objects they have access to at one time. Perhaps you only allow your baby to have one comfort object at a time and get them to focus their attentions on this one object. Or perhaps you allow your baby to have two comfort objects, a main object and a backup object.For example, you may let your baby use a stuffed bear as a comfort object and remove other objects that could be comfort objects from their space. Or you may allow your baby to have a stuffed bear as a main comfort object and a blanket as a backup comfort object.
You can explore the concept of "toy rotation" by limiting the number toys the child has access to and switching them every few weeks. This helps stimulate kids’ brains, fosters imagination, and can keep them from getting attached to too many objects.
 Whatever object your baby gravitates towards for comfort, you should make sure you have two of that object. Try not to let your baby use a limited edition bear or a one of a kind plush toy for comfort, as this may leave you stuck if something happens to that object.Go for an object that is easy to replace and keep a backup of the same item so your baby is never without their comfort object when they need it. Then, label the object with your name and phone number, so it can be returned if lost.
For example, you may encourage your baby to use a plush toy that you can buy cheaply at a store nearby as a comfort object. Or you may make two comfort blankets for your baby and make sure the backup blanket is accessible so you can give it to your baby if necessary.
 One big concern parents have about their baby’s comfort object is keeping the object clean and hygienic. You may need to limit your baby’s access to the comfort object out of necessity, as it will need to be washed and cleaned at some point. You may plan to wash the object while your baby is sleeping or distracted with other objects so they do not notice and do not get upset.You may also rely on the backup comfort object when you are washing your baby’s main comfort object. Give your baby the backup while the other one is being washed.

