 Open an Internet browser, type in http://www.canon.com/cig/ on the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, Click the “Sign up” button, and you will be brought to another page where you need to enter and confirm your email address.


You will be sent an activation link that you need to click on from your email within seven days.
Be sure you have an eligible Canon camera before registering for this free service.
 Go to the email sent to you and click the activation link. You will be brought to another page where you need to complete your registration, including setting of a password.
 Use the email address and password you used in registering to log in.


Once logged in, do not yet close the web page.
 Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back.
 At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu.
 From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the cloud icon. The camera will start looking for available Wi-Fi networks in the area.
 From the list of available networks, select the one you’d like to use. Make sure you have access to this network as you will still need to input the necessary security parameters for it.
 When, or if, asked, input your network’s password. Press the “FUNC. SET” button to bring out the keyboard, and use this to enter the password.


Once confirmed, your camera will be linked with your network, and it has stored it under an Access Point.
 Go back to the web browser. Instructions on how to configure the settings to enable posting to the web services from your camera will be displayed.
 Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back then press the Wi-Fi logo on the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu.
 From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the cloud icon. Since you’ve connected it to an Access Point already, it will no longer look for a new network and will use the one it has stored.
 In order for Canon Image Gateway to properly identify your camera, a virtual handshake needs to happen. This is done through an authentication code. From your camera, select the “Authenticate” button.


The camera will look for an Access Point, so be sure a Wi-Fi connection is available within the camera’s vicinity.
An authentication code will be displayed on your camera’s screen. Copy this.
 On your web browser, still on the Camera Settings page, click on the cloud icon again. Under the Authentication Code field, input the code you got from your camera then click “Next.”

, A six-digit confirmation number will be displayed; take note of this. Check your camera to see if the same confirmation number is displayed. If it’s the same, select the “OK” button on your camera.
 The “Confirm” button on the page of your web browser will be disabled until the server receives the “OK” from the camera. Once it’s enabled, click on it to proceed.
 Once the connection has been successfully completed, you will see a confirmation page. Your Canon IXUS 265HS has been successfully configured and linked with Canon Image Gateway.
 Canon Image Gateway will be added to your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, in the same area where the cloud icon is. The cloud icon will also be slightly different with a refresh icon on it.