 Before you start trying to conceive, talk to your obstetrician about any trouble you may have had carrying a pregnancy to term in the past. Ask them about testing and lab work options so that they can check for things like chromosomal abnormalities, high androgen levels, or other factors that may lead to miscarriages.The many variable causes of miscarriages mean that there is no set panel of tests that will be done. Speak openly and honestly about your medical history, family history, and your efforts to become a parent so that your doctor can suggest appropriate testing and potential treatment options.
Let your doctor know, "I have a history of certain medical conditions and I would like to discuss whether these impact my current efforts to try and have a baby."
If you have a history of Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, Endometriosis, uterine fibroids, or other conditions that specifically impact your reproductive organs, let your doctor know, "I have an ongoing effort to manage a condition that impacts my reproductive health. How might this impact my ability to carry a baby?";
, If you have blood type that tests negative for the Rh-factor, you may need a low dose of RhoGAM. This may help prevent problems with future pregnancies where Rh incompatibility is a factor.RhoGAM is administered b injection, and is generally only used with mothers who have Rh-negative blood types carrying a child with an Rh-positive blood type.
 Hormone imbalance may manifest in a number of ways, including through conditions such as Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, and Endometriosis. If you know you’ve had problems with these conditions in the past, or if you suspect you may have problems relating to your thyroid or adrenal gland, ask your doctor to check your hormone levels.Some signs of hormonal imbalance may include weight gain, irritability, abnormally heavy periods, irregular periods, missed periods, headaches, back pains, and more.Some hormonal imbalances may be treated with medication or with supervised therapy from your doctor.
Ask about hormone support. One of the factors causing early miscarriage may be a lack of progesterone. A progesterone hormone in the form of injection or tablets in the first three months of pregnancy may help. However, this technique is based on older studies. Newer research does not indicate that this treatment is effective.
 Repeated miscarriages may be due to chromosomal abnormalities. There are a number of types of chromosomal abnormalities that may impact pregnancy, some of which are easier to address than others. Ask your doctor about chromosomal analysis to help you determine if this may underpin your recurrent miscarriages.This analysis may be done on you and your partner.


Be aware that some forms of testing may require you save tissue from your miscarriage in order to run the analysis.Know that many chromosome problems are unavoidable, and may be unpredictable and untreatable.
 Talk with your obstetrician about any medications prescribed by your general practitioner, as well as any over-the-counter drugs you may use, including vitamins and herbal supplements. Ensure that these are safe for you to use while trying to conceive and during pregnancy.Don't wait for your doctor to ask. Tell them outright, "I am on these medications by prescription of my general practitioner, and these are the over the counter drugs I use regularly. Might any of them impact my ability to successfully carry my child?"
Avoid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin and ibuprofen while trying to conceive or while pregnant. Stick to acetaminophen as a pain reliever during this time.

