 To succeed, you'll need to confuse the defense, keep the defender guessing as to what you're likely to do next. This is the key for any dribbling movement to work. If the defender knows what you're going to do, then he or she will stop you, but if you keep the defender guessing, then you're in control.






;
, You don't want to give the defender the ball, so keep it low and secure (protect it with your body). For a better dribble, use your fingertips to keep more control, trying to never hit the ball.
,









With your ball in your right hand, give a step towards the right with a head fake to the same direction.
Lower your left shoulder to look sincere.
If your defender goes all over the right, then turn your weight and bounce the ball to your left hand in front of your defender, and go all the way to the basket!
If your defender doesn't go over the right, then quickly run to that direction.

Try an in and out plus a crossover. Do an in and out move (carry the ball left then right in one fluid motion). Go for an exaggerated crossover to your other hand, then drive past your opponent.
 This is a very smart solution when you are going fast towards the basket.









With the ball in your right hand, go where the defender is and dribble hard towards him or her.
Stop with your left foot forward and planted.
Change the ball of hand and bounce it once, making a 360-degree rotation with your left foot.
Then bounce it back with your left hand, and finally go to score!

, This is a very effective drill when you want space for a good shoot.









Dribble hard towards the defender.
In the same place where you are, make some quick stutter steps as if you're about to dribble.
When your defender falls with your fake, use the space to quickly rise up and shoot a jump shot!

, When you see a double-team coming, calm down, plant your front foot and straighten up slightly. Your defenders will do the same instinctively. Now that you have got them, run quickly all the way to the basket and score.
 This is a very easy but effective move.









While going towards your defender running (supposing that he or she is on the right), bounce with your right hand.
Then pass the ball behind your back, and quickly with your left hand, run all the way to the basket.
 The stop-and-go movement involves a change in speed and its effectiveness can be used in many situations.









With the ball aside you, protecting it from your defender, seem to be calmed down.
Give a step or two back.
Forwardly explode your speed and all of a sudden, overtake the defender!

, If you only dribble on one side, then your defender will know where are you going, but if you change the direction, then it will be harder for him or her to stop you. Therefore, try to use both hands.
 Play as if already you were the best player out there. Don't be ashamed of doing your best effort. Play as a team, for your team and with your team, not for yourself. Just believe in yourself.
 If you have an opportunity to execute one-on-one moves and score, do it! Enter to the paint with confidence, score and make your team win!








