 There is a wealth of poker information out there in the form of books, videos/DVDs, advice, hand histories, etc. It would take several lifetimes for the average person to accumulate the knowledge that is readily available and it's easier than ever to get hold of information through online sources and online shopping.


Test the knowledge of experts. Use poker software to take statistics on a certain aspect of the game and totally check that your sources are correct (in the particular aspect of the game you've chosen to focus on). Poker software is useful for statistic-taking analysis.
Don't neglect biographies of poker players. You can learn a lot about their mindset from reading such books.;
, Although poker is generally a gambling game, it is also a challenge to the mind and it's a competitive game.


Play against the poker software first. If you cannot beat the software, what is the use of playing against real opponents. Keep trying until you improve a great deal.
Play without money to begin with. Poker is a competition and your opponents will take pride in their game and play ferociously, even if there is no real money involved.
Play with real money where there is a rake, tips, and real opponents, and when you are absolutely confident you're ready to start playing for stakes (and to lose money).
 A world class player studies differently from a novice. A novice has to have the basics absolutely ingrained, things like knowing the rules of the game and learning about bluffing moves. Poker is a mind game, and a good foundation before even studying or playing poker is to study probability and statistics.


It can't hurt to read more broadly about mind games in the field of sports and game playing. You can pick up great tips from other players and sports persons that can help you to maintain your reserve, stamina, and patience.
 Log in the amount of time spent on each and follow a predetermined ratio. Since poker is also fun to play, following the 9:1 ratio of Einstein may not be realistic for most people. However, study time should exceed play.
 This will change over time and may be unbalanced at times.


A raw beginner, before starting to play poker, should read about successful players to determine if poker is a beatable game. It is important to learn from the outset that there are few successful players in games of chance, even with careers spanning decades for professional poker players. Poker however is only partly a game of chance, it is also a game of skill. You don't need to have the best cards to win a hand, this is where bluffing comes in.
Once you decide to take on poker seriously, develop a plan for studying such as: Studying poker book 1 - 40 percent, studying poker book 2 - 10 percent, taking statistics 15 percent, reviewing a past hand or problem hands - 15 percent and making charts - 20 percent. Develop a good plan and stay with it.
 If your goal is to improve, keep studying. While poker is fun, losing is not fun and studying the tactics, statistics, and your own actions can turn this around.


Playing too many games hints at addiction, and while playing gives you experience, this is not as productive to improving your overall game strategies as is studying.

