 To gently cook the caramel sauce, you’ll need to place the ingredients in a bowl inside the slow cooker. Find one that is heatproof, holds at least 1 ½ quarts (1.4 l), and will fit inside your slow cooker when the lid is in place..If possible, use a 2 to 2 ½ quart (1.9 to 2.4 l) bowl. That will give you more room to mix the ingredients.;
, Add 1 14-ounce (300 ml) can of sweetened condensed milk, ½ cup (115 g) of melted butter, 1 cup (300 g) of light corn syrup, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla, and 1 ½ teaspoons (7 ½ ml) of lemon juice to the bowl. Stir the ingredients so they’re fully combined.You’ll usually have an easier time mixing the ingredients with a whisk. However, a wooden spoon or rubber spatula can also work.
 Once all of the wet ingredients are mixed, stir in 1 cup (225 g) of white sugar, 1 cup (225 g) of brown sugar, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt. Mix until the sugars and salt are completely blended into the other ingredients.If you want to make a salted caramel sauce, increase the salt to 1 tablespoon (17 g).
 When all of the ingredients are mixed, set the bowl inside the slow cooker. Try to arrange it so there’s an equal amount of space around all sides of the bowl., Once the bowl is inside the slow cooker, pour hot water around the outside of the bowl. Make sure to fill the cooker with enough water so its level is equal to that of the ingredients inside the bowl.There’s no need to use boiling water. Hot water from your tap is fine.
 Place the lid on your slow cooker, and turn it on. Set the temperature to high, and allow the sauce to cook for several hours, adjusting the cooking time based how thick you’d like the sauce to be.Cook the sauce for 4 to 5 hours if you want it to be light and thin.
Cook the sauce for 6 to 7 hours if you want it to be medium colored and slightly thicker.
Cook the sauce for 9 to 10 hours if you want it to be dark, extremely thick, and have a more robust caramel taste.
Don’t try to cook the sauce on low. Caramel sauce requires a higher cooking temperature.
 When the sauce has finished cooking, carefully remove the bowl from the slow cooker. Use a whisk to rapidly mix the sauce until it is smooth and creamy.Be sure to use a potholder or oven mitt to remove the hot bowl from the slow cooker to avoid burning yourself.
 If the sauce is thicker than you’d like it to be, whisk in a tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream at a time. Stir well to ensure that it’s fully incorporated and only add more cream if the sauce is still too thick.If you prefer, you can substitute milk or water for the heavy cream.
 Once you’re happy with the consistency of the sauce, pour it into a glass jar or other airtight container. You can serve it warm or at room temperature. If you aren’t going to use it right away, cover it and store it in the refrigerator for up to a week.You can heat the sauce up in the microwave after you’ve refrigerated it. Heat it on medium-high in 15 second intervals until it’s the temperature and consistency that you desire.

