 Wash your face with a gentle cleanser in the morning and before you go to bed. Also wash your face after you sweat or wear a hat or helmet. Use your fingertips to apply your cleanser. A washcloth or sponge may irritate your skin., There are many over-the-counter medicines that are effective for managing acne. Look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide, salicyclic acid, alpha hydroxy acids, or sulfur.These ingredients are found in gels, creams, scrubs, toners, and cleansers. If you do not know which ingredient works best for your skin, start with benzoyl peroxide.Try different ingredients to find what works best for your skin.


If you use a gel or a cream, always apply it to freshly washed skin.
Results do not happen overnight. It may take 2 to 3 months before you see any changes in your skin.
 Any products that you use should be oil-free, water based, and non-comedogenic. These products will be less likely to cause acne. Also pay attention to the hairsprays, gels, and other hair styling products you are using.These products can clog your pores as well. Try to keep them away from your face when you use them.
 The sun is very damaging to your skin and many acne medications make your skin more sensitive to the sun.Use a broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher. Many moisturizers already have sunscreen in them. Just make sure that it protects against both UVA and UVB rays. Apply your sunscreen after you have washed your face and applied any topical acne medication.
 Think about all of the things you touch throughout your day. When you touch your face, you spread germs and bacteria to your face. This can lead to flare-ups and breakouts.Make sure and keep anything that touches your face clean. For example, if you wear glasses make sure that your frames and lens are cleaned regularly.
 You may have tried all of the over-the-counter products and nothing has worked. A dermatologist can assess your skin and develop a plan to treat your acne. There are many options and medications for acne treatment nowadays. You can control your acne, prevent future breakouts, and reduce your chances of scarring and dark spots.Find a board certified dermatologist. Visit the American Academy of Dermatology website and enter your zip code if you need help finding one.Let your doctor know about the over-the-counter treatments you have been using and your current skin care regimen.

