 Consider the location and the climate when you make your decision.


Most states have winery and vineyard associations. Choose the states where you are most interested in holding your wedding, and visit their websites to narrow down your choices.
Visit the winery to make sure it is not located near structures that may interfere with your wedding day plans, such as major highways, airports, or shopping areas.
If you want to be married in the summer, or on a weekend, plan far in advance as these dates book quickly.;
,


How many guests can be accommodated for both the wedding and the reception?
What fees are associated with both the wedding and the reception?
Are discounts available for non-peak dates or times?
How many hours is the winery available for the wedding, including set-up, ceremony, reception, photographs and clean-up?
What contingency plans are available if the weather makes an outdoor wedding impossible?
Does the winery offer catering, valet parking, or any planning services?
Can beverages be served that are not provided by the winery?
Is there an area that is readily available for dancing or that can be converted into a dance area?
Are there any restrictions on the types of music that can be played or types of musicians that may be hired?
Are there any restrictions on the areas that may be used for wedding photographs?
What restroom facilities are available?
Are there policies that would interfere with the attendance of minors?
Can a wine tasting be arranged for the reception?

,


One of the most popular choices is outside near the vineyard. This affords an aesthetically pleasing view especially during the summer months when the vines are filled with fruit.
For smaller ceremonies inside the winery, near the large wooden barrels of wine is a more intimate option.
Some wineries have event rooms specifically designed for parties and weddings.



Some wineries have outdoor areas that can be accommodate event tents for the wedding or reception. This is ideal for couples who have chosen this venue for the outdoor beauty.
For smaller weddings, the wine tasting bar may be able to accommodate the wedding reception.



Outdoor picture locations include the vineyards, outside the doors to the winery, walking down vineyard paths, and pretending to pick grapes from the vines.
Indoor photographs can be taken in front of wine barrels, with the couple toasting or serving wine, dancing through the production area, and of the wedding party seated on the wine bar.

