 The soft tissues surrounding your joints (shoulder joint, hip joint, sacro-iliac joint or low back) are not, by definition, flexible. However continuous range of motion exercises and daily activities can contribute to smoother movement in and around the joints.


Stretching to relieve lower back pain is done by increasing the flexibility of the muscular structures surrounding your lower back as well as increasing the range of motion of the joints found in your lower back (including the spine and lower extremities).;
, Low back pain, which is referred to as LBP in the Physical Therapy community, is defined as chronic (long-standing) if the pain has been present for more than 3 consecutive months. This is chronic because normal connective and soft tissues in your body should take no more than 6-12 weeks to heal.


According to studies, there is an estimated 15-20% of the population with chronic LBP (cLBP) who develop protracted (longer lasting) pain and that CLBP is cited as the most common cause of disability amongst Americans younger than 45 years old.
It is the second most common reason for wellness visits and fifth most common cause for hospitalization and the 3rd for surgery., Almost all people can benefit from stretching the muscles as well as the soft tissues surrounding the joints (tendons and ligaments) – in the neck, back, buttocks and vertebral column (spine).


Your lower spine, which is composed of the vertebrae L1 to L5, contains the largest vertebrae in your spinal column and is an area where a lot of movement takes place.
The lower spine also bears the weight of the torso. This is the reason why, over time, your lower back receives undue stress and strain and physiologic degradation takes place., Patients with current and recurring lower back pain must realize that it takes months of stretching along with other back muscle exercises to achieve meaningful and prolonged relief.


However long it may take, it must be remembered that the goal of treatment and exercise is not just to achieve pain relief.
The goals are to sustain the pain relief and to further improve the condition of your lower back through continued physical movement and proper exercise.
 Warm up prior to a stretching routine by walking and gently moving your arms in a circular motion, as this helps to warm up your muscles. Stretching without warming up your muscles can cause undue strain to your soft tissues.
 Wear an exercise outfit that won’t hinder movement and that you feel comfortable in.
 One person’s range of motion is not the same as the next person's. Therefore you should, together with an expert or exercise coach, determine which range of motion is appropriate for you, and you alone.


Stretching should be pain-free. The old adage “no pain, no gain” does not apply in modern therapeutic and exercise regimens.
 Avoid “bouncing” movements. Instead, move into the stretch gently until your reach your end range of motion.


Bouncing involves small, repetitive, abrupt, high impact movements to reach the end range of motion. This is not beneficial because abrupt movements in your body cause undue stress and strain on your soft tissues.
Think of your muscles and soft tissues as a rubber band. If you stretch it hard and fast, there’s a tendency to break, but if you move it gently and slowly, there’s no danger of disrupting its flexibility.
 Perform your stretching routines on a flat even surface, or a spacious environment where you can move freely.
 Stretching regimens call for holding the position for more than 30 seconds for flexibility development. This is how you will develop and improve your range of motion.


You must hold the stretched position for at least 15 seconds (for beginners) and a maximum of 30-45 seconds.
 After holding the position for 45 seconds, slowly return to a neutral position (repetition 1) then slowly stretch back and hold the position for another 45 seconds before slowly returning to the neutral position again (repetition 2, and so on).


Do the stretching routine at least 5 times for beginners and as much as 10-15 times.
 Always remember to breathe freely. There shouldn’t be any point in your stretching regimen where you are short of breath or breathing heavily because this signifies that you are performing the stretch incorrectly.
 As soon as you get the go signal from your doctor or health practitioner, you can proceed to doing simple stretching exercises to help alleviate the pain on your lower back.


There are two common stretching exercises done to alleviate back pain. These are the Williams Flexion Exercise and the McKenzie Extension Exercise., Williams Flexion Exercise – this stretching regimen is a progressive form of exercise, meaning you have to do regimen 1 all the way through regimen 7. These are flexion or bending exercises aimed at decreasing the load placed on your lumbar spine.


By gently bending your back, you decrease the load or compression placed on the structures in your lower back due to long hours of standing, sitting, walking, running and lifting heavy loads.
At the same time, it helps strengthen your abdominal muscles – strong abdominal muscles lead to greater support of your lower back because your back won't have to do all the work when it comes to lifting heavy loads.
At the same time, doing these flexion or bending exercises helps to stretch the hip extensor muscles (the muscles of the buttocks) which also shorten due to over-compensatory motions in the lower limbs, which in turn lead to over-compensatory motions in the lower back that cause pain and stress.
 The pelvic tilt is a gentle stretching exercise that stretches the large muscles of your lower back without causing great stress. At the same time, it is a low impact, gentle exercise that helps strengthen your abdominal muscles.


Neutral Position – lie on your back with your knees bent and the soles of your feet touching the floor. Place your arms at your sides and let your whole body relax, allowing for the natural curve of the lumbar spine. This means that when you lie on your back, you can still insert your hand under your lower back because the lower back is slightly raised from the floor.
Inhale (take a breath) then, as you exhale (release your breath), slowly tilt your pelvis. You will do this by letting your abdomen (tummy) come toward your back or rocking your hips towards your face. If you feel your lower back start pressing into the floor, then you will know that you have performed this maneuver correctly.
It will help if you visualize that you have a bowl of water on your abdomen and when you do the pelvic tilt, the bowl will tip over and spill water on your tummy. Hold the position initially for 10 seconds, then return to your neutral position.
For strengthening and stabilization exercises, do the pelvic tilts in 12 repetitions, each repetition holding the position for 30 seconds then going back to the neutral position. Pelvic tilt exercises help strengthen the abdominal muscles which are generally weak in almost all people, especially those who have to sit at a desk all day at work and those whose work involves manual heavy lifting.
 This stretching maneuver will stretch the hip extensor muscles as well as the opposite thigh flexor muscles. Stretching these muscles will improve the flexibility of these structures which leads to the avoidance of over compensatory actions of the large lower back muscles.


Neutral Position – lie on your back with both knees bent and feet flat on the floor. Breathe in, then slowly bring your right knee to your chest and embrace or hold the position for 30 seconds. Do not force or pull your knees toward your chest while holding this position. This will cause undue stress on your knee joint.
Slowly bring the right knee back to the neutral position then repeat using the left knee. Hold the position for 30 seconds then slowly bring the left knee back to the neutral position (repetition 1). Repeat the steps with the right knee, and then with the left knee again for 9 more repetitions.
Remember to breathe slowly and deeply while doing these exercises.
 This exercise stretches the large back extensor muscles and muscles of the buttocks. Again, increasing flexibility of these muscles leads to a decrease in the over-compensatory mechanisms of the large back extensor muscles and relieves compression on the lumbar spine (lower back) by “opening” up the spinal disc spaces.


Start in the same neutral position as in the previous exercise. Breathe in then slowly bring your right knee to your chest. Do not force or pull your knee toward your chest while holding this position. This will cause undue stress on your knee joint.
While holding this position, slowly bring your left knee to your chest then embrace both knees. Hold the position for 30 seconds then slowly bring your right, then left knee back to the neutral position (repetition 1).
Repeat maneuver nine more times.
 This exercise helps to strengthen the abdominals. When the abdominal muscles are strengthened or developed, a perfect balance of posture and loading happens in the human body, which eliminates the need for the back extensor muscles to overcompensate for certain actions when standing, walking, running and loading (lifting heavy loads).


Do a pelvic tilt, but instead, hold the position while in pelvic tilt.
Slowly lift your head and shoulders off the floor or mat.
Hold position briefly then return to the neutral position (repetition 1).
Repeat maneuver nine more times.
 Stretching the hamstrings or the back muscles of your thighs can lead to greater flexibility in the leg and foot muscles. This is important as problems that start in the lower back will often lead to problems in the lower extremities because these structures will overcompensate in order for you to perform daily activities such as walking, running, lifting and standing for long periods of time.


Start with the neutral long sitting position. Do this by sitting on the floor or mat, with the knees straight and legs flat on the floor, with the toes “looking up” at the ceiling.
Slowly start reaching for your toes, keeping the knees extended. For shortened hamstrings, this might be a difficult maneuver to do at first. Remember, the goal is to increase flexibility of your muscles over time and not to touch your toes on the first try. So just try to reach as far and as comfortably as you can for your toes.
Once you reach a painful range of motion, stop and hold the position for 15 seconds, all the while breathing in and out. Also remember to keep your eyes focused in front and not looking at your toes. This puts an undue strain on your neck muscles which might result in pain afterwards.
Slowly move back to the neutral long sitting position. Repeat the movement nine more times.
 Hip flexor stretching allows for elimination of the “hunchback” posture, which is common in people with weak hip flexors (abdominals). If the muscles in this area are shortened or contracted, the person will often be seen walking hunched over, which will lead to further stress and loading on the back muscles due to improper posture.


Start with a neutral squat position. Squat on the floor with your hips, knees and ankles flexed, with the balls of your feet supporting your whole body.
Slowly bend over and touch the floor or mat with your hand, keeping the elbows straight. You will slowly transfer some of the weight of your body towards your hands and arms.
Slowly straighten your right knee and leg backwards, while keeping the left knee, leg and ankle bent. You will know that you are doing the right maneuver when your left knee is touching your armpit.
Slowly bring your right knee, leg and ankle back to a neutral position.
Repeat with the left leg back and right knee bent.
Repeat movement nine more times.
 This exercise stretches the muscles of the lower extremities and allows for stretching of the muscles in the back and buttocks too. It can relieve lower back pain by increasing the flexibility of both the back extensor and back flexor muscles.


Stand in a neutral comfortable position, with your feet one shoulder width apart and parallel to the floor. Maintain your trunk in a perpendicular position to the floor as much as possible.
Slowly lower the body by flexing your hips and knees fully until your hands touch the floor. Keep your face looking forward in order to avoid undue stress and strain on your neck muscles.
Return to a neutral position then repeat these steps nine more times.
 These may include:



Cat Stretch: Start in the neutral position, on hands and knees, with the head down. Slowly push your back up towards the ceiling, like a cat arching its back. Continue with this maneuver until you feel a stretch on your neck, upper back and lower back. Hold the position for 15-30 seconds. Return to neutral, then repeat nine more times. Or try:

Dog Stretch: Start in the neutral position, on hands and knees, with the head down. Slowly relax your lower back and tummy so they “sag” down to the floor. Continue until you feel a stretch in your lower back and abdominal muscles. Hold this position for 15-30 seconds. Return to neutral, then repeat nine more times.
 This is a stretching technique that allows for increased flexibility of the abdominal muscles. It works on the premise that shortened abdominals cause compensatory actions in the back extensor muscles during daily activities. This is also a progressive exercise where the patient must start with step 1 all the way through step 5.



Prone lying or “plank” position: Lie on your stomach with arms by your sides, legs straight and head turned to one side. Maintain this position for 5-10 minutes. (Try not to sleep!)

Prone lying on elbows position: Start with the first position, but instead, raise your upper chest off the floor with the elbows bent, hands touching the floor or mat, parallel to the floor. Relax your lower back and maintain this position for 5-10 minutes, as tolerated.

Prone press ups: Lie on your stomach with your hands near your shoulders, as if getting ready for a regular push up. Slowly, extend your elbows, while raising your shoulders up off the mat, slowly straightening the elbows, keeping the hands touching the floor. Relax your lower back and maintain this position for 15 seconds then slowly lower the shoulders to starting position, maintaining the hands near your shoulders. Repeat this maneuver nine more times.

Progressive extension with pillows: Lie on your stomach and place a pillow under your chest. Progressively add more pillows as you become accustomed to the position over the course of about 3-5 minutes. Maintain the maximum tolerable position for 10 minutes then remove pillows one at time with a few minutes interval between each.

Standing extension: Start in a neutral position, with your feet one shoulder width apart. Place both your hands in the small of your back (somewhere just above your hips) then lean backward slowly until you reach your maximum tolerable position. Hold that position for 15-30 seconds then slowly go back to the neutral position.

