 If a foreclosure action on your home has already been started and a sale has been scheduled, filing for bankruptcy will immediately pause the sale. When you file for bankruptcy, an “automatic stay” goes into effect, stopping creditors from attempting to collect debts owed to them. The automatic stay acts as an injunction preventing the lender from foreclosing on your home while you are in bankruptcy. However, whether you will ultimately be able to keep your home could depend on the type of bankruptcy you file:


Chapter 13 bankruptcy: if you file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, also known as “reorganization,” you may be able to keep your home. In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy you will “restructure” your debts over a period of three to five years and you will get to keep your home if you make the required payments under your plan. Essentially, filing for reorganization stops the foreclosure and allows you time to get current on your mortgage payments.
Chapter 7 bankruptcy: if you file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, also known as “liquidation,” your home will likely still be foreclosed on. Because a liquidation bankruptcy is premised on selling all of the filer’s assets, you likely cannot keep your home. However, there are some advantages to filing a liquidation bankruptcy, including stalling the foreclosure sale for a couple of months (to allow you to save up for a rental) and eliminating your liability for the mortgage debt (so after the home is sold, you will no longer owe anything to the lender).
If you think that filing for bankruptcy may be the right choice for you, make an appointment with a specialist at a consumer credit counseling agency to discuss the specifics of your case. Meeting with a specialist is a prerequisite for filing bankruptcy in the United States.
 In all states, lenders cannot foreclose on a home while a loan modification application is pending as long as the application is file at least 37 days before the foreclosure sale. Therefore, if you file an application for a modification, the foreclosure sale cannot be held while the application is pending or while you appeal a denial, and if you are approved, the foreclosure sale may never happen. There are various loan modification programs that are offered through private lenders and the federal government to help consumers who are behind on mortgage payments.


Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP): this program is designed to lower monthly mortgage payments that you are having trouble staying current on due to financial hardship. Many different lenders participate in this program, to see if your mortgage company is participating, click here and follow the directions on the page.
Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP): This program is available to people whose mortgage is owned by Fanny Mae or Freddy Mac. However, you will not be eligible unless you are current on your mortgage at the time you apply.
Home Affordable Foreclosure Alternatives Program (HAFA): Under this program, you will not be able to stay in your home, but you will not go through a foreclosure sale. Instead, you will give up your house to the mortgage company in exchange for them releasing the mortgage debt you owe. You can also receive $10,000 in relocation assistance.
To apply for any of these programs, visit the Federal Government’s website at http://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov/steps/pages/step-2-all-programs.aspx.
 If your state allows lenders to foreclose on deficient mortgages without court supervision, you can stop or delay your foreclosure by filing a lawsuit challenging it. However, keep in mind that this will only work if your lender does not have prior court approval to foreclose. In order to stop a foreclosure with a lawsuit, you would need to prove that the lender should not be able to foreclose for some reason, such as they did not properly foreclose on the house or did not give you the required notice. Keep in mind that if you sue your lender, you must be able to prove your allegations or the foreclosure action will only be delayed while the case is decided.
If you think that your lender did something that should stop the foreclosure action, speak with an experienced attorney. If you are worried about affording an attorney, contact your state's legal aid office to see if you are eligible to receive free or reduced cost legal help.

