 If you have trouble knowing what looks good and what doesn't, select one or two friends whose style you trust and ask them to accompany you as you shop. Ask them for their opinion on the clothes you try on.
 Sometimes, all you need is time to yourself to avoid feeling pressured.


If you feel uncertain about your ability to put together an outfit, cut out a few pictures from a fashion magazine to act as a guide as you shop.
 Stock up on a few style staples that can be matched with a variety of pieces.


Purchase a classic style of jean, such as a boot-cut leg in dark indigo.
Look for a nice pair of soft material, lined dress trousers in black, gray, or dark brown.
Consider a pair of simple khaki pants.
Shop around for a good skirt. A simple knee-length, A-line black skirt works with a variety of figures and outfits.
Buy a fitted cardigan sweater that can be thrown over tank tops and nice blouses.
Grab a selection of neutral colored camisoles that can be worn beneath low-cut shirts, sweaters, and jackets.
 Avoid overwhelming yourself—and your budget—all at once. Purchase one or two new pieces at a time and focus on incorporating those into your wardrobe before buying more.
 If your closet seems drab, liven things up with a bright splash of color. Look for blouses, skirts, and dresses in a variety of bold colors and patterns.


Pair these bright pieces with well-fit neutrals from your existing wardrobe.
 Try on trendy cuts that you are not accustomed to wearing to get a taste for what looks good and what doesn't.
 Gradually build outfits with the new clothes and accessories you've collected.


Match a new free-flowing patterned blouse with an old pair of slacks and your favorite pair of heels. Accessorize with a new necklace and bracelet.
Pair an old button-down collared dress shirt with a new skirt and a daring set of heels. Dig out an old favorite among the jewelry in your jewelry box.
Throw a new, bright tank top beneath a white sweater settled in the back of your closet. Pair it with some classic jeans and head out with a new bag on your shoulder.

