 Because they often interact in close quarters and don’t always practice the best hygiene, children easily spread viruses. Vomiting can be a common symptom, along with fever, weakness, tiredness, and diarrhea, among others.Teaching your child good hygiene (like frequent hand-washing) and steering clear of other sick children are the best way to reduce the likelihood of getting sick from a stomach virus, but don’t expect miracles when dealing with kids.
Vomiting due to a stomach virus usually clears up within 12–24 hours. If vomiting continues for more than a day or two, gets worse (for instance, the child cannot keep down liquids), or other symptoms worsen, contact your child’s doctor or seek medical attention.
Rest and rehydration are the best treatments for this type of vomiting. Have the child rest in a reclined position with her head turned to the side (to prevent aspiration of vomit), and offer regular, small doses of electrolyte solutions, sugar water, Popsicles, gelatin water, or other liquids as recommended by the pediatrician. If she continues to vomit every time you try small amounts of fluids, stop and call your doctor right away.;
, Absent other evidence, a stomach virus should be your first guess for the cause of vomiting. However, other illnesses and even simple childhood activities can bring it on.If your child has a respiratory infection, such as a common cold, sometimes this can lead to vomiting because of continuous coughing and the drainage of mucus into the stomach. An ear infection can also sometimes cause vomiting.
Sometimes throwing up can be triggered by a long bout of crying. If your child is very upset and cries continuously for a long period of time, he can make himself sick and begin throwing up.
Overeating can cause vomiting, as can overexertion. Mixing the two is often a recipe for disaster.
Food allergies or intolerances can cause vomiting. Take note if certain foods seem to trigger vomiting and inform the pediatrician. Seek immediate medical attention if the vomiting is associated with hives. swelling of the face or body, or trouble breathing.
Anxiety and excessive stress can also lead to vomiting, not to mention headaches and other maladies. Sources of anxiety in children can range from school troubles to family breakups to fear of monsters in the dark. Stress reduction strategies, behavioral therapy, and perhaps even medication may help reduce both anxiety and the resulting episodes of vomiting., Vomiting in children is usually not something you need to be overly worried about, but it is prudent to be aware of potentially serious causes. Call your child’s doctor or seek medical attention if:Your child is vomiting and has a severe headache or neck stiffness.
The vomiting is forceful or projectile, especially in a baby.
Your child vomits due to head trauma or injury, as she may have a concussion or more serious injury.
There is blood (possibly appearing like coffee grounds) or bile (usually green in color) in your child’s vomit, as these can indicate serious stomach or intestinal conditions.
Your child is noticeably lethargic or has a marked change in mental status, which can indicate severe dehydration
Your child has severe abdominal pain, which can be caused by meningitis or appendicitis.
There is the possibility that your child has consumed a toxin or poison.
 Knowing your enemy is the first step towards conquering it.


Motion sickness occurs when the “motion sensors” in your body — eyes, inner ears, and nerves in the extremities — receive conflicting information.
Thus, when your body is moving but your eyes are looking at a stationary book or video screen, you may experience motion sickness.
It is not clear why children tend to experience vomiting with motion sickness more often, but children ages two to 12 seem most susceptible.

