 Tap the Pebble app icon, which has an orange Pebble watch face, to open the Pebble Management app.


If you don’t have the app, you can download it for free from the Google Play Store.;
, By default, the app will bring you to the Manage Connection screen, where it will scan for available Pebble watches. Tap on your Pebble, whose unique ID will be displayed on the list.


If you’ve forgotten your Pebble’s ID, press the middle button on the watch, navigate to the Settings icon using the Up and Down buttons on the right side of the watch, and then press the middle button again. Press the middle button again on Bluetooth, and you will see the Pebble’s ID under the Bluetooth menu option under Settings.
 Your watch should vibrate and indicate on the screen that a pairing request has been made. Press the Up button on the watch to accept the request, and then tap the notification on your Android that says “Tap to pair with Pebble.” A dialog box will appear, displaying the details of the Pebble watch. Tap the Allow button at the lower right of the box, and your devices should now be paired.
 Swipe in from the left edge of the screen while on the Pebble app of your Android. Tap the Get Apps button at the bottom of the left panel to launch the Pebble Store within the Pebble app.
 Tap in the search icon at the top right of the store’s screen, type in “Music Boss” in the search bar, and tap the Enter key on your keyboard. Tap the Music Boss app in the bottom, whose icon has a green background with a white pair of headphones in the foreground.
 Tap the Add button at the upper right corner of the app details screen. This will add the app into your Pebble watch.


Music Boss is only available for Android. As of the moment, there is no iOS counterpart.
 Music Boss needs the companion app on your Android for configuration purposes. Tap the App Required icon at the right of the screen, and then tap the “Go get it” button to open the Play Store page. On the Play Store, tap the green Install button to download Music Boss for Android.
 After downloading, tap the Open button that replaces the Install button in the Play Store page. This should open Music Boss on your Android device. Tap the add app icon at the top of the Music Boss screen (it’s the icon with horizontal lines and a plus icon at their corner), and select Spotify from the list that appears. Tap OK at the lower right corner; this should let Music Boss on your Pebble to control Spotify on your Android.
 Tap the green Spotify icon on the home screen or app drawer on your Android device. This will bring you to the Spotify main screen.
 Select a song from your Spotify playlist at the left panel, or search for a song using the search bar at the top. Tap the song to begin playing it.
 On your Pebble, press the middle button to bring up the app list. Scroll using the Up and Down buttons until you reach Music Boss, and then press the middle button. Music Boss should launch and display the details of the currently playing track on Spotify.


To toggle Pause/Play, press the middle button on the Pebble watch.
To increase/decrease volume, press the Up/Down buttons.
To switch to the next track, long-press the Down button.
Switch to the previous track by long-pressing the Up button.

