 Ask him follow-up questions, sympathize with his fears and worries, and provide physical comfort when needed. By being a good listener, he will see that he is important enough to you that you listen to what he has to say.


Believe it or not, listening is a skill that you must work to improve!
Be compassionate. If your boyfriend opens up to you about something that he is afraid of or upset about, don’t belittle him. Due to social rules, men often have a difficult time feeling vulnerable. If you belittle him when he has made himself vulnerable, it is unlikely that he will do it again.
 Make him a romantic dinner, or take him out to his favorite restaurant for no reason. Give him a massage. Plan a movie night where you watch his favorite movie. The possibilities are endless, just think of something you know he would enjoy.


The key here is to do it without needing an occasion. For example, while taking him out to dinner on his birthday is very nice, it is best to do this on a regular day. When he asks what the reason is, just explain that you wanted to do something special because he is important to you, and because you appreciate him.
 Do your best to support him in these activities, even if you don’t necessarily enjoy them or understand them.


For example, if he loves watching football, you can support him by finding out what days/times his favorite team is playing, and having the game ready for him on TV. Whatever you decide to do, don’t make him feel guilty or stupid for enjoying it.
If your boyfriend has confided in you that he wants to run a marathon, encourage him! Do some of his training with him, find out what is involved in a marathon, and discuss it with him. Attend the races he signs up for.
 However, as you spend more and more time with each other (particularly if you live together), it is likely that you will go on fewer and fewer dates. Suggest going on a date together where you can spend time reconnecting with each other.


For example, you might go to the restaurant or coffee shop where you had your first date. You can reminisce with him about how you were feeling on the first date, and your first impression of him on that date.
 If you have been with your boyfriend for a long time, you likely feel comfortable hanging out in lounge clothes, with your hair undone, and/or without makeup. This is not a bad thing, but it is also nice to make the effort to look nice for your partner too. If you are going on a date, style your hair, put on a nicer outfit, and do your makeup (if you wear it). He will notice the effort you’ve made for him.


Be practical here. If you’re going out for burgers at his favorite restaurant, you shouldn’t wear a ball gown with heavy makeup. Instead, you can wear a nice pair of jeans with a nice blouse. It is important that you style yourself according to the occasion.
 When it is appropriate, show your affection for him. Hold his hand, give him a hug, or a gentle kiss. Typically, men enjoy being affectionate just as much as women do.


If you’re in public, don’t go over the top. While what is appropriate depends on where you live, how old you are, who you’re with, etc., there are limits to what is appropriate and what he will feel comfortable with. If you want to show your affection in public, holding his hand or a quick kiss on the cheek are likely to be OK.

