 Challenge yourself to pray for a few minutes every day for thirty days. This is about the time that it takes to develop a habit.;
, Hearing other believers pray will give you ideas on ways to pray, and it will encourage you greatly to see that you are not alone in your endeavor to pray.
 Plan to get together in person or on the phone once a week or more. This will help keep you and your partner on track.
 Pray that they and others will make good choices. This adds another element to your prayer life and will remove distractions.
 Use a space for a prayer request and leave a space for the answer (including "Yes.", "No." or "Waiting..."). Include dates. This will help you remember what to pray for, and you can see how God is working through you in your prayer life.
 This doesn't mean that you need to go around praying and not paying attention to the rest of your life. You need to keep an attitude of honoring and praising God -- and to make God the first person you contact when you need help, and thank Him for everything, in any case, good or bad, always asking for His best, even in your worst day.
 You are safe in God's will. As the prophet Job said: "Though God slay me, yet will I trust Him". Realize that you never know tomorrow -- or one minute ahead -- which means: you have to fight through the consequences for what you and others do or fail to do. So, pray for strength to:



Study twice as long and try to learn twice as much, to earn even a little better grade. It is God's will that you study and practice (sow seed) for years, as say for 5000 hours. And so, work up and earn skill/talent or more money -- because God's will includes:


"You will reap what you sow (plant)." Sowing for what you will be reaping can center your prayer results.
 After you pray for talents, wishes, needs and hopes -- then work and pray while it is time to work. Look to the ant -- how it works in season, so that it will have provisions laid up for when nothing more is available except what was already prepared; so, "work out you salvation with fear and trembling".

