 While most official psychiatric and pediatric organizations don’t recognize sensory processing disorder, there are many sympathetic educators and administrators who are open to working with parents and children on the issue. Make an appointment with your child’s teacher and any relevant administrators so that you can discuss in-class options for making your child’s educational experience more sensory-friendly.Be sure to bring any pertinent background information and documentation to the meeting. For example, bring any medical or psychiatric reports detailing your child’s symptoms and problems, as well as any educational pamphlets you might have about the nature of the disorder.
 Just as children affected by sensory processing disorder can be particularly sensitive to irritating clothing, they can also find seating arrangements more uncomfortable and distracting than other children do. Make sure their chair fits well, so that their feet rest flat on the floor and the chair does not pinch or scrape in any way.If you find that your child responds well to fidget toys and sustained physical movement, try a seat cushion or inflatable pillow that will allow them to move around.
 Many parents find that their child’s performance at school improves if their desk is moved closer to the teacher. This way they can focus more easily on the teacher’s words, see fewer intervening distractions, and be a more easily supervised pupil.Additionally, ask the teacher to keep your child’s desk away from the window, a loud radiator, or the hallway. If your child is sensitive to light, ask to have any fluorescent lamps removed or placed further away.
 Just as your child benefits from time-outs at home, they will benefit in school from the same kind of punctuated breaks at school. Ask the teacher to allow several ten-minute time-outs throughout the day, especially after highly social activities.Ideally, your child could use a mini-trampoline, suck on a piece of candy, or go for a mini-walk during these breaks, as receiving sensory input during this time will make the time-outs even more effective.
 Due to its loud, social nature, many children with sensory processing disorder find lunch time to be a particularly overwhelming period in the day. If your school reports that your child has had problems during lunch, ask for permission to let your child and a friend eat lunch in a quiet room outside of the main cafeteria.


Children with sensory processing disorder are notoriously picky eaters, so contact a pediatric nutritionist for strategies to improve your child’s eating habits and diet., In addition to lunchtime and recess, special assemblies, sports events, and other social activities can be particularly overwhelming sensory experiences to your child. These can incite meltdowns and other behavioral setbacks, so if possible you should keep them out of such environments.If your school is unwilling to do so, ask that they be allowed to take breaks with a teacher escort, or that they be allowed to wear headphones or sit near the door.

