 Lead by example and serve as your own mediator.You want to appear optimistic about the situation. Be attentive and focused so she knows that you are serious and believe that you can solve the problem at hand.


Be diplomatic. Having a keen sense of fairness will help get your work done.
Listen and be heard. It is common knowledge that you cannot listen and talk at the same time. You need to be able to listen to what she has to say; and you need to feel that you are being heard. If you don’t feel you are being heard, then tell her.
Don’t interrupt. Show your respect for the process by not interrupting. If she interrupts you tell her something like, “I’m not going to interrupt you when you’re talking because I want to hear what you have to say. Please let me talk without being interrupted so you’ll know exactly what I’m trying to communicate.”

, Know what you want and be able to communicate it. She needs to know how you feel when she criticizes the things you do. Think about these things ahead of time so you can clearly communicate your needs and wants. Preparation will help you stay on task should she decide to add her negative input.


Do not compromise your values. Be clear that you are not willing to go against your values. Be specific about what you consider deal breakers. If she constantly berates your grandmother behind her back, which erodes the value you place on your family, tell her.
Always tie your needs and wants back to helping the relationship. Confirm that all you want is to be happy and for her to be happy.
 This will allow her the opportunity to clarify her requests, expectations and desires. It’s important to hear what she has to say, which will help her feel understood.


Take notes and if she asks you why you’re doing that, tell her you want to make sure you don’t miss anything she says.
Read back your notes to her and ask if you got everything correct. Add anything you missed or anything she would like to add.
If she indicates something she wants and you know you cannot agree to it simply say, “I can’t agree to that. It’s not reasonable to me. Perhaps we can take some time to think about other options and find a compromise.”

, People who have a problem with chronic negativity add a negative twist to every situation. Do not allow yourself to be influenced by your partner's negative and critical thinking.


If she continues to be negative tell her, “I’m trying to focus on the positive so we can solve this problem. It’s easy to be negative. Being positive is hard, but that’s what I’m going to do.”

, You both need to fully embrace the idea of reconciliation. It is crucial that at minimum you agree to try to make a change. That may be your starting point, and then you can build from there. The goal is to commit to the process fully, but you may need to start with small steps.Review the items on both your lists. Let her know that you agree to make the changes, if she agrees to make the changes too.
It is acceptable to say things like, “I’m willing to commit to you and this agreement. Tell me how comfortable and willing you are to commit to making things better for us.”
Reassure her that you are doing this to make things better for both of you and your future together.

