 To use trip mines effectively, you need to know how big their blast radius is, as well as a number of other factors. Trip mines are just another piece of equipment which you can use in both the Halo 3 campaign and multiplayer, so they work the same way as bubble shields and the like. Walk over an unarmed trip mine to pick it up, and press X on your Xbox 360 controller to use it. If anyone walks near it or shoots it, it will detonate. In addition, it will self-detonate in 90 seconds if it has not been set off. They will also detonate or just plain "disappear" if too many are placed on the map (mostly happens in Forge as in multiplayer there is no way someone would leave a trip mine "untripped" long enough).;
, Although only the multiplayer maps Avalanche, Rat's Nest and Sandtrap, and the campaign level Tsavo Highway, have default-spawning trip mines, they can be bought and placed on any map when editing in Forge, so use them as much as possible. Try to see how close you have to be to kill an enemy and where the best places are on a map to put them.
 The key to placing effective trip mines is keeping them well hidden. When you place them, they beep loudly and flash with an orange glow, making them easy for enemies to find, avoid and even use against you if they shoot them. Try bouncing trip mines off walls, so that they land upside down, thus hiding the glowing light, or hide them around corners or on ledges so that enemies won't see them until it's too late.
 Trip mines detonate no matter what after 90 seconds, so be sure to place them in an area which is well frequented by the enemy team. Cover doorways and important areas with them to deter and kill enemies. If there is a special weapon or vehicle on the map, consider placing a trip mine beneath it, or even place an active trip mine where the trip mine spawns, to fool opponents.
 Trip mines have a larger blast radius than rockets and grenades, so they are perfect for taking out enemy vehicles. Place trip mines where you think vehicles will go, or drop one down quickly if one is about to splatter you.
 Throwing a trip mine down on someone followed by a grenade will kill almost anything, so don't forget to take advantage of enemies weakened by your trip mines. A quick burst of a battle rifle or carbine will finish off any stragglers who didn't die in the explosion.
 Nothing is more annoying than players sitting in a corner with rockets or a sword, or in a bubble shield. However, use this against them - sneak up and throw a trip mine where they stand; they will either have to move or shoot the trip mine and risk dying from the explosion, or stay trapped until someone kills them. Throw a grenade into the area and job done. Trip mines thrown into bubble shields will almost always end with a detonation, killing your opponent and the blast will be contained in the bubble shield's walls. Trip mines can also be placed to deter any campers from reaching a vital spot on the map.
 Trip mines are the only equipment which are actively deadly - they will just as easily detonate when an ally walks over it as when an enemy does, so if you're placing one down, tell your team. If a teammate does set it off, then it will count as a betrayal and may result in you being kicked from the match. Because of this, be sure to only use trip mines when you are playing with friends, or when everyone on your team has headsets to minimize your chances of getting booted.
 Trip mines can be used as an alternative to grenade jumping and can also be used to overload maps and create traps in Forge. Experiment a lot and use them whenever you can and you'll be a master of the trip mine in no time. If you place a trip mine in front of a wheel under a vehicle it is effective.

