 As you approach retirement, you might want to reallocate the investments in your portfolio. For example, you might want to avoid stock market volatility by moving into safer assets, such as bonds or money market accounts.


A conservative portfolio might have 50% bonds, 30% short-term investments like money markets, and 20% equities.Some advisor recommend that you start retirement with 60% in stocks and the remaining 40% in bonds and cash investments.Discuss your comfort level with your financial advisor.
As you grow older, you’ll typically want to make your allocations more conservative by reducing your investment in stocks.
 Growing your nest egg before retirement is only half the battle. You must also come up with a strategy for preserving as much of your nest egg as possible throughout your retirement. For example, if you take too much out too soon, then your retirement account might be depleted earlier. Work closely with your financial advisor to draft a sensible withdrawal strategy based on your financial needs.


The safest withdrawal strategy is to spend only the interest or dividends generated by your retirement portfolio. Although this will stretch out your nest egg, you will also get less money each year.
You can also cautiously withdraw principal each year. For example, calculate 4% of your savings at the beginning of each year and then divide by 12. This will give you a monthly paycheck. If you follow this strategy, there is a 90% chance you won’t outlive your income.You can also use both strategies. For example, early in your retirement, you can use only interest and dividends. Once you reach your late sixties, you might want to start drawing principal.
 Once you reach age 70.5, you must make mandatory minimum withdrawals from your 401(k), 403(b), and a traditional IRA. If you don’t, then you’ll pay significant penalties.The minimum amount will depend on the balance of your account and your age. You can use an online calculator, such as the one at Kiplinger, to calculate.However, you don’t have to spend any of the money you withdraw. Instead, you might want to reinvest a portion in different investment vehicles. For example, you could invest the money in stock (if you’re feeling aggressive) or in CDs (if you aren’t).
 Market conditions change, and you might want to change the allocation of your investments between stocks, bonds, and cash. At least once a year revisit the allocation of investments in your portfolio.Always work with your financial advisor. As you age, your targeted balance will likely change as well. Discuss which balance makes the most sense for where you are in your retirement.

