 Many of today’s mid-sized sedans, SUVs, compact and subcompact models are close to their maximum load capacity when four adults and their luggage are travelling inside. If you plan to travel with numerous or very heavy gifts, find out your vehicle’s weight limit before you pack your car. Information about load capacity can be found in your vehicle’s owner’s manual.It is unsafe to travel in vehicles that are at their maximum weight capacity.
It is also extremely hard on your vehicle and could cause quite a bit of wear and tear.
For additional safety, get your vehicle serviced before taking long drives – especially if you’ll be loaded down with gifts. Your vehicle’s tire air pressure is especially important when it comes to bearing heavy loads.;
, You may be tempted to load your gifts in the backseat of your vehicle, but they will actually be safer in your truck. The items won’t be visible when tucked away in your trunk, but prying eyes may notice them if they're piled in the backseat. This could result in potential theft, especially during stops at gas stations and rest areas, when your vehicle is more readily accessible to strangers.


If your vehicle doesn’t have a trunk space, throw a light blanket over the gifts piled up in the backseat to conceal them.
Even with the gifts stowed safely out of sight in your trunk, avoid leaving your vehicle unattended for more than a few minutes at a time.
 When a vehicle’s center of gravity is thrown off, the likelihood of an accident is significantly increased. Because of this, pack the heaviest items as near to the center of the vehicle as possible. If you’re loading a trunk, push the heaviest items as far back into the space as you can. If you must use your backseat, place the heaviest items on the floor, behind the front passenger seats.Loading very heavy items at the back end of a trunk can affect steering and braking, since it shifts weight off the front tires. This is true for all vehicles, but SUVs in particular are at risk for rollover accidents. They need to be loaded carefully so that the overall center of gravity is low and in the middle.
For example, place heavier items, such as stereo equipment and televisions, near the center of the vehicle. You can pack lighter items, like clothing, paperback books and plastic toys, in the trunk.
 You’ll need to take into account the shifting that may occur during your drive, which can cause significant damage to your gifts. Even if you are driving slowly and safely during your trek, simple turns and unexpected potholes can cause shifting. Pack the gifts tightly into your vehicle. Surround them with heavy items, such as packed duffel bags, to prevent shifting. Pack smaller items in boxes to keep them secure.


You could also wedge large, thick blankets in between gift boxes to prevent shifting and overturning.
If you’re interested in something more permanent, consider investing in a cargo organizer, which is a specially made device meant to protect and secure cargo in your car., If you plan to travel with a significant number of gifts or exceedingly heavy ones, consider renting a small cargo trailer from a moving/storage company like U-Haul. These tiny, enclosed trailers attach to your vehicle’s trailer hitch. They are lightweight and can help you prevent unnecessary wear and tear on your car.Before making a long trip with a trailer attached to your car, make sure you feel comfortable driving with it. You may want to give yourself some extra travel time, since a trailer may require that you drive more slowly.

