 To ensure that there isn’t any residue that might interfere with the dyeing, you should wash the jeans that you plan to dye. Place them in the washing machine, and wash them as you normally would according to the care instructions.








There’s no need to dry the jeans. They should be wet when you bleach or dye them.
If you have blue or light color jeans that you don’t plan to remove the color from, the only prep you need to do is washing the jeans. You can skip the rest of the steps in this section.;
, To remove the color from colorful jeans, such as red or pink, or to create an even base for the black dye, it’s a good idea to remove the color from the jeans first. Fill a large stainless steel pot with enough water to completely cover the jeans, and set it on the stove set to medium or medium high. Heat the water until it comes to a simmer.Don’t place the jeans in the pot while the water is heating. Set them aside for the moment.
Make sure that there is enough room in the pot for the jeans to move around freely.
Avoid using an aluminum or nonstick pot. You can substitute a porcelain enamel pot for the stainless steel, though.
 While you can use regular bleach to take the color out of the jeans, it’s a better idea to use a color-removing product made specifically for pre-dyeing so it’s gentler on the denim. When the water begins to simmer, add the color remover according the package instructions, and stir it into the pot until it dissolves completely.








Be sure to wear rubber gloves when working the color remover.
Many companies that make fabric dyes also offer color removing products. You may want to pick one up from the same brand as your dye to ensure that they’re compatible.
When you’re using the color removing product, make sure that your kitchen is properly ventilated. Open a window and/or turn on a fan.
 Once the color remover as dissolved in the water, add the wet jeans to the pot. With the water simmering, use a long-handled spoon to stir the jeans continuously for 30 minutes to 1 hour or until all of the color is removed from the jeans.








Make sure that the water doesn’t come to a boil. If it seems like it might, lower the heat.
The jeans don’t need to be a pure white. They will still take the black dye well if they’re a beige or yellowish color.
 When the color has been removed from the jeans, turn off the burner. Allow the water to cool for about 5 minutes, and then drain it down the sink so the jeans are left alone in the pot.








Check the label for the color removing products that you’re using to be sure that it’s safe to pour it down the sink. You may need to use another disposal method depending on its ingredients.
 With the rubber gloves on your hands, lift the jeans out of the pot and rinse them in very hot water from the sink. Next, turn the temperature down so the water is warm and rinse the jeans again. Carefully wring the jeans over the sink to remove the excess water when you’re finished.








Don’t use cold or cool water to rinse the jeans. It may set creases in them.
 After you’ve rinsed the jeans twice, place them in the washing machine. Wash them again with detergent as you normally would to remove any residue so they’re ready for dyeing.








Once again, don’t dry the jeans after you finish washing them. They should be wet for the next steps.
 When you’re working with a dark dye color such as black, you want to protect your work area so it doesn’t get stained. Use a disposable plastic tablecloths to line the countertops and floor around your stove in case you spill any dye.If you don’t have disposable tablecloths, you can use plastic wrap or even garbage bags to line the work area.
Make sure that you are wearing the rubber gloves when you start working with the dye.
 To know how much dye you need, you need to know how much the jeans weigh. Place them on a scale to weigh them, and consult the dye’s packaging to determine how much dye you should use.Most jeans will weigh less than a pound (454 g).
In general, you’ll need a full bottle of liquid dye and 2 packages of powder dye to get a dark black color. Consult the dye boxes, though, to determine precisely how much you will need.
It’s a good idea to buy a little more dye than you think you’ll need. That way, you’ll have extra to darken the dye mixture if necessary.
 To dye the jeans, you’ll need a large pot. Add enough water that it will cover the jeans when they’re in the pot, and place it on the stove over medium to medium-high to bring the water to a boil.








In general, you’ll need 3 gallons (11 l) of water for every 1 pound of fabric that you’re dyeing.
There should be enough room in the pot for the jeans to move around freely, so make sure that you’re using a large enough pot.
 When the water is simmering, it’s time to mix in the dye. Add it to the water according the manufacturer’s instructions, and stir well to help it blend into the water. Let the mixture simmer for 5 minutes.








If you’re using a liquid dye, you usually have to shake the bottle well before adding it to the water.
If you’re using a powder dye, you usually have to dissolve it in a cup of hot water before adding it to the pot.
 After you’ve mixed in the dye, you usually need to add salt to the mixture. It helps the denim absorb the color and promotes even dyeing. Consult the manufacturer’s instructions to determine how much salt to add, and stir well to so it’s fully incorporated.
 To ensure that the dye is dark enough to turn your jeans black, find a light colored scrap of fabric or paper and dip in the pot. Remove it from the water and see if you’re happy with how black it turns.








If the dye doesn’t turn your test scrap as black as you’d like, add more dye to the pot.
 Your jeans should still be wet from having been freshly washed. Before you add them to the pot with the dye, squeeze them one final time to ensure that there isn’t any excess moisture. Next, smooth the jeans out so they’re as wrinkle-free as possible when you add them to the dye.
 When the jeans are smooth, add them to the pot with the dye. Use a long-handled spoon to stir them constantly for at least 30 minutes or until they are as black as you’d like.








As you stir the jeans, makes sure to move them back and forth and up and down. You want the dye to be absorbed evenly across the denim.
Avoid getting the jeans twisted or tangled as you stir. That can lead to uneven coloring.
 When you’re happy with how black the jeans are, take the pot off the heat and transfer the jeans to the sink. Rinse them under warm water from the sink. Gradually begin to make the water cooler until all of the excess dye is removed and the water runs clear.








Some dye brands also sell a color fixative for cotton fabrics to help prevent fading. You may want to apply some to the jeans right after dyeing according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
 In the sink, wash the freshly dyed jeans by hand. Use warm water and a mild laundry detergent, and rinse the jeans with cool water.








If you prefer, you can wash the jeans in a washing machine with an old towel. The towel will absorb any excess dye that comes off the jeans.
 Once you’ve washed the jeans, place the jeans on a hanger or clothesline to air dry them. Make sure that they’re completely dry before wearing them.You can also dry the jeans in a dryer with an old towel to absorb any excess dye.

