 Bullying includes any attempt to belittle you, to make you feel powerless in relation to the other person, to insult you and to cast aspersions on your reputation. It does not include attempts to provide constructive feedback, to critique your work or performance fairly or when a person is expressing their concerns or sense of being upset/hurt in relation to your behaviors.


The reason it is important to know the difference is that it is not appropriate to accuse someone of bullying when they're not, nor is it appropriate to walk away or ignore someone who is actively trying to help you by giving you feedback or trying to kindly or fairly correct errors that you've made.;
, Think about donning imaginary armor, or creating a pretend moat around you. Make yourself impenetrable from the bully by putting up this mental shield as quickly as you can. This shield is to prevent you from reacting to the bully and to help you remember that you are a worthy person who does not deserve the insults or mean comments. Let the words bounce off you.
 Being brave isn't about height, weight, wit or cleverness. Moreover, being brave isn't being unafraid or hurt. Indeed, you will likely feel fearful and/or hurt by what the bully is saying and/or doing. Being brave is about knowing that you are better than this, that it will pass and that despite the fear, you will carry on undeterred.


Being scared in the face of nasty comments and attitude is natural. Being scared also means that you're able to be brave.
 Often advice will tell you not to show fear or hurt to the bully. The real thing is to show that you can cope in spite of that fear, that you will keep thriving despite the hurt. Words do hurt. Yet, use that hurt and fear to spur you on to strive to be the better person and to know that you are the better person for not giving in to the attempts of the bully to minimize you. Remind yourself that you are as valuable as every other person. This will give strength to your bravery.


The brave person is free. Free of the expectations of others, free of the neediness of validation of self-worth from others. Remember this when you are faced with intimidating remarks and commentary.
 Bravery is the barrier you can put up to stop its continuation. Bravery is the signal to the bully that whatever they choose to hurl at you, you'll remain strong and courageous. Bravery shows the bully that you are choosing the story that is told about you, rather than giving in to the one they're trying to make up for you. Define yourself.
 Some good ways to react include ignoring what is being said, saying something neutral and kind in response, or walking away. Put your efforts into dealing with the bullying. Some good articles to help you with this include:


How to deal with being bullied
How to deal with verbal bullying

How to stop workplace bullying.
 Courage isn't always there when you need it, as it often needs to grow through what you've learned and experienced. Yet, that doesn't mean you can't develop it with practice, nor does it mean that a bad situation cannot be salvaged. Remember that, in spite of what has gone before, tomorrow is another day. When your courage failed to surface today when you felt you needed it, tell yourself this evening that you will kindle it and feed it with what you have learned. And that the next time, it will arise as you try again.


Give yourself second, third and more chances to develop your bravery in the face of bullies. You will meet people throughout your life who will try to bully you. With practice and experience, you will become expert at recognizing them quickly and disarming them with a look, a word or a clear indication that you don't stand for being bullied. Each experience is a learning chance to perfect your bravery and to resort to it whenever a new case arises. In this way, you cease to be a victim but have control of your own reactions and responsiveness to bullying situations, knowing full well that you are as valuable as the person attempting to drag you under and that you will survive such nefarious behaviors every time.
 While you can stand alone and deal alone with a good dose of bravery, often it's not enough on its own. Also accept then you need help and be brave enough to ask for it. There are plenty of good, kind and well-adjusted people in the world who are willing to help you out, with just a reach-out to them.

