 Exercise naturally helps lower your blood sugar by forcing your muscles to use glucose for energy and increasing your body’s sensitivity to insulin. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that adults engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity per week, as well as strength-training exercises on two or more days a week. Walking, dancing, swimming, cycling, aerobics, and resistance training are all types of exercise that can help naturally lower your blood sugar., Lack of sleep can interfere with your body’s ability to regulate insulin and glucose, and can even increase your risk for weight gain. Start going to bed earlier, and make changes to your sleeping environment as needed to ensure you get enough sleep every night. For example, buy blackout curtains for your bedroom, wear ear plugs, and invest in a comfortable mattress that allows you to sleep throughout the night., Sugary foods and beverages such as candy, soda, juice, and desserts will naturally cause your blood sugar to spike. Over time, a diet high in sugary foods will cause your body to become resistant to insulin, and interfere with your body’s ability to regulate insulin and glucose., During stress, your body’s stress hormones naturally cause blood sugar levels to rise for the sake of boosting your energy levels. Long-term stress can increase your risk for weight gain, type 2 diabetes, and heart disease. Find healthy, natural ways to manage stress without the use of medication, such as exercising regularly, practicing deep breathing, listening to relaxing music, taking a bath, and reading.
 Consuming an excessive amount of alcohol can lead to chronic inflammation of the pancreas and impair its ability to secrete insulin, whereas nicotine contains compounds that interfere with your body’s ability to regulate insulin. Stop smoking tobacco products, and cut back on excessive alcohol intake to lower your blood sugar naturally.
 Being overweight or obese can increase your risk for high blood sugar levels, since excess body weight is linked to problems with hormonal imbalance and insulin resistance. Start exercising regularly, get plenty of sleep, and eat healthy, whole foods that lack preservatives, additives, and sugar to lose weight naturally and lower blood sugar.
 The majority of whole, healthy foods such as fruits, vegetables, lean meats, nuts, seeds, legumes, fatty fish, whole grains, spices, and herbs contain vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants that naturally help lower blood sugar. Examples of foods that can help lower blood sugar are cinnamon, salmon, oranges, almonds, kale, beans, green tea, and apple cider vinegar. Consult with your nutritionist or dietitian to learn more about foods that can help naturally lower blood sugar based on your personal health and medical history., Certain nutritional supplements such as calcium, magnesium, vitamin D, fish oil, and chromium can help your body regulate insulin and improve insulin sensitivity. The average American usually fails to receive the daily recommended amount of vitamins and minerals through diet alone, which is why supplementation can often help improve or reverse certain health conditions.
