 You can create lawn signs in succession to ask your crush the question. Each sign should contain one word in the question so that they have to continue reading them to see what it says. Make sure to put it on a stretch of road that they use often, and remember to include her name so that they know who the signs are for.Your signs can say something like "Morgan, will you go to the prom with me?";
, Use a sticky note with the big question and hide it inside of a balloon before blowing it up. Then, blow up a bunch of balloons and invite your potential date over. Tell them that you have a big question for them, and it's hidden inside one of the balloons. This is a fun and creative way for you to pop the question.Remember to give her something sharp, like a key or pin, so that she can pop the balloons easily.
 You can ask your date to prom by setting up different pieces of poster board or sticky notes that spell out the word "Prom?". If you're using poster board, you can write each letter of "prom?" or "homecoming?" and then paste the pieces onto a wall. If you're using the sticky note method, use different colored sticky notes to spell out the words.You can set up the question on a wall in your room before inviting them over. When they walk into your room, they'll be able to see the question.
Other places to put the posterboard or sticky notes include a garage door, a wall that they pass regularly, or on their car.
 Spelling out the question with small candles is a great romantic gesture. Purchase tealight candles from a department store. Wait until the person is home and spell out the question on their front lawn. Give them a call and tell them to look out of the window so that they can see it.It's a good idea to get permission from your date's parents before you do this.
 This method is for people who like to solve puzzles and problems. Create a list of notes with clues on them and hide them all over your house. On the last note of the hunt, write down your proposal to the prom or homecoming. Later, invite your date over so that she can do the hunt.Your notes can say things like, "You can find the next clue where you wash your hands," "The next clue is behind something that tells the time," and "The final clue is the place where I sleep."

