 Go to http://science.howstuffworks.com/cryonics.htm or http://www.alcor.org/Library/html/newtechnology.html, or The Cryonics Institute home page to find out. Make sure you understand the process and everything involved.


The first thing the professionals would do is to cool you down, especially your head/brain.
They would set a machine that pumps your heart to keep alive as much tissue as possible.
Your blood will be replaced with several solutions to both help preserve your body/brain, and to protect your cells from freezing damage.
They will slowly cool your body to the temperature of liquid nitrogen using a controlled cooling box.
They will then wrap your body in a waterproof sheath and submerge you in liquid nitrogen for long term storage until such a time as you can can be revived and restored to full health (this could take decades, if not likely centuries).;
,


Even though you are not being buried or cremated you will likely still need the services of the local funeral home to transport your remains and sign required paperwork. They may work with the cryonics company to meet your requests.
 Alcor and the Cryonics Institute are the two biggest CSPs in the world.
,


In some instances you may need to make arrangements to have your remains transported to a facility.



Make sure your physician is aware of any and all releases and paperwork that may may be required. The Cryonics company will make you aware of the required paperwork once you have finalized your arrangements.
 This process isn't common and there may be procedures they will need to coordinate with the Cryonics company.



Be sensitive. The decision to be frozen will prevent your family from having a traditional funeral.
If you wish, make plans for a memorial or wake or a service with only your photo displayed. This may help the grieving process and helps people to cope with your loss.
, This may be a power of attorney or other legal representative.
 Understand your family may protest this unconventional process. Have a plan to deal with family bickering after you've passed. Speak to your attorney about ways to prevent family members from altering your plans.


Appreciate the company could close, natural or man made disasters could take place or their could be a malfunction. Let them know of secondary plans should the freezing process be interrupted. Have these plans outlined in your agreement and make sure your family is aware.
 Make this an annual inspection that is required by your will. If there seem to be problems with the company storing your remains your attorney or family can begin the process of having you moved to a different facility.

