 If your symptoms are minor, or if they tend to disappear quickly (some women experience pain for only a few minutes), you probably don’t need to do anything at all.
 Basic pain relievers like ibuprofen, naproxen, and acetaminophen should help relieve your symptoms. Follow the instructions on the label, and do not exceed the recommended dosage.


Note that different women find different over-the-counter pain medications to be more effective than others, and this varies from woman to woman. If you find that one does not work particularly well, do not hesitate to try another, as you may find greater success in trying another type of medication.
Anti-inflammatory pain medications (such as ibuprofen and/or naproxen) are known to be troublesome for people who have been diagnosed with kidney or stomach problems. If you fall into either of these categories, consult your doctor prior to use. Or, if you notice symptoms of upset stomach after starting the medication, consult your physician for further advice.
 Some women report that a heating pad alleviates their symptoms. Apply the heating pad to the lower abdomen, and repeat as necessary.

The reason heat works so well is that it enhances blood flow to the area of pain, relaxes muscles, and eases cramps. Some women also report that a cold pack or cold compress can help to alleviate pain, so you can try both heat and cold and see what works best for you.
 A warm or hot bath may work like a heating pad does to relax you and relieve your symptoms.
 If your symptoms are very bothersome, you can try hormonal contraceptive pills. Prescription birth control pills prevent pregnancy, in part, by stopping ovulation. If you begin taking hormonal birth control pills, you will no longer ovulate, and your painful ovulation will therefore disappear.


Note that birth control pills are the only effective way to prevent ovulatory pain, as they halt ovulation altogether (by suppressing your natural hormones and therefore preventing ovulation).
Birth control pills are therefore the most effective mode of treatment for painful ovulation, if home remedies (such as heat or cold) and over-the-counter medications are insufficient.
See your doctor to discuss the pros and cons of birth control pills and whether they are the right choice for you. You may also wish to chart your menstrual cycle over a few months time and bring this in to your doctor so that he or she can have a clearer picture of what's going, and perhaps come up with a more specific diagnosis.
 For many women, painful ovulation is a bothersome but normal part of the menstrual cycle. Serious symptoms, though, are not normal. If your pain lasts longer than two or three days, or if you experience any of the following symptoms along with the usual mid-cycle pain, seek medical treatment immediately:


Fever
Painful urination
Redness or inflammation of the skin on your abdomen or pelvis
Severe nausea or vomiting
Heavy vaginal bleeding
Abnormal vaginal discharge
Abdominal swelling

