 Search for standard, DDR2 laptop memory modules (not desktop memory), which will have 200-pin edge connectors. Select either a 1GB or 2GB DDR2 memory module of either 533 or 667MHz speeds. These may be referenced as PC-4200 or PC-5300, respectively. Recommended brands include, but are not limited to, Kingston, Corsair, Patriot, and Viking.;
, Also, unplug the AC power adapter.
 Keep the front of the laptop facing you. The Eee PC will need to rest on its top cover to replace the memory, so use a non-abrasive surface. For example, an over-sized mouse pad on your desk, a large piece of foam, or a clean, carpeted floor will work. Be sure to ground yourself or some surfaces may cause static to short a component.
 This will prevent you from accidentally shorting anything on the system board during this process. To remove the battery:


Use your left thumb to press and hold the left-most battery lock switch to the unlock position.
Use your right hand to click over the right-most battery lock switch to the unlock position.
Use your right hand to gently push the battery away from the laptop. Push a little at a time, alternating on each side. Newer Eee PCs and batteries may be a little tight at first.



If it exists, remove the Eee PC sticker covering one screw.
Completely loosen both screws with a Phillips #0 jeweler's screwdriver.
Remove the screws with your fingers and set them aside.
Use your finger and/or fingernail to pull up at the front of the cover. There should be a small slot here in the case to give you room to pry it open.
Keep pulling until the cover clicks open, then set it aside for now.
 This should be towards the front of the laptop, with empty space towards the back. It is held in with two metal clips on each side.


Use both of your thumbnails at the same time to press outward on the clips. The module will have a mild spring-loaded feeling to it. When the clips have been completely depressed on both sides, the module will push itself up at an angle.
Once the module is free of the clips, gently grasp the edge of it and pull out along the same angle in which it is resting. This is approximately a 15 to 25 degree angle to the laptop.
Put the module aside, in a safe, static-free location.
 Most memory will be sold in a piece of hard, clear plastic. Gently remove it from the packaging by pressing on it from the plastic side. Avoid bending the module or applying too much force to the packaging.
 Use your removal process as a guide in reverse for this installation.


At the same angle as before, insert the new memory module into the laptop's memory slot. Make sure it fits all the way down until the contacts are either no longer visible, or difficult to see. This requires almost no force, so be gentle.
Press down on the module to align it so that it is parallel with the laptop. The memory slot clips will click shut when the module is fully seated.
 Before closing up the memory cover, it is helpful to verify the memory is recognized by your laptop and its operating system.


Gently re-insert the battery
Flip over the laptop and power it on.
With Xandros — the default Linux distribution — click on the "Settings" tab.
Click on "System info" and verify "Memory size" reports "1024 MB" (1GB).
For 2GB modules, click on "Diagnostic Tools" instead and verify "* RAM Size" reports "2048 MB" (2GB).
 If you've installed 2GB of RAM into an Eee PC running the default Xandros Linux operating system, now is the time to rebuild the kernel. This will get it to recognize the full 2GB of system memory.
 Continue with the "Install a New Kernel" section below for instructions.

