 First thing's first: create an account if you do not already have one. The lowest amount the sites will let you deposit once the account is created is $25. This is not a bad starting point if you are new to to the world of daily fantasy sports but if you're really feeling bold, you can do more.;
, Depending on the time of year, there are many different options to pick from. It is probably best to stay away from creating multiple lineups in multiple sports in one night; this will take your attention away from detail. One lineup per night in only one sport will allow the most focus and produce the best result. The different sports options are:


Baseball
Basketball
Football
Hockey
Golf
Soccer
College football and basketball
Mixed martial arts
Nascar

, There are thousands of contests for each sport. Each contest is different in its own way. For instance, each one has different entry fees, different amounts of people allowed in and different payouts to different positions. The secret is in picking the perfect contest that can be a lock. If you're really interested in gaining small amounts of money over long periods of time, enter double-up contests. Normally the top half of people double the money they put in.
 The biggest downfall amongst daily fantasy sports players is entering the contests that have a million dollar payout to first place.The chance that would ever happen to you is slim to none so it's best to stay away from those. The best ones to enter are anywhere from $1 to $5. This way, if you don't end up winning any money with your lineup for that night, you are not too deep in the hole.
 The smaller contests normally are the safest bet. Anywhere from 15 to 500 people is a good amount. The larger contests feature so many people that even if your lineup is solid, there is a very good chance you'll be lost in the chaos of all the other lineups as there is a far greater chance of many more people coming up with a better combination that you did., A classic mistake of many people is spending too much money in the same night, whether it's entering the same lineup in as many contests as possible or creating multiple lineups and inserting them into many different contests. This is a one-way ticket to losing all of your money and giving yourself a gambling addiction., Another mistake of people is creating multiple lineups. This will only cause you harm. People who make multiple lineups lose focus and are unable to come up with a winning lineup in their mind so they make as many as possible in hopes that at least one will pay-out. The chances of winning are actually much greater if you focus on the lone lineup you created because you will have devoted all of your time into it., Making a lineup every night will not only get you addicted, but it will decrease your chances of winning money. Many nights will only feature two or three games in some sports, in which case you should stay away. With less possible combinations of players for a lineup, you will be forced to pick players you may have never heard of and most of the time it will not end well., The fun part has arrived. Each player is given a price value and depending on the sport, you will have a certain number at each position to pick. Each contest gives you "$50,000" and you must create a lineup using that money. The best players are worth the most so you can't just stack the deck. However, it's always a good idea to spend big in a few positions, especially for a player who is a lock to get you a lot of points.
 Always do as much research as possible before creating your lineup. Home teams are generally a safe bet as well as players on particularly good teams. Always look to see the team they are facing off against as well. When a really good team is playing a really bad team, it may not be a bad idea to pick a couple players from the good team, especially if some of them are cheap. The cheap players are the most important because they are what allow you to spend big in other positions. Always pick cheap players from good teams. There are many other things that can help out your lineup, the question is are you willing to do the work?