 No matter what your goals are for your wedding, you should start acting on them three to six months before the big day. Getting into a healthy, stable routine well beforehand will not only produce the best results on your wedding day, but will also make it more likely that you’ll continue making these healthy choices after the big event., Ask yourself what about your general fitness level you want to change or improve. Perhaps you want to build your endurance to the point that you run a 5K or a half-marathon, or you just want to quit smoking and be able to walk around for a few hours without breathing heavily. Or, maybe you don’t care so much about endurance and are just interested in strengthening your core. Whatever your goals, write them down so that you can start making a plan to address them.


You might also want to keep a fitness journal to log your activities and accomplishments as the big day gets closer. This can help you identify any roadblocks you encounter along your personal fitness journey, as well as track your progress and show you how far you’ve come., You shouldn’t think of your body parts as ‘problem areas’ which need to be fixed, but you can identify body parts or health issues you’d like to address before you take your wedding pictures. For example, you might have an ongoing skin condition like eczema which you’d like to clear up, dry nails you’d like to restore, or weak arms you’d like to tone.


If your wedding dress is off-the shoulder, for instance, you may wish to target your arms and shoulders. Developing your shoulder caps, or deltoids, has the added benefit of making your waist appear smaller and your arms look leaner.
If you notice you slouch, work on your posture and try exercises that target your spinal erectors, such as spine extensions.
To tone your core, try planks and try working on your transverse abdominis muscles, which act like a natural girdle.
For issues such as serious dermatological conditions or malnutrition, you should consult a medical professional before attempting any independent programs or plans.
 In order to stay as mentally fit and centered as you can in the days leading up to your wedding, you should take some time to evaluate and identify which people, activities, or issues are likely to cause you the most stress. Knowing who and what things wear on you mentally and emotionally means that you can take this into consideration when planning your daily fitness regimen.


For example, if you figure out that your parents and in-laws always spike your stress levels, be sure to include de-stressing activities like yoga or walking any day you’ll be having dress fittings or making other arrangements with these family members.
 Getting at least 150 minutes of aerobic exercise — that is, any activity that raises your heart rate and can be continued for at least 10 minutes — will help relieve the stress of hectic wedding planning and elevate your mood. It will also help you address any endurance-related fitness goals you have, as well as reduce your risk of heart disease and diabetes.Joining a gym can be a good option, as it will offer an array of aerobics classes and workout machines for a varied workout routine that won’t bore you.
If you can’t afford a gym membership or you dislike the atmosphere, there are many alternative ways to get your daily dose of aerobic activity, such as jogging, brisk walking, cycling, or hiking.
 If you’re wanting to tone up before your walk down the aisle, make sure you do resistance-based exercises in addition to aerobic exercise. Medicine balls, resistance bands, weight machines, and no-equipment-necessary exercises such as pushups and situps are all great ways to strengthen your muscles and lose noticeable inches before the big day.Even if you want to target your arms in particular, for example, don’t ignore your other muscle groups entirely. Do at least some repetitions which address the core and legs as well.
 You’re probably seeing a lot of people and keeping a lot of appointments in the countdown to your wedding day, so it can seem like you don’t have much time to work out. Remember, though, that social and exercise time don’t have to be mutually exclusive! While you probably can’t consult your tailor while jogging or doing crunches, you can catch up with friends while taking a light jog or hiking together.If you’re making a lot of wedding arrangements over the phone, you can also do this while briskly walking around the neighborhood or on a treadmill in your home (but remember that talking on a cell phone at the gym is a major no-no).
 Taking a dance class will give you all the mental and physical benefits of a solo workout, while also boosting your confidence and skills for the reception. Friends and family at the wedding will be impressed with your new, smooth moves as well as your improved endurance and agility!


Check out the offerings at your local dance studio to see if they have a beginners course that works with your schedule and budget.
 As your wedding day approaches, you may find you have less and less free time. It is important to try and keep your exercise routine intact, even when your time is pressured. Exercise can reduce stress by releasing endorphins, improving your mood, and even serving as a form of meditation.Any form of exercise, even if it's just getting out of the house and taking a walk around the neighborhood, can help reduce stress.
Try to schedule time for exercise into your day between appointments or when you find you have some down time. Make exercise a priority.
 On the one hand, a sedentary lifestyle has been linked to increased risks of cancer, diabetes, and obesity.On the other hand, watching your favorite television show or playing a video game can help you unwind after a long day of appointments with the florist and caterer. Ultimately, then, you shouldn’t try to cut out these activities entirely. Just be sure to limit your daily doses of these sedentary activities in order to stay as active as possible in the days leading up to your wedding.


For example, give yourself an hour after work to watch television or an hour before bed to surf the internet. Set a timer to make sure you don't lose track of time.
If you have a treadmill at home or you know enough yoga moves to do them alone, try engaging in these physical activities while watching your favorite shows.
 Many wedding-oriented fitness plans focus on drastic weight loss through extreme dieting practices, but don’t be fooled into destructive measures that yield purely temporary results.Not only do restrictive crash diets lead to fluctuating weight — making it more likely that you’ll regain any lost weight after your nuptials — but they’ve also been shown to lead to binge-eating and other disordered eating habits.Crash diets have also been shown to damage your heart and lead to dangerous vitamin deficiencies.And, on top of everything else, you’ll also have less energy, less patience, and more mood swings.
 Protein-rich, unprocessed foods such as lean steak, chicken breast, fish, eggs, nuts, and beans will help ensure that your complexion will be clear for your wedding photos. They also contain high levels of energy-boosting B vitamins, iron, and magnesium, meaning that you’ll feel more energized and capable during stressful wedding preparations and hectic schedules.Make sure you allot appropriate portion sizes, as even healthy items such as salmon and lean steak can pack a mean caloric punch.
For example, your portions of protein should be roughly the size of your palm., In addition to long-term benefits such as decreased risk of cancer and diabetes, these all-natural superfoods can boost your gastrointestinal health and digestion so that you’re not backed up on the big day.In order to get these benefits, you should consume five portions of fruit and veg at a minimum, with nine to twelve servings being optimal.You can also make your regular "rabbit food" consumption more manageable by stocking a mixture of frozen, canned, and fresh fruit and vegetables in your kitchen. Just be sure not to fall for any pre-prepared items such as veggies in cheese sauce or fruit cocktails in heavy syrup: these sauces may seem like a negligible garnish, but they’re usually packed with saturated fat, sugar, or chemical additives., Studies have shown that drinking 2.2 liters of water daily can have a significant impact on your appearance. It has been shown to boost skin, hair, and nail health, while also assisting your digestion and keeping you regular.If you’re on-the-go during the day, take a water bottle with you in order to have water handy all day and cut down on plastic bottle waste.
 Foods such as sunflower seeds, dark chocolate, and apple cider vinegar have natural diuretic properties, meaning that they flush out excess water in your body and reduce unseemly bloat for your big day.And, since they’re all-natural, they won’t be too harsh and cause dehydration.


If you’re unsure how to include the strong tang of apple cider vinegar in your diet, add a dash into your homemade salad dressing. Some people even gulp it down in a shot glasses or dilute it in water. No matter how you ingest this ingredient, rest assured that it will provide the same benefits.
 A well-functioning digestive system will help you avoid constipation while easing some painful conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome and diarrhea. Probiotics and fiber are two of the best components to promote a healthy intestinal tract and function, so including them in your daily diet can help you look and feel lighter on your wedding day.For probiotics, look for yogurt labels indicating that it contains live cultures. For fiber, eat foods such as beans, broccoli, oats and whole grain bread.Many claims regarding the ability of probiotics to fight eczema and boost the immune system remain largely anecdotal and unsubstantiated by formal studies. There is, however, no evidence of this natural bacteria-booster having a harmful effect, so feel free to try out some supplements if you’ve heard good things., It shouldn't shock you to learn that the simple carbs found in foods like white breads, baked goods, crackers, and chips can derail your plans to get in shape. These foods are low in fiber and high in sugar and digest quickly, which means you will quickly feel hungry again after eating. But don't cut out carbs completely, as they are your body's main source of energy. Choose complex carbs, such as quinoa, whole wheat bread, carrots, and bananas., While ‘light’ foods may seem like a good option in the days and weeks winding up to your walk down the aisle, these artificially trimmed-down items should be avoided whenever possible. Not only do they contain fewer natural nutrients than their whole-fat counterparts, but they’re also less satisfying. This means that you’ll be hungry soon after eating your low-calorie yogurt or cheese, or that you’ll eat more of it during one sitting.This goes for processed, salty meats as well. Even if that deli turkey boasts that it contains only sixty calories per slice, it’s chock-full of sodium and harmful chemical additives such as nitrates and nitrites., You might think that skipping breakfast in the morning can help you cut calories and trim down for your wedding day, but in fact the opposite is true. Skipping this meal can slow your metabolism, whereas eating every day in the morning has been shown to make you more physically active throughout the rest of the day, lower your risk of diabetes and heart disease, and boost brain function.Not just any breakfast is a healthy one. Stay away from sugary cereals, large glasses of fruit juice, sweet pastries, and processed meats, as these can slow your metabolism and lead to a sugar crash.
Instead, try oatmeal, fruit with low-fat yogurt, eggs (unless prepared in fat), or 1 tablespoon of peanut butter on multigrain toast. To drink, try green tea or black coffee (skip the sugar, milk, and sugary additions).

