 Some brands of clothing are iconic for being preppy (e.g. Lacoste, Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger). Add a few key items from these designers to your wardrobe; while these labels can be pricey, the clothes are generally well-made and classic enough for you to wear for years to come. To save money, track department store sales, or shop online for discounted or second-hand items., As a general rule, preppy clothing features clean lines, tailored cuts, neutral colors, and an overall neatness. The style also incorporates many nautical and equestrian elements that add an extra flair to the look. Design-wise, be on the lookout for:Tailored trousers or skirts
Clean, crisp button-down shirts
Sailing or equestrian apparel (e.g. boat shoes or riding boots)

, There are certain key items that correspond to a classic, preppy look. Most of these items are classy and conservative, but also laid back in style. Stock up on a few pieces to build a core wardrobe that can be mixed and matched easily; some key examples (for all genders) are:Cotton khaki pants
Wool blazers, in classic, subdued colors like navy blue
Cable knit sweaters
Loafers

, Khaki pants are essentially the jeans of traditional clothing. They are neutral enough to go with everything, can be dressed up or down for leisure activities or social events, and are a preppy staple for all genders. Purchase a good quality pair of cotton khaki trousers and pair them with a Polo shirt or navy blazer for an ultra preppy look., The blazer is an iconic preppy garment which can add a tailored, collegiate look to any outfit. Blazers are available in a variety of styles and colors but a classic navy, wool blazer is the epitome of prep school style. Look for a single breasted jacket with notched lapels; for the ultimate, traditional blazer, look for one with 3 brass buttons and a nautical-themed logo, or a logo of a recognizably preppy brand (e.g. Ralph Lauren.)

, Cable knit sweaters are a good investment because they never go out of style. They can be dressed up for more formal occasions (e.g. worn with a tie or bow tie) or worn with casual outfits. Choose a cable knit sweater in the design of your choice:Crew neck or V-neck
Cotton, wool, or cashmere
Solid color or made from a melange, two tone yarn

, Loafers are iconic, preppy shoes that are traditionally worn as a casual shoe, but can be upgraded for semi-formal situations (worn to work at an office with a laid-back dress code, for example.) These shoes are low, lace-less, and have a separate sole and heel. Choose the specific type of loafer that suits your preppy style:Penny loafers: feature a distinctive strip of leather with a diamond-shaped cut-out (the saddle)
Tassel loafers: feature a leather lace and tassel as a decoration
Gucci loafer: have a golden brass strap across the front

, Regardless of where you go to school, aim to replicate a prep school uniform to perfect your look. For ideas, visit preparatory school websites to read the rules and regulations of their dress codes. For instance, DC Preparatory Academy in Washington enforces the following uniform for its students:Blue Oxford shirts or Polo shirts
Navy blue cardigans, v-neck sweaters, or sweater vests
Solid black, brown or navy dress shoes
Khakis

