 If you live in an area that gets snowfall, head outdoors to enjoy it. You could build a snowman together or have a snowball fight. If you have small children, teach them how to make snow angels. Slightly older children might enjoy building a snow fort. Make sure everyone bundles up appropriately for the freezing temperatures.


Check your local weather service before heading out to make sure it is a safe day for playing in the snow.
 If you live in a snowy climate, head out with your family to enjoy the snowy scenery. Look into local opportunities for snowshoeing.If your area doesn't get snowfall, you can still enjoy the winter scenery. Check out one of your local parks, which typically feature a number of trails that can be explored. You can also visit your closest national park, which may offer more interesting terrain. If you're staying at a resort, they often offer guided hiking and snowshoeing on their trails.Be sure your family dresses in warm layers and wears snow boots. Bring some snacks with you for an energy boost while you’re out on the trail.
If you are serious hikers, try one of the many trail-finding apps such as AllTrails or Chimani. These apps can help you find safe and well-maintained hiking trails that you may not know about., Many families enjoy camping outdoors in the winter months. Look into local camping sites and find out if any national or state parks near you remain open for winter campers. Do a little research before you go camping and be sure that you are equipped with temperature-appropriate clothing, sleeping bags and tents. Winter camping can be dangerous if you aren’t knowledgeable and prepared.Learn about the terrain before you camp. Obtain a map and provide every member of your family with one. Make sure no one heads out to explore alone.
Consult the local weather forecast before you head to your camp. Avoid camping when snowstorms or other extreme winter weather is expected.
 If you are near a frozen lake or pond, plan a day of ice fishing for your family. You’ll need to bring the right equipment with you, including tools to chisel through the ice to get to the water. If you’ve never done it before, you may want to look into hiring a guide. Every member of your family will most likely need to obtain a fishing license, so look into the local regulations before you head out.Bundle up appropriately, since you’ll be out on the ice for hours at a time. Wear snow boots. Pack a thermos of hot chocolate or some other warm drink for each family member to enjoy.
Don’t forget sunblock. Ice and snow are very reflective, which can cause sunburn.

