 By regularly visiting the financial page of newspapers online, you can keep up to date on the fluctuations of the stock market. This information will help you make smart investment decisions. Simply visit the online platform of major newspapers.


If you live in Canada, consider following the Globe and Mail online. They are a reputable newspaper for financial news and have a site called Globe Investor.If you live in the United States, consider following the New York Times online or the Wall Street Journal.
If you live in Europe, consider following European Markets News on Reuters.If you live in Asia, consider following Asian Markets News on Reuters., There are a variety of websites that offer free investment related news and information. If you are just starting out in the world of investing, you should look into these options:


Try FinMason. This is a free service that helps you decide what advice is best suited for your current financial situation.Use Investopedia to teach yourself about investing. This site is especially geared towards beginning investors and allows you to not only look up terminology but also simulate investments that you are considering.Start following Yahoo! Finance. This website offers free information on numerous investing topics. However, you will have to pay for reports on individual companies.Follow the Wall Street Journal online. You will find numerous investment articles and market related news., There are a variety of websites that require membership and sometimes fees to get timely investment analysis and reports. If you are looking for more advanced investment analysis, you might consider joining one of these sites.


Pay for investment advice at the Motley Fool. If you want to get some expert recommendations, you can pay for advice on this website. It costs $53 per year when you sign up for three years.Join Zacks investment research. The membership is free and, once you sign up, you will be able to do your own research on stocks and bonds. The website also gives you access to numerous reports and other information for your personal portfolio.
Follow Investor Guide. If you subscribe, you get an in depth analysis of a newsworthy stock every morning, as well as market news and earnings reports.