 Find a subtle scent to wear every time you are around your guy. He will begin to associate this smell with you, and it gives him another sense to miss you with. When you aren’t with your guy, he'll begin to miss the smell of you and crave smelling your signature scent.Make sure you don’t wear too much or he might be turned off by the strong scent. Wear just enough for it to be smelled when someone is very close to your body.
To create this effect with smell, you have to wear the same scent every time you are around him.
This also works when you want to make your ex-boyfriend miss you. If you show up to a place he’s at wearing the scent you used to wear, he’ll instantly associate it with the time he was with you.
 If you are a complete open book when you first meet a guy, it won’t leave him with anything to be surprised by. Instead, you should tell an interesting fact about yourself each time you get together. This will leave your guy wanting to hear more about you, and waiting to find out what new thing he'll learn next. Be spontaneous with him. If you usually go to dinner for dates, invite him on an adventure like rock climbing one day. This spontaneity will excite him and keep him guessing at what you’ll want to do next.
 If you casually leave one of your belongings at your guy’s house or in his car, it will constantly remind him of you. When he’s reminded of you, he will start to think about you and miss being with you. Small personal items that you don’t need daily work best for creating this subtle reminder of you.A hairbrush
Jewelry
Makeup
A pen or notebook
A small picture

, Whenever you go out with your guy, you should always leave him wanting more. More kisses, more laughter, more fun, more conversations, you just want to leave him wanting more of you. You can do this by taking your time and having clear time limits with your time spent together.Cut conversations short because you have to get home at a certain time.
Only give him one sweet kiss at the end of the night to make him dream of wanting more kisses.
Have self control when it comes to your personal curfew times. You’ll probably want to spend more time with him, but if you leave when you planned, you’ll get him to want more time with you.

