 Staying indoors too much poses a variety of problems, such as decreased brain function, vitamin D deficiency, and sluggishness. Fortunately, stepping outside for at least 30 minutes every day will help counteract the effects of being indoors. Go outside, soak up the sun, walk around, and feel yourself instantly revived., Music can be energizing, especially if it has a good beat or melody. It can also break up the monotony of some jobs or tasks. If you’re feeling sluggish, turn on some music to boost your energy level naturally. As an added bonus, get up and dance around to the music, which will increase your energy levels even more.

What genre of music you listen to for a boost depends on what task you’re doing.Classical music helps with focus and mental clarity, whereas pop music gives an overall energy boost.
If you’re just waking up, find music that has a positive message, has a solid beat, and that builds slowly, even if it only takes a few seconds. These qualities help your brain adjust from a sleeping to fully awake state and give you a great energy boost.Throughout the rest of the day, what music you choose for a general energy boost is a matter of preference, although you should look for something with a solid, quick tempo.
 If you find yourself getting tired during the day, chances are good that you need more sleep. Aim for 7-8 hours of sleep per night. You might find that you even need 9 hours. Anything more than 9 hours may leave you feeling more tired than before., Laughter increases your endorphins, and those endorphins give you energy. In fact, even anticipating laughing releases some endorphins in your system. So, get together with friends and family, stream a comedian’s show, or read a few jokes online, and laugh. You’ll feel an immediate pick-me-up if you do., One of the body’s responses to stress is fatigue and general sluggishness. And while meditation is known as a calming, quiet activity, it actually boosts your energy in the long run. Meditation releases several hormones, such as DHEA, and also helps alleviate stress. Lowing your stress naturally helps you feel less fatigued and boosts your energy level.If you’re not sure how to meditate, you might consider trying a guided meditation video or set of instructions from the internet.As a beginner, you might start with body-focused meditation, in which you calm your breathing and focus on one part of your body at a time.For example, with your eyes closed, focus on your left hand – how it feels, the temperature in the room, any sensations that hand is feeling, and twitches or movements, and then, after three minutes, move to focusing on your right hand.

