 This way, you know what kind of answer you should provide. The terms and conditions usually include the criteria that will be used by the judges to judge the entries. The criteria is usually something like “the most creative and original” or “the most inspiring.”For instance, if the competition’s criteria is creativity, then you might decide to write a poem or a short story.
Also, remember to read the prompt carefully.
 Are the judges the promoters, the owner of the company hosting the competition, the suppliers of the prize, or an independent panel? Find out who the judges are and tailor your response to them.For example, if the CEO of Macy’s is the judge, then tailor your answer to be something about Macy’s or shopping at Macy’s.
Avoid providing ready-made answers that you have used many times before.
 To think outside of the box is to view things from a different perspective. This means stepping outside of your comfort zone when faced with a challenge. Instead of relying on tried and tested methods, choose a different method.


By stepping into another role, you can view something from a different perspective. For example, pretend you are a person from a different time period, like the 1940s, and answer the prompt from this perspective.
Try reframing things in order to view something from a different perspective. For example, instead of looking at the glass half empty, look at the glass half full.
 Try to make the most of the word limit, but do not go over it. You will be disqualified if you exceed the word limit, even if it is only exceeded by a single word. Keep track of your words by counting them as you go along.Make sure to count your words before you submit, as well.
Before submitting, check that your personal information is correct as well, for example, your e-mail address, phone number, and other identifying information.
 Spelling and grammar are also important. Even if you have great content, too many spelling and grammar errors can prevent you from winning. Therefore, remember to double-check your spelling and grammar before you submit.There are websites online that can help you improve your grammar and spelling, for example, you can use Grammar Book, Grammarly, Purdue Online Writing Lab, Daily Grammar, and Dr.Grammar, to name a few.