 Address the individual needs of the child with TBI by developing an individualized educational program. This program may contain academic, social, cognitive, self-help and motor skill tasks.


There are different levels and different ages at which children achieve and acquire certain academic skills and concepts. Depending on the type of brain injury and the functioning of the child, you should alter the tasks accordingly.
Choose tasks that the child is not yet able to do, which are in accordance with his mental age. These skills can be accessed through various questionnaires and observation of the child.
It is important that you work together with the student’s teachers and healthcare team, in order to create the best IEP possible.
Even if the process takes a little longer than you had wanted or expected, remember that the most important thing is to achieve a curriculum that is best suited to your child and his particular needs.
If you rush the process, you might end up with a study plan that is too fast, too slow, or uses the wrong type of stimuli. Then you would have to go through the entire ordeal again.
The goal here is to encourage the student’s cognitive abilities in the best and most efficient way possible.
 Identify the strengths of the child and work along them. Even after the TBI, some areas of the student will still remain strong.


Some students might be good at verbal skills, or counting and mathematics or even narration. Use the skills the child is strong at to compensate for their weakness.
For example if he or she is good at coloring you can motivate the child to color a letter in order to make him learn the letter.
 Instead of asking the student to complete a huge task in a single sitting, divide the work into many small steps. Reinforce completion of each step. Assigning a child with TBI a large, complicated task that they cannot complete will make them feel worthless.


Remember that progress might be slow and the child may forget things frequently. Be patient and get the child to repeat each task or skill in a repetitive manner until they have grasped it fully.
Don’t force them to complete the task ASAP. Avoid negative reinforcement and also punishment. It only produces poor impact on brain with no progress.
 Those students who have significant memory problems should be encouraged to write important assignments, to make notes, and also to write about their behaviors, feelings and emotions.


Ask them to write their own autobiography. It will keep them busy and produce valuable content that they can share and enjoy with others.
It will also help them to recall lost memories. The student should write all important events of his life as soon as they occur to him, before he forgets any details. This is an effective brain exercise.

