 Studies suggest that the flavonoids found in cocoa beans may increase blood flow to the brain.Flavonoids can also be found in red wine, red grapes, apples and berries. Teas, particularly green or white teas, are another excellent source of flavonoids.Make sure that your overall caloric intake remains within healthy limits. Increasing fat or sugar levels to your daily diet may have negative consequences.
Research on the beneficial effects of flavonoids is still preliminary.
 Drinking beet juice has been shown to increase blood flow to the brain.Beets contain nitrates, which are converted to nitrites by naturally occurring bacteria in your mouth. Nitrites help to widen blood vessels, and help increase blood flow to the brain.


Nitrates are also found in celery, cabbage, and other green, leafy vegetables.
Eating fruits and vegetables high in nitrates is recommended for optimal brain functioning. Converting these foods into juices is the quickest way to ingest a therapeutic dose.
 Nuts, seeds, blueberries, and avocados are sometimes called "superfoods" for their high nutritional value. Research suggests that consuming these foods has a positive effect on maintaining a healthy brain into old age.Walnuts, pecans, almonds, cashews and other nuts are excellent sources of Vitamin E. Deficits in Vitamin E have been linked to cognitive decline. You can eat them raw or roasted. Unhydrogenated nut butters maintain their high nutritional content.
Avocados are high in monounsaturated fat, which has been linked to increased blood flow to the brain. Monounsaturated fat helps to reduce bad cholesterol from the blood, and leads to lower blood pressure.Avocados also provide nutrients to help improve your overall health.
Blueberries help protect the brain from oxidative stress, which deteriorates brain functioning. Eating one cup a day of blueberries — fresh, dried, or frozen — has been shown to increase brain functioning.
 Ginkgo Biloba has long been used to increase blood flow to the brain. Ginkgo also protects the nerve cells that are thought to be damaged in Alzheimers.Ginkgo should not be given to children. Studies done using ginkgo with adults have ranged between 120–-240 mg per day.
Ginkgo is available in tablets, capsules, liquid extracts, and dried leaves for herbal tisanes.

