 If you want to avoid using prescription products, try washing your face twice a day with mild soap and warm water using your hands instead of a wash cloth.Avoid treating your skin with irritable products such as facial scrubs, masks, or other astringents that tend to worsen your skin condition.
Be careful not to excessively wash and scrub your face because it will irritate your skin.
If you have a breakout or rash, be careful when shaving since it will either make the area sore or worsen the breakout.
Use water as a natural toner because it will not strip your skin of oil. Most commercial toners use chemicals, fragrances, and preservatives that are harsh on your skin and strip it of oil causing the overproduction of skin oil as a reaction. Water, on the other hand, does not possess perfume, oils, or other unnecessary accessories. Be careful of tap water, however, as chlorine and limescale can cause irritability and dry, red, flaky skin.
Aloe vera is an excellent anti-inflammatory that will help seal in moisture.
 At the store, look for products that contain benzoyl peroxide as the active ingredient. Benzoyl peroxide, when applied to the skin, reduces the amount of acne-causing bacteria by drying the skin and making it peel.Besides benzoyl peroxide, look for products that have sulfur, resorcinol, or salicylic acid because these ingredients prevent pores from becoming plugged, remove dead skin cells, and remove excess oils.
The FDA recommends caution using popular nonprescription acne lotions, cleansers, and soaps due to the possibility of causing skin reactions.
If you have sensitive skin, be aware that the possible side effects from using these products include dry skin, redness, scaling, and burning sensations.
 Moisturizers have many benefits for the skin, such as protection, improved skin tone and texture, treat dry skin, and cover up imperfections. Not all skin is the same, therefore, the moisturizer you choose will depend on if you have dry, oily, sensitive, or normal skin.Water-based moisturizers go with nearly all skin types because they typically contain light oils, silicone-derived ingredients, and leave a non-greasy feel to them after application.
Petroleum-based moisturizers offer longer protection and act as a sealant, keeping moisture from evaporating off of your skin.
For dry skin, consider a heavier, oil-based moisturizer that focus on hydration.
If you have acne or oily skin, use a water-based moisturizer that is classified as non-comedogenic because it won’t clog your pores.
Sensitive skin prone to irritation, redness, or rashes requires a more soothing moisturizer with chamomile or aloe and is void of fragrances and dyes. Acids should be avoided too.
As your skin matures it becomes dryer and less flexible. In this case, choose an oil-based moisturizer with a petrolatum foundation, antioxidants, and alpha hydroxyl acids to fight wrinkled skin.
 Maintain good hygiene and keep your hair, hands, and tight clothing off of your face. Be mindful of sweating and dress appropriately.You also want to avoid cosmetics, sunscreens, hair products, and acne concealers that are oily or greasy. Stick to water-based or non-comedogenic products that are less likely to cause acne.
When wearing sunscreen, which you should wear everyday, use an oil-free moisturizer or a moisturizer that already included a sunscreen ingredient.

