 The general rule is to dress your baby the same way you are dressed. As you adjust your clothing throughout the day, adjust your baby’s clothing in a similar manner.If you are wearing a t-shirt and shorts, your baby can wear the same.
If you add a hoodie on a cooler day, don’t forget to add one for your baby.
Check the weather forecast everyday to make sure that both you and your baby are dressed appropriately.;
, Short sleeves are best for activities where the baby will not be outside for long periods of time, such as playing inside or running errands, or if they will be in an outdoor, shaded area., In general, your baby should be kept in the shade, but if you cannot avoid sunlight, make sure that the baby's arms and legs are protected. Long sleeves and pants will help.Long sleeves can also protect your baby from mosquitoes. If you will be by a lake or pool, you may want to consider covering up their arms and legs.
If you do decide to put your baby in short sleeves while you are outside, you must keep the baby out of the sun. Stay in the shade until you go inside.
 Most babies will be fine in a basic onesie and shorts or a skirt. To avoid overheating, keep your baby in a single layer most of the time. Pack an extra layer, such as a button-up shirt or sweater, in the diaper bag just in case you need them.For example, the baby may wear short sleeves at home, but if you go to the grocery store, they may need a light sweater.
Avoid any extra layers if the temperature is above 75 °F (24 °C)., If you will be playing outside, leave the socks off of your baby’s feet. That said, socks can be a great way of keeping a baby’s feet warm if they are inside an air-conditioned room.While babies do not need to wear shoes until they are able to walk, they should have something covering their feet when they are outside. Baby shoes, sandals, and other footwear may be better than socks in this case.
 Even at night, overheating can be a problem. Instead of heavy PJs, dress your baby in a onesie and diaper. If you have an air-conditioned home or the baby’s room tends to be cooler, dress them in a heavier sleeper or swaddle them in a muslin blanket.Avoid fleece nightclothes in the summer.
Never add loose blankets to your baby’s crib to keep them warm, as they can be a suffocation hazard.

