 Some forms of bacterial meningitis are contagious. The bacteria are spread through respiratory droplets and saliva, such as through kissing, coughing, and sneezing. You are at greater risk of contracting meningitis if you:


Are in close or prolonged contact with someone who has meningitis, such as in a daycare setting or shared household
Have direct contact with a sick patient's oral secretions
Live in an area with poor food and water hygiene – you can get some types of bacterial meningitis from contaminated food and water, Certain groups of people are at higher risk of getting meningitis. It is especially recommended that these groups get vaccinated against the illness. Be aware if you are in one of the following high-risk groups:U.S. military recruits
Anyone who has a damaged spleen or whose spleen has been removed
College students living in dormitories, and other groups living in close proximity
Microbiologists or other healthcare professionals exposed to meningococcal bacteria
Anyone who has terminal complement component deficiency (an immune system disorder), or are otherwise immunocompromised
Anyone traveling to countries which have an outbreak of meningococcal disease. If traveling overseas, check to see if the vaccine is recommended – you should receive the vaccine at least 1 week before departure.
Those who might have been exposed to meningitis during an outbreak
Young babies, under the age of 2

, Meningococcal vaccines protect against most types of meningitis, although they do not prevent all cases. There are two vaccines against Neisseria meningitidis, a common infecting bacteria, available in the United States: meningococcal conjugate vaccine (MCV4), and meningococcal polysaccharide vaccine (MPSV4).


MCV4 is the preferred vaccine for people ages 2-55. If your child did not get this vaccine at their 11 or 12 year old check-up, make an appointment for them to get it now.
 Hib is a bacterial infection that can cause meningitis in children.The Hib vaccine is the best way to prevent Hib infection and is 95% effective. All children younger than 5 years old should get the Hib vaccine.Make sure your child gets all doses for the best protection, and if you miss a dose or get behind schedule get the next dose as soon as you can. Children should get a series of vaccines at 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, and 12-15 months of age.
 Pregnant women can pass group B streptococcus bacteria to their infant during childbirth. Group B strep is another cause of meningitis in young children. If you’re pregnant, get tested for group B strep by your doctor. They can give you antibiotics during labor to reduce the risk of passing the bacteria to your baby.Get tested between 35-37 weeks of your pregnancy.

