 You can sooth an itchy throat by drinking hot water with fresh lemon juice. You may also add honey and fresh ginger root to the hot water to make a soothing, hot beverage for your throat.Drink hot water with lemon every few hours to help soothe your throat. Squeeze half a lemon for every cup of hot water and add one teaspoon of honey and fresh ginger.
For an added benefit, you may also add ½ teaspoon of turmeric to the hot water with lemon. Turmeric can help to clean out your throat and relieve any itchiness.;
, You can also find relief for your throat by preparing ginger tea. You may use tea bags or fresh ginger root. Slice up the ginger root into small pieces and boil it for 10 – 15 minutes. Then, strain out the ginger pieces and consume the liquid to relieve your sore throat.Licorice root has also been known to soothe an irritated throat. You can use licorice tea bags or real licorice root. Slice an ounce of the licorice root into small pieces and let it steep in boiling water for 24 hours. Then, strain out the licorice pieces, add honey, and drink the liquid.
 You may try using herbs to make a tea or use herbs in tincture form. Always use high quality herbs from a trusted source. You may drink three to four cups of the tea made from the herbs or consume one to three drops of the herbs in tincture form, three to four times a day. There are specific natural herbs made for the treatment of itchy throat, including:Dong quai (Angelica sinensis)
Eyebright (Euphrasia officinalis)
Gingko (Gingko biloba)
Milk thistle (Silybum marianum)
Red clover (Trifolium pratense)
Stinging nettles (Urtica dioica)

, Apple cider vinegar can help relieve a sore throat and coughing as a result of an itchy throat. Try to use organic apple cider vinegar, mixing a tablespoon of the vinegar in 8 – 10 ounces of water. You may warm up the water until it is hot and add honey to dilute the taste of the vinegar.If you are able to stomach the apple cider vinegar taste, you may add less water and drink the vinegar straight for a stronger mixture. Some people have trouble with the taste of apple cider vinegar, so adjust the strength based on your preference.

