 She likes to regard herself as a “gangsta Nancy Sinatra” and “Lolita lost in the hood.” Aesthetically, this often means big eyes, a fair complexion, and a vintage look.Check out pictures of Nancy Sinatra as well as Lana Del Rey that focus on their faces. Look at their make up and see what features make it unique.
 Create flawless looking skin to get your face ready for other products. Use a complementing primer, foundation, concealer, and powder to build a smooth, pale base that imitates Lana.


Always start by moisturizing your face and dabbing on a primer with a blending sponge. This will help the makeup last longer.
Apply a light foundation using a foundation brush or blending sponge. Choose a shade lighter than your own skintone if you are not naturally pale. Do not try to change your skin tone all together, though. Simply opt for the palest version of your natural color.
Use concealer on dark circles and imperfections. Blend out into the foundation with a small concealer brush.
Use a fluffy brush to top your whole face with a translucent powder. Use a light hand and gently brush on a small amount of powder to set the look.
 Lana regularly sports straight, dark eyebrows with little arch. Use a brow powder to darken and redefine the shape of your brows.


Choose a color no more than a shade darker than your hair’s root color. Too dark of a brow color could overwhelm the rest of the look.Use an eyebrow gel or powder and an angled brush. Start by defining the bottom line of your brow, keeping it straight at the arch.
Once you have a baseline for the shape of your brow, fill in the area above it. Use small flicks of the brush in the same direction as your brow hairs to imitate the natural hair.
Set with a clear brow gel to keep the natural hairs in place.
 Lana is known for her big-eyed looks with simple shadows and large eyeliner wings. Create a softy, smokey eye look with bold black liner and oversized lashes.


Start with an eyeshadow that matches the color of your skin and apply all across your lids with a fluffy brush.Once your lids are neutral, take a cool gray or gray-brown shadow and buff it into your crease. Blend outward toward the tip of your brow, and concentrate the bulk of the shadow on the outer third of your crease.
Take the same color used on the crease and apply it lightly along the lower lashline using a flat brush.
Brighten your lids below the crease by patting on a pearl or satin-finish eyeshadow in a beige, peach, or nude shade. Use a flat brush, and concentrate most of the product on the center of your lid.
Use a liquid black eyeliner to make a bold wing. Start by lining your lid using short strokes and connecting the dots in between each stroke. Then, draw on the wing by making a line that runs along the outer corner of your eye toward the thin tip of your eyebrow. Stop about halfway up the lid to the eyebrow.
Connect the wing to the rest of your eyeliner by creating a triangle. Draw a straight line down from the tip of the wing down to the line you created on your eyelid. Then, fill in the triangle.
Apply generous coats of black mascara to boost up your lashes on top and on the bottom. Apply a pair of false lashes along your upper lash line to get Lana’s exaggerated volume.
 Lana doesn't often use an extreme contour, but she does shape her features slightly. Use a light hand to define your cheekbones and highlight the high points on your face.


Contour your cheeks with a contour powder or bronzer. Pick a color that looks tan on you, but not like a different skin tone.Apply the powder to the hollows of your cheeks and brush up toward your temples and into your hairline.
Sculpt your forehead by bringing a slight amount of the contour color down from the sides of your head toward your ears.
Strengthen your jawline by brushing the contour powder along your chin and jaw up to your ears. Blend down toward your neck.
Highlight your cheekbones and nose bridge with a non-shimmering highlighter. Brush the highlight at the high points of your cheekbones and down your nose, as well as just under the brow bone. Use a cotton swab to place a very small amount of highlight just above your cupid’s bow.
Use a light peach blush on your cheeks between the highlight and the contour. Lana wears peach and nude blushes instead of pinks and reds, so opt for something that doesn’t pop too much.
 Pick a matte lipstick that best fits your look, and look at pictures for inspiration. Lana wears a variety of shades, including reds, soft pinks, nudes, and berries.


Line your lips with a neutral liner, or one that matches your lipstick color. Do not overdraw your lips. Instead, follow your natural lip line.
Fill in your lips with the liner to help your lipstick last longer.
Use your lipstick and a lip brush to apply color to your lips. Trace the edges of your lips with your lip brush before filling in the rest of your lip.
Use concealer on a small brush to trace around the edges of your lip and create a sharp, defined line.

