 Once you've decided what you're going to write about, gather the information you'll need to write the article. Presenting a story to readers who may otherwise have no knowledge of the subject is a big responsibility, and you will want to collect as much well-researched and firsthand information as possible.


Read up on the story's background so that you're able to present it in the right context. For example, if you're writing a story about the passage of a new law protecting a forest from getting cut down, find out what the law stated before, why it was passed, who led the movement to get it passed, who opposed it, and so on.
If you're writing about an event, attend it, whether it's a senate hearing, a baseball game or a presidential campaign stop. Take thorough notes while you're there so that you remember what happened later.
 News stories are enhanced by accounts from firsthand witnesses and people with expert opinions. Identify the main players in the story and ask them short, specific questions so that their answers supplement the information you present in your news article.


Make an appointment with the person or people you want to interview. You can interview them in person or over the phone.
Use the interview as a way to verify facts you have collected. For example, if you're covering a tornado that caused damage in a small town and you want to know how many homes were damaged, interview the sheriff. If you want an account from someone who saw the tornado, interview a witness from the town.
Don't use the interviewee's words out of context. The people you interview for news articles are doing you a favor. If you're going to publish someone's words, make sure you stay true to their original meaning.
 When you write a news article, you have a responsibility to your readers to present completely accurate information. Getting a fact wrong may seem insignificant, but it has consequences; aside from trouble that could be caused by misinforming the public, your reliability as a journalist could come into question.


Check numbers and other hard data with an expert source. If you're writing a story about a heat wave, call the National Weather Service to verify the temperatures.
Verify information based on hearsay with more than one source.
Check the spellings of names and other proper nouns. Make especially certain that you have the correct spellings of the names of people you interview.

