 Bring the subject up casually, like at a family dinner. For example, say something like, "Hey mom, can you pass the peas? By the way, are those new earrings? Speaking of which, can I get a second hole in my ear?" If you bring it up in passing, it won't seem like as much of a big deal to your parents.;
, Be prepared, because you're probably going to get an eye roll or a straight-up "no". Make sure that you expect your parents to say "no", so that way you'll have a backup plan. If they do say yes, be happily surprised.
 Just saying "I want a piercing" isn't going to get you very far. Explain to your parents why you want a piercing. Point out the fact that you are young now, and need the opportunity to try new things and find out who you really are. Tell them you love the look of them, its very fashionable, you want to try it out before you have to consider dress code for a career, or tell them it's your way of expressing yourself and showing who you really are.
 If your parents just aren't having the whole piercing thing, try to get one of your parents to see your side of the story. You should probably pick the more easy-going parent. Once you've convinced them to see your side of the story, they can help you convince the other parent.
 For example:


"I want to be myself, I don't care what people think of me."
"I'm growing up, and feel like I need to express myself."
"This will make me feel like I'm really getting rewarded for the good things I do."
"I will never wear it when I'm in the house." - this last one is fine if you aren't required to have them in all the time.
 Look for key words that will help convince your parents about getting pierced. Use words like please, help, will, myself, me, I, free, decorate, personality, express, who I am, etc. Just be careful not to use them too much and get super-repetitive.
 Don't actually use words like 'pierce' too much; use decorate, don't use 'earring'; use ornament, don't use 'like'; use 'love', as if it were your favorite hobby.
 One of the worst and most immature things you could do is say "But Jane's mum let her have piercings, why can't I?".
 They will not change their mind if you yell at them. This will show a big lack of maturity.
 Discuss the reasons you want to get multiple piercings and be prepared to have to answer questions such as "What are the benefits of getting it?". Make sure to give good, convincing reasons. If your religion is against multiple piercings, then maybe you should stop there.
 Practice what you're going to say right before you ask. If you want, write it down and memorize it, but don't sit there and read off a paper; it looks too rehearsed. Just have a good idea of what you're going to say so that you don't get off-topic or distracted.
 The more you know about the piercings you want, the better. Your parents will see that you know exactly what you want, and will see you are very mature. Also, the more you know about the piercing you want, the more you'll know if you really want it for sure or if it isn't the right piercing for you.
 If you can, find out the price of the piercing you want, save up your money, and offer to pay for it yourself.
 A big worry for parents is having their kids get pierced at unsafe places with uncertified piercers. Look at certified piercers in your area and figure out where you want to get pierced. The cheapest places aren't usually the best option.
 If your parents say no, discuss with them why they aren't comfortable with it, and try to find some middle ground: For example you could have a second hole in each ear instead of a nose ring. If you're mature about it and show that you're willing to consider their concerns, they may be more open to discussion.
 Be very careful of what you say think about it! Don't ask every day. They might say no

