 All you need for the basic compress is a clean tube sock and some dry, uncooked rice, beans or oats to go inside it. However, if you want to give the compress a pleasant fragrance, you’ll also need a little bit of powdered peppermint, cinnamon, or whichever aroma you’d prefer. You can use some herbs from your kitchen, the contents of an herbal tea bag or essential oils.Try adding relaxing lavender, chamomile, sage, or mint to your compress for an even more soothing experience.;
, Whether you’re using the rice, beans, or oats, pour them into the tube sock until it’s mostly full—about ½-¾ full. Just leave enough sock material on the end to tie a knot, unless you plan on sewing the end of the sock to make a permanent warm compress. Then you can fill it nearly to the top.As you fill the sock, you can add small pinches of your fragrant powder or herbs so there will be a pleasant aroma throughout the compress.
 Depending on how long you want to keep your compress, you can seal the sock temporarily or permanently. Tying a firm knot into the sock will keep the contents in place for a short period of time, but let you reuse the sock later. You can also sew the open end of the sock together for a more permanent compress.Note that sealing the sock very close to its contents will make for a hard compress, while sealing it far away will leave its contents loose. Experiment a little bit with how hard or soft you want the compress to feel before sealing it.
If you leave the contents a little looser, you can drape the sock easily over your neck and shoulders to treat pain there.
 After you have sealed your compress, microwave it for 30 seconds. After 30 seconds you can feel it and see how warm it is. If you are happy with the level of warmth, you can take it out and use it. If you want it to be warmer, continue microwaving the compress in increments of 10 seconds until the compress is as warm as you’d like it to be.Remember that placing scalding hot materials against your skin can cause blisters and burns.A range between about 70 and 80°F (21.1 to 26.7°C) is optimal., You can wrap the compress or place a towel or t-shirt on your skin where you plan to use the heat. This will prevent skin damage or burning. Make sure you check your skin every few minutes to make sure your skin is still in good shape.
 If it feels uncomfortably hot, remove it right away and wait for the compress to cool a bit before replacing it. When the compress has reached a comfortable temperature, hold the compress to the sore area for ten minutes. After ten minutes, remove it to let the skin cool down a bit. After allowing your skin to cool down, you can reapply it for another ten minutes if you wish.


If your skin starts to look dark red, purplish, spotty red and white, blistered, swollen or you develop hives, call your doctor. You may have skin damage from the heat.