 Whether you are making a homemade trap or purchasing one, make sure that you are using one that is humane. You don't want to risk injuring the kitten that you are working so hard to rescue. (You also want to make sure not to injure yourself--no one wants to get their finger caught in a trap). One of the best ways to safely trap a kitten is to use food to bait the kitten into the trap.Canned fish is an effective and inexpensive food item that you could try.A humane trap is one that will not injure or kill the kitten. If you are going to purchase a trap, ask a local vet for suggestions on which brand to buy. Try shopping at your local pet store or hardware store.
If you plan to make a trap, make sure you research ones that will neither harm nor kill the kitten. Use a trap door that will close gently but quickly and firmly after the kitten enters the trap. Ask for tips about materials at your neighborhood hardware store.
Don't try to trap the kitten the first time you stop him. Instead, prepare your trap, and spend a few days placing food in there--while leaving the door of the cage open. That way, the kitten will begin to head into the trap willingly after he begins to associate it with food.
 Above all, you want to be as kind as possible to the kitten. Remember, he doesn't have much experience with humans. Being caught is going to be a pretty traumatic experience. Be as quiet, calm, and gentle when you are near the kitten., Catching a kitten can be a frustrating experience. You will need to be patient, not only with the kitten but with yourself. Make sure to give yourself plenty of time to carry out your plan. Remember, it's best to learn some information about the kitten (age, status of the mom) so that alone is going to take some time. After doing that, try taking a break before you start the actual trapping process. The more relaxed and confident you are, the more smoothly the whole process will go., If you are nervous about using a trap, don't worry, you have some other options. You can try gently "herding" a kitten into a confined space. Use the same method you would use if you were trying to tempt the kitten into a trap--food. Once you have the kitten corralled in a confined space (think a corner where he doesn't have an easy escape route), you can gently guide the kitten into a small pet carrier.


Make sure to have a carrier (or even a box with a lid) handy before you try this method. , It is possible that you won't have to lure or trap the kitten. If you can invest enough time and patience in the process, you might be able to befriend the animal enough that you can easily transport him home with you. In order to gain the kitten's trust, be a reliable force in his life. Feed him regularly, and at the same time for several days. Be calm and gentle in his presence. After enough time has passed (this could be days or weeks), the kitten might gradually come to accept your presence without fear.