 2048 is currently only available on iOS and Android devices. Use your respective mobile device’s app store to download the game.;
, Type in “2048” on the search field then tap the Search button.
 Locate the correct app and download it by tapping the “Install” button.


The app is free.
 If you don’t have an iOS or Android mobile device, you can play the game directly from the developer’s page at http://gabrielecirulli.github.io/2048/.
 The game will give you an initial 4x4 board, totaling 16 tiles. Two tiles of 2 will be placed at random positions on the board.
 Swipe up, down, left, and right to move the tiles across the board. The tiles will slide towards the other end, as long as there’s available space.
 When tiles of the same number touch during a move, they will combine into one tile carrying the sum of the two tiles.


For example, two tiles of 2 will combine into a tile of 4. This will essentially free up a space on the board.
 On every move, whether you were able to merge 2 tiles or not, a new tile of 2 or 4 will randomly appear on the board. This is how you get new tiles and numbers in play.
 Continue moving the tiles across the board to increase the numbers on the tiles. The objective is to reach get a 2048 tile on the board. This get be achieved by combining two 1024 tiles, coming from two 512 tiles, merged from two 256 tiles, and so on.
 The game ends when the board is completely filled with numbered tiles and there’s no move available.
 There’s no time limit to the game. Play each move slowly and consider all options before sliding tiles.
 Focus your tiles on the bottom corners. Having new tiles appear on top will make it easier for you to move and merge them.
 If you like patterns, try to build one with the numbered tiles. Have the larger numbered tiles on the bottom to the right or left, followed by decreasing numbered tiles on the next rows. This way, you can easily merge the tiles when you reach the matching numbers.
 Once you’ve gotten the largest numbered tile on one corner, don’t move it. Moving the other larger tiles to merge with this one will be much easier.
 You can easily get a high score or even reach the 2048 tile by not moving or swiping up. Just move or swipe left, right, and bottom, and you’ll be fine.


This single step or tip takes care of the above several steps or tips.

