 Find one or more where you can see the dancers' whole bodies for as much of the video as possible. You may want to get a slowed-down or mirrored version of the video for extra help. Putting the video on your ipod/mp3 player can be helpful for learning on-the-go.;
, There are often multiple dancers in one video doing different things, and you don't want to get confused over what you're supposed to be doing. If you are learning the dance alone, however, it may be more advantageous and interesting for your audience to follow whichever dancer is in front at the time. It's your choice.
 Study the video, try one move, and look at the video again to see if you're doing it right. Then do the move with the video. For complicated moves, slow down or pause the video. Make an attempt at the move, even if it's not very close, and refine it until you do get the move. Mirrors are helpful! Do this for each move, one at a time.
 Look at how each move flows into the next. Make sure you don't have any 'dead periods' where you're not doing anything. This usually means that there's more to the moves before or after the dead period, or that the moves take a little longer.
 This means going back through the video and making sure you're doing everything exactly right, or as close to perfect as possible. Dance with the video, or videotape yourself so you can compare. Even ask friends for their honest critique, preferably those who are more skilled than you or who have already learned the dance. There are so many people who skip this step, but still think they've learned the dance. Without polish, you'll look horribly sloppy and all your efforts will have been for nothing.
 The better you learn the dance, the easier it will be and the more awesome it will look. Practice it over and over again until you don't have to think about what you're doing. Make sure to keep up the quality of your dance; don't get lazy!

, Find someone to show all your hard work to! You might even inspire someone else! You can try filming yourself and uploading the video to Youtube.

