 The great thing about a 90s-themed party is that you can throw one anytime of year! It works for New Year's Eve, Halloween, the 4th of July or just any random Friday night. If you want to get clever, you can plan a 1999 themed party on the 9th of any month at 9 p.m.;
, If you're the crafty type, you can get really creative with the invitations. What's more 90s than a little bedazzling? If you'd rather keep it simple, find a picture of the cast of Saved by the Bell, add the event details and print them up.
 If you're into music or were alive during the 1990s, you'll especially enjoy this part. All kinds of music existed in the 90s, from boy bands to punk to Pearl Jam to Phil Collins.
 Your options are endless when it comes to 90s shoes, attire and hairstyles. For your footwear, think jelly shoes, Doc Martens or skater shoes. Your jeans can range anywhere from high-waisted and acid washed to wide-legged and distressed. Depending on which end of the decade you aim for, you can choose to play up the grunge and punk or stick closer to the neon 1980s. The same goes for your hair -- either crimp it and go big, or part it down the middle. (This advice works whether you're a guy or a girl -- that's the beauty of the 90s.)

, Food in one room, dancing in another, and a TV show or movie in another area is a great way to make sure all your guests find an activity they enjoy. You can pick an iconic 1990s movie to show during the party, or show a few episodes of Boy Meets World, Sabrina the Teenage Witch or Seinfeld. You can find many of these shows on Netflix or check them out for free from your local library.
 Food is timeless, so no need to go overboard with the theme in this area. Every party needs enough food, though, so don't skip this step! If you and your friends were children in the 90s, you can serve PBJ's, Squeezits and other childhood snacks.
 Just like the invitations, you can get as crafty as you want with this part. Streamers and balloons work for almost any party. Add a few posters of boy bands and Britney Spears and you'll be set!

, This part is self explanatory. Crank up the tunes, push play on the playlist you created and enjoy the party with your crowd of friends in 90s outfits!

