 Apply for a marriage license at the county clerk's office with bride and groom present. You must have a driver's license or state ID and a certified birth certificate for each applicant. Both applicants will have to provide their mother's maiden name and both their mother's and father's place of birth. A witness will also be required. The license is good for one year after it is issued. The officiator of your wedding will provide you with a marriage certificate after the ceremony.You can request certified copies of your marriage certificate from Vital Records Services, Hathaway Building, Cheyenne, WY, 82002. The phone number is (307) 777-7591. You will need to fill out an application.;
, After a divorce has been finalized, you may apply for a copy of the certificate. Fill out an application and mail to Vital Statistics Services (Hathaway Building, Cheyenne, WY, 82002.) with a check for $13 made payable to Vital Statistics Services. Include a self-addressed, stamped envelope with the request., Complete the SS-5 form. Gather certified copies of marriage or divorce or annulment certificate. Bring the completed SS-5 form and certified copies of marriage or divorce certificates along with a Wyoming driver's license, state ID, or passport to the SSA office. You will also need a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. citizenship certificate, or work authorization letter and I-94.You can also apply by mail by mailing your documents to your local SSA office along with the SS-5 form; your documents will be mailed back to you.You will receive your documents and new social security card with your new name by mail.
 Appear in person at a Wyoming Department of Transportation Driver Exam Station. You will have to surrender your current driver's license or state ID and present legal proof of your name change, such as a court order, marriage certificate, or divorce decree. After getting a new picture taken and signing for your new license, you will pay the standard renewal fee and the license will be mailed to you within four weeks.