 You may make payments to a central child support agency, which then distributes the money to your children’s parent. If so, then contact the agency and ask for a printout of all payments that you have made.


You might have to go to the court clerk to get a complete history of payments.Check the printout against your own records to make sure that it is complete and accurate.;
, If you pay the other parent directly, then go through your bank statements and check when you made payments. If you paid by check, then get the cancelled checks. Go back to the very first month that you had to pay child support and check each following month.
 You should add up how many payments you have missed. If you made a partial payment, then calculate the amount that you didn’t pay. You will have to pay interest on the amount you failed to pay.


For example, if you missed 10 months of payments at $650 a month, then you owe $6,500.
You might also have made only a partial payment of $400 one month. If so, then add $250 to the total amount that you owe.
 In addition to a set monthly payment, you might also have to pay for certain expenses, such as doctor co-pays or school costs.If you haven’t made those payments, then you need to find out the amount of those expenses and add them to the total amount owed.


You might have to reach out to the other parent and ask for the amount of these expenses. You might as well not delay.
 Over 35 states charge interest on arrears.However, the states use many different formulas. You will need to find out the interest rate for your state.


For example, Alaska charges six percent annually, with interest beginning to accrue at the end of the first month child support was due but not paid.
Arkansas, by contrast, charges 10% per annum.
 Your state might publish a calculator. For example, the Illinois State Bar Association publishes an Excel spreadsheet you can use in order to calculate the interest owed on your unpaid child support.Check to see if your state publishes a calculator. Type “unpaid child support interest” and “your state” into your favorite search engine.
If your state doesn’t have a calculator, you may need to contact your state’s child support agency or meet with a lawyer and ask that they calculate the interest for you.
 If your state doesn’t charge interest, then the total arrears will be the total amount that you haven’t paid. For example, if you are ordered to pay $800 a month but missed 10 months, then you owe $8,000 in past due child support.


If your state charges interest, then you need to add the interest to the unpaid principal. This will give you a total amount.
 You might not understand how to calculate interest, especially if your state doesn’t have a calculator. You might also have other questions that you need answered. It’s always best to meet with a qualified attorney who can answer any questions you might have.


To find a family law attorney, you should contact your state or local bar association, which often has a referral service.Once you have a referral, contact the attorney and ask to schedule a consultation. Also ask how much the consultation will cost.
 Many people have their wages garnished in order to pay child support. You can get an income withholding order which will garnish your wages.You can increase the amount so that you will pay off your arrears.


Talk to the court clerk about getting an income withholding order, or raise the issue at your court hearing.
 The judge can also intercept any tax refund you have coming your way in order to pay off the past due child support.You probably won’t have to do anything, but you should be aware that a judge has the power to seize it.
 You can’t eliminate child support arrears in bankruptcy. However, if you file for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, then you can spread out your arrears over three to five years. By doing so, you can give yourself more time to pay.Remember, even if you file for bankruptcy, you must keep current on your monthly child support. You can only spread out the past due amount.
See File for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy for more information.

