 Sun exposure can wreak all sorts of havoc on your complexion, from freckles and brown spots to serious sunburns and skin cancer. If you want lighter skin, you have to care for it properly, using a sunscreen with a high Sun Protection Factor (SPF) rating.









When you expose your skin to UVA and UVB light, your body produces melanin which makes your skin appear darker. Therefore, the number one most important thing you can do to lighten your skin is to wear sunscreen every day you'll be outdoors, even when it's not super-hot or sunny.
You can also protect your skin by wearing light, long-sleeved clothing and by wearing a hat and sunglasses when you're in the sun for long periods of time.;
, Taking good care of your skin involves following a strict skincare routine where skin is properly cleansed, exfoliated and moisturized.









Thoroughly cleanse your face twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. This removes dirt and oil, which is important for a healthy, clear complexion.
Moisturize with a product suited to your skin type. If you have oily or blemish prone skin, you should go for light lotions, while people with very dry skin should go for heavier creams.
Exfoliate a couple of times a week. This is important as it removes the darker, dead skin cells and reveals the new, lighter skin beneath. You can exfoliate using a product containing small particles, or by gently rubbing your face with a clean, damp washcloth.
 Drinking water and eating right won't magically make your skin lighter, but it will help skin to rejuvenate itself.


When skin rejuvenates, the old, pigmented layers fade away and fresh, new skin is revealed, leaving your skin looking brighter and healthier. Drinking more water speeds up this process, so you try to drink between six and eight glasses a day.
A good diet also helps to keep your skin looking fresh and healthy by providing it with the vitamins and nutrients it needs. Try to eat as much fresh fruit and vegetables as possible (especially those high in vitamins A, C and E) and stay away from processed, high-calorie foods.
You should also consider taking a vitamin supplement containing ingredients such as Grapeseed Extract (which provides anti-oxident benefits) and Flaxseed or Fish oil, both of which contain Omega-3 and are excellent for hair, skin and nails.
 Everyone knows that smoking is bad for your health, but not everyone is aware of the damage it can do to your skin. Smoking contributes to premature aging, causing fine lines and wrinkles. It also prevents blood flow to the face, causing it to become ashen or grey-looking.

