 Bold prints and bright colors are the epitome of mod. Red, white, and blue are traditional British mod colors. Color-blocking is also a mod style so keep an eye out for those types of items., Look for well-made, slim-cut suits. The original mods wore tailored suits (black, gray and brown) with vests and pocket squares. Pants should be slim and suits should always be three button.
 Polo shirts are an essential mod item. Though you may equate a polo shirt with a preppy look, the way you pair a polo with other items makes it more mod. Be sure to button the shirt all the way to the top, as this creates the streamlined modern look., Both bomber jackets and parkas are typical mod styles. Pair a bomber jacket with a button-up for a more dressed-up style. Consider leaving the zipper down halfway to show off your shirt. Choose a parka in green or tan for a traditional mod look, reminiscent of The Who., These pants are a mix between a boxy design and a tighter pant. Slim-fit does not equate to skinny jeans; they should be fitted, not tight. Choose chinos or a tapered pant. Roll up the cuff of your pants to show off your footwear.Levi’s jeans, shrunk to fit, were also a popular mod item.
 Chelsea boots were incredibly popular in the mod scene. Desert lace-up boots are another popular mod choice. Consider purchasing a pair of each, one in black and one in brown or gray, so you have the perfect shoe to pair with any outfit.Oxfords are also a mod shoe option.
 Pair a fitted polo with slim-fit chinos and Chelsea boots to create a totally mod look. Wear a brightly-colored shirt with your suit to stand out in a modern way, or even put a parka on over your button-up and add a lace-up desert boot.
 During mod times, many men wore their hair longer than usual. Choose a bowl-cut or a slightly shaggy style to complete your mod look. Think Paul McCartney or Miles Kane.
 Thin ties, newsboy caps, and scarves all pull together the look for men. Round glasses were also quite popular for men during mod times. Buttons from mod bands and British flag pins complete the look.

