 Most hacked Uber accounts are the result of thieves hacking other websites, not Uber.If you use the same password for Uber as you do on a site that gets hacked, the hackers can also gain access to your Uber account. Never use the same password on more than one site or service.;
, Security experts recommend a password that is at least 12-15 characters.You should also use a mixture of upper- and lower-case letters, numbers, and symbols in your password, and try to avoid words that are found in the dictionary.
 If a hacker gains access your email, they can change any of your Uber account information. Your email password should be unique and secure.


If your email provider prompts you to choose a security question for your account, pick a question with an answer that you’d never share with others.
Hackers can find answers to “What’s your mother’s maiden name?” and “What’s the name of your favorite sports team?” on your social media accounts.
 If your phone is ever lost or stolen, your lock-screen password can keep your data (including your Uber account) safe from prying eyes. If you don’t have a lock code or pattern set:


Android: Navigate to “Settings” > “Security” and tap “Screen Lock” to select a lock option.

iPhone: Go to “Settings” > “Touch ID & Passcode” and tap “Turn Passcode On.” Follow the prompts to set a passcode.
 While it may seem helpful to have your difficult passwords written down on a sheet of paper, that sheet could get into the wrong hands. Keep handwritten passwords away from areas visible from doors and windows.
 People often choose weak passwords because they worry they won’t remember those that are longer and more secure. Password managers like LastPass or True Key will create and manage different secure passwords for all of your accounts.And you won’t have to memorize them—the application does all the work for you.
 Tap “History” in the Uber app to view your trips in order, beginning with the most recent trip. Make sure the list matches up with trips you’ve taken. If you see a trip you are sure you didn’t take, report it to Uber.


If you share an Uber account with a family member, check with them before reporting unauthorized trips. Trips they take with your account will show up in your History.
 Uber sends a notification to your phone when a driver accepts your request, and another when the driver arrives at your pickup location.If you see one of these notifications but didn’t book a ride, your account may be hacked. If you disabled Uber notifications in the past, re-enable them now:


iPhone: Visit “Settings” > “Notifications” and then tap “Uber.” Make sure either “popup alerts” or “banner alerts” is selected.
Android: Visit “Settings” > “Sound & Notifications” and tap “View All Apps.” Select “Uber,” then make sure the slider is in the ON position.
 Log in to your online banking system frequently to monitor your transactions. Make sure your Uber charges line up with the trips in your trip history. Note that there are some cases when Uber charges you don’t recognize may be legitimate:


A charge between $5-10 could be a cancellation fee.A “pending” charge may be an authorization hold. It should void in a few days, depending on your bank’s policies., When you update your Uber account information (e.g., changing your phone number, resetting your password), Uber sends a confirmation email to the address on file. If you receive a message like this but haven’t instigated such changes, your account could be compromised.


It is possible that a hacker may send an email that appears to be from Uber but isn’t. Check the sender information to make sure the message is really from Uber before clicking any links.
Never provide any passwords or financial information over email.
 If you have a credit card you no longer use attached to your Uber account, removing it from Uber will keep that account secure if your Uber account is ever compromised.


Open the ≡ menu and select “Payment.”
Select the card you want to delete.
Click the edit (pencil) icon, then select “Delete.”

