 It's important to choose a doctor whose expertise is suited to your problem. If you don't know any doctors or psychiatrists who prescribe medication for phobias, a good way to start looking is by contacting your family practitioner doctor. She will probably be able to refer you to a trusted colleague.


Realize that medication-based options will not solve the underlying psychological issue that causes acrophobia. But, it can make life much easier by easing your anxiety and allowing you to relax.
Consider using alternative and natural medications/treatments. They could include acupuncture, meditation, or essential oils. Be sure to talk to your doctor before trying of these methods.
 Communication is key if you are seeking medication for your acrophobia. Describing your symptoms as clearly and thoroughly as possible will help your doctor make a decision regarding possible treatment options. Share your symptoms openly with your doctor and let your doctor help you.
 Not every doctor will be familiar with all of drugs that are available for treatment of acrophobia, so you may want to do your own research on these drugs. Share any concern you may have with your doctor and let your doctor provide useful feedback. Many drugs are reported to have negative side-effects. It's alright if you decide that these outweigh the benefits for you. Here are a few of the most common types of medication that your doctor might prescribe you:Antidepressants such as SSRIs or SNRIs are drugs that typically act upon and increase the levels of certain neurotransmitters responsible for regulating mood.
Benzodiazepines are fast-acting, psychoactive drugs that can be useful for short-term relief of anxiety. While effective in the short-term, benzodiazepines can be habit forming.
Beta blockers work by blocking adrenaline. This medication is mainly useful for the relief of the physical symptoms of anxiety, such as trembling or rapid heartbeat., Though the cause of acrophobia isn't entirely understood, research has suggested it may be related to the way the body interprets visual and spatial stimuli from the vestibular system and eyes. For some sufferers, acrophobia may come from an inability to perceive visual and spatial cues at great heights, where the importance of such information is heightened. This may lead sufferers to feel disoriented or dizzy and incorrectly judge the positions of their own appendages. In this case, acrophobia may have a physiological cause, rather than a psychological one, so talk to your doctor. You may be referred to a medical specialist who can give you insight into physical causes of your fear.
 In some cases, especially if traditional treatments aren't working, you might want to look into approaches that have been labeled “alternative,” “complementary” or “integrative.” These approaches are not for everyone, but they have been shown to be effective under certain conditions. These can include forms of treatment as diverse as acupuncture, mind-body centering exercises that increase the relaxation response, guided imagery to engage the mind in the healing process, and/or eye movement desensitization and reprocessing biofeedback.As with most practices, it’s always a good idea to consult a trusted physician before beginning any form of intensive practice.

