 You will need a high-quality photo for your profile picture, promotional photos, an "elevator pitch" that sums up the event and people with already established Facebook pages who can act as "administrators.";
, People use the Fan Pages, Group Pages and the Event application, depending upon their event. Choose 1 or more of the following according to the type of event you are throwing:


Set up a Fan Page if you are throwing a large or annual event. This page is important if you want the event to be considered unique and grow a following over months or years. This is also a good plan if it is a charity or memorial event. Fan Pages have access to applications and they are great for sharing and posting. People become fans and then they can post and add content to your wall.
Set up a Group Page if the event is exclusive. The Group Page is linked to an individual, so the individual must have some clout and a lot of friends to gather a lot of members. Instead of becoming a fan by hitting a "Like" button, people must choose to become members. Group Pages cannot use applications so you cannot use the Facebook Event application. This is best for an individual starting a Book Club or member-oriented group, rather than a large event. However, it may be great as a promotional tool for a DJ or popular promoter because you can message up to 5,000 at 1 time.
The Facebook Event application allows individuals, Fan Pages, Charity Pages and Business Pages to create individual event listings and invite their followers to partake. The followers can then invite more people if it is a public event. This application should be used in conjunction with a Fan Page. It is also recommended if you are a business or charity that has a lot of events in their calendar year. It is more important that you focus your efforts on getting followers or fans to your Fan or Business Page and then use the application to market each event individually and invite people to participate.
 If you are going to use a Group Page, you can do this from your personal Facebook account. At Facebook.com, click on the link that says "Create a page for a celebrity, band or business," below the green "Sign Up" button.


The Facebook Page will ask you to choose a type of Fan Page, such as business or place, corporation or institution, celebrity, brand or product, or cause or community. Follow the directions to upload your logo or profile picture and be as specific as possible with your info. Once you have completed these steps, you can begin using applications, such as the photo album and event applications.
Post links to this Fan Page on websites, email blasts and printed materials. Put a "Like us on Facebook" button wherever it is available. Many websites, blogs and email creation programs already include this as an option. Also, post your page link on printed materials.
 Post links to news stories, announce people who will be featured, or start discussion threads. You ideally want to create a community around the event that encourages people to engage, post on your wall and invite other friends.
 Click on the "Edit Page" button in the upper right hand corner. Click on the tab that says "Manage Admins" in the left hand column.

