 When painting, you'll likely need several hues of red. You can create most hues by combining pure red with other colors.


At minimum, you should have red, yellow, blue, orange, violet, green, black, and white paints. Try to choose paints that are as close to the pure hue as possible for each color.
 Squeeze a small dot of red paint onto your painting palette. Use a paintbrush to transfer a stroke of this paint onto the middle of some scrap paper.


Take a good look at the red streak. This will be your original sample, and you should compare it to the other reds you mix throughout the rest of the process.
 Squeeze two more spots of red paint onto the palette. Add a small amount of yellow to one spot and a small amount of blue to the other.


For either addition, work in vary small amounts and mix them in until no streaks remain. Adding too much of either color can alter the red too drastically and change it into another hue.
Paint a line of orange-red (made with the yellow) to one side of your original red streak. Paint a line of violet-red (made with blue) to the other side of the original red streak. Compare the different hues.
 Start with two fresh spots of red paint. Add orange paint to one and violet paint to the other.


You should be able to mix the two colors in equal parts and still make a red hue, but the red element will be stronger if you use a little less of the secondary color (orange or violet).
Paint a line of your new orange-red next to the previous orange-red. Paint a line of your new violet-red next to the previous violet-red. Compare these new hues to their counterparts and to the original red sample.
 Squeeze fresh red onto the palette and mix in a very small amount of green. The red should change into a reddish-brown.It's best to start with small dots of green. If desired, you can gradually add more green in small increments to further alter the hue. Adding too much will create brown or gray-brown paint, however.Paint a streak of your new color onto the paper, somewhere near the original red sample. Compare the colors.
 Add a little white to fresh red paint and a little black to another dab of fresh red. Mix thoroughly.


Paint a streak of the darkened red near the red-brown sample and compare them; both colors should be dark, but the red-brown sample should have a notable brown element, while the darkened red should not.
Paint a streak of the lightened red onto the paper, too. Compare the tint with the other samples.

