 Open a new web browser tab or window and visit google.com/calendar/. If you’re not signed in yet, provide your Gmail email address and password in the fields given, then click “Sign in.”;
, Two options will be displayed in this menu: “Create new calendar” and “Settings.”

,, Enter the name of the calendar in the “Calendar name” text field. Use a name that relates the purpose of the calendar’s purpose. For example: Project Implementation Calendar.
 In the Description text field, add a little more information about the calendar. You can add information that tells more about the calendar, such as “Software project implementation for XYZ Company for year 2015.”

, In the location field, type your current location.
 Use the drop-down menu to choose the correct timezone from the list.
 If you want your calendar to be found by people in Google search results, check the box under “Make this calendar public.” Otherwise, skip this step.
 Your calendar will be created, and you will be taken back to the Google Calendar home page. The calendar you created will be found under the My Calendars section on the left side of the page.


The calendar you have made is only visible to you (individual calendar). Any event you create on this calendar will only be visible to you. If you want to use this calendar with a group of people, you need to share it. After sharing it, any event you create on it will not only be viewable by yourself but also by people you have added.
 Click “My Calendars” on the left side of the page. The calendar you have created will be listed on the page.
 Click the drop-down arrow next to the calendar you created. A number of options will be displayed.
, On the text field under “Person,” type the email address of the person to share the calendar with.
 Under “Permission settings,” pick the appropriate permission you want to give that particular person.


The first option is “Make changes and manage sharing.” This means the person you added can also share the calendar..
The second option is “Make changes to events.” This allows the person to have the right of editing the event you add. He or she will not be able to share the calendar.
The third option is “See all event details.” This is the most recommended right to give. It is selected by default. Here, a user is only able to view the calendar details, and is not allowed to make changes
To add another person, click the “Add person” button right in front of Permission settings. You can then set the Permission settings for additional people.
 An email will then be sent to the people you added to notify them. They will now be able to view any event you add.
 Click “My Calendars” on the left side of the page. The calendar you have created will be listed on the page.
 Click the drop-down arrow of the calendar you created.
, Just click the words “Untitled event” in the field and type in the name for the event (e.g., “Project Deadline”).
 Immediately below the “Title” field is the “Date” fields. Here you will see the “Start Date and Time” as well as the “End Date and Time” of the event. Pick the dates and times of the event in these fields.
 In the “Where” field below the date and time, enter the location where the event will take place.
 Add a little something about the event in the Description field below “Where” to remind you what the event is about. You can also type who is invited.
 If you want Google Calendar to email you a reminder, set notification settings in the Notification option. Under this option are 3 boxes. These boxes have drop-down menus. In the first box, select the way you want to be notified (e.g., mail or a pop-up window that appears when your computer is on and is connected to the Internet). The second and third box also contains a drop-down menu for selecting minutes, hours, days, or weeks to set a specific date and time for the notification.
 You can also choose to invite friends to the event by typing their email addresses on the “Add Guest” field. If you choose to invite friends, you have to specify their user rights, as this will basically share the event. For example, they can invite other friends, view other invited friends, or modify the event.
 The “Save” button can be found at the end of the Create Event form. Once saved, it can be viewed in the calendar.


Next to this button is “Discard.” If you want to cancel the event creation, click this instead.

