


It is common for women who want to have a natural birth to not use any type of medical interventions that would be considered artificial. In the end, it is up to you to decide if you would like any of these interventions used such as fetal monitoring, heart rate monitor, etc.
Most women use different techniques during their labor to help them cope with the pain of having a natural child birth. It sometimes helps to practice breathing exercises before hand and to include in your birth plan the type of breathing exercises you would like to use during your labor. It can also help to create a comfortable environment for when you are giving birth, such as bringing a couple things with you that remind you of home like a picture of your family or making the room more relaxing by dimming the lights.
Include things that intimidate you or scare you about birth, as these are helpful for your medical staff to know. For example, If you have a fear of large needles, including that information in your birth plan allows your caregiver to use a gentler approach when informing you about the need for needles. Although this may not seem like a necessary thing to put in your birth plan, it can really help your caregiver or your medical staff to get to know you and by doing this it can make you feel more comfortable about the entire birthing process.
 You want to understand everything that you write down so that if you are asked about it during your labor, you will know how to answer. No matter how well-meaning a friend’s suggestion about playing classical music may be, if it is not important to you, do not include it in your birth plan.
 This is important because you may not be your usual self on the day your labor begins. You want to make sure to go over the plan before this day so that everyone is on the same page. It may even be a good idea to have your caregiver or medical staff sign the birth plan so that you feel confident that they agree with your plan and will follow your specific instructions.
 Think about these different scenarios while writing your birth plan. Consider things that you may need during your labor or what to do if your labor is going slowly or if it is going faster than you may have thought it would.


Being flexible during your labor is also important. Go into your labor knowing that it is okay if you don’t get to do everything you wrote on your birth plan. Some women who have been through labor will tell you that they were able to do everything on their birth plan and that their labor went exactly as expected. Go into it knowing that this may or may not be the case for you during your labor, and be prepared to make changes as necessary.
It is also important to think about what to do if something happens that would be considered a worst case scenario. It is not pleasant to think about something bad happening during your labor, but you should consider the possibility before hand so that you know what you want done if the situation does arise.

