 Soccer is not high-scoring, but that doesn't mean it isn't exciting. Soccer is about flow, the give and take between teams as they try to figure each other out and attack weak spots while simultaneously defending their own. Soccer is much more about tension and rapid, sudden changes of pace and momentum then constant scoring. Goals are incredibly difficult to score, making each one a huge, special moment many minutes in the making.


Consider goals the culmination of a long attack -- like a battle being fought and contested in the trenches before one side makes big, successful push.
The more you understand about soccer, the more enjoyable it becomes beyond just flashy goals. Soccer is too organic, creative, and fluid to be broken down into individual plays.
 A soccer game consists of hundreds of small challenges and individual battles. It could be a wing player attempting to slice and dice a defender or a striker jockeying to win a header in the box. These individual battles, more often than not, determine the entire game. An attacker, for example, could be barely getting by his defender before getting tackled. But if you notice him/her getting more and more shots off as the game continues, you can tell he's beginning to get the upper hand. All it takes is one goal for the battle, and the game, to be decided.
 How do the individual players move, attack, and defend to aid their team. What are they doing when they don't have the ball? This is where games are won and lost, because all 11 players need to be working together no matter where the ball is.



Defenders. Do they give the other team space, or follow them everywhere? Do they stay close to home, or do they roam up on attack? A fast and attacking defender like Philip Lahm or DeAndre Yedlin is often the most exciting player on the field, winning a tackle and then taking the ball right back up the field on an attack. Weaker teams or defenders give the offense lots of time and space, waiting for a 2nd defender to join them instead of attacking on their own.

Midfielders. What do the players in the middle of the field do? This is where the tempo of the game is dictated, and they are the most important tactical players on the field. Are they going out wide or backward a lot? If so, they're likely probing for holes in the defense, sitting back and waiting for chances. Midfielders that dribble, attack, and pass forward a lot are trying to push the team forward for a goal, exposing their defenses by pressuring the other team to respond quickly to their attacks.

Attacker/Striker. Are they checking backward often, getting the ball and passing it quickly? Are they holding far up the field, using size and speed to get the ball, turn and shoot? Are they running onto passes often then putting moves and tricks on defenders to win space? An attacker is there to create havoc for the defenders, even when they don't have the ball, and these match-ups are often the most crucial.
 Managing the field on the fly is the secret weapon of a good soccer team. Passing is not always used directly to attack the goal. Rather, it is used to force the other team to move, shift, and adapt, potentially making a mistake and leaving a hole open. The basic tenet of soccer tactics is manipulating the other team to give you space in front of the goal for a shot when you're attacking, or closing down space so that they other team can't move forward when playing defense.


Notice how many balls are played to players on the run. This is because they are running into open space. They need to get the ball before a defender joins them and closes down the opening.
Is a team "bunkering in" by placing all of their defenders near their goal? This is used to prevent goals, especially if they have a lead. It can, however, lead to lots of free shots from farther out which will crack the facade of a defending team.
Watch the defense of a great team, like Italy, to see how a team masterfully controls space. You'll notice that they move as one consistent line, eliminating pockets of space in front of and behind them as a unit.
 Much like defensive patterns in football, soccer teams have general patterns for their players that greatly impact their style of play. Formations are always written from the back upwards, excluding the goalkeeper. So a 4-4-2 would mean there are 4 defenders, 4 midfielders, and 2 attackers/strikers.


The "classic" formation, a 4-4-2 is a solid, well-rounded strategy that has been used for decades. That said, it lacks in creativity and is often used for defensive or counterattack-oriented teams.
A team's formation says a lot about their strategy going forward. Do they have 1 striker and a big midfield? If so, they're likely looking to control the center of the field and run players up into space on the wings. Are they sitting back with 5 defenders? Where players are placed tells you how the team wants to attack and defend.
 Your appreciation of soccer will shoot up incredibly once you notice not only what teams or players are doing, but why. How do the tactics, match-ups, and pace of play come together in a good team? How are they attacking (along the sides of the field a lot, through the middle, by hitting big huge crosses up the field?) and how successful are they? Do all of their passes go through one player, or is everyone on the field touching the ball?


It can help to watch how the best teams in the world play a cohesive, recognizable game. Brazil is known for flash, talent, and speed. Italy is known for slower play and stalwart defense. The USA is a quick, counterattacking team that tries to make the most of it's limited chances against better teams with lightening-fast attacks.
If you watch a lot of American sports, think about each attack like a play in football. Whereas a one football team might focus on the passing game to be effective and another the running, a soccer team might rely on the wings (sides) to attack defenders and put crosses into the box or a few big players to muscle out and attack up the middle. The only difference is that soccer plays are fluid and organic, not chosen ever 15 seconds, so strategies are constantly evolving.
 They are beautiful contests marked by near misses, technical brilliance, passionate players, and non-stop, commercial free push and pull. Tactics and substitutions are dissected with chess-like precision, good teams fail to find the goal when they should have 5 goals already, and underdogs can sneak a goal in even after 85 minutes of constant pressure. Soccer is about 2-3 large climaxes in the midst of an intense game, not constant scoring, and is best enjoyed as such., The best way to catch the soccer bug is to be in the stands. You can feel the collective rise and falls of emotion from your fellow fans, see both team's tactic happening across the entire team, and you'll learn a few colorful chants in the process. Like most sports, soccer is best enjoyed in person, when you can really get swept up into the game.

