 Before you make assumptions about your love interest based on his sign, do a little investigating to see if he has the common traits of a Gemini. Talk to him about his interests, what he likes, or see if you can glean this information from social media or mutual friends. Don't just assume he fits the mold of a typical Gemini; furthermore, don't try to change yourself or be someone who you aren't because you think it's what a Gemini wants. Most people respond to honesty and authenticity — no matter what their sign is.


Geminis are considered sociable, outgoing, witty, curious, flirty, affectionate, impulsive, and like surprises.See if you can find out if your love interest has these qualities, too. Does his Instagram show that he's out socializing every night? Do you notice him being affectionate with friends? Does he Tweet funny, clever observations?;
, Geminis love to be intellectually challenged, especially in conversation. Try to engage a Gemini in a lively discussion as a form of foreplay. Many Geminis will rise to the challenge and use conversation as a way to flirt and engage with you.You can be more engaging in a conversation by using positive body language, meaning you maintain eye contact, turn your body towards the other person and keep your arms relaxed by your sides. You should also smile and nod when the Gemini is speaking to show her you are engaged.
You can also liven up your conversation by asking thoughtful questions and by being a good listener. You may also decide to tell a funny story to keep the conversation funny and light. Geminis enjoy a bit of humor, especially in conversation.
 Geminis respond well to flirting, as they enjoy feeling physically and emotionally connected to their partner. You may use conversation and tone of voice to flirt with a Gemini. You can also use body language to show your romantic interest in the Gemini.You may flirt by gently touching the Gemini's shoulder or arm during conversation. The Gemini may respond positively to sensual touching, especially if he is interested in you and consents to your touches.
You can also flirt with a Gemini over text, as Geminis tend to love conversation in any form. Be prepared to be up all night though, as once you get a Gemini talking, it can be difficult to end the conversation., Geminis pay attention to detail and will notice if you appear physically appealing. You should try appear put together and confident by dressing well and being well groomed. You may put effort into your outfit if you know you are going to be seeing the Gemini that day and style your hair or put on makeup.


You can also appear confident and alluring by carrying yourself in a certain way. Stand up straight, with your shoulders rolled back and stride around the room like you own the place. Demonstrating a high level of confidence and personality can make you more appealing to the Gemini and more likely to hold her attention among a crowd in a room.
 Turn on your social side and project your more extroverted self. Gemini's are outgoing and like to socialize, and he may be looking for someone who can keep up. Invite your Gemini to parties and gatherings, or try frequenting spots you know the Gemini goes to. Geminis tend to like to go out often, so you will have to show him you can keep up with their social schedule.Do group hang outs where you and the Gemini spend time socializing with a larger group of friends. Ask the Gemini to hang out one on one in a lively setting, like the latest hip bar or a popular restaurant. Geminis thrive off of social interaction and engagement, even in a date setting.
 Geminis are known for their love of romance but are usually more responsive to small, sentimental gestures. Surprising a Gemini with a small gift or a sweet gesture will show her you care and reinforce your affection for her.You can surprise the Gemini with a bouquet of flowers or a small box of her favorite chocolates. You can also treat the Gemini to a dinner out or bring over take out on a cold, windy night.
 Geminis are all about spontaneity and adventure. Taking a Gemini on an adventurous date will definitely please him and put him in the mood for romance. You may surprise him with an adventurous date for an added level of spontaneity, like tandem bungee jumping or whitewater rafting.This could be a surprise ride on a hot air balloon or a carriage ride through the park. You may also take the Gemini on a date to his favorite spot in the city or to a cozy restaurant you discovered in a new neighborhood.
You may also keep the date interesting and challenging by doing something together you know the Gemini will enjoy, such as going on a hike together if you know the Gemini is into the outdoors or taking a boat ride together if you know the Gemini enjoys being by the water.
 Once you have attracted the Gemini, you should show off your playful side and let her chase you a little. Geminis enjoy a challenge, especially a romantic challenge, and will usually respond well to chasing after someone they find attractive.Make sure you give the Gemini your full attention and work hard to get her interested. Once you seem to have her interest, you should pull back a little. This will leave the Gemini intrigued and she will likely seek you out for attention.
Keep in mind, though, that playing games like this can turn some people off or can be confusing or hurtful. Don't pull back too far or give her the cold shoulder if you do this — try just being a little less available than you were before.

