 Even if there is a clear will and not much to work out after a death, recognize that your family has still lost an important member. Don’t try to rush through the process. Give yourself and your family time to grieve and support each other through this loss.
 You may already know if there is an antique or collectible item in the house. However, even if you know your mom’s china cabinet has plates from the 18th century, you may not know its value. There are many options to have items appraised, so it is important to do a little research before making decisions.After you have a list of the items and their values divide the total among the family members involved.


Professional appraisers. There are certified professionals to appraise almost any item, the Appraisers Association of Americaand the International Society of Appraisersare two respected organizations look into. The benefit of a professional appraiser is, since they are not allowed to buy item they appraise, you are more likely to be given a fair market value for your items.
Price guide books. For many collectable items there are respected books you can purchase to help you self-assess the price of your items. If your dad had a stamp or baseball collection, a guidebook can help you itemize and roughly price the collection.
Online appraisals. There are websites where you can upload photos and pay to have items appraised. While these websites are not able to authenticate, they can be helpful in giving a value to your items. Just be careful to do your research into the credibility before paying for any online services.
 As you go through the items keep a list of the value each member chooses, subtracting it from their total allocated amount. Take turns choosing items until all items are distributed.


Age order. Take turns choosing from oldest to youngest, and then youngest to oldest.
Shake dice. Each family member rolls a pair of dice. Choose highest to lowest roll, then lowest to highest roll. Then roll again and repeat.Draw straws. Number straws, one for each family member, then take turns drawing. Choose heirlooms from highest to lowest, then lowest to highest, and repeat.
 Any items that a family member expresses interest in will be added to the auction list.


Any items that are not on anyone’s list are immediately put aside and not used in the auction.
Give each sibling equal amounts of “money.” Use pennies, popsicle sticks, monopoly money, etc. to use during the “auction.” Read over the list of items that will be available during the auction so everyone can plan how they might want to spend their money. Remind family members that they only have a set amount to work and to bid wisely.
Auction off each item. Siblings may bid on their most wanted heirlooms until their “money” is gone., One way to avoid arguments over who gets what is to simply sell or donate the heirlooms. Let each member pick one or two mementos, then have a yard sale or use an auction house to sell the remaining items. Distribute the profits from the sale according to the total allocated amount for each family member.,, Once the items are divided it is final. No arguing or holding grudges. Remember your relationships with your family is the most important part.