 You may be able to narrow down the focus for your picture book by focusing a specific genre. You may decide to focus on the fantasy or fairy tale genre. Or you may go for the historical fiction, mystery, science fiction, or humor genre. Once you have chosen a genre, you may then start to create other elements of your story.Once you choose a genre, it may also help you to narrow down the setting or characters in the story. A science fiction picture book may be set on a fictional planet. A historical fiction book may have a historical figure like Amelia Earhart or Louis Armstrong as a main character.
Keep in mind you can use the horror genre for your children’s picture book. But you should try to have a humorous take on horror or only use very mild, non-graphic horror elements in your story so it is age appropriate.
 Many children’s picture books use the linked plot structure or “a series of events” that are strung together. You may decide to use the linked plot structure to order the events in your story and then fill in any blanks or gaps as you go along.For example, you may string together a series of small episodes that involve Pinky the Cheetah. You may start with an episode that shows how Pinky was born and who her parents are. You could then add on episodes about Pinky’s experience at cheetah school and end with an episode about Pinky trying to make friends.
 This plot structure is also used often in children’s picture book ideas, especially in the fairy tale genre. In this structure, the main character wishes for something and receives it by the end of the story. The main character may also end up receiving something they did not expect, but end up appreciating it anyway.This type of plot structure is contrasted by the “purpose achieved” plot structure. In this structure, your main character struggles against the odds to achieve a goal.
For example, maybe Pinky the Cheetah struggles to keep up with the other cheetahs on the track and field team. In the end she achieves her goal of finishing a race first, despite the odds.
 It may also help you to generate ideas and a sense of plot by starting with a strong ending idea first and working backwards. Creating a satisfying ending for your picture book may be one of the more difficult things to achieve. Once you have this, you may then be able to easily fill in the rest of the story.For example, maybe you have an image in your mind of Pinky the Cheetah standing in front of her bedroom mirror, smiling at the pink spots on her body. You may then work backwards to create the events and moments that lead up to the acceptance of her appearance.

