 Visit a pet store to buy your dog puzzle toys and chews to keep it busy and out of trouble. Puzzle toys are hollow toys to fill with treats, which your dog must work to get at for at least a few hours. Chews will also appease your dog’s natural instinct to chew things, which will make it less likely to get into poisonous household items.Opt for dental chews like Nylabone, which will clean your dog’s teeth and gums while it chews them.
 Note that many household plants are poisonous to dogs, so be careful before purchasing any for your home. Visit the Humane Society website at http://www.humanesociety.org/assets/pdfs/pets/poisonous_plants.pdf for a comprehensive list of common plants that might be toxic to your pet (e.g. poinsettia and elephant's ear plants).Opt instead for a plant proven not to be poisonous to dogs, such as:Lemon button ferns
Spider plants
Areca palms
Baby rubber plants
Ponytail palms

, Many commercial cleaning products contain chemicals that can be harmful to your pet, even just by inhalation. To keep your pet safe and healthy, make your own cleaning products using non-toxic ingredients like baking soda, lemon, vinegar, and hydrogen peroxide. Using homemade cleaners will also save you money on cleaning supplies.For instance, mix 3 cups of warm water with 2 tbsp. of lemon juice and 2 tbsp. of baking soda for an all-purpose cleaner.
 To keep your dog out of danger, make sure that it stays well-behaved. Your pet should respond to the basic five commands: "Sit”, "Stay", "Lay down”, ”Heel”, and "Come here”, and it should obey promptly when given them. If you and your dog need to review these steps, visit the American Kennel Club website at http://www.akc.org/content/dog-training/articles/teach-your-puppy-these-5-basic-commands/ for more in-depth training information and helpful videos.
 If your dog does not behave while you are out of the house, prevent dangerous misbehaviour by crating it during your absence. Crate training is meant to regulate your dog’s behaviour and should not be treated as a punishment. Continue crating your dog when you go out until you see signs that you can trust it to behave while alone in the house (e.g. it seems calmer and more obedient).

