 Instead of giving into your needy dog by coddling or holding then when they whine, interact with them by playing with them. Wait until a time when they are not whining or barking for your attention, then engage with them.Try playing fetch, running together, or playing tug-of-war.
You should do this every day. However, you don't have to play with them all day, every day. Doing this may make them more needy. Instead, have structured time each day for playing with your dog.;
, When you train your dog, you work on forming a bond with them. Training also makes it so your dog doesn't frustrate you, which improves the relationship between the two of you.If you train your dog, they have greater freedom to do things with you and your family. They can stay in the room when you eat, go off leash, or go into public with you.
 You can move beyond basic training techniques by teaching your dog tricks. Work on teaching the dog one or two fun tricks. It helps teach your dog obedience and forms a bond between the two of your since you are working together.For example, you can teach your dog how to high five, play dead, or roll over.
 Another way to bond with your dog is to pet them. However, needy dogs need to be given boundaries with their petting. Since needy dogs would want to be in your lap all the time with your touching them, make sure to pet your dog on your terms.For example, don’t pet your dog to stop them whining or barking. This reinforces bad behavior. Instead, wait until your dog is behaving in a manner you want to reinforce. Then, go over to them and pet them, or call them to you and pet them.
Keep your dog on a leash around new people. If they act aggressive, try to socialize them more slowly.
 Spending time with your dog just you and them can be a great bonding experience. However, with a needy dog, you need to set boundaries with them during your quiet time. Instead of letting your dog crawl up right in your lap or sleep on your bed, let them in the room, but keep your distance.For example, you can make your dog lay on the floor by your feet or over to the side on their bed. Let them sleep on a bed beside your bed. You may also let them sleep on the floor near you.

