 Because you’ll be leaving your hair down, it’s important to brush your hair so it looks neat and smooth. Use your favorite brush or comb to remove any tangles and ready your hair for styling.








If your hair is curly, use a wide tooth comb if you need to detangle or remove knots. Using a brush can cause frizz for curly locks.
With curly hair, you have an easier time braiding the hair if it's damp. Style your hair before it's dried completely after you wash it or mist it lightly with water from a spray bottle if it's dry to start with.
If your hair is prone to frizz, you may want to work a smoothing serum or hair oil through it before styling.;
, When you’re creating a simple accent braid, you can place it wherever you like. The most common spot for the braid is on one side of your hair, so gather a small section that’s approximately 1- to 2-inches wide (2.5- to 5-cm) in the area where you wish to place the braid.








You can gather a small section of hair right beside your face on either side or take a section that’s a little further back.
You don’t necessarily have to choose a section of hair from the side of your head. An accent braid can look great peeking out from the lower section of your hair at the back too.
You can make your accent braid as wide or narrow as you’d like. You may want to experiment with different sized braids to see what works best with your hair type and texture.
If you want your accent braid to really stand out, consider using color to spice it up. Before you braid the hair, color it with hair chalk. You can also add a small clip-on hair extension in a bold color and braid it instead of your own hair.
 Once you’ve chosen the location and size for the section of hair, create a three-strand braid. Divide the section of hair into three smaller sections, and cross the outside pieces over the center piece, alternating sides each time. Use a hair elastic that’s similar in color to your hair to secure the braid.








If you prefer, you can create a two strand braid by dividing the section into two smaller sections and crossing them over one another until you reach the end of the hair. Give the braid extra flair by twirling the two sections before starting the braid.
A fishtail braid or five strand braid can also work well as a simple accent braid.
After you've created the braid, give it a spritz with hairspray to keep it in place all day.
If an elastic isn't strong enough to secure your braid, you can slip a bobby pin or two into the braid around the elastic to keep it in place.
You can also substitute a clip for the elastic if you prefer.

