 If you have a choice of where you park, choose something distinctive, such as a tree or lamppost, or the entrance of a particular store.;
, If there is any space left, it will be at the far edges of the lot, furthest from the building. If you park there, you will have fewer other cars around you obscuring your view.


Try to park on the end of a row or near a small car, motorcycle spot, ramp, or something else that's not a full sized parking space. It will be harder to find your car if it's hidden behind a large van or SUV by the time you return. These odd spaces can also help to serve as landmarks.
 In places like theme parks, often there are landmarks (signs, towers, lights, etc.) to help you remember where you've parked. Many parking structures mark floors, sections and even spaces. If you have cues like these, note them down and take the note with you, especially if you will be spending a long time inside wherever you are going.
 If you are about to enter a building, see if you can remember which row you were in, so afterward, all you have to do is walk down that row. If the rows are not marked, with numbers or letters, look for other landmarks: two rows over from the left-hand entrance and about two thirds of the way down the row.
 If you don't write it down, at least state out loud where you are parking, right as you pull in to park there. "I am now parking midway down the row directly under the sign for the beauty parlor." Putting it into words will remind you and any passengers to be conscious of your location.


When you go in to the store, note which department that you came in (e.g. furniture department, shoe department, etc). That little bit of extra attention to that detail will at least get you out of the right side of the building.
Go one further and make up a story or jingle about where you parked. Set your parking space to music. If it's a bad or silly tune, all the better. You'll be less likely to forget.
 Chances are you have a scrap of paper in your purse or pocket. You can also put a note in your phone or even text the information to yourself.
 Do you carry a digital camera or cell phone with a camera in it? Photograph your parked car with identifying landmarks, especially if you are in an unfamiliar place. It's an instant reminder, and you can delete the photo when you no longer need it.
 If you drive a silver Honda, you already know that lots of other people do, too. A colorful ribbon, flag, or antenna ball, bumper sticker, license plate frame, or even interior features such as seat covers or a stuffed animal in the back window can help you pick yours out of a crowd. If you want to use an antenna ornament, make sure your antenna is fixed.
 If you have a remote key fob that sets your alarm or horn off, try pressing it. Remember that most don't have a very good range. Be prepared to turn your alarm off again promptly, and don't do this in the middle of the night if there are residences around where people might be disturbed.
 Start walking up and down the rows, scanning for your car. Start at one edge of the area where you think it might be and be systematic about it.
 You can download apps that use your phone's GPS record your location and then lead you back to your car.
