 Being an eclectic spirit means having a lot of interests, or finding beauty in items/ thoughts/ experiences that are classically not appreciated. This can run the gamut. You can branch out by studying a subject that is not widely studied amongst your friends. And of that subject, be sure to dig deeply. If you are studying poetry, for example, maybe read the works by newer, or less famous, authors, too. Or perhaps you are involved in a particular activity that sets you apart from the rest, but you have to remember that you have to love this activity yourself, and you're not just participating in it because you want to be 'eccentric/eclectic'.;
, If you love writing, think of starting your own library of small works or publications of up-and-rising authors, or starting a collection of writing instruments that you can also make use of in your daily life, that you deeply appreciate. Even if you alone appreciate the items. That is the essence of eccentricity, it seems. The eccentric will act in a genuine manner - not dismayed by the actions of those around her/him. An eclectic will typically have a multitude of interests, and will be in constant reflection on these items, experiences, features of life. An eccentric eclectic will then typically have a vast and sundry array of interests, but will not camouflage/ hide her interests. She will live authentically.
 Study everything. Try to see the relationships between all life, and the relationship between studies or topics that superficially seem very far removed. The way that I've acquired new interests, often, has been in 'linking' a new subject with an older subject that already fascinated me.
 Be true to your own person. You can be highly eclectic and not dramatic. You can be eccentric in how you live - by living authentically - without acting. Eccentricity is so rare, partly, because most people are hiding who they are, or acting a role. Don't worry about appearing more or less eccentric or eclectic. Be open to new experiences (but don't necessarily 'embrace' everything!) Be open to the possibility of what a new experience will bring to your life, without necessarily HAVING to engage in this new way of being. For example, if a friend wants you to try yoga, try asking yourself "why? should I? I might like it" - don't necessarily say "no" off the hop. At the same time, if - and only after you've given a topic some thought - do not want to do something, don't force yourself to do it.
 Know the people who you associate with - or try to get to know them. And don't model behaviour and/or try to be like someone, no matter how clever, eclectic or 'open' if he/ she seems cruel or cutting. There is, for example, oftentimes huge debates over the subject of art - and what should be allowed in art, be allowed by an artist. One artist was found starving dogs for performance art. Now, despite the fact that this is a very 'different' way of trying to be artistic, the plain fact of the matter is that if you care AT ALL about animals, this story is horrifying. So it doesn't matter how unique, cutting edge, etc someone/ or something is... If it doesn't sit right in your soul, AVOID going down that path.
 It is GREAT to develop new interests and be open to new experiences, but this doesn't mean you have to lose yourself, or that your personality has to change. If you are introverted and often a little shy, you can try to summon up a little courage and do something differently - say, go to an art gallery opening, or breach a conversation with a friendly looking peer. This does not mean that your essence is changing. If anything, by learning new stuff, reading more and LIVING more, you are simply going to learn more about yourself, too. Maybe the truest part of you...was simply hidden.
 They change so quickly, and what makes someone else's sense of colour/ style etc. more important - more valid - than your own?? If you love something, pursue it, and create your own fashion. A great way to do this is to go to thrift stores, and also learn how to make alterations with a sewing machine. Thrift stores carry such a wide array of styles in clothing, that you experiment. And because the prices are usually far lower - a 'mistake' purchase at a thrift store will cost far less than one made at a high end boutique, or even the mall.
 Also, being eclectic doesn't mean that your style has to clash. On the contrary! The basis of eclecticism is that if something is very durable, and of high quality, well proportioned lines and a beautiful form - it will go with other well designed, beautiful items. Eclecticism doesn't mean going for odd pieces and hoping for the best. It means being appreciative of the beauty that has existed in various forms throughout history, and not ignoring or devaluing past contributions simply because they are of the past.
 The heart of an eccentric person is childlike. Not childish. An eccentric personality will be attracted to the natural splendor, just as is a small person, a child, before he or she becomes aware that others are watching, and tries to act differently. At the heart of an eccentric being is an egoless being. This is not the same thing as having no personality. Simply...not being egoistic - not being so full of yourself, as most adults are, that every word you speak is measured, and compared to the words of others. Or every purchase you make is with another person in mind, rather than yourself. If you are buying yourself an item of clothing - go with what you love, not what others TELL you THEY love. If someone else loves your style - terrific! That's great. Flattering, yes? But don't change your style to accommodate a parent, sibling, uber-controlling boyfriend etc.
 There are times, of course, when people who care about us will want to 'help' us. Maybe they can see that we are headed down a self destructive path, for example, and want to offer advice. It is always smart to listen, to question. But if someone has a history of trying to change you into a different person, simply because they hold an idealized form of who you are or could be - and the changes would be entirely superficial - try not to be swayed. Sometimes parents want their children to always remain "cute" or dependent. This is understandable, but not the best for YOU and your personal growth.


If there is a character that you love, whose fashion style you love etc. - look to her as a model for ideas. This is not stealing. Very often you will find that you do not like a style of dress on your own being as much as you like it on the character. You may be totally infatuated, even, with a character and may aim to 'change' yourself to be more like the character. To a point, this isn't really harmful, because if there behavior is in sync with what you love and how you'd like to be (say, more confident, or more outspoken, or more carefree etc.) then it possibly is a positive change. But remember - you don't have to change every aspect of your behavior to have improvement. If you have traits that are holding you back, then work on those, but don't idolize another for being 'better' than you. A more confident person is not better than you, simply because she or he is more confident. Everyone has problems, or areas of their life on which they need to work. No one is perfect.
 Made truer to your own person. Take personality quizzes on-line, such as the Kiersey or the Myers Briggs Personality Inventory or the Enneagram to learn more about your personality (but remember - you are much more than a 'type'). Look at ordinary objects in a new light. When is an old, mucky rain boot from your childhood NOT an object for the trash bin? When it can be made into a potter for vine plants! (Eccentric people were probably the first recyclers - they valued what others saw, often, as 'junk' and breathed new life into that which as often rejected).
 If you were a sensitive, warm, giving child - you probably are much like that, in essence, as an adolescent or an adult. Or what to be. But increased pressures such as school and work can make it hard for our real being to be known. Stress destroys. Instead, do something in accordance with how you - as a child - would have acted or given or been. If you have an old toy from childhood, that meant a lot to you, and that won't break your heart if you give it away - then give it away to someone, say a little child - that has nothing or needs the pick me up. Sometimes 'old' or worn objects, that obviously mean something to us - will then be seen as extra special, especially if the child is the recipient of the gift. A gift doesn't have to be 'new' or 'sterile' or in fresh packaging to be a gift, or to be meaningful.


Since children are often the most eccentric, and eclectic - spend extra time with your younger siblings, younger cousins etc. Read them stories, and ask them questions. Ask them all sorts of questions, and listen to their different replies. They will often provide as the muse for change in your life. If you have no young siblings, no younger cousins etc., but are a young adult - think of becoming a mentor or helping out. If you are a teen, and too young to mentor - think of volunteering at a pound or local animal shelter. Animals are very authentic beings - they do what they want, according to their personality and take on things, and can be quite healing.
 Write anything you want! The more you write, the more you will crave to write. Free association writing is a neat exercise you can try as well.
 A trip to the library. Changing how you take your coffee - adding brown sugar instead of Splenda, getting up early enough to see the sun rise, developing your own morning prayer or meditation ritual that only YOU know about, going to various churches or synagogues - even if you are an atheist - for a new, fresh take on being alive, watching clouds. In essence - being random!. Remember, what makes you different makes you beautiful.

