 You might already know about a girl scout troop at your school or a community center. Maybe you even have friends in one! If you can't find a troop, contact the local Girl Scout Council in your area. They should be able to help direct you to any troops within your city, or even a city or two over. You can find your local council on the Girl Scouts website: https://www.girlscouts.org/en/about-girl-scouts/join/council-finder.html


If your council can't help you, try calling the national line at 1-800-478-7248.
If neither of these works, you may be able to search the Craigslist for your area under Community.;
, This is a good way to get an idea of how often the troops in your area meet and what they do together. For example, some troops may be more focused on outdoor activities like camping, while other troops are all about arts and crafts. Though every troop should be involved in a mix of everything, the interests of the girls in the troops are likely to determine most of the activities.


Talking to your friends is also a great way to find out how fun it can be in a troop.
If you don’t have any friends in Girl Scouts, try asking around with other classmates. Chances are there are one or two girls in your grade that are involved.
 If you still feel unsure about whether or not you want to join after talking to people, going to a meeting is a great way to get an idea of what being in a troop would be like. Ask your friends if you can tag along with them - if it’s okay with their troop leader, of course. You can also search the Girl Scouts website for troops in your area and contact a troop leader that way.


When contacting a troop leader, simply say “Hi, my name is Jane Doe and I’m interested in joining a Girl Scout troop. I was wondering if I would be able to sit-in on one of your troop meetings?”
Remember every troop is different, so if you have a bad experience sitting in on one troop, don’t get discouraged! Instead, try joining up with a different troop for a meeting and go from there.
 Most Girl Scout troops meet once a week or once a month, and in between these meetings they also do other activities like selling cookies, earning badges, and camping. Though earning badges is an activity you can also do on your own, making sure you have time for regular meetings and other extracurriculars with your troop is important., Though you can join Girl Scouts at any age, even as an adult, most Girl Scouts are between 5 and 18 years old. Depending on your age, you will be assigned a specific level. Currently, there are 5 main levels in Girl Scouts - Daisy, Brownie, Junior, Cadette, and Senior. However, recently there was a 6th level added called Ambassadors.Moving up in level is usually based on grade. For example, girls in Kindergarten and 1st grade are Daisies, while girls in 2nd and 3rd grade might be Brownies.
Each level does the same sorts of activities, however, it usually isn’t until they are Juniors that Girl Scouts begin to go camping.
 There are a couple of different ways to join a troop. For example, some schools have a Girl Scout troop directly affiliated with them. These are often run by a parent whose child is in the school. If there isn’t a troop connected to your school, you can contact the Girl Scout Council in your area to find all the currently operating troops.


To contact the Girl Scout Council, simply go online to the Girl Scout website, click Join Now, enter your zip code, and voila! They should direct you to your local council who will help you find a troop., Once you’ve found a troop you will have to pay the annual fee to join. This should only be $25 for girls and adults alike. However, there are additional costs for activities like camping, going to museums, and purchasing sashes, vests, or tunics - which are part of the uniform.If you are worried about affording the annual fees or extra costs, you can ask your troop leader about SHARE, an official Girl Scout organization that helps to cover these costs., The last step in becoming a Girl Scout is taking the Girl Scout pledge and accepting the Girl Scout law. The Girl Scout pledge states, “On my honor, I will try: to serve God and my country, to help people at all times, and to live by the Girl Scout law.” When saying this, you should also hold up three fingers on your left hand in the Girl Scout salute., Most people know Girl Scouts because of their cookies, which are sold by troops seasonally. The money from these cookies helps fund activities and events for every troop. Every troop has a different date and time for cookie sales, which depends on their location. The purpose of selling cookies, however, is for more than just profits. As a Girl Scout participating in cookie sales you will learn goal setting, decision making, money management, people skills, and business ethics., You can do this with your troop or on your own. The purpose of earning badges is to follow your interests and learn new things. For example, if you’re into inventing new things, cooking, or painting, there’s a badge for you. You can find a book of the different types of badges online for every level of Girl Scouts. You can even choose your own activity, find a teacher, and design your own badge for it. To earn a badge, simply decide on an activity you'd like to pursue, then look at the badge book for your level (i.e. Daisy, Brownie, or Junior) and find one that fits your interests. The book will then tell you what steps to follow to complete the requirements to earn your badge.For example, as a Cadette you can earn a Night Owl badge which requires you to explore the outdoors after hours. To earn this badge you have to meet people who work at night and hold a nighttime party. Then, upon proof of completion, you can add this badge to your sash or vest.
 Outside of spending weekly or monthly meetings with your troop, going camping is a great way to make new friends and experience new things. Even if you aren’t going with your troop, you can attend a Girl Scout camp all on your own. At camp, you’ll go on nature walks, play games, make arts and crafts, and learn useful skills like how to build a campfire, fish, pitch a tent, go horseback riding, and even go canoeing.


There are different kinds of camps as well, for example, day camps, weekend camps, and weekly camps.

