 Most class grades are comprised of homework, participation, and test scores. In addition to better test scores, good study habits require good time management, organization, and attention to detail. These things will help you in all aspects of your classes. Have a goal. Studying for a test can be overwhelming if you don’t have a plan and a clear place to start. Decide ahead of time how long you plan to study, and how much information you want to cover in each study session. Read ahead. Before you come to class, read the material that will be covered. This will give you a chance to ask questions in class about anything you didn’t already understand.
Highlight important information as you read, so you can go back and focus on the highlighted material when you’re studying.
Make flash cards. These are especially good for studying foreign languages, science, or other subjects that focus on vocabulary words. Write the word on one side of the card, and the definition on the other. As you flip to a new word, give the definition. If you don’t know one, put it in a separate pile and go back to focus on that pile afterward.
Do practice problems. Math problems require repetition. Do as many as you can! You can find them in the back of your textbook, online, or you can ask your instructor to provide additional practice problems.
 Do not miss class unless it is an emergency, and do not disrupt the class by showing up late. Your instructor is paid to teach you—he can’t do that if you’re not there In addition, avoid bragging about your perfect attendance record!, Know-it-alls are often so busy talking that they don’t listen, and end up missing out on the most basic of instructions. Pay close attention to what the instructor is asking you to do, and follow those instructions closely. This will help you to score better on tests and other coursework, and reduce the amount of time you’ll need to spend fixing your errors. , You're working hard, and it is likely noticeable to others. You don't need to hide your test scores, but you also don't need to point out your success to others--especially anyone who might be struggling with their own grades.

