 Before you apply makeup, whether it’s a little or a lot, you should first apply primer. Primer creates a smooth, even base for your makeup. It helps your makeup adhere, thus keeping it from smudging or “melting” later on. Put a bit on your fingertip, and then blend it across your eyelid and around the rest of your eye. This will ensure your unicorn eyeliner stays in place!








If you are applying makeup to the rest of your face, apply primer to the rest of your face as well.;
, If you choose to wear foundation and concealer, apply it before starting on your eyes. Face makeup is often done after the eye makeup is applied, but you risk messing up the intricate unicorn horn if you do it afterwards. Apply your face products however you like, and make sure to set any liquid products with a powder.
 You don’t need to wear eye shadow with your unicorn eyeliner, but you certainly can. If you plan on wearing it, you need to apply it before doing your eyeliner. Because your eyeliner is white, a dark color eye shadow is your best choice. Glittery and shimmery eye shadows certainly add to the imaginative look you are going for!







, For this look, you will need to use white liquid eyeliner. By using liquid eyeliner, you’ll be able to create the very precise, pigmented line that you want. Carefully apply your liquid eyeliner on your top lash line, from the inner corner of your eye to the outer corner. The line should gradually thicken as it moves outwards.
 Starting at the outer corner of your eye, begin extending the same white liner, as if you were doing winged eyeliner. However instead of creating a stick straight line, softly curve the line a few times. Then, lighten up pressure on the liquid eyeliner and finish the “horn” with a sharp point.








You can also create the horn backwards, starting by creating a point. With this method, you can ensure that your horn is the exact length you want, by putting its ending point down first. Then, add the curvy line to connect the point and the outer corner of your eye.
This look might take some practice! If you aren’t experienced with liquid liner, you may need to practice a few times. Soon, you will be applying liquid liner like a pro.
 This is the detail that will turn your curvy eyeliner into a unicorn horn. You will be using your pastel liquid eyeliner to help create the coiled look of a unicorn horn. Begin slightly above the white eyeliner at the corner of your eye. If your white eyeliner begins with a curve going upwards, you will begin your colored eyeliner with a curve going downwards. Continue curving the colored line in the opposite direction as the white. When you are finished, the white line and the colored line should appear intertwined.








The trick to applying the second color eyeliner is to make sure you don’t create a curvy line layering directly on top of the white curvy line. Instead, you want to create this line so that it alternates going on top of the white line and then “behind” the white line.
To make your colored eyeliner appear on top of the white, apply the liner on top of the white. To make it look like it’s going behind it, pick it up as you go over the white liner, so that the line looks like it’s hidden behind the white line. The colored eyeliner should alternate every time it crosses paths with the white eyeliner.
 After you’ve created the second, intertwined curvy line in your colored eyeliner, it needs to meet in a point with the white. Don’t worry if the colored eyeliner is above or below the white. Just make sure they come together to create a crisp, sharp point. After all, you’ve probably never seen a unicorn with a dull horn!







, Once your eyeliner is perfected (and totally dry!), it’s time to add a bit of drama to your lashes. First, curl your lashes with an eyelash curler. Bring it to the base of your lashes and clamp down, holding it for about five seconds. Release, and then do the same thing in the center of your lashes and the tip of your lashes.









Apply your mascara. After your lashes are curled, apply your favorite mascara. Start at the base of your lashes, gently wiggling the wand as you brush product on your lashes to the tip. For extra volume, you can apply a second or even third coat.
If you want more length and volume than you can get with an eyelash curler and mascara, apply some false eyelashes.
 To finish your dreamy look, you want to add a bit of a glow to the rest of your face. Dust a bit of highlighter along the highest point of your cheekbones. Then add a bit on your cupid’s bow, or the center of your upper lip. Add highlighter down the bridge of your nose, and underneath your brows. Finally, dot a bit in the inner corner of your eyes. This will make your eyes look bright and sparkly, which will call attention to your fun unicorn eyeliner.
 To complete your whimsical, unicorn look, add a bit of sparkle to your lips. Grab your favorite shimmery lip gloss and sweep it on your pout. If you have a matte lip color you love, apply it with a bit of clear lip gloss over it. Nothing complements your unicorn eyeliner like sparkly, shimmery lips!








