 If you want to avoid eating too much protein, you need to establish how much protein you need. In the US, individuals are encouraged to consume 10-35% of their calories from protein. This amount can vary based on your current weight, activity level, and fitness goals. For instance, if you are a 33 year old, 5’4” tall women who weighs 150 lbs. with a moderate daily activity level, you should aim to consume 1850 calories each day to maintain your current weight. Between 185 and 650 of these calories should come from protein (46-162 grams).An easy way to calculate your protein needs is to multiply your weight in kilograms by 0.8 (divide your weight in pounds by 2.2 to get your weight in kilograms). For example, if you weigh 70 kilograms, then your daily protein needs would be 56 grams (70 x 0.8 = 56).
Keep in mind that optimal protein intake is 1 gram per kilogram, so you would want to aim for between 56 to 70 grams if you weigh 70 kilograms. Older adults also need more protein, so you could have as much as 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight if you are over 50 years old.Numerous online protein calculators can help give you a personalized “protein number” to shoot for.
Eat slightly more protein if you are trying to lose weight and/or build muscle.
Eat slightly more protein if you exercise regularly and live an active lifestyle.;
, Once you know how much protein you need, you need to compare this against the amount of protein you normally eat. Without altering your diet, keep a food log for at least a week. Be sure to include portion sizes. Go back and total up the amount of protein you consumed. You can easily find the protein amounts for specific foods by performing an internet search.Here is a brief guide:


3 ounce piece of meat – 21 grams.
8 ounce piece of meat – up to 50 grams.
8 ounces of milk – 8 grams.
8 ounces of yogurt – 11 grams.
8 ounces of dry beans – 16 grams.
 In order to determine your own personalized protein needs, it is best to consult a professional nutritionist. A nutritionist will be able to weigh a variety of personalized factors and help you draft a specific meal plan for you to follow. Additionally, before making any major changes to your diet or lifestyle, you should consult your doctor.


Perform an internet search for nutritionists in your area.
Make an appointment.
Be prepared to discuss your goals, food preferences, health issues, and medical history.
 If you are consuming too much protein, you may be experiencing some physical symptoms as a result. Keep an out of for these symptoms, and speak to your doctor. Alleviating them may be as simple as eating a little less meat.Watch out for:


Weight gain.
Kidney problems.
Dehydration.

