 It's recommended that you try metal/rock or punk, as these tend to have the right pace, energy and rhythm needed for good air guitar playing. Most air guitar players are simulating electric guitar music like rock and heavy metal. On the whole, most other music genres are a lot harder to play air guitar to, some being too slow, some too melancholy and some just plain too complicated.;
, A guitar solo section is always the best place to play air guitar. The longer this section, the better, giving you a great chance to really get involved in the playing. Be sure to include some riffs.
 Try to imagine that you are creating the sounds that you're hearing. Part of imitating is believing, visualizing yourself up there on stage being the center of attention as the crowd hollers for more, more, more!


When you play the music for the air guitar session, the music must be as loud as you (and those around you) can withstand. It's best that way!

, Spread your legs out wide, bend your knees a bit and put your right hand about level with your crotch. Hold the guitar in place––bend both arms between 75 and 90 degrees, one hand in front of your belt buckle. Your palm should face you at the appropriate fret spot that a real guitar player would play frets and have the other hand up in the air with the fingers spread, bent and pointing toward you.
 When playing, here are some things to bear in mind:


The higher the note, the lower your hand should be placed.
Don't put your strumming hand down too low, no real guitar player will play with the guitar down to their knees, except Fieldy from Korn.
Occasionally caress the imaginary neck of your guitar, running your hand up and down it.
Get moving! This isn't just about shifting your fingers and arms around. Get the whole body involved. Bend those knees, lift those legs, jump up and down now and then. Jerky movements and slides across the "stage" are great additions too.

If you want to be really cool, try some Jimi Hendrix style moves with your air guitar; behind your head, playing with teeth, doing spins and moves like that. You could even smash it up at the end don't worry it'll fix itself.
 While performing your exaggerated strumming motion, accompany this with loud singing or lip-syncing. This step is optional; you don't have to be a singing guitar player and you might not find a suitable combination of music with energetic singing. However, if you do love the lyrics, this can really help get you into the spirit.


Loud "yeahs" are considered mandatory by some air guitar players, so even if you can't sing, you can holler!

, It's fun alone and twice the fun with someone else. Get an air buddy willing to jam with you. Maybe they can join in on bass? You will look much less ridiculous and others might even join in. In fact, the more the merrier. Let it rock!

, Your audience will applaud.

