 An essential part to an energizing snack is protein. This nutrient will help your child build and repair their muscle tissue during the day.Protein is not only essential for muscle, but also to help keep your child more satisfied during the day. Protein takes longer to digest and can help prevent your child from getting overly hungry throughout the day.
There are many sources of lean protein. Pick a variety of items that your child enjoys. You can try: poultry, eggs, dairy products, beef, fish, nuts, beans or tofu.
Measure out the correct portion of protein for your child's snack. Include one serving or about 1-2 ounces per snack.;
, Similar to protein, carbohydrates are another essential nutrient to include in your child's snack. Carbohydrates provide an immediate source of energy to your child's body.Carbohydrates break down into glucose or sugar once digested. This will provide the immediate energy boost for your child during the day.When combined, both protein and carbohydrates will provide immediate and longer-term energy and help your child's body recover after activity.
Carbohydrates are found in a wide variety of foods including: dairy products, fruit, starchy vegetables and grains.
When measuring out appropriate portions, go for: 1 cup of milk or yogurt, 1 oz of cheese, 1/2 cup or 1 small piece of fruit, 1 cup of starchy vegetables and 1 oz of grains per serving., Although fat plays an important role in your child's overall diet, it might not be a great addition for an energizing snack. Keep fat content lower in your child's snacks.


Fat takes a longer time to digest. If it's making foods hang around longer in your child's stomach, it can cause some GI distress once they become active.
Typical symptoms include: stomach cramps, general stomach upset, nausea or persistent fullness.When choosing foods for your child's snack, choose lower fat foods like: low-fat dairy, poultry, eggs, beans or tofu.
If including nutritious foods that do have a higher fat content, keep the portion sizes smaller. For example, nuts, nut butters, full fat dairy or avocados have a lot of healthy fats. However, portions should be 1 oz of nuts or avocado and only a 1/2 cup of dairy.
 As activity levels increase, the amount of clear fluids you need increases. This is true for both adults and young athletes.


Children have similar needs to adults. Have your child aim for 7-11 cups of non caffeinated, sugar-free fluids every day. The more active they are or the older they are, the more fluids they need.Encourage your child to drink beverages like: water, flavored water, sparkling water or decaf tea.
If your child participates in a higher intensity activity for more than 60 minutes, they can drink 8-10 oz of an electrolyte or sport's beverage.Also, during these longer bouts of activity, your child should be drinking every 15-20 minutes if possible.
 There are certain nutrients that are essential for kid athletes. Although they do not provide energy, both calcium and iron are especially important for athletes.Calcium is a mineral found in dairy products, dark leafy greens, tofu and some nuts and seeds. It's important for children so they can build strong bones and help prevent fractures or breaks.
In general, most children need about 1,000-1,300 mg of calcium each day.Iron helps build red blood cells which will carry oxygen to organs and muscles. When children do not consume adequate iron, they can become anemic which causes fatigue and shortness of breath.
Kids needs anywhere from 10-15 mg of Iron each day. Try foods like red meat, dark leafy greens, beans, fortified grain products and seafood., If your child participates in sports before or after school, you'll most likely need to pack their snacks. Make sure to keep these packed snacks at the right temperature so they remain safe.


Many foods need to be kept cold or hot to remain safe. When foods enter the "danger zone" range (40-140 degrees F), they're more likely to contain bacteria that can cause children or adults to become sick.Use ice packs, insulated lunch boxes, frozen water bottles or juice boxes to help keep foods cold and under that 40 degree mark.
If you're trying to keep foods hot, use a thermos along with an insulated lunchbox to keep foods above 140 degrees F.
 When you are packing lunches, you also need to make sure that you don't pack too much food. This can prevent foods from getting or staying at the right temperature.Try to pack only enough food that will fit reasonably into a lunch box or other insulated package. If you have to squeeze or press foods in, you may be overloading the container.
Also, do not pack more food than your child will eat. If foods get left in the lunch box, by the time your child returns home, these foods will most likely have been kept at a temperature within the "danger zone" and will need to be thrown out.
 There are two different groups of foods that you can pack. Keep perishable foods at the correct temperature and out of contact from non-perishable items.When packing lunches and snacks, only keep the perishable foods in your child's lunch box.
Perishable foods include: deli meat, dairy products, slice fruit or vegetables, salads, casseroles or leftovers.
Non-perishable items should be packed separately. Items like nuts, whole fruits, grains, dried fruit or packaged snacks do not need to be kept cold or warm.
 If your child is at school for long hours or doesn't have a place to keep packed snacks, consider packing them non-perishable snacks.


Depending on what's available, your child may find it easier to have non-perishable snacks. This way, they don't have to worry about keeping things warm or cold.
Try: trail mix, protein bars, whole fruit, granola bars, canned tuna and cracker packs or whole fruit with peanut butter packets.
These snacks can be eaten any time, anywhere without having to be refrigerated or heated.
 Trail mix is an easy to make snack that can provide your child with long lasting energy through the day. Plus, you can customize it to fit any child's palate.In a large bowl, mix together the following: 1 cup of dried craisins, 1 cup of sliced dried apricots, 1 cup of roasted almonds, 1 cup of roasted peanuts and 1 cup of roasted pumpkin seeds.
If you'd like, you can also add 1 cup of dark chocolate chips. This does increase the sugar content, but make for a tasty and kid-friendly addition.
Store trail mix in a large tupperware container. Portion out 1/3 cup servings for your child.
 Another great way to bump up your child's energy and nutrition is with a smoothie. These are great before school, after school or during weekend games and practices.In a blender combine the following: 1 cup of frozen mixed berries, 1/2 of a banana, 1/4 cup of tofu and 1/2 cup of milk.
Blend until smoothie is creamy and no chunks remain. Taste and adjust for thickness - adding more milk for a thinner consistency.
This smoothie can be made in advance and stored in a thermos to keep it cold during the day.
 If you're short on time and need a quick, but energizing snack for your child, try this strawberry and peanut butter wrap.Start by laying out an 8" whole wheat tortilla on the counter. Spread on 2 tablespoons of peanut butter over the entire tortilla. You can also use almond butter or another nut butter.
Slice up 3-4 strawberries and lie each slice flat down the middle of the wrap.
Roll up the wrap and slice into 3-4 rolls. Serve immediately. However, if you want, you can wrap this in plastic wrap before slicing and keep it cold in a lunch box for later.
 Yogurt is a great source of protein. Combined with fruit, this snack will give your child the energy they need to fuel through a game or practice.In a small tupperware or glass, layer the following: 1/4 cup of yogurt, 1/4 cup of sliced peaches and 1/4 cup of blueberries. Layer your parfait so there are two layers of each item.
Top your parfait with one last 1/4 cup of yogurt and a sprinkling of granola or chopped nuts.
If you want to pack this, make sure it's in a sealed container and kept under 40 F until eaten.
 Another fun and energizing snack that you can pack for your child athlete are homemade protein packs. They're convenient and will give your child a great boost of long-lasting energy.


Choose 2 high protein foods along with a fruit or a vegetable.
For example, measure out 1 oz of sliced turkey, 1 oz of cheese and 1 oz of sliced apples. You could also try: 1 oz of almonds, 1 oz of dried cranberries and 1 oz of cubed cheese.
Slice and package your items ahead of time and store them in a tupperware container with dividers or a bento box. Keep refrigerated and then pack in an insulated lunch box the next day.

