 A great way to gain work experience and find work in the animation industry is by networking. For example, you could join a professional organization for animators, such as the Animation World Network or The Professional Association for Design (AIGA). Similarly, you may want to attend yearly industry conferences.


Networking can help you find mentors, learn about job postings, and will provide you with connections in the industry.
 It will be hard to get work in the animation field without experience. Many colleges help their students gain experience and will make an internship part of the program. If you did not attend a college, you can still get an internship. Search online for animation internships and apply to as many as possible.For example, if you met someone at a networking event, ask if there are any internships available at their company. You can even offer to intern for free just to get your foot in the door.
 In order to build a portfolio and demo reel you need to create animation. One way to do this is to volunteer your services to companies and friends. If you don't know of anyone who needs animation services, reach out to businesses, such as television programs, film producers, and websites. Offer to create animation content for free.

This gives you an opportunity to be creative and gain feedback on your work. Eventually this approach can lead to a paid position.
 Although some work is available on an ongoing basis, most animation work is based on contracts for projects. Apply for projects individually, and after two to five years of successful work, you may have a large enough client base to get referrals and steady projects.Search online job boards for animation contracts. Alternatively, you may hear about contracts through your networking connections.
 You can create a sole proprietorship and work under your own name, or start an animation business. It is a good idea to seek business and tax advice so that you can keep track of the expenses required to run your own animation business., Once you have started working in animation, you should continue to keep your portfolio and demo reel up-to-date with your best and latest work. Regular updates will highlight your versatility and will demonstrate that you are in demand.