 The heavier, or more moisturizing, the conditioner you use, the more it will weigh down your curls and help your hair hang longer and straighter.


Do not towel-dry your hair. The friction from rubbing your hair against the towel will create frizz and encourage curling. Keep your hair soaking wet for the following steps.
 This will add extra weight to bear down on the curls and prevent frizz. If you prefer to avoid commercial conditioners, consider applying a natural oil.









Thicker hair would benefit from a thicker oil, such as argan or olive oil. Thinner or finer hair would do better with a lighter oil, such as grape seed oil, or coconut oil.
Remember to start with a small amount of oil: in the math of hair, it's always easier to add than to subtract.
 If your hair is particularly thick, you may need to divide your hair into six parts.
 Brush this section so it is free of any tangles, making sure that the leave-in oils are evenly distributed.
 Keeping one hand on your brush, use the other to gently insert bobby pins every 2 inches (5.1 cm) to secure the section of hair to your scalp.
 Depending on the length of your hair, the section may wrap all the way across the side, bottom, and opposite side of your scalp. Use as many bobby pins as necessary to keep the section secure.
 Secure the hair to the scalp with bobby pins placed every two inches.
 If your hair begins to dry, apply more water with a spray bottle, or by splashing water on your hair with your hands.
 If you find it uncomfortable to sleep with the bobby pins, try wrapping a towel lightly around your head to pad your scalp.


If you develop a headache, you may have placed the bobby pins in too tightly against the scalp. You may want to experiment with different brands to find ones which are the most comfortable against your head.
 Unless your hair is extremely thick, it will be mostly dried. Don’t pull too vigorously or you may damage your hair.
 Avoid using a brush, as it will increase volume and frizz.









If your hair is particularly dry or thick, you may wish to apply a second layer of a leave-in conditioner or oil to your hair, rubbing the product between your palms and smoothing evenly over your hair, from the roots to the tips.

