 You can use a very small punch and lightly tap one side of the pin until it comes out. Lift the crank handle off and remove the small cover beneath it.
 You can use the flat edge of a small screwdriver to carefully remove it. This can be glued back on with rubber cement or you can use double sided tape after re-assembly., They are very small and it might be necessary to file the end of a small screwdriver so that it will fit better. On the left side of the crank, there is a small opening for you to put a screwdriver into and pry the cover off. Remove carefully because there is a small disk spring that keep tension on the film take up spool gear. The cover holds this disk spring in place., This is backwards threaded so turn to the right to unthread. Take notice of small spring that is keeping tension on the silver gear. Remove both the silver and brass gears., All screws are regular threaded from here on out so turn left. Remove shot counter., Carefully lift this up and rotate it out of the way.

You can put this screw back in after rotating the leaver out of the way so that you don't get it mixed up with the other screws.
 Use pliers to remove spring from lever. Finally, remove the screw that holds the lever in place., Remove the screw that holds the assembly in place.

Look at how the small spring goes into the lock leaver and the small notch cut in it. This makes reassembly easier. Also, the crank locking leaver is almost always the cause of the grinding noise or the reason that a Yashica Mat will not crank. When the shutter button is depressed you should see the crank lock rotate forward and out of the way of the teeth on the crank gear. If it does not move then continue to the next step.
 Grab the film crank and lift the entire assembly out of the camera., Press the shutter button a few times so that you can see how the mechanism operates. After each adjustment set the crank assembly back on the camera so you can see if it is operating the crank lock release from the top.

Turn the focus adjustment all of the way in and all of the way out during adjustment because this will change the position where the shutter release lever makes contact with the crank lock release lever.
 Be sure that the pin goes in to the crank winding slot that was detailed in red in the last step. Stop reassembly at step 5., Make sure that the pin goes into the small hole in the shot counter and start the screw that holds it all in place but do not tighten it., Rotate the spring containment assembly clockwise until you can feel resistance. Slowly back off of it until the resistance stops and you can remove your finger. Tighten the screw down. Rotate the frame counter to the left and make sure that it returns to the start position freely on its own under the power of the spring. Continue reassembly in reverse order., After putting the outside cover back on the camera and installing the final screws, use Rubber Cement to reattach the leather to the camera. Only spread it on the leather. When it feels tacky to the touch, you know that it is ready to be placed back on the camera.