 Choosing the right accommodation is vital for any holiday to the Maldives and you can choose from a range of luxurious rooms, suites, villas and bungalows. The setting of such accommodation is something worth looking into, since it adds more charm to your stay. Consider staying at a beachfront studio that provides stunning vistas of the Indian Ocean or perhaps a tranquil lagoon. Choose a home away from home not only by the beach, but one which has its own private pool and Jacuzzi too, providing a perfect sanctuary by the sea.;
, If you are looking for adrenaline packed action along with some fun in the sun, then the Maldives offers plenty of opportunities for you to take part in. Be it surfing the waves, skimming the waters at thrilling speeds on a jet ski or soaring above on a paragliding adventure, these activities can be enjoyed by young and old alike. Of course no talk of water sports is complete without mentioning two of the most popular activities here, snorkeling and diving, which let you explore the magical world beneath the waves.
 One sure fire way to get in some serious rest and relaxation is to enjoy some personal pampering at a spa which offers luxurious treatments to help you unwind. Certain spas not only feature western therapies, but traditional Asian ones as well. An added benefit of a wellness holiday here are the secluded island settings which provide a perfect backdrop in which to practice yoga such as a secluded stretch of beach at sunrise.
 After settling into your own island getaway, look to explore some of the other islands that dot the waters. Providing idyllic sanctuaries on soft sandy shores, these isolated islands are ideal for a romantic hideaway or even a fun family outing. You can look forward to everything from beach picnics to quiet walks along the beach as you soak up the enchanting coastal atmosphere.
 Although the day slowly draws to a close, it does not mean that you have nothing to do. There are some fascinating activities worth trying in the evenings; consider kayaking and catching views of the sun making its descent or embarking on a sunset cruise as you toast champagne with that special someone and take in the mesmerising vistas. You can even set off on a sunset fishing trip and for something truly unique, why not some guided night snorkeling too!

, From exotic local delicacies to aromatic international favourites, dining in Maldives is made even more special with the enchanting settings on offer. Share a fine dining experience at an intimate restaurant or for something truly distinctive you can arrange for a romantic meal on the beach set against a star filled night sky.

