 Almost everyone has at least one sedentary pleasure, be it binge-watching favorite television shows, playing video games, or surfing the internet on your laptop. Not only do these activities often require you to sit or lay prone as you do them, they have also been shown to cause problems with self-esteem and anxiety in children and teenagers.Getting active doesn’t mean you have to quit all of these enjoyable hobbies, though: you can simply reduce the time you dedicate to these activities rather than cutting them out all together.


For example, cap your daily television watching at two hours. You can allow yourself more time as long as you’re watching while jogging on the treadmill, doing yoga, or stretching.
If you waste untold hours of the day on the internet, try installing software on your computer that blocks problem sites and increases productivity, such as Freedom, Anti Social, and StayFocused.You can also give yourself time limits for surfing the web or playing video games. Just make sure that you stick with them.;
, It’s always nice to have popcorn while you snuggle up on the sofa for movie night, and there’s nothing wrong with enjoying a snack some times. The problem is that you probably snack a lot more often—and with foods much unhealthier than popcorn—than these movie nights. Many people snack almost constantly and don’t realize it until they specifically look for the behavior. When you’re making a diet plan, allow yourself one or two snacks a day and refuse additional snacks when offered to you by others.Choose healthier snacks such as popcorn made without a lot of oil, salt, or butter, or fruits or veggies and a low-calorie dip.
Salty and sweet junk foods like chips and soda are particularly addictive, so you might want to keep them out of the house altogether. Ask your parents and family members for help avoiding these delicious but unfulfilling snacks in the household.
 Modern society often encourages lazy behaviors in ways one doesn’t even realize, such as offering escalators in malls, making automotive vehicles the default mode of transport in daily life, and emphasizing convenience through mobile applications, delivery services, and virtual socializing. You can opt out of lots of these behaviors, though, by substituting them with active pursuits.


For example, ditch the car next time you need groceries and walk to the store. This might not be an option if you live in a rural or suburban area, but you can do other things like walking between shops when in town instead of driving.Next time you’re about to hop on an elevator or the automated walkway at the airport, think again! Go the old-fashioned way and take the stairs or non-automated path.
 Your go-to activity when meeting up with friends might be sharing some apps at the local diner or gabbing on the couch, but you don’t have to limit your social hour to sedentary activities. Next time you’ve set a date to catch up with your pals, go to a nature trail or neighborhood path and take a walk together rather than slouching on the sofa, or play an active video game like WiiFit instead of your usual fare.If your friends aren’t into the idea, ask family members if they’d like to go for a walk next time you’re sitting around talking or watching television, or ask your parents if you can join a walking meet-up group where you can meet new friends with whom to be active. Or, make plans at the skating rink, skateboard park, or at the pool.
 Smoking can cause lots of health problems and it can also affect your ability to be physically active. For example, you might find vigorous cardiovascular activities like running, swimming, and dancing are much harder if you are a smoker. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about how to quit. There may be smoking cessation programs in your area that can help., Regular, well-rounded exercise will benefit you more than sporadic workouts which include only one type of exercise like weight-lifting or running. You should incorporate both aerobic exercise—any activity that uses large muscle groups and can be sustained for at least ten minutes—and strength-conditioning—resistance-based activities which strengthen your muscles through repetition—into your fitness regimen, with aerobic activities taking up more time than strength-training.You can make sure you perform the recommended balance of activities by establishing a workout calendar.


Make sure you plan your workouts around other, mandatory aspects of your life such as school, work, and family. While fitness is important, it’s only one pillar of your life and shouldn’t cause you to sacrifice other things., Concerted aerobic exercise enhances your cardiovascular health and endurance while releasing endorphins and elevating your mood. Aim for a minimum of 150 minutes per week, or 30 minutes a day five times a week.You can join a gym to take advantage of aerobics classes and workout machines, or you can go for a more independent approach and take up jogging, walking, or cycling.


Though recent studies have cast some doubt on the axiom that stretching before exercise reduces your chances of injury, it’s not a bad idea to do some light, five-minute stretching before you go for a jog. You’ll increase your flexibility over time and feel looser during your aerobic exercise., In addition to your weekly 150-minute commitment to aerobic exercise, you should complete strengthening exercises at least two days a week. Weight machines, medicine balls, resistance bands, and home workouts—for example, push ups and sit ups—all make great strength training activities., Many people make the mistake of doing weight-lifting and other strengthening exercises which only address one part of their body: they’ll do a bunch of arm reps, for example, but ignore their core and legs. Avoid this mistake by making sure you do a mixture of exercises which address all three main muscle groups.In order to strengthen your core, do exercises such as sit ups, plank exercises, and crunches. These will strengthen and tone your abdominal and back muscles.
For your legs, you should do things like squats, vertical jumps, and wall sits. Good arm exercises include pushups, pullups, and lifting dumbbells.
 If you have a difficult time getting and staying motivated during individual workouts, consider joining a sports team. Sports are a fun way to get aerobic exercise and strength training while building strong relationships with other teammates, learning time management, and developing a sense of personal responsibility.If you don’t know what sports you like or would be interested in trying, check out the offerings at your local YMCA and school groups. Feel free to try out several sports and continue only those which you enjoy and find rewarding.
 Team sports aren’t the only way to get active outside of the gym or jogging trail. You can also sign up for classes which teach you a physical activity, such as ballet, yoga, and modern dance are all great examples. See if there’s a yoga or dance studio in your area and then ask your parents if you can afford the monthly fees. Communities often have lower-cost options at local schools, rec departments, gyms, YMCAs, or community centers.


If you’re interested in yoga, make sure you register for a beginner’s class where they’ll provide sufficient instruction. If you try doing moves which are too sophisticated for your level, you can hurt yourself seriously., Fruits and vegetables should comprise the biggest portion of your daily diet, but don’t just eat the same two veggies in large quantities. Studies have shown the healthiest way to get your daily five to nine servings of fruits and veg is to eat a wide variety of them.If you’re not used to eating lots of fresh fruit and vegetables, five portions a day might seem like a lot. You can make this new dietary regimen more manageable and appealing by getting creative with your meals. Mix up new, interesting salads with varied ingredients rather than sticking with a boring, lettuce-tomato-cucumber salad, and try veggie-based alternatives such as veggie burgers and cauliflower-crust pizza., In addition to your daily fruit and vegetable intake, you should make an effort to eat plenty of protein. Try to be a bit picky about your proteins, though: go for lean and unprocessed meats such as lean steak and chicken breast rather than regular grade ground beef (containing 75-85% fat), bacon, and sausages.If you’re a vegetarian, you can still get your daily intake of protein through foods such as nuts, beans, and eggs.
 Recent studies have shown that emphasizing calorie-counting does little to enhance a healthy diet and can lead to disordered eating habits. After all, if you’re just trying to stay under a prescribed calorie mark, it won’t matter if the foods you eat are largely homogenous and supply minimal nutrition, as long as you duck under your 1,200- or 1,500-calorie goal. Instead, prioritize eating three nutritious, well-rounded meals with high-quality ingredients while keeping non-fruit or veggie snacking to a minimum.In the same way, avoid diet and low-fat processed foods such as soda, crackers, yogurt, milk, and cheese. Studies have shown that these artificial, reduced-calorie versions have less nutritional benefits than their whole-fat counterparts, and even that they’re less filling, making it more likely that you’ll eat more of them than you would the non-diet kind., Teenagers— and girls in particular—are prone to iron and calcium deficiencies, so you should be sure to eat foods rich in these nutrients every day. Dairy products such as yogurt and cheese are high in calcium, a nutrient necessary for bone health and growth, and you should aim to get at least 1,300 milligrams a day. Lean meats, fish, soy, and lentils are some foods particularly high in iron, a nutrient which helps deliver oxygen to your body. You should aim for between 15-25 mg of iron per day.It’s important to try to get your daily calcium and iron through foods rather than multivitamins and dietary supplements. Studies have shown that your body absorbs little to none of the nutrients contained in these supplements, so, avoid these supplements unless your doctor advises otherwise., In addition to eating plenty of healthy, un-processed foods, you should also reduce your intake of processed junk foods such as chips, crackers, fast food, candy, and soda. Such foods often contain harmful chemical additives and preservatives, as well as transfats which raise your cholesterol and increase your risk of heart disease.Even though you should try to keep your junk food consumption limited, don’t go overboard and start thinking of these foods as “bad,” “naughty,” or “dirty.” If you start assigning moral value to different foods, you risk developing disordered eating habits in the future and problems with self-esteem., It can feel impossible to eat breakfast when you’re running out the door every morning to catch the school bus or your car pool, but you should make a special effort to incorporate breakfast into your daily routine. This simple step to fitness encourages healthier eating throughout the day, as well as boosting your metabolism and mood.If you just can’t force anything down your throat before you leave for school, take some yogurt and a banana or an omelet in a to-go container with you to school so that you can eat it a bit later in the morning.
 You’ve probably heard your doctor or other health professionals talk about how important hydration is for your health, but you might not realize all the things this miracle of moisture does for you. In addition to flushing toxins out of your organs and delivering nutrients to your cells, water also improves your skin, hair, and nail health.Taking a water bottle to school will help you to sip water throughout the day rather than relying on sporadic trips to the drinking fountain or purchases from the vending machine.
All fluids contribute to your daily water intake—that is, if you drink a twelve-ounce can of orange juice, it counts as twelve ounces toward your two-liter goal. That being said, try to consume most of your two liters through pure or sparkling water, as other drinks such as soda, juice, and iced tea often contain high levels of sugar.
 In a cultural climate that reveres fitness and specific body types, working out can quickly become destructive obsessions. Becoming too preoccupied with your workout regimen can cause injuries from over-exertion, as well as corrode mental health. By giving yourself rest days when you don’t work out and avoiding daily weigh-ins and weight loss shows like The Biggest Loser, you can take steps to ensure that attending to your body doesn’t jeopardize your mental health.If you find yourself feeling guilty or anxious when you don’t work out for a day or two, chances are that you’re developing an unhealthy attitude toward exercise. Talk to a parent or school counselor immediately to get help before your problem worsens.
 Eating healthy and getting fit doesn’t mean that you should deprive yourself of food or that you shouldn’t enjoy your meals. The minute you start perceiving food as something to avoid, you start to develop a problematic relationship with food which can last throughout your whole life. Remind yourself that food is essential to life and let yourself indulge in favorite, rich foods often enough that you don’t develop cravings and the impulse to binge.If you find yourself engaging in habits such as binging, skipping meals, and using laxatives, you are at risk for developing an eating disorder. Contact a parent, school health official, or doctor in order to address the issue., If you devote all your time outside of school to working out and attending to your diet, you’re making your self-esteem dependent on fitness. Your latest workout and meal plan shouldn’t define your failures and successes, though; rather, your whole personality, talents, empathy, and relationships with friends and family are what should make you feel good about yourself. Remind yourself of this fact by dedicating plenty of time to activities such as volunteering for local charity organizations, playing an instrument, writing, or painting.You can help your friends build self-esteem as well by participating in these activities with them and discouraging any self-deprecating comments when you’re around. For example, if a friend says, “Ew, I’m disgusting, I need to work out more,” you should say, “Hey, you’re talking about my friend! I don’t tolerate people talking badly about my friends, no matter who’s speaking!”

, Many teenagers don’t get the proper amount of sleep, and, while you may not notice any adverse effects from this deficiency, lack of sleep can affect your life in many ways. It can make you moody, stressed, and less proficient in class, as well as encouraging poor, impulsive eating habits and even leading to facial blemishes.In addition to striving for an eight-hour minimum, you should aim for a regular sleep pattern. For example, try to go to bed at a similar time each night and avoid sleeping late on the weekends.

