 If you stay, you're just hurting yourself, his children, his family, and his wife. Also bear in mind that most men who cheat a first time will cheat again. Which means, he'll eventually cheat on you.;
, Perhaps you've left before, only to be promised that he'll leave his wife soon, and he told how much you were loved. Maybe he wooed you back. But it's been a while and he's still with her. And you have finally had enough. Make a decision to leave him for good.
 If he agrees to meet in a risky place, try to show him affection and watch him pull away. As difficult as it is, the fact that he won't be affectionate with you in public, or want to go somewhere he might be seen, will only make your resolve to leave stronger.
 That you want out and that perhaps you love him but it's not enough anymore. You've heard his promises for a very long time and he has never made good on them and you're done. Even if he pleads and begs be firm and strong. You are leaving him, regardless of his reaction.
 One of the best ways to break up with a married man is totally and completely. No late night calls, no calls during the day when he's at work away from his wife and kids. If he does not have your number and you don't program his in your phone, you'll be less likely to call him. And he won't be able to call you.
 You don't want any contact or reminders. So block him from everyplace you can think of. He needs to realize that you're done. This is just part of how you're showing him that.
 Usually the threat alone is enough for him to go away. And when he does, remind yourself of how easily he left and realize you will find someone much better out there sometime very soon.
 And while you're out, flirt. Maybe you're not ready for another romance, but don't stay in bed crying. Get out there and connect with other people, and other men. Show yourself you are a sexy, attractive woman who will find someone much better very soon.
 Take long bubble baths, wear lingerie just for yourself, because you deserve it. Reinforce the fact that you don't need a man, especially a married man, to show you and make you feel beautiful.
 If he shows up at work, have a co-worker ask him to leave. If he shows up at your house, don't answer the door and if he calls, hang up on him. Cut him off entirely. If you have nothing to do with him, you will move on faster.
 Then start a relationship with someone. Or, a few someones. Just don't become involved with a married man again. If you meet someone married, remember the heartbreak and move on without letting him get close. You will find someone single who is right for you.

