 Your doctor will discuss your symptoms, if any, as well as any environmental concerns about your home. They will also offer advice about appropriate next steps, like a vaporizer or humidifier.


Sufferers of acute (short-term) respiratory illnesses, such as cold, flu, or bronchitis, might find temporary relief of symptoms while using a vaporizer.Those with chronic respiratory diseases may find a vaporizer useful, though your healthcare provider may recommend more specialized devices.
Vaporizers may also be useful in homes with very dry air or in very cold/dry climates, as they add moisture to the air for greater general comfort.
Be sure to ask your doctor about potential side effects of steam use, such as increased bacterial growth or other problems with humid air.;
, The two devices work in similar fashion, but offer slightly different benefits for your health and home environment. You'll need to consider for whom and for what purpose you're purchasing one of these devices.


Warm steam vaporizers use heat to turn water into steam to add moisture to the environment.
Cool mist humidifiers emit a light mist of cool water into the air, also adding moisture.
Note that the American Academy of Pediatrics strongly advises against using steam vaporizers in children’s rooms., Determining in which room you will place the device will help you to decide on the device type and size you will purchase.


If the vaporizer is for a child, make sure you have space in his/her room that will keep the machine out of reach.
If you're purchasing the vaporizer to improve the atmosphere in your home in general, choose which room will mostly likely offer the most benefit for you and your family.
 Taking some time to read the package information and, possibly, looking at the actual vaporizer, will help you make a more informed decision about your health and comfort.


Consider the amount of space that you have to keep and store the vaporizer. Larger varieties may be difficult to keep out of the reach of children, although smaller machines may not provide enough steam to be useful.
Read the packaging and, if purchasing online, device reviews, to get a sense of how easy the vaporizer is to use and to clean. If you have a busy schedule or have health issues that make strenuous cleaning difficult, choose a machine with simpler operating instructions.

