 Armed with that knowledge, let's look at troubleshooting speaker problems.
 Yes, that seems obvious, but maybe the dog knocked the cable out while chasing the cat, or maybe your daughter's missing gerbil chewed through the speaker wire.


Check the power cord. If your speakers use a "wall wart" (that black box, the power adapter that plugs into the wall), check to see if it's warm. If so, it's probably working. If it's cool or room temperature, it may be that it has ceased working. This is common with wall warts, and replacements are not hard to find. Go to Radio Shack with your power adapter and cable and they'll be able to test it and recommend a replacement, warts and all.
Check the connectivity to the computer's speaker ports. This connection is usually made with thin wires connected to little plugs, and those little hummers are subject to wear and tear. Look especially around the joint between the plug and the wires, and see if the cable is split or torn. If you can see copper or silver, it's a good bet that is your problem. If you're handy with a soldering iron, it's an easy fix: cut off the old plug, get a matching one from Radio Shack (or your favorite electronics store), and solder the leads from the speakers to the new plug.
 If you've got a good connection to the computer on one end, and have verified that there's power getting to the speakers on the other, than the last problem point in this chain is the speakers themselves. It's pretty hard to destroy speakers sealed in plastic cases, so there are two final points to check:


Open your speakers up, if you can, and make sure the wire leads coming from the amp are wired to the backs of the speakers. It might be that they took a tumble, and the wires came loose.
Check all the wires inside the speaker. Do they all appear to be secure? If you see solder joints (silver blobs on the wires where they connect), is the solder shiny and smooth, or dull and pebbly? If it's dull and pebbly, you may just have what's called a "cold solder joint," which doesn't conduct electricity very well.
If all looks well, and nothing is loose, then you're down to one source: the amplifier inside the speaker. If that's toast, you can try to have it repaired, but it's probably more cost-effective to recycle them, and go buy a new pair of speakers.

