 Infecting your own computer can jeopardize your data and personal information, and if your computer is connected to the internet or other computers on a network, you run the risk of infecting others. Intentionally infecting someone's computer with a virus is illegal in most countries.


If you are trying to test your antivirus software, it is strongly recommended that you use the test file in the previous method.
 Many viruses rely on exploiting security flaws in the operating system software. These flaws are eventually patched out and fixed as the operating system gets updated and new versions are released.



Windows XP without any of the Service Packs installed is one of the most unsecure operating systems still in use. Windows XP is also no longer receiving any security updates, meaning that more and more exploits will be targeting it.
 The early versions of Internet Explorer were far less secure than other browsers, so it is the best browser to use when you are trying to get a virus. You can download old versions of Internet Explorer from sites like Download.com. Look for Internet Explorer 6, and don't install any of the updates., Most routers contain hardware firewalls that can help protect your computer. For maximum vulnerability, you should connect your modem directly to your computer, bypassing the router.



Disable the Windows Firewall if it is enabled as well.
 Most antivirus programs do an admirable job of catching the majority of viruses, so you'll want to disable or remove your antivirus software completely before trying to infect the computer.


Some antiviruses can be disabled by right-clicking on the icon in the System Tray and selecting "Disable" or a similar option. Not all antivirus programs can be disabled.
There are a variety of wikiHow articles detailing the uninstallation process for most antivirus programs, including Norton, Avast, AVG, and many more.
 There are a variety of communities online dedicated to testing internet security, and you may be able to find links to known viruses in the community discussions. One of the most popular internet security (NetSec) communities is the NetSec subreddit. You can find a variety of discussions and links to sites containing specific viruses., One of the most popular ways for viruses to be spread is through pirated media and software. Look for "cracks" or "serials" for popular programs that require a file to be run. These files often contain viruses that execute when your run the crack program.


Torrents are a very popular way to share these files. When browsing torrent sites, look for torrents with low ratings and comments from other users warning about viruses. These are the ones you want.
P2P sharing programs are another popular way to spread viruses. Programs like Kazaa and Gnutella are some of the more popular options.
Lots of websites, known as "warez" sites, will offer "free" downloads for virtually any program. These are almost always infected with viruses and adware, and the program itself rarely works.
 Visit some less-than-reputable websites and click all of the banners and ads that you can. Try to watch videos that require you to download extra software. While this will probably lead to more adware than anything else, you may be able to get a virus this way.
 Create a free email address that doesn't contain any personal information whatsoever, and sign up for as many mailing lists and other registrations as possible. This will get your email out and increase the chances of receiving spam with links to viruses or infected attachments.


This may take a little longer than some of the other ways to get viruses, but some of the most devastating viruses are spread through email attachments.
Download every attachment possible, and visit all of the spam links. All of this will increase your chances of getting a virus.
Make sure to check the Spam folder in your email program to check messages that are filtered out automatically. These are often the most likely to infect you.
 These are traditionally some of the most infected files out there. Search for ".scr" files and download as many as possible. Make sure to run them when they are downloaded, as .scr files act as executable files.

