 A haiku is a three line poem that follows a syllable pattern of 5-7-5, with 17 syllables total. The first line of the haiku should have five syllables, the second line should have seven syllables, and the third line should have five syllables. The haiku should act as a snapshot of a moment in time, giving the reader a tiny picture in three lines.Often, haikus focus on nature and use specific details to describe how the speaker is feeling or what the speaker is experiencing. The speaker will use details from nature to express an emotion, such as sadness, or an experience, such as a joyful moment in their life.
Haikus will often begin by focusing one moment or object and then shift into a description of another moment or object. The relationship between these two moments or objects will cause the reader to be surprised or intrigued, leading to a deeper meaning in the haiku.;
, To get a better sense of the tone and style of nature haikus, you may spend some time reading well known examples of the form. Many Japanese poets from the 9th century were skilled at the nature haiku form, as well as contemporary poets who are exploring the form today. You can read several examples, including:


The haikus of Basho Matsuo.The haikus of Yosa Buson.The haikus of Natsume Soseki.The haikus of Richard Wright., You can find inspiration for your nature haiku by immersing yourself in a natural setting with a pen and paper. Brainstorm ideas for the haiku at your favorite nearby park or in your backyard. You may also walk down to a beach or a local garden to be surrounded by nature and get inspiration for your poem.Once you have found a natural setting, you may look around and focus on a particular flower or tree that catches your eye. You may describe the flower or tree by writing down any descriptions and words that come to mind.
Try also write down how the flower or tree makes you feel as a viewer. You could then explore these emotions in your haiku using the natural setting as inspiration.
 You can also get started on your nature haiku by focusing on a particular animal found in nature. You could then describe the animal in your haiku, noting how it acts in nature.You may take a trip to your local zoo to observe animals in their habitat. Or you may go to a nature park or forest that has small animals you can observe in the wild. Bring your pen and paper with you so you can brainstorm ideas, emotions, and phrases as you observe the animal.
 Many haikus focus on a particular season or time of year and will include a “season word”, where a particular season is mentioned to clue the reader in. You may have an affinity for a particular season or look out your window and observe the current season outside. Choose from the four seasons (fall, winter, spring, and summer) or choose a planetary shift to focus on, such as a full moon, a half moon, or an eclipse.You may try to focus on specific details you observe during a particular season, such as the icicles on your roof during winter or the fat bees in the flower beds during the spring. You should write down several specific details of the season as a way to generate ideas for your haiku.
 You only have 17 syllables total for your haiku, so you want to make sure each one counts and is memorable for your reader. Including details that play on the five senses (smell, sight, touch, taste, and sound) will help to immerse your reader in your natural setting. Sensory detail can also help you imbue the poem with a certain tone or mood.For example, the haiku by Natsume Soseki has strong sensory details: “Over the wintry/forest, winds howl in rage/with no leaves to blow.”Natsume includes details on how the forest appears and how the wind sounds. He also uses these details to give the reader a sense of the emptiness and quiet present during winter.
 Though haikus do not have to follow a certain rhyme scheme or pattern, many haikus will repeat certain words or phrases. The words or phrases may reinforce a certain image for the reader. They may also demonstrate the main subject of the haiku.For example, the haiku by Basho Matsuo uses repetition to great effect: “An old silent pond/A frog jumps into the pond, splash!/Silence again.”Basho includes “silent” and “silence” in the haiku, once at the beginning and once at the end. This silence is contrasted by the “splash!” in the second line, creating a break between the haiku’s beginning and it’s end. Basho creates a mood of silence, interrupts it, and then re establishes it again in the final line. This allows the reader to actually experiences the moment, first hand.
 You do not have space for a lot of words in your haiku so you should try to use words that are interesting and unique. Avoid cliches, which are phrases that have become so familiar they have lost their meaning. Aim for words that emote a certain mood or tone. Look for words that will create a certain image or sound in the reader’s mind.For example, the poet Richard Wright uses strong word choice in his haiku: “Whitecaps on the bay/A broken signboard banging/In the April wind.”This haiku is effective because Wright uses specific descriptions to create a strong mental image for the reader. Rather than simply saying “waves”, Wright uses “whitecaps” and describes the “broken signboard banging.” These details make the poem come alive for the reader, a combination of strong word choice and good sensory detail.
 Many poets will use the third and final line of the haiku to create a contrast in the reader’s mind. This contrast will create a shift in the poem, surprising or intriguing the reader. It can also add a deeper meaning to the haiku.For example, the haiku by Natsume does this well: “The crow has flown away/swaying in the evening sun,/a leafless tree.”Natsume introduces the image of a crow that has flown away, then the image of the something swaying in the sun, a contrast to the crow. The final line tells the reader it was the tree, not the crow, that was swaying in the evening sun. The tree was still moving even after the crow flew away, leaving the reader with a contrasting image at the end of the poem.
 Haikus are often written to be read out loud in one breath. You should read your nature haiku out loud to yourself and listen to how it sounds. Does it flow smoothly when you read it out loud, in one long breath? Does the haiku create interesting sounds and tones when you read it out loud? Do you get a good sense of a natural setting or of a moment in nature?You should also check that the haiku follows the required syllable count for each line. You may count out the syllables so they follow the 5-7-5 syllable count or look up words in a dictionary to determine their syllable count.
 You can also read the haiku out loud to a sympathetic audience and ask them for feedback. You may ask your audience if they get a good sense of a natural setting or a specific moment in nature. You may also ask them if they get a sense of contrast with the third line and if the haiku leaves them intrigued or surprised.
 You should take any feedback from others as well as your own notes and revise the haiku. Adjust any words that sound awkward or any phrases that sound long-winded. Replace familiar words with more creative or interesting words.


Try to make the haiku concise but also powerful and emotive. Make sure you are painting a picture of nature, with strong sensory detail and a last line that lingers in the reader’s or listener’s mind.

