 Being a retro game, Bros. 2's controls are very simplistic. Move with the arrows and press A to jump and B to pull plants and other items out of the ground. The controls can be set up differently depending on what version of the game you have.;
, It's not like the other Super Mario titles in the least bit. You can't eliminate a foe by stomping it. Instead you must kill it using plants that can be pulled from the ground. Throwing the plants at enemies will kill them. Alternatively, you can also jump on an enemy's head and press B as you would to pull up a plant, and throwing it into another enemy getting rid of them both.
 Each playable character has their own strengths and weaknesses. Mario is good for beginners because he is average at everything. Luigi can jump extremely far and high but is hard to control (due to his lack of traction). Luigi is also average in speed and strength (e.g. how fast he can pick up a plant from the ground or an enemy). Toad is the fastest, strongest, and has the best traction but has a terrible jump. Peach (known as "Princess" in versions before GBA) is the slowest and weakest but can hover in the air for as far as Luigi can jump, giving her her own unique advantage. Some players are better than others in different areas. For instance, in the snow/ice world Toad and Mario are favorable due to their superior traction and low jumps. In areas where control is not an issue, Luigi may be better to use because of his jump, and so on.
 You won't go anywhere in this game if you don't know how to battle the bosses of each level. The most common are Birdos, bosses who shoot eggs from their mouth. To kill Birdo you must jump on her egg and throw it at her three times. In later levels Birdos will (besides eggs) also shoot fire, so be careful! In addition to fighting a Birdo at the end of each level, each world has its own boss. Each one is different, so watch carefully and look for a way to defeat them. Often there are props or weapons nearby that can be used (for instance, Mouser throws bombs at you. You have to defeat him by giving the bombs right back to him).
 There have been three re-releases of Super Mario 2. The Super Nintendo version (from the game "Super Mario All Stars, 1993) has improved graphics and gameplay over the NES version. It comes along with three other updated retro games as well (Super Mario Bros, Lost Levels, and Super Mario Bros 3). There was a remake for Game Boy Advance in 2001 called Super Mario Advance with the addition of voice acting. The game in its original form can also be bought on the Wii's Virtual Console.

