 Before leveling the frets, you need to make sure you are working with a perfectly level fretboard. Use a hex key to adjust the truss rod until the neck is perfectly level. To check for straightness, you can use a notched straightedge designed specifically for leveling guitar necks; these tools have notches that fit over the frets to keep them from interfering with your measurement.
 Use a marker to shade in the highest portion of each fret; this will allow you to quickly determine if the fret has been sanded enough to remove this high point., A fret leveler is a long, metal, U-shaped tool that is ideal for sanding frets smooth; they can be purchased from guitar supply stores. The tool will need to be fitted with an abrasive surface before use. 180-grit sandpaper is the best choice for sanding frets. If your fret leveler does not have clamps for attaching sandpaper, you can affix it with double-sided tape., Run the fret leveler along the length of the fretboard in long, smooth strokes. Be sure to carefully follow the radius of the fretboard to ensure that the frets are smoothed along the profile of the fretboard. Check your progress frequently to avoid over-sanding; once the marks you made on the frets are sanded away, the frets are likely to be smoothed adequately., To smooth the tops of the frets completely, you will need to use a smaller sanding tool with a finer-grit abrasive. The best tool for this is a diamond-coated steel fret leveling block, which can be purchased from guitar supply stores. Sand the frets along the length of the fretboard as before, being careful to follow the fretboard's radius., After sanding the frets smooth, you need to restore their profiles to a round shape with a thin, flat strip along the top. To do this, use a fret crowning file on each fret. These files have a rounded profile to them that matches the fret's profile. Fit the file against the edge of each fret and sand back and forth until the fret's shape begins to round., After smoothing and rounding the frets, polish them to a shine using a polishing or finishing pad. You can clean any metal filings off the fretboard with a clean cloth.