 There are times when you should see a doctor for your congestion. A stuffy or runny nose usually goes away within a week, or even sooner if you follow a healthy lifestyle. If you continue to experience nasal congestion or a fever for longer than 2 weeks, you should visit your doctor to get a diagnosis. However, if you have a high fever around 102–104 degrees, particularly if it lasts more than three days, you should see a doctor immediately.


If your nasal discharge is green and is accompanied by sinus pain, fever, or whooping cough, you may have a bacterial or viral infection and you should see your doctor immediately.
You should also see a doctor if your symptoms last more than 10 days, you have asthma or emphysema, you are taking immune-suppressing medications, or you have blood in your nasal discharge or a persistent clear discharge after a head injury., Sometimes, natural remedies may not work on their own. You may need to take allergy medication or other, stronger medication if your congestion is persistent or is accompanied by more severe symptoms. Your doctor may prescribe you medication or recommend over the counter medications to use in conjunction with natural remedies.


If the runny nose is a persistent, watery discharge, particularly if accompanied by sneezing and itchy or watery eyes, your symptoms may be allergy-related. An over the counter antihistamine may help.
Be sure to follow the label instructions of any medication exactly. Ask your doctor about any potential side effects it may have when taken with other medications, herbs, supplements, and foods., The cough and sore throat that often accompany congestion can also be symptoms of nasal and lung infection. There are other symptoms to look out for that point to there being a larger, underlying issue with your health. Look for pressure in the forehead, temples, cheeks, nose, jaw, teeth, behind the eyes, or at the top of the head. You may also experience facial tenderness or swelling, usually around the eyes or cheeks, shortness of breath, wheezing breath, squeezing or tightness in the chest that causes pain, nasal stuffiness, loss of smell, yellowish green nasal discharge, or a sensation of fluid dripping down the back of the throat, particularly at night or when lying down.


If you have a high fever or severe headache, you should seek medical care immediately.
Rare complications associated with chronic sinusitis can include blood clots, abscesses, meningitis, orbital cellulitis, and osteomyelitis, an infection that spreads to the bones in the face.
If your doctor suspects chronic sinusitis, a nasal infection, or bronchitis, they may request imaging tests, which can include an X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). If you are experiencing severe symptoms of a cold or flu or have been previously diagnosed with any respiratory disease, you should seek professional care immediately. Symptoms that should alarm you to see a doctor or get emergency medical are a cough with green or yellowish phlegm, a fever of 104 degrees or more, ear or nasal infection, nasal discharge, skin rashes, and breathlessness due to asthma or another respiratory problem., If your symptoms do not go away after 8 weeks or interfere with your daily activities, your doctor may refer you to an ENT specialist. Also known as an otolaryngologist, an ENT specialist can check your ears, nose, and throat to see if your symptoms are a result of an underlying cause, such as a viral or bacterial infection. An ENT specialist can also perform a nasal endoscopy using a fiber optic scope to look at your sinuses for nasal polyps or other structural problems if you have nasal infection, and may suggest an endoscopic sinus surgery.


You should tell your doctor about any other respiratory conditions you may have.