 Cut two peeled bananas in half lengthwise and set aside. Stirring frequently over medium-high heat, melt 4 tablespoons (57 grams) butter in a saucepan, then add 1 cup (240 mL) brown sugar. Continue stirring for 3–5 minutes, add the bananas, cook until soft, then add a dash of vanilla extract and a shot of spiced rum. After ten seconds, carefully light the mixture with a torch, let it burn itself out, and serve with vanilla ice cream.;
, Slice the banana into thick slices and cut each one in half or thirds. Mix them into homemade or store-bought pancake batter before frying. If you dislike chunky textures in your pancakes, instead place the banana between two pieces of wax paper, and smash thoroughly with your hands, before adding to the batter.


For a more unusual treat, cut peanut butter and banana sandwiches in half, dip in pancake batter and fry in hot oil.
 Peanut butter, nutella, honey, or chocolate chips all pair well with bananas. Eat this in a bowl, or make a sandwich with bread or graham crackers.
 Skewer whole, peeled bananas with a wooden skewer or popsicle stick, dip in melted chocolate, and freeze them wrapped in wax paper until the chocolate is hard. For a smaller snack, slice the bananas thinly instead before dipping.


Optionally, sprinkle chopped nuts on the chocolate before freezing.
You can also add peanut butter or almond butter to a frozen banana slice, and stick a second slice on top to make a banana mini-sandwich.
 Cut a line through the peel and halfway through the flesh of a ripe banana, running lengthwise along the inner curve. Stuff mini marshmallows, small chocolate squares, or candy into this slit. Skewer, wrap in foil, and heat over a campfire or on a grill until the inside is melted and the banana is mushy.
 When bananas turn overripe, it breaks down into sugars that turn the flesh brown and black. This sweet, mushy material is perfect for baking desserts, so use these bananas in muffins, banana bread, cake, or banana cream pie.
 Chop bananas into small pieces and mix thoroughly with vanilla pudding. In a large bowl, lay out a row of vanilla wafers. Add 1/3 of the pudding on top of the wafers, then repeat with two additional layers each of wafers and pudding. Chill until firm.
 Sprinkle peeled bananas with cinnamon and nutmeg, then roll each one in a sheet of uncooked phyllo dough. Bake at 350ºF (177ºC) for 30–35 minutes. Serve with warm chocolate sauce, chopped nuts, and/or warm dates.

