 Snowblowers can possibly handle some ice and save your back from shoveling injuries. If there are chunks of ice mixed in with your snow, the right snow blower can handle the job.Avoid single-stage blowers which use paddles and choose a dual-stage snow blower, which employs augers. Some augers have sharper or longer teeth, which are useful in breaking up the ice.
Gas blowers tend to be more reliable and stronger than electric blowers.
 Snow blowers will not be able to remove a sheet of ice. This will likely register as solid ground and the blower will roll over it. Break up large sheets of ice with a shovel before using the snow blower., Each snow blower will come with different controls, options and instructions. Be sure that you understand all of the moving parts and how to use them by reading the instruction manual before using the blower.


Pay specific attention to how to operate the auger, chute direction, drive clutch and steering levers.
Prepare the snowblower with gasoline, oil, stabilizers or necessary extension cords.
Look for accessories which may have come with your snow blower, like blades, skid shoes and shear pins.
 Know where you want to place the snow and ice. Decide which side of the sidewalk you would like to blow and pile the snow. Never blow ice and snow toward cars, houses or other people. Don’t move the snow from your sidewalk into someone else’s path.If it is a windy day, don’t blow the snow into the wind. This will blow it back in your direction.
Avoid picking up and shooting gravel through the blower. If you are clearing a gravel surface, leave a little snow on top of the gravel by lifting the necessary blades or augers to a height which does not reach completely to the ground.
 You will want to start the snowblower outside or in an open area. If you are in a shed or a garage, make sure that the doors are open to let exhaust out., Use both hands to push the blower at a slow and steady pace, much like mowing the lawn. Follow your planned route and take care when making turns.Some second-stage blowers have power steering options to assist in making turns.
Disengage augers when making turns and make sure that the chute is facing the correct direction before starting the augers back up.
Continue pushing the snow blower over the area and making turns until the sidewalk is completely cleared.

