 Your state's law provides guidelines that an employee must follow to receive workers' compensation benefits.


Most states require the employee (or you as the employer) to notify the state workers' compensation agency. The agency may hold a hearing or require a settlement conference before the employee is allowed to file a complaint in court.Employees generally must comply with the guidelines set by their primary care physician or any specialists they see to treat their injury. Failure to comply with a doctor's restrictions could result in the loss of eligibility for benefits., Each state requires employees to notify employers within a certain period of time after the injury in order to receive workers' compensation benefits.


You should maintain specific policies that inform employees how and to whom to report workplace injuries, and ensure all employees understand your policies. Keep written records of all reports, even if an injury is reported over the phone.
If the employee doesn't notify you of the injury in the way required by your state's workers' compensation law before the deadline established by that law, his or her claim can rightfully be denied.The notice typically may be written or oral, and may be communicated by a third party such as the employee's spouse or doctor. Notice must be received by a foreman, manager, or other representative of the employer with supervisory capacity over the employee.
The deadline varies from state to state, but generally is within three to five months of the date the injury occurred. In cases of gradually occurring injuries, the clock starts ticking when the employee has reason to know of the injury and that it potentially is work-related.Some states don't have a specific deadline by which the employer must be notified, simply requiring that notice be provided as soon as practically possible.
In contrast, in some states such as Missouri the deadline to notify the employer of a potentially work-related injury is as short as 30 days.Some states also require the employee to notify the state agency in charge of administering and regulating workers' compensation insurance.Keep in mind that if this is a requirement in your state, you probably should have forms and other information on the notification procedure on hand to provide to employees when they notify you of a work-related injury.
 If the employee missed required doctor's appointments or refused to comply with a doctor's recommendations, you may be able to argue the employee is not entitled to workers' compensation benefits.As the employer, you should receive notice of any restrictions the employee's doctor provides that relate to his or her work duties. You are responsible for providing work the employee can do within his or her restrictions.If the employee continues to do work outside his or her restrictions, you may be able to use this to cut off the employee's workers' compensation benefits.Employees who refuse to cooperate with the doctors treating them, or who continually miss appointments, also may be at risk of losing any workers' compensation benefits for that injury.

