 Don't pick a Shedinja if you want to use it in battle against the Elite Four. Assuming attacks don't KO it, if it goes up against Hippowdon, Hippowdon's ability, Sand Stream, will KO it the next turn.;
, For example, Pokémon like Bellossom don't take as much Exp. to level up as Pokémon like Magikarp. In general, rare Pokémon and Pokémon who are weak and evolve into very strong Pokémon take longer to level up. In general Grass/Bug Pokémon and Pokémon who's stats don't have a giant gap between evolutions, like Zubat/Golbat/Crobat, take less Exp. points.
 It also sells for 4900P. However, selling the Exp. Share is possibly the biggest mistake you can make in any game (next to using the Master Ball on a Magikarp etc.), unless you have 100 or something. The Exp Share is really the point of getting a Pokémon to lv. 100. Using the Exp. Share to get the Pokémon to Level 100 is just part of it. It is also used to help those "oh, they were really powerful when I used them, but now I caught new Pokémon when they were at, like, lv. 20, and I can't slow my team down to raise them" Pokémon get to higher levels.
 Battle the Elite Four and trainers around (not "in") the Battle Tower/Frontier. These trainers usually have Pokémon at at least level 46 (Sidney in Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald, his Mighteyena is the weakest Elite Four and Battle Tower/Frontier will be.) Once your team can beat these guys just as easily as beating a bunch of lv. 5 Caterpie, then focus on raising one Pokémon to level 100 instead of all of them.
 The four Regis are bad choices for this, three of them are at lv. 40 when you catch them, and Regigigas, lv. 70, is pure normal and dragged down by it's ability, Slow Start, which is self-explanatory. However, the legendary birds Moltres and Articuno can help big-time, depending on how you raise them (Zapdos's only useful Electric attack is Thunder, which has terrible accuracy unless you waste a turn using Rain Dance). The Post-Game boss Legendaries (Heatran, Mewtwo, etc.) and/or the third version superpowers (Giratina for D&P and Rayquaza for Ruby and Sapphire) and the Duo version superpowers (Groudon and Kyogre for Emerald and Dialga and Palkia for Platinum) are usually strong and start off at a high level. Also the Cheat Legendaries Darkrai and Shaymin are useful, but they start out at a low level. Arceus, will definitely be of help.
 A level 100 Magikarp is useless if all it knows is Splash. Also, even Arceus can be non useful. If you teach it Hyper Beam, Focus Blast, Psychic, and Recover, your opponent could have a level 1 Spiritomb and guess what? You can't even damage it. Teaching balanced moves is key. Don't teach a Pokémon Earthquake and Toxic, because many Pokémon who have Levitate or are Flying are either Poison of Steel. Don't teach a Pokémon Fire Blast, Ice Beam, Shadow Ball, and Imprison for the fear of a Snorlax with Thick Fat. Check every Pokémon in the world and see if your moves aren't going to do anything against it. For example, there is no Pokémon who can easily survive the four moves: Ice Beam, Flamethrower, Thunderbolt, and Surf. Finding a Pokémon who can know those moves isn't hard, ex. Snorlax, Rhyperior, Dragonite, and Gyarados.

