 Nine out of ten students text in class,and more and more teachers begin to incorporate text into their teaching anyway.


Have your phone in reach- either in your pocket or under the table, but out of your teacher’s sight.
Put your phone on silent- if you put it on vibrate, people WILL hear (for most phones).
Text your friends without looking on your screen too much.
Look up into your teacher’s direction repeatedly, to feign interest and attention.
 The old fashioned version of text messages, time goes by quicker if you commiserate with friends.


Take a small piece of paper- either rip a piece out of the back of your notebook, or use pre-cut pieces of paper.
Write your message- keep the paper on your notebook so it looks as if you are taking notes.
Keep your message brief- you don’t have much space.
Make sure your teacher is not looking
Fold your message, write the recipient on the outside.
Pass it to your neighbor inconspicuously, who will pass it along.
Look into the other direction, and wait for a reply!
Consider learning Morse code and using that- it adds a layer of mystery to your notes.
 It is silent and a fun way to communicate.


Keep your hands low so the teacher doesn't see you.
 The art of folding paper will keep your hands and mind occupied in a boring class, and can actually help you concentrate after all!Familiarize yourself with the basic folding techniques.Start out with simple, fun shapes, such as a dog or a cat.Practice folding without looking too closely- that way you can always look up to your teacher and pretend you’re listening.
Keep and ear out for what your teacher is saying while you’re folding. If you get caught and can at least repeat their last words, the punishment may be less severe.
Fold slowly and quietly- origami paper can be quite loud.
Offer the cute origami animal to your crush- or to your teacher if you get caught!
Make a fortune teller once you are a bit more advanced, and play with your friends!, There are several fun ways to spin a coin, which can entertain you and your classmates.


Look for loose change in your pockets- quarters are best, but any coin will do.
Stand the coin under your right index finger, and flick it with the other index finger so that it spins.
Vary your methods. Try your right index finger, then your thumb, or let it roll of your hand., It’s a fun way to impress your friends and keep your hands occupied.


Start with an evenly weighted and smooth pen. Watch a tutorial before you go to class- you want to have an idea of what you are doing.Begin with simple balancing tricks, and then work your way to greater tricks.
Spin when your teacher is not looking at you- especially in the beginning, you will drop the pencil very often.
 You can play these on either your phone, or a small hand held device.Make sure your device is fully charged- you don’t want to run out of battery in the middle of your game.
Decide whether you want to play online with others (even your classmates) or just for your amusement.
Pick the game you want to play and have it ready by the time the class starts.
Turn all sounds off.
Keep your device hidden beneath the textbook. Under the table is another option, but it will strain your neck after a while.



Keep your mini skateboard in your pocket or your binder.
Build little ramps from pens and other books- your school supplies can serve as a mini-skatepark
Play with them on a notebook or a binder. This will soften the loud impact when they land.
Keep an eye on your teacher and put them right back in your pocket the moment they notice something.



Sit in the back of the room, if possible against the wall
Use small in-ear headphonesthat are not easily visible.
Try to listen with only one ear. Hiding only one headphone is easier and you can still somewhat pay attention.
Put the wires under your shirt or hide them under long hair.
Rest your head on your arm to cover the earphones even more.
Keep the volume low- you don’t want to get caught by blasting your music loudly.
 This is a creative way to keep you entertained for probably more than one boring class period.


Keep an extra notebook, that looks very similar to your class notebook.
Start by drawing out characters, plot lines, and story ideas.
Write the script and design your own battle system.
Write the game play sections as if you were writing a guidebook for others.
 This will probably only keep you occupied shortly, but it’s a fun way to express yourself and passes the time!


Decide which colors you want to use. Be creative; you could paint your nails in a pattern, or add little ornaments to the color.
Put a sheet of paper underneath your hand- you don’t want to stain your notes.
Slowly paint your nail in the chosen color.
Apply the sharpie or white-out in regular outward strokes.
Softly wave your hands in the air and wait for the color to dry.

