 If the will has an arbitration provision, it may designate the provider to be used or other specific procedures to be used. The arbitration provision also may describe specific issues or disputes that must be resolved using arbitration.Keep in mind that arbitration provisions in wills have dubious legal authority in some states. If you intend to follow the provision, be aware that the other party to the dispute may object or refuse to submit to arbitration.
Binding arbitration clauses typically appear in contracts, where both parties sign and agree to be bound by the terms of that document. However, wills are only signed by the deceased person, not by any beneficiaries or others affected by the will.
This raises questions about whether a clause in the will can bind beneficiaries and others.
Some states have enacted legislation to address this issue. In Florida, for example, a state law passed in 2007 declares that mandatory arbitration provisions in wills are binding.;
, The will's arbitration clause may require you to notify other parties, including the executor or personal representative of the estate and any major beneficiaries, if you intend to resolve a dispute through binding arbitration.If the will's arbitration clause has identified an arbitration provider to be used, that provider may have specific notice procedures that must be followed.
Without a binding arbitration clause, getting the other party to the dispute to submit to binding arbitration may be a more difficult endeavor.
Because the binding nature of the proceeding means there can be no appeal from this decision made by someone not involved with the estate, the other party may be unwilling to run the risk that the arbitrator will rule in your favor.
For this reason, your best option is to contact the executor or personal representative of the estate and let them know that you want to submit your inheritance dispute to binding arbitration.
If you can get the executor to agree with you, it may be easier to convince the party with whom you have the dispute.
 You typically must use the arbitration provider specified in the will's arbitration clause. However, if the will does not have an arbitration clause or if that clause doesn't designate a specific provider, you'll have to choose one.There are three large arbitration agencies: the American Arbitration Association, JAMS, and the National Arbitration Forum. If the arbitration clause specifies a provider, it typically will be one of these three.
These groups are national and have offices in most larger cities. However, if the dispute is taking place in a more rural area, you may need to travel to actually participate in the arbitration hearing.
If no specific agency is designated, you can find an independent arbitrator by checking on your state or local bar association's website or asking the clerk of the probate court.
 Typically an arbitration proceeding is initiated by submitting a demand from arbitration to your chosen arbitration provider. A demand for arbitration is similar to a complaint in that it will outline the dispute and your argument against the other party.You typically must attach a copy of the will to your demand, particularly if the will contains an arbitration provision upon which you are relying.
If you're using a large arbitration agency, they typically will have a specific form for you to fill out to make a demand for arbitration.
The form requires you to provide information about yourself and the party with whom you have the dispute, as well as summarize the dispute and your allegations against the other person.
Then you will explain what you want out of the arbitration, and how you expect the issue to be resolved.
Your demand for arbitration must be accompanied by an initial filing fee, which typically will be several thousand dollars. If you're using an independent arbitrator, the fees may be somewhat less.
 While people often handle arbitration hearings on their own, if you're not comfortable speaking in public or are concerned about your ability to understand the rules and procedures, you may want to have an attorney represent you.Keep in mind that even though you're not resolving the dispute in probate court, inheritance disputes can become extraordinarily complex.
You also should take your own emotional stamina into consideration. If you're having difficulty dealing with the loss of a loved one, only to now have a dispute over a provision of the will, having an attorney on your side might make things a bit easier to handle.
If you do decide to hire an attorney, look for someone who has specific experience representing clients in arbitration of inheritance disputes.
 After you've filed your demand for arbitration, the party with whom you have an inheritance dispute must get a copy of that document and provide a written response within a set period of time.Some large arbitration agencies will deliver the demand for arbitration to the other party for you, while others require you to send the document yourself using standard legal service procedures such as mailing it using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
The other party must file an answer as well as a signed arbitration agreement by which they agree to submit the dispute to arbitration and be bound by the decision of the arbitrator.
Their answer will include any defenses or arguments against the allegations you set forth in your demand, as well as any counterclaims they may have against you.
 After the response (or counterclaim) from the other party is received, the arbitration provider typically will work with both parties to choose a neutral arbitrator from their list of members.If you're using a large arbitration agency, the agency will contact each party to discuss their preferred criteria for an arbitrator.
Arbitrators often have specialized knowledge in particular industries or areas of the law. You want to make sure the arbitrator selected is someone with a wealth of knowledge and experience regarding wills and inheritance disputes.
It's typically important that the arbitrator isn't anyone who knows you, the other party, the executor, or the deceased person whose will is at issue. This way all parties can be more assured the arbitrator is neutral.
If you live in a relatively rural area or if the deceased person and their estate are well known, it may be difficult to find a truly neutral arbitrator locally.
 The arbitrator will hold a meeting during which the procedural and evidentiary rules for the hearing will be explained to both parties and a schedule will be set for the hearing.Large arbitration agencies typically have established rules and procedures that are used in all arbitrations conducted through that agency unless the arbitration clause specifies otherwise.
The arbitrator will set the schedule for the proceedings, including deadlines for the exchange of information and any other hearings before the final arbitration hearing.
You also typically will have the opportunity to ask the arbitrator questions about the proceedings and get a better understanding of what will happen at the hearing and what will be expected of you.
 In preparation for the hearing, the arbitrator will moderate a process that's similar to, but less formal than the court discovery process. The purpose is to make sure the parties exchange information that is necessary for either party to support their arguments.


For example, if you believe the other party fraudulently induced the deceased person to revise their will and disinherit you, it's unlikely that you'll have much of the evidence you need in your possession to prove that this happened.
The arbitrator is available to facilitate this exchange of information, in the event the other party refuses to provide you with something you think you need that is relevant to your claim.
In the fraudulent inducement example, you may want the names and contact information for the deceased person's doctors so you can talk to them about the person's vulnerability or their mental state at the time when the will was executed.
While the procedure typically is much less formal than the discovery process in a civil trial, that doesn't mean that anything goes. The arbitrator will set rules and deadlines that both parties must follow while engaging in this exchange.
Arbitration agencies typically have the power to issue subpoenas if you identify witnesses who you want to call to testify at the hearing.
 Your hearing may be held in the offices of the arbitration provider or at a conference room in a courthouse. Try to arrive at the location 15 to 20 minutes early so you can find the correct room and get settled before the hearing begins.Arbitration hearings often take place in local courthouses. If this is the case, allow time to go through courthouse security to get to the room where your arbitration will take place.
Keep in mind that although arbitration is somewhat more relaxed than a traditional trial, you still should make an effort to present yourself neatly and professionally.
Business dress is appropriate, but if you don't have a suit just wear the type of clothing you might wear to a job interview. Your clothing should be clean, neat, and conservative.
Take notes on the dispute with you, as well as any evidence you want to introduce.
 Much like a court case, an arbitration hearing typically begins with each party making an opening statement to the arbitrator which summarizes the dispute, their arguments, and what they want out of the dispute.If you hired an attorney to represent you, they will be in charge of delivering the opening statement.
If you're delivering your opening statement yourself, speak from your notes in a clear, distinct voice. Address your statement to the arbitrator, not to the other party or anyone else in the room.
Stick to the facts of the dispute, and avoid insulting the other party or making purely emotional statements.
Keep in mind the arbitrator is typically an attorney or retired judge who likely has heard any sob story you could think of. Appealing to emotion probably won't get you very far.
 Since you filed the initial demand for arbitration, you typically will be first to introduce evidence and call witnesses to support your side of the inheritance dispute.If you're handling your arbitration on your own, make sure you've read the rules of evidence thoroughly and understand how they apply to the items you want to introduce.
Although rules typically are simpler and more relaxed in an arbitration than they would be in court, certain types of evidence, such as hearsay, still won't be allowed.
So if you or a witness wanted to introduce something someone else said at a previous time to prove some aspect of your case, that information typically would be disallowed as hearsay.
Any documents you want to introduce, such as medical records to prove the deceased person's mental state at the time the will was executed, generally must be authenticated in some way as records created in the normal course of medical treatment.
Keep in mind that any witnesses you call may be subject to cross-examination by the other side. However, unlike in a court trial, cross-examination may be brief or limited by the arbitrator only to specific issues.
 After you've finished, the other party will have the opportunity to introduce evidence or call witnesses to testify in their defense or call some of your points into question.Unlike a court hearing, you may not have the opportunity to introduce any additional evidence or counter the arguments of the other side.
However, if they call any witnesses, you'll have the same right to cross-examine them as they had to cross-examine yours.
Pay attention to the other side's arguments and take notes if there are any points brought up that you want to mention in your closing statement.
Maintain your composure, even if the other party says something you find insulting or offensive. Inheritance disputes can get very personal, but avoid interrupting or lashing out.
 Just like a court case, after both sides are finished introducing evidence, you each will have an opportunity to summarize the evidence that's been introduced and how you believe it indicates the arbitrator should rule in your favor.If the other party made any points in their presentation that you want to refute, now is the time to mention it.
Generally, you want to use your closing argument to run through the evidence you've presented and how it shows that you are in the right and the arbitrator should rule in your favor.
Keep in mind that you're not making a legal argument. While the arbitrator will be familiar with the law that is applicable to your dispute, his or her role is to arrive at the decision that is fair and just for the parties – even if it stretches or bends common legal principles.
 Once both sides have been heard, the arbitrator will review the evidence, testimony, and arguments of both parties and decide who should prevail in your inheritance dispute.The arbitrator may want additional information or documents from you or the other party before making his or her decision.
Any post-hearing submissions typically must be submitted fairly quickly after the hearing.
You typically can expect to receive the arbitrator's decision within a few days or a few weeks after the arbitration hearing.
The arbitrator may call the parties together to issue the order, or it may be mailed to you.
Once the arbitrator makes his or her decision, it is final and binding on all parties. Because both you and the other party signed arbitration agreements to that effect before arbitration commenced, you normally have no avenue of appeal.
This is one of the benefits of binding arbitration for inheritance disputes. The matter is finally resolved and regardless of which side prevailed, the only thing to do is move on from it. Having a matter firmly resolved can give you room to heal your relationship with the other party, if that's something you want to do.

