 A vertical labret piercing involves one piercing just below the lip and another near the center of the lip. A vertical labret piercing usually uses barbell jewelry, so it appears on your face as two beads: one under the lip, and another on the lip., A snake bite piercing is a type of labret piercing that looks something like a snake bite. It's the less common type, so it can give you an unconventional look. Two holes are made just under the lip. The space between these holes varies. You can have them on either corner of your mouth or close together near the center of your mouth. This piercing would appear as two beads, studs, or rings spaced apart below your lip., Your piercer will usually give you a choice in the studio regarding the type of jewelry you want inserted. Barbell jewelry and small beads or studs are usually used for labret piercings. You can select any color or style you like., Depending on your piercer, certain materials may cost more than others. Also, some piercers may charge more for some types of piercings. Review a piercing studio's costs online carefully before committing to a labret piercing. Make sure it's within your budget.
 Before getting a labret piercing, consider whether you can hide it. If your place of work or school forbids piercings, you may want to hold off on getting your labret pierced as labrets are hard to hide. If you have facial hair, it may be easier to conceal a labret, but it will still be somewhat visible. , To find piercers in your area, you can look online. If you have friends or family members with piercings, ask them for recommendations.


Make sure to scan online reviews before settling on a piercer. Very low overall ratings on a site like Yelp may be a bad sign.
 Call the piercer to ask a few questions before committing to getting your piercing done with them. Ask them about their sterilization processes. Make sure they use an autoclave, which is a device that sterilizes jewelry, tools, and equipment. Do not book an appointment at a piercing studio without an autoclave., Do not commit to a piercing without visiting the studio to check out the facilities. You want to get your piercing done at a clean, safe studio.The carpeting or floor of a studio should be clean. You should not notice any obvious dirt or debris on the floor.
Bathrooms should also be clean and well kept.
Sanitary studios have five areas that are kept strictly separate: the counter, the waiting room, the piercing room, and a sterilization room.
 Never do business with a studio that engages in shady practices. A studio should have age requirements. No one under 18 should be allowed to get a piercing without a parent or guardian present. A quality piercing studio will also be associated with the Association of Professional Piercers (APP). You should see an APP certification hanging somewhere on the walls.Studios that engage in illegal practices may also work their way around things like sanitation laws. It's not worth the risk to get your piercing done at a studio that does not adhere to the laws.
 A good piercer will care about you having the best possible experience with your piercing. They will provide information for safe aftercare and may even send you off with products to clean your piercing. When contacting a studio, ask about what aftercare information is provided. You should work with a studio that helps with both the piercing and its care afterwards.Some piercing studios may even provide free follow up appointments after the piercing to make sure you're caring for it properly.
 There are not a lot of special things you have to do to get your piercing done. However, you should make sure you're healthy before getting the piercing. You want your body to be as strong as possible during the piercing, so reschedule if you come down with a cold or flu.As piercings can be a little stressful, think about asking a friend or family member to accompany you to the piercing studio for support.
 In most studios, you will be taken to the back room. Your piercer will use a piercing gun to insert the hole or holes near or on your lips. You can expect some pain, but many people who have gotten a piercing actually find the noise of the gun more surprising than the physical pain. Luckily, the pain is only momentary and, when it's over, you will have a new piercing to show off., For the first few hours after getting the piercing, avoid eating and drinking. Ask your piercer how long it takes the wound to heal. Piercings can take a few weeks to completely heal. Until then, refrain from activities that could irritate the piercing.If you smoke, do not do so while the piercing is healing.
Refrain from drinking alcohol until the piercing has healed.
 Talk to your piercer about aftercare, especially regarding cleaning. Your piercer may send you home with a cleaning solution or just advise you to use antibacterial soap or water. Cleanse the area with soap and water and then use a cotton ball to wipe away any debris around the piercing.Make sure to wash your hands before cleaning your piercing.
 Make sure to brush your teeth regularly and use mouthwash while your piercing is healing. Brush and floss twice a day and then rinse out your mouth with mouthwash to keep your piercing clean. This helps prevent food particles from getting lodged in your piercing, which can cause an infection., If your piercing is causing pain or swelling, cold foods can help. Eat things like ice chips, frozen yogurt, cold smoothies, and other cold foods. This can reduce both pain and swelling in the piercing., If you notice any signs of an infection, contact a professional. A doctor, dentist, or your piercer can help you deal with an infection. Even with proper care, there is always a risk of a labret piercing becoming infected.The following are symptoms of a piercing infection:Red, swollen skin around the piercing
Pain or tenderness
Yellow or green discharge
A fever

