 In order to trace someone’s handwriting, you will need to locate a good source document that offers examples of most letters. In order to trace it, the document should not be on particularly thick paper, as light will need to pass through.If you find a good example of handwriting you like online, print it out onto a sheet of regular printer paper.
Historical documents with decorative handwriting can be found many places online, and copies of documents can be found at museums and national parks for purchase.;
, There are a number of options when it comes to using a light source to trace handwriting, depending on your budget. Regardless of your choice, place the original over the light source, then place a blank sheet of paper over it. You may choose to use tracing paper, but most white sheets of paper will work provided they aren’t too thick. You should be able to see the handwriting on the original through your blank sheet of paper. Some light source options are:Architect Tables are desks with internal light sources that light your documents from below as you work on them.
Light boxes are usually made of wood, with a white plastic top and an internal light source. They are usually small enough to place on top of a desk or table to use in the same way as an architect table.
Windows can suffice if you don’t mind writing with your documents upright instead of flat on a table. Simply tape your original to the window, then place your blank piece of paper over the original on the window. Pencils work better than pens when using this method.
 Now that you have the original document lit from below or behind and a blank sheet of paper over it, trace over the handwriting on the document. Pay close attention to how each letter is shaped as you trace them.Once you have traced the entire document, use a new blank sheet of paper to keep practicing.
Choose individual letters or words to trace for practice or trace the entire document.
Choosing a document that uses all of the letters in the alphabet will ensure you can capture how each letter is formed.
 Once you have practiced this method a number of times, place the source document nearby as a reference and attempt to write in that style freehand.When you forget how to properly shape a letter, refer to the original document as a refresher.
Form new words so you are not getting too caught up in copying the content of the source.
Keep practicing or go back to tracing until you have mastered the style.

