 The secret to finding a dance partner isn't a secret at all -- it's simply conversation. Look her in the eye, say hello, and introduce yourself. That may seem terrifying, but it is far easier, and more effective, then trying bad pick-up lines or hoping she comes up to you. If she smiles back or seems interested in talking, get to know her a bit and invite her onto the dance floor.While it seems cliche, confidence really is the best way to meet women. Simply put yourself next to her and start talking -- you're already ahead of 90% of the other men.
If you're having trouble making conversation, just go out onto the dance floor and start dancing, usually with friends. Again, this just shows the kind of confidence that will make it easier to find women.
You will get rejected sometimes -- but it is not personal. A girl may have a boyfriend, want to be with her friends, or just not feel great. Rejection is inevitable, so move on and find someone else.;
, If you're worried about striking up a conversation or it's too loud to talk, just go to the dance floor and start enjoying yourself. As you dance, look around for women who are dancing by themselves or in a small group. You don't want to rush at them, but any women looking for a partner will likely have her eyes up as well.


If you're uncomfortable dancing, just sway back and forth with the rhythm of the drums. Lift each arm individually with the beat and keep your joints loose and relaxed. You'll blend right in.
If a woman is with a group of friends, dodges eye contact, or seems busy with another man, just move on. Plenty of people go to clubs to find someone to dance with, so don't waste everyone's time chasing a girl who doesn't want the attention.
 The near-universal sign of attraction is eye-contact and a smile.Whether you meet on the dance floor or at the bar, good eye contact and a natural smile is the key to sparking a connection. In fact, smiling is proven to be the most effective form of flirting, so look happy.If she reciprocates, you can:


Nod your head towards the dance floor.
Ask "care for a dance?"
Offer her your hand to her and playfully pull her towards the floor.
Move in closer while you dance., This isn't just a bad way to spend an evening, it's not going to work. If you seem like you're hunting for a woman to dance with, trying everything to get one to like you, you're going to come off as desperate. Again, though it seems easier said than done, be confident, cool, and collected. You are there to have a good time, but you should remember that you don't need a woman to enjoy yourself. Talk to your friends, start a conversation at the bar, and go dance when you want to dance. You'll be surprised how attractive this personal confidence can be.


Never try and juggle multiple "options" throughout the night. Chances are good it will backfire, and you'll justifiably look like a jerk., Don't try to impress anyone with spastic, difficult moves you can't pull off. Simply feel the groove and get moving. Above all, try to do all the following moves fluidly, not as fast as you can or with large, expressive accents. If you want to practice, make sure that you have some music on. A mirror can help too, helping you see exactly what you look like to try and improve.


Dancing is all about feel, not showing off. As long as you stay on the beat (follow the drums if you get lost) you'll be fine.
Repetition while dancing is fine! Don't feel like you need to change things up every 30 seconds., This simple dance staple can be used for at any song, anywhere. To do it, start with both feet roughly shoulder-width apart. Count out the beats on the drum: 1,2,3,4 - 1,2,3,4, - etc. Step your right foot out to the right on the first beat. Then follow with your left foot, tapping your left toe down by the right foot on the second beat. One the third beat, step your left foot to the left. Then follow with your right foot, tapping the toe down on the last beat. You'll be right back where you started, so keep repeating it. Variations include:


Keep your arms up, snapping, clapping, or pumping them to the beat as well. Just don't leave them glued to your side.
Rotate and swing your shoulders with the beat to get your upper body involved.
On the second and fourth step, try landing with your heel out in front of you instead of your toe, or placing your tow behind your planted foot.
As you get better, trying moving forward, backward, or around as you do the two-step., Grinding is perhaps the most common and intimate partner dance that happens in the clubs. Luckily, it is also incredibly easy to do. Place your hands on her hip, and stagger your feet with hers so that you're not constantly bumping knees. From there, simply swing your hips back and forth together on the beat. She will likely take charge, so just lock into her rhythm and move with her, keeping your hips swinging from side to side. You can add some simple variations by:


Removing one hand and raising it in the air, or clasping on of her hands.
Bending your knees together and going down low, especially if the song is calming down before a drop.
Spinning her around and trying face to face, especially if there is good chemistry between you both.
 It is the easiest dance move possible, but also perfectly acceptable in the club. Just bend your knees slightly to the beat, rocking your shoulders back and forth as you do. Keep your hands up, snapping or clapping as you do, so that your whole body appears loose and relaxed. If you've got nothing else, this will always keep you moving.


Remember to move to the drum beat. Rhythm is easy, just follow the "boom-clap, boom-clap" found in the drum section of 99% of club songs., Dancing well is not as complicated as it looks. Of course, complex moves take years of training to get right, but in the club all you need are two or three staples that you can string together. Once you can do the two-step and bounce confidently to the beat, try adding the following slight movements together, doing them for 4-8 beats and then switching it up.Bob or turn your head to the beat.
Rotate one of your knees back and forth.
Turn and twist your shoulders back and forth, bending down with the beat.
Pivot or twist on one toe.
Extend your arms out in front of you, crossing and uncrossing them.
 It doesn't matter how good or bad you are-- if you stay in time, you'll be fine. Luckily, club music is easy to dance to, since the drums will count out your steps for you. Move your feet, shoulders and arms in time with the "boom - chick'" of the drum beat. Every time you hear the "snap" of a snare drum, touch a foot down. This should be all the rhythm you need.


Step one foot to the side, then bring your other foot to meet it. Then move back to the other side. This quick "two-step" looks natural no matter what is playing.
Do not try and change or adapt your tempo to fit her if you feel off; this just makes it harder for both of you to find time together. Just listen to the music and sync your body up with that -- she will do the same without your help., In older forms of dance, a male typically led the female across the floor in complex patterns. Club dancing requires no such bravado, especially if you're not a natural dancer. So, instead of trying to be something you're not, just let go and enjoy yourself. Follow her led for a bit. Take her hand and spin her. Bend your knees and go down low together when the beat slows down. Move slightly away and bust a move, even if it's corny. Instead of trying to come up with the perfect dance "plan," just have fun -- chances are it will rub off on her.If you are a good dancer, and you feel confident, go ahead and take the lead.
Don't pinch or otherwise make childish grabs at her. You'll destroy whatever chemistry there was between the two of you. Play it safe and follow her lead until you're perfectly clear on what she wants., Some ladies will want to increase the intensity while others want to take it slow. Don't rush into it, and definitely do not start grabbing or holding onto her. Depending on the situation, there are comfortable, non-confrontational places to put your hands, and let her dictate what she wants from there. Realize, however, that these are just suggestions -- the two of you should feel comfortable setting and respecting boundaries together. If she likes something, it's fine -- if she rejects it, you need to stop.


If you're grinding, dancing back-to-front and up close, you can start with one hand high on her waist, at about the top of her hipbone.
If you're leading her to the dance floor, you can hold her hand or lightly place yours on in the middle of her back.
If you're dancing face to face, you likely won't start with a lot of physical contact. But grabbing her hand and taking her for a quick, playful spin is a great way to bridge the gap.
 Once you're dancing with a woman you should be having fun with her, not off looking for another conquest. The reasons are numerous, but the most important one is that it is rude. If you're not enjoying the woman you're dancing with then stop dancing with her and actually find someone else -- otherwise you should be in the moment with her., As the songs change, do the same thing with your moves. Get down low. Put your arms around different parts of her body (within reason, unless she suggests otherwise). Incorporate hand gestures on occasion. Above all -- do it with a smile on your face. You don't need to make a fool of yourself, you just need to have fun. So open up a little bit, make her laugh, and keep dancing. If you're looking to broaden your dancing move set, check out:


Learn to Dance
Dance Some Basic Moves
Dance at the Club.
 Most women do not go to the club to find the single best dancer there and take them home, even though most men seem to think they have to be the greatest moon walker since Michael Jackson. In reality, the best partners are fun, confident, and able to stay on a beat. The lights are low, drinks have been poured, and the music is bumping. So stop worrying about getting everything perfect and have a good time -- you'll get a lot more dances as a result.