 Everyone is unique in some way or the other. What's is important for us is to never give up and never give in. Life is as simple as we take it. The more we make it complicated, the more it gets.;
, Its is mandatory for us to know that we have to fight for our rights simply because its our right. No one has the right to take what is meant to be for us. Its is worth it to fight for your happiness, to fight for your job, to fight for your married life and to fight for everything which you think is somehow connected to you. Remember, I do not mean to throw punches onto someone. Fighting spirit is what is of my concern, the confidence that you can handle relations, communicate effectively and prosper with confidence and stability.
 As long as you know your capacity to deliver your best, never ever give your second best.
 The evil of procrastination, makes you lose everything you have and meanwhile take the future opportunities waiting for you. When you have decided to take a bath, just do it.
 A religious bonding no matter whatever religion you follow, always helps you keep your spirits and morality into a higher level. Always have faith in God and know that God is watching you and will always be there for you no matter what.
 You need to love yourself if you are to spread love to others. Always think of best things for yourself, best clothing, best shape, best activities and best food. But make sure, in the course of achieving your goals, do not take away the best of others. Always strike for a fair deal.
 Its not easy, but it is not impossible. Bad habits are like mountains, they are pretty huge in built but they are climbable. If you think you have 3 bad habits, neglect the two till you get rid of the first one. and gradually, replace the 1st bad habit with a good one and same goes for the others two., Know that its your life. Nobody has the right to control your life, to take away your life and to interfere into your life. As long as you know that you are YOURSELF, you are successful. Do not hesitate to say a FIRM NO or an ENCOURAGING YES to yourself and to others.
 No matter whatever exercise or whatever sports you are in. Make sure you do something in this regard. Badminton, Basketball, Football or Gym, anything will seal the deal. Its really helps to esteem your self-image, and good physique.
 My writing is not standard, my suggestions are not the best. Its just some tips, take it or leave but make sure you decide what is best for you.

