 Becoming beautiful starts with a choice. We become beautiful when we become the best that we can ever be. Becoming beautiful starts to unfold when we learn to recognize our weaknesses and when we choose to overcome them. We learn to take hold of our choices because life becomes what we make of it.;
, The ability to be reflective works best in this step. We face the mirror and realistically look at our image reflection. Have we failed to take care of ourselves? Is your hair out of shape? List them down and come to decide what you resolve to do. Are you beautiful and well pampered? It always pays to be humble and to keep in mind that somewhere out there someone could look better than us.
 Advancement and growth comes only to those whose heart, mind and soul (HMS) that is open. The moment we become defensive and become close for new ideas, we stop to grow and stop to become beautiful. We might have failed, we might have fell short and instead of giving up we change our attitude towards failure. Failures are turning points for us to perform better by learning from our mistakes. Failure should fuel our drive to go for more in this life.
 It is one of the good things we can ever have in this life, our uniqueness and our individuality. Be the best that you can be. Remember there's only one you in this life and it is always nice to be loved and taken as what we are. Imperfections is beauty by itself.
 This apply to both physical and emotional beauty. Not all of us have the features of a beauty queen and even beauty queens are not perfect but with the beautiful part in their personality they bank on them that the rest of their inadequacies, flaws and imperfections are hardly noticed. Distraction? Maybe but it is clearly compensatory mechanism at work." Highlight on your strengths and abilities; downplay on your weaknesses."

, Our surroundings have many ideas. You hear many voices and convictions that are confusing. It is best to listen to the experts for many people believe in them and have proven the power of their talks executed into action. Read, listen, observe and understand.
 Be consistent and be disciplined to keep up and never give up. She keeps trying and eventually she makes it!

, If we think that we know all things and had become so wise we deceive ourselves. It is when we listen and learn to respect ideas that we begin to grow and learn more. Too much confidence is the beginning of downfall." It is when we become humble that we begin to learn and grow.
 Celebrate life, be grateful of the things you have and stop becoming bitter with your setbacks. All things that come our way come with a purpose even our pains come to make us wiser and better individuals. It is just amazing to be with someone who loves life. Pains and setbacks won't pull her down for she takes them as turning points to make her a better individual . She shines and the beauty of her soul and physical presence are inspiring . She isn't perfect but she exudes confidence and love for life simply because she made a choice to be 'beautiful!'

