 Generics are often just as safe and effective as branded counterparts, often have identical ingredients list, and are sometimes even made by the same manufacturers. Further, any product that is regulated by the FDA or Consumer Product Safety Commission must meet the same standards, whether it is name brand or generic.


For instance, baby wipes - including generics - are regulated by the FDA, since they are intended for cleansing and moisturizing skin and are considered a cosmetic product.That said, many products - both branded and generic - commonly sold for babies do contain ingredients you should watch out for.
 There are some products you should be especially wary of, whether branded or generic. In general, the products that you use regularly on your baby - such as lotion - should be free of potentially harmful ingredients. For instance, you want to avoid synthetic fragrances, parabens, and phenoxyethanol - some of which are even contained in brands that are markets as "natural".When possible, use chemical-free moisturizers. For instance, shea butter and olive oil can often be used to moisturize instead of artificial baby lotions.
 The important thing to remember about baby oil is that is should never contain mineral oil. Unfortunately, both branded and generic options often do. Instead of using these options, simply use coconut or olive oil instead of baby oil., Cosmetics designed for babies frequently contain toxic chemicals that should be avoided. This is true for generic baby products as well as branded ones. While these products are not intended to be consumed, they can be absorbed through the skin.Products you should use sparingly include shampoo, wipes, lotions, bubble bath, and even baby oil.
Use only enough soap to wash dirty areas. Use a washcloth with warm water and a bit of mild soap to wash the places where bacteria is likely present, such as the diaper region.
Baby soaps generally have minimal additives, and are generally safe in small amounts. This is true both for generic and brand name baby soaps. However, the potentially carcinogenic chemical ingredient propylene glycol is somewhat common, and should be avoided in any product.
 Consult your pediatrician before using any type of sunscreen on a baby that is younger than six months old.Beyond six months of age, sunscreen use is important to protect your child, though many sunscreens should not be considered reliable or safe. That said, generics are equally as safe as branded products as long as they meet certain criteria.In general, avoid spray sunscreens. These often do not provide great coverage, and risk being inhaled. Further, an SPF value over 50 is simply unnecessary.
More specifically, oxybenzone and retinyl palmitate should be avoided. Oxybenzone is surprisingly common in sunscreens, both generic and branded.
 If you're unsure of an particular product or ingredient's safety, don't hesitate to research it yourself online. The FDA's website is a great website to check, and can alert you if a certain product has been recalled.Additionally, the Environmental Working Group has compiled a database of cosmetics products and has rated them for toxicity and safety.


Use the EWG app to search specific products, including generics. Though it often recommends expensive options, the app is useful to check any product for especially dangerous ingredients., Other important criteria to help guide your safety considerations are country of origin and specific manufacturer. These are important because they reflect the regulatory standards the product had to meet. While these criteria alone cannot be considered sufficient to deem a product safe, products manufactured in North American or Europe likely had to meet strict regulatory protocols, whether they were branded or generic.Though people often associate branding with safety, a generic product from a country with a strong regulatory system can often be assumed to be equally safe.

