 Press M on your keyboard to show the map. The office is the southwest room where it is the easiest to camp out. It also has a safe room in which before the door is unlocked, there will be a 10-second alarm notifying you (this is also for the other safe room which if you look up (if you are in it), is actually an elevator).


If there is a zombie that appears in the office, then you can go to the crate room, or cargo room. A platform is there so you can camp there, but the larger entrance makes the platform more vulnerable. The elevator is actually safer because there are bars, unlike the office which is glass and also a window to the side.;
, The box is indeed safer, and there is only 1 way of getting there. The security camera is harder for the zombies to get to you, but an item on the wall has allowed the zombies to step on that and infect the human that way. Unfortunately you cannot climb on the box platform with a heavy vest, and specialist armor is recommended if you do.
 There are many areas that are good hiding spots, but more experienced players will check each and every one of them, so be careful! These are all the hiding places:


The barrels near the main building exit
The "waterfall," the place where water leaks out of the pipe
The box (northeast corner), where if carefully placed, some new people can be unaware of you
A pillar in the crate room (most pillars work), where you are at the edge and below the main platform
The space between the box platform and the entrance to the platform: this has been the most effective
The "south" wall near the small (there is a bigger one) tunnel where it connects the crate room with a place to the office (stairs), you are least seen if you put your body up against this side of the wall
The pipelines near the main tunnel that connects to the crate room directly to the stairs, in which if carefully placed, zombies can only see you if they take the path from the stairs to the crate room (keep in mind that the stairs do NOT lead to this tunnel, although a bio-chemical tunnel does lead to this)
The small room near the pipelines, this in fact is right next to it and is a secondary route if the main route to the office is blocked from zombies (which they will most likely take); you must hide in the corner where you are surrounded by lockers in order to achieve the best results
The lower elevated corner at the edge of the crate room; zombies can only see you from the center of the crate room, and not from the big room that leads to the stairs that leads to the office

, Shotguns and snipers can actually push the zombies, while normal guns can only push it a little bit. If you have NX (Nexon Cash), buy a flamethrower, because it does normal damage and extremely effective against zombies when you are in a safe room. They will try to break the glass (or bars) to try to get in, and you can just burn them to death with it. Incendiary grenades do normal damage and if thrown into the right place, it can be effective. Also, the M32 Grenade Launcher is the most effective weapon in this mode for this map, as at the pipe to the office is usually crowded with zombies, you can just fire away. You only have 6 grenades, so make sure that you hit the zombies directly or at least very close to them.
 This is only accessible if you are a specialist. 1 claymore can have the potential to kill one infected right from the start! However, the zombie must have 225hp or 300hp, or else it will only damage the zombie a little bit.
 Host Infections have a gray face, while the other zombies have this blood-stained face. It is very important since Host Infections have more sprint stamina and thus can travel farther at the maximum speeds.
 M416 with Itech Reflex Sight works beautifully, and so is the M416 CQB. A weapon with a scope is useless except a sniper.
Pistol: Doesn't really matter, as long as it has a good fire rate and has many bullets.
Melee: Doesn't matter
Support: M69HE frag grenade
Backpack slot A: M67, Flamethrower, M32, Heartbeat Detector, Medkit (not recommended unless you are running around in the crate room), Sat. scanner, or an RPG-7.

