 Showcase the funniest, sweetest, most memorable moments in life with a cool photo montage set to current music. Friends and family will laugh, get teary-eyed and "aw" together as everyone shares this trip down memory lane.;
, Does your family or grad prefer to shoot video over stills? If so, a video montage -- peppered with best movie lines and favorite scenes -- is sure to be a crowd-pleaser. As an added touch, you might consider burning extra copies of the montage DVD to give to guests as party favors.
 "Say Anything," "American Graffiti," "There's Something about Mary" and "American Pie" are just a few of the most memorable films about high school and beyond. If your grad is a movie buff, this is a great way to enjoy a rental projector over graduation weekend.
 Nothing brings friends together quite like a little competition. Imagine adding that extra element of fun to your party with larger-than-life projection with your favorite gaming system. Rental projectors work seamlessly with Wii, XBOX, Guitar Hero and more.
 Whether your party aims to be low-key casual or more of a dance floor party, big-screen projection can set the mood for romance, laughter, music videos, and more.
 Let's face it -- your parents have given a lot for you to get to this point! Why not surprise them with a special video thank-you (or a separate photo montage)? They'll love you even more for your thoughtfulness (and you might just get an even better graduation gift).
 Sure, what kid doesn't want a car or a killer graduation party when they finish high school? But think about what means the most for years to come...your unconditional love and support. Record a video or set images to music in a short "parent's wish" -- say what you've always wanted your child to know: you love them, you are proud of them, and you wish them every joy and happiness in life. Sure beats the heck out of a Hallmark card!

, Got a favorite teacher? One who's gone the extra mile to help ensure your success? Maybe a certain teacher recognized and encouraged a hidden talent, went to bat for you with school administration or a college board, or invested the extra time and attention needed to ensure the student didn't give up when the going got tough. Celebrate that teacher in living color with a video thank you or photo montage, displayed at the school graduation, graduation party, or other celebration.
 When the big day arrives, some grads don't want to talk, reminisce or even play video games -- they just want to dance, dance, dance. Sure, you could hire a DJ, but wouldn't it be even more fun to showcase favorite songs in all their rock video glory? All it takes is a rental projector and a huge blank wall to get the party started.
 Many rental projectors are compatible with karaoke machines and other kinds of karaoke fun. After graduation, everyone deserves to cut loose and have some fun!

