 When you have tooth nerve pain, you may want to try some over-the-counter pain medication. You can try aspirin, ibuprofen (like Advil), acetaminophen (like Tylenol), and naproxen (like Aleve).Make sure to follow the instructions and dosage guidelines on the label.;
, Tooth nerve pain commonly involves inflammation around the base of the tooth in the pulp of the tooth. While this inflammation can often be treated, there are some red flags that should alert you to get professional dental care. These include:Worsening or any pain with chewing
Sensitivity to temperature lasting longer than 15 seconds after the cold or hot source has been removed
Bleeding or discharge from around a tooth or gums
Swelling around a tooth or swelling of the jaw or cheek
Fever
Injury or trauma to the area especially if the tooth is broken or loosened

, You can use use many at home treatments for tooth nerve pain. However, if these approaches do not provide relief within one to two days, call your dentist for professional treatment. Your condition may be severe and require medical treatment.If you develop any signs of pain, bad breath, difficulty swallowing, jaw, gum or mouth swelling, or fever, call your dentist right away, as you may need emergency medical attention.
 When you go to the dentist, your dentist will do an exam. At first, the dentist will perform a complete exam and possibly take x-rays to look for new cavities, cracked or broken tooth enamel, or broken teeth. They will also check old fillings and remove those that are loose or broken.Your dentist will also check your gums for any signs of inflammation, bleeding, or a need for a deep cleaning. Your dentist will also check for any abscesses, impacted wisdom teeth, and any signs of bruxism, clenching or grinding of the teeth usually done while you sleep. If none of these seem to be a problem, your dentist will check your sinuses as well as your TMJ.
If you have any cracked, broken, or impacted teeth, bonding or tooth extraction might be needed if the tooth cannot be saved. If an abscess is causing your tooth pain, it may be necessary to perform a root canal, after your dentist removes the infection through a small cut in your gum and you go through a course of antibiotics.
In a root canal, a hole is drilled into the tooth and the infection is physically removed. The area within the tooth is then cleaned and the tooth is repaired with a filling.
 Gum disease may be the cause of the tooth pain. It is important to treat gum disease early. Gum disease can precede more serious dental diseases, chronic diseases, and even other more general problems. It is important to deal with gum disease as soon as possible.In deep cleaning, most often the first step in treating gum disease, the areas beneath the gums are cleaned with dental tools, removing bacteria and plaque, as well as hard pieces of calculus and necrotic cement, which are the main source of gum swelling.
You will also likely be given some extra training in brushing and flossing your teeth, as well as given a remineralization solution to use as directed.
 TMJ may also lead to tooth pain. If this is the cause of your tooth pain, there are a number of treatment approaches that may be taken:


Anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen can be taken for the pain.
Sometimes, anti-depressants and/or muscle relaxing agents are prescribed for TMJ. These are often used as a short-term approach to TMJ.
Mouth guards can be used to treat TMJ, especially if you are grinding or clenching your teeth.
Physical therapy exercises can be done to strengthen the jaw.
Counseling may be considered to reduce stress and to teach various relaxation techniques.
Surgery may be needed in severe cases of tooth pain due to TMJ.
TMJ TENS aims for muscular relaxation after applying electrical stimulation on the main muscles that cause grinding problems.
Botox injections can be surprisingly helpful, as long as they are given by specialists.

