 Although many people's response to sore, bleeding gums is to cut back on brushing and flossing until the irritation dies down, this is the worst thing you can do. The only way to get your gums back to a healthy condition is through good oral hygiene, which involves systematic brushing and flossing.Although dentists typically recommend brushing twice a day, people with gum disease should brush more frequently, preferably after every meal or snack.
You may also want to use a gum stimulator, which promotes constant blood flow to the gums and prevents inflammation.
You should also floss at least once a day, making sure to floss below the gum line on every tooth, to remove the maximum amount of plaque.
You should also floss before you brush, so any bits of food or bacteria that you dislodge from between your teeth will be brushed away, not left to sit in your mouth.
Also remember to brush your tongue, as this is a major breeding ground for bacteria.
 Eating a balanced diet is important for healthy teeth and gums, and can help to prevent gum disease.Try to eat lots of whole grains, vegetables and fruit, as these will provide you with the vitamins and minerals you need to stay healthy and ward off disease. Fruits and veg high in Vitamin C, such as bell peppers, kale, broccoli, berries and citrus fruits, are particularly important.Dairy products such as milk, yogurt and cheese provide calcium and they are important for strong teeth and healthy gums, particularly in children and should be consumed instead of soft drinks or any other acidic beverages. They help to clear sugars from the mouth, thus preventing bacteria build-up and plaque.Avoid eating foods full of sugar or processed carbohydrates, as these contribute to plaque and can be damaging to teeth. Also avoid snacking too much between meals and eating before bedtime., In case you weren't aware, smoking is bad news when it comes to the health of your teeth and gums.Toxins in cigarettes and tobacco make your gums more prone to inflammation and disease. They also negatively impact your body's immune response, making it harder to fight infection.Smoking also interferes with blood flow because nicotine constricts blood vessels reducing blood flow to your gums. This leaves your gums undernourished, causing them to become fibrous and swollen.Smokers are six times more likely to develop gum disease than their non-smoking counterparts, and tend to develop more serious gum disease which often requires tooth extraction, as smoking lessens the success rate of other treatments., When you are stressed out, your body produces more of a hormone called cortisol, which negatively affects the health of your teeth and gums.More specifically, cortisol decreases inflammation creating vessel constriction which increases blood pressure. It also affects the immune system, making it harder for your body to ward off disease.Stress also increases adrenaline and glucose blood levels, which can contribute to diabetes.
You can reduce your stress levels by getting better-quality sleep, by exercising more often and by spending time with your friends and family., You should visit your dentist at least twice a year, or more if you have pre-existing teeth or gum problems.Only your dentist can perform a professional and thorough cleaning by using instruments that clean the parts of your mouth that cannot be reached simply by brushing and flossing.
Don't let the cost put you off; catching a gum disease or other tooth problems early will help save money in the long run as you will require less extensive treatment.
Once you're there, you can ask your dentist how often she recommends you get a cleaning.