 Obviously, a great way to break the ice with new people is having a common interest, but not all interests lend themselves immediately to a group setting. If most or all of your hobbies and passion projects tend to be one-person endeavors, think of ways to repurpose them to include other people. For example:If you love writing, join a workshop where you and other members share your respective work and discuss them.
If you’re a runner, find clubs in your area that practice and run races together.
If you do a lot of DIY projects around the house, attend seminars on home improvement.
 Whenever you have a positive exchange with someone new, follow it up by asking for their contact information. Demonstrate that you’ve enjoyed your time together by showing that you want to repeat it. If they’re willing to, be sure to provide them with your own so they can get in touch with you, too. You don’t need every possible way to reach them, so just ask for one at first, like their:Phone number
Email address
Social media profile

, Everyone has their own routine in life, but don’t let yours hold you back. Understand that making new friends requires you to make room in your life to accommodate them. Be willing to readjust your schedule to make time for them.For example, you may enjoy winding down after school or work by watching TV at home. But, assuming you have work or class five days a week, sticking to this pattern without fail will really limit your availability.
This doesn’t mean you have to go out clubbing straight from work or school each night. But at the very least be willing to vary your routine by inviting people over or chatting with them online or over the phone.
 As with romantic relationships, don’t limit yourself by holding prospective new friends up to an overly idealized standard. Sure, you may have a preconceived idea of what your “perfect” friend would be like, but refrain from comparing real people to that. Leave yourself open to surprises. For instance:Let’s say you joined a running club and have started buddying up with a fellow runner. As you get to know them, you realize that they come from a much different background than yours and lead a much different lifestyle.
Although you may have hoped to meet someone much like yourself, with the same interests and personal tastes, that doesn’t mean this person won’t be a great friend. They may in fact open the door to new experiences that you otherwise would never have had.
 People are attracted to self-confidence, but don’t confuse self-confidence with trying to come off as absolutely perfect 24/7. Expect new friends to feel a deeper bond with you if you give them the opportunity to provide advice, comfort, and emotional support. So don’t be afraid of sharing uncertainties and fears with new people.This could be done through simple means like conversation, or you can incorporate it into your decision about what type of groups or activities you want to join in order to meet new people. For example, join a drama club if you’re nervous about public speaking, or up the ante even further and try something like skydiving.

