 You will use ten balloons total. One balloon will represent the sun, and the other nine, the planets. In order from the sun, these are: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto (which has been demoted in status to a "dwarf planet";after conducting your own research, you may choose whether or not to include it). Although you may not be able to get the scale exact, it will be useful for educational purposes to blow up the balloons so that their relative size matches the planets they represent. The biggest balloon will be the Sun, which is approximately ten times the largest planet Jupiter. For sake of scale, each planet can be roughly compared to the following objects:









Mercury — marble
Venus — walnut
Earth — golf ball
Mars — acorn
Jupiter — basketball
Saturn — soccer ball
Uranus — soft ball
Neptune — small grapefruit
Pluto — kidney bean , If you’ve never worked with papier-mâché before, it's both a fun and easy medium to work with. The process of making it is simple, but will almost certainly get messy. You will be dipping newspaper strips in your adhesive mixture and applying it to an object, in this case a balloon. Once the strips dry, you'll be left with hardened objects that will represent the planets.









Tear the newspaper into long, thin strips.
Use one strip at a time and get rid of excess adhesive from each strip over the bowl by running your fingers lightly over it. This will conserve your mixture but also make sure your planets are not too soggy.
 Drape the wet newspaper strips across the surface of each balloon. It may help to make two layers, one horizontal and one vertical, so you can be sure of full coverage. Balloons have a tend to wander if not held in place. If you have an extra pair of hands, have one person hold the balloon while the other applies the strips. Otherwise, you can put the balloon in a large bowl that will keep it in place or nestle it between two weighted objects, like some books. 








In order to cover the tie end of the balloon, tape it down and then place a strip directly over the end. Make sure there are no gaps between the strips. You want to cover the balloon completely.
Use your paintbrush to smooth the surface and get rid of excess glue from the newspaper strips. It's okay to leave some texture to the final product as this will make the balloons appear more realistic to the topography of a planet.
 You won't want to peel off layers of dry, painted papier-mâché, so look for any issues after you place the strips.









If you see a strip that doesn't look right and it's not yet dry, simply remove it and reapply a new strip. You can do this after it's dry, but the strip may break apart and require a little more work.
 Factors like humidity and room temperature can affect drying times. You may need to wait until the next day to proceed to the finishing touches. Using a gentle blowing fan may speed the process somewhat, as long as it doesn’t scatter the balloons around the room. It would be best if you have a drying rack, or an enclosed protected space to prevent the balloons from rolling around. Otherwise, the added weight of the glue should limit their movement on its own.

