 Leaving your country and moving to another country can be a difficult experience for some people. In fact, even the stouthearted will have feelings of homesickness. Plus, you will have many new experiences and face many problems. Can you deal with that?;
, If you are separated, divorced, or never married, then you can make the decision yourself.
 You need money for an airline ticket, and at least 6 months of living expenses to get settled.
 This can pay very well, so you get savings plus life in a foreign country.
 A good choice right now is the Philippines (if you have no desire to learn another language, they all speak English) or China (if you are willing to learn at least some of the local language).
 Pick one that is safe. A mid-size city with many universities is best. In this environment, you can make many friends which is critical to your success.
 Learn about the location you are going to. Buy some books such as Lonely Planet or similar guide books. Also make sure you check the level of air pollution of that city.
 Try to make some friends in the city you will be living in. Do not bother with people outside or in the distant suburbs of your target city. You need friends who are close by to help you with getting settled.
 You need one to travel outside your country in most cases.
 You may need visa to get into the target country.
 Remember, you can pay the airline for extra boxes if needed. Or you can have them shipped. If shipping, FedEx is always best. Don't rely on the new country's postal system.
 Does it feel safe to walk the streets at night? How do the locals treat foreigners? Remember that as a tourist you will probably get a romantic impression of the country. Living there may be a totally different ballgame. Make sure you meet some expats who have been living there for a few years and ask them about their experiences.
 You should be able to find one for $25 a night in China, for example.
 Meet them in a public place at first. They will ask if they can help you. Say yes. Try to improve your relationship by eating some food or by visiting some of the local tourist spots together. Be very careful with the local food and drinking water at first. Check whether it is safe to drink the tap water.
 After some time, you will meet people with connections, and they can help you find a nice apartment or a job, if you need one.
, Nothing is more accurate than the true experience, and you might eventually realize that living in another country is not for you.

