 A sore throat can easily be a symptom of another illness, such as a viral or bacterial infection. If your sore throat lasts longer than a week (or more than three days while gargling saltwater regularly), or if you also develop any of the following symptoms, then it’s time to see a doctor. Additional symptoms include:Any difficulty swallowing
Any difficulty breathing
Difficulty opening your mouth
Developing joint pains
Earache
Rashes
A fever above 101°F (38.3°C)
Blood in your saliva or phlegm
A lump or mass in your neck
Hoarseness lasting longer than two weeks
Note that for children, the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests that you take them to a doctor for any overnight sore throat that doesn’t go away by hydrating or if the sore throat is accompanied by difficulty swallowing, breathing, or odd/unusual drooling., In order for the doctor to diagnose the reason for the sore throat, he or she will run a few tests, including a physical examination where the doctor uses a light to examine down your throat.Additional tests include a swab of your throat in order for the doctor to run a culture to determine if the cause is a bacterial infection (and what kind of bacteria). If this test comes back negative, then the infection is likely viral, especially if a cough is present. Although, your doctor may also order allergy testing and a complete blood count (CBC) to measure your current immune response., If the culture determines that your sore throat is due to a bacterial infection, then the doctor will likely prescribe you a course of antibiotics to help combat the infection. If you are prescribed antibiotics, take them for the prescribed length of time, even if you are beginning to feel better.If you don’t, some bacteria (the antibiotic-resistant bacteria) may survive and can increase the population of antibiotic resistant bacteria, as well as increase your risk of complications and recurrence of the infection.


If you are prescribed antibiotics, eat yogurt with active cultures to replace the normal gut bacteria that are also killed by the antibiotics. You have to eat yogurt with active cultures because this yogurt contains bacteria. Pasteurized or otherwise processed yogurts do not. This is recommended to prevent the diarrhea that is sometimes associated with antibiotic use and can help maintain the normal gut bacteria that are vital to keeping you (and your immune system) healthy.Watch out for unusual diarrhea while on antibiotics. Unusual diarrhea may signify another illness or infection.
 If your doctor determines that your sore throat is due to a viral infection (such as a common cold or flu virus), then he or she will likely recommend lots of rest, water, and a healthy diet. These can all help boost your immune system, which in turn will help your body beat the infection.Some studies have shown that increasing your Vitamin C intake may boost your immune system and help you fight a viral infection.