 If you have wall space above your toilet, to the side of your mirror, or in a similar location in your bathroom, extra spice rack storage will likely work for you. Use a tape measure to measure the available space so you know what size shelf your bathroom can accommodate.

The narrow design of most spice racks along with their usually raised edges, intended to keep spices from falling, are perfect for holding toiletries and bottles.;
, Your bathroom may only be able to fit a single spice rack, or it may fit a few shelves, but in both cases you'll need to go purchase a spice rack. Pre-made racks are available at many big box retailers, furniture stores, and hardware stores.

Be sure to check the dimensions of potential shelves against the measurements you took earlier of your available spice rack space.
 Use a pencil and a tape measure to mark the placement of your shelf or shelves on your bathroom wall. Try not to hang the racks too high or low, as will make them less convenient. Generally, two marks measured to the same height, one for the right end of your spice rack and the other for the left, will be sufficient for hanging.
The distance between your marks should be the same as the distance separating the holes that will attach your rack to the wall.
 Depending on your spice rack, your method of installment will vary. In many cases, you'll have to attach some hardware to your wall with a drill. This hardware, usually some kind of simple holding bracket, will then support the shelf or shelves.

In other cases, you may have to screw your shelf directly into the wall with a drill.
Hanging the spice rack on your own, while possible, may be difficult. A helper would likely make installing your shelf or shelves easier., Once the spice racks have been installed, take a carpenter's level and check that your shelf or shelves are level. If your shelf is uneven, this could cause your toiletries to slant toward one end of the rack or the other.

If your spice rack isn't level, remove it from its hardware or the wall, adjust it slightly, re-check its levelness, and if it is level, reinstall the shelf.

