 Transferring a photo or other print to canvas doesn’t require many more supplies that simply mounting one on a panel, just a little more time. The supplies you need can be found at hobby, craft, and department stores. You will need:The photo or other print you would like to mount (printed on regular paper using an ink jet printer)
A pre-made blank canvas panel the same size as the print you would like to mount (if you use a canvas panel that is smaller than the print, you will have to cut the print to size, or wrap and glue/staple its edges to the sides of the panel)Gel medium or decoupage glue such as Mod Podge
Foam brushes or rollers, or a paint brush
A sponge or spray bottle filled with water

, This will allow you to transfer the image onto the canvas by removing the excess paper. This process will create a reverse image of your print on the canvas, so if there is wording on the image (or if it is very important that the image is not reversed), you should first create and print a reversed image, so that it will transfer correctly to the canvas.


You can create a reverse of an image using most photo and image processing software programs if you have a digital file (including a scanned image) of it.
 Work quickly so that the medium does not dry, but make sure the entire front of the panel is coated, all the way to the edges.
 Make sure that the print is lined up exactly with the edges of the canvas panel.
 If there are any air bubbles, gently smooth them out (it’s fine just to use your hands).
 Your print will be completely attached to the panel, looking like a piece of paper glued to the canvas, but don’t worry—things will come together soon.
 Gently wipe the sponge on the paper print on the canvas panel. As the paper gets wet, it will start to rub off. The image from the print, however, will remain behind on the panel.


If you are using a spray bottle of water, just dampen the paper and rub it off, using your fingers., This will protect the image.
 When the top coat of Mod Podge/medium is dry, you can hang your print. Most canvas panels have a “lip” or overhand that makes them easy to hang on a wall using a nail, wire, or other common methods.

