 When you get back to the house after being outside for a while, take a shower and wash your hair. Your hair is a major carrier of pollen particles. Change your clothing as well, since pollen can cling to fabric and continue to produce symptoms long after you come indoors., Allergens like mold and dust can lurk on shelves, around windows, and in heating vents, where they can wreak havoc during the spring season. Deep clean your house just before the springtime in order to minimize indoor allergens. Consider getting your heating vents professionally cleaned every few years to eliminate potential allergens.


Using natural products like vinegar, baking soda, rubbing alcohol, and lemon are a lot easier on your seasonal allergies., You’ll have to double up your cleaning efforts during periods of high pollen counts: Mop at least once a week and vacuum twice weekly. Dust shelving before you mop and vacuum, working top to bottom to optimize your cleaning efforts. Wear a mask while vacuuming, since mold, dust and pollen can be kicked into the air during the cleaning. If possible, use a vacuum with a HEPA filter.A HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filter pushes air through a very fine mesh which traps pollen, pet dander, dust mites, and tobacco smoke. Vacuums with HEPA filters stir up less dust and trap more dust from their exhausts.
 Prevent mold and other allergens from growing by staying on top of cleaning these areas. Wipe down all surfaces at least weekly, and reduce lingering moisture in locations like inside the refrigerator, sinks, and bathtub. Use trash cans with insect-proof lids, especially in the kitchen, and store food in sealed containers. Keep track of when to get rid of items that are out-of-date or moldy., Like your hair, pollen can cling to the fur of dogs and cats, and your furry friend can transfer those allergens on to bedding and upholstery. If you have pets that go outside, you may need to vacuum your floor even more often than twice a week in order to keep pollen at bay. Give your pet a wash more frequently than normal, up to twice a month., Avoid hanging laundry outdoors to dry during spring allergy season. Instead, use your dryer or invest in an indoor clothesline to use during these times of the year. Pollen can cling to sheets and clothing hanging on the line, and then be transferred into your home when the laundry is brought inside.
 Making your bed and covering your sheets and pillows with a comforter, blanket, or duvet will keep allergens from settling on your pillow during the day. You should also wash all bed linens in hot water at least once a week (twice, if possible), to decrease the presence of allergens.