 Find some leaves outside and rinse them off with cool water. Pat them dry. If you want to, you can trim the stems off. Next, place the leaves between the pages of a book, and stack several more heavy books on top. Leave the leaves there for 2 to 3 days.
 The best type of lid would be the cardboard or wood kind that comes from a cheese container.You can also try using a lid from a yogurt or ice cream container instead.


If you are using a plastic lid, you will need to use a hot glue gun to attach it to the lantern.
 Measure the circumference of your lid first, then add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) for the overlap. Cut your parchment paper according to that measurement, making sure that both sheets are the same size. Your lantern can be as tall or as short as you want it to be.
 Be sure to coat the paper evenly, from edge to edge.


Keep your work area clean by working on top of some newspapers or a cheap, plastic tablecloth.
 You can use as many or as few leaves as you want, but the fewer leaves you use, the better the light will show through!For a twist, consider adding a sprinkle of glitter.
, To help it dry nice and smooth, place a stack of heavy books on top of it for about 1 hour., You can use construction paper, scrapbooking paper, or even wrapping paper for this. Try to use a color and/or pattern that matches your leaves.
 Run your fingers over the strips to seal them.
 Draw a line of glue around the outside edge of your lid first. Next, wrap the parchment paper around it, making sure that the bottom edges align. If your lid is made out of cardboard or wood, you can use hot glue or white school glue. If your lid is made out of plastic, you must use a hot glue gun; regular glue won't hold.


If you are using hot glue, squeeze the glue out 1 inch (2.54-centimeters) at a time. If you squeeze it out all at once, the glue will dry too fast, and the bond won't be as strong.
If you are using white school glue, position the lid so that the top is facing inside the lantern, then use clothespins around the base to hold the lantern together until the glue dries.
 You should have about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of excess parchment paper. Draw a line of glue along the edge of the parchment paper, then press it down onto the lantern. Place the lantern, seam-side-down onto the table, then run your finger along the seam from inside the lantern to seal it. You can use a glue stick or white school glue for this.


If you are using white school glue, secure the lantern at the top and bottom with a clothespin until the glue dries.
 Use a hole puncher to punch two holes into the top of your lantern. Try to get the hole into the middle of your ½ to 1-inch (1.27 to 2.54-centimeter) wide strip of paper. Next, cut a piece of string, and thread it through the holes. Tie the ends of the string together to make a loop.
 Get a battery-operated or LED tea light, and switch it on. Place it into the lantern, then give the lantern to your child to hold.

