 Choose toys that are interesting for a blind child, such as toys that make noise and have different textures. Blind children can learn fundamentals like cause and effect through touch and sound, so let them explore things through touch.Look for toys that have a lot of moving parts, textures, and sounds to appeal to their senses of touch and sound.

Choose sturdy toys that don’t have small parts so that they won’t break and become hazardous for your child. Small parts can easily become a choking hazard. You also want to avoid sharp edges.
Look for toys that allow your child to push, pull, and wiggle parts of it. An example of a good toy would be a soft, plush toy that is squishy and squeaks when squeezed.
Look for cardboard books that have textures on each page so that your child can flip through it and feel the textures.
Remember that your child can play with toys and enjoy them like any other child. Take joy in their play.;
, Children often feel frustrated by their own limitations and external rules, and blind children may feel this more. Young children have difficulty expressing themselves, but blind children may feel more frustrated. Validate your child’s feelings and label their emotions.For example, say, “Oh sweetie, I see you’re disappointed I didn’t let you wear that as a hat” or, “I can tell you are upset, but it is not okay to hit other children.”
If you have difficulty responding to your child’s frustration, take a moment before responding or intervening. Calm yourself by deeply breathing.
 Arrange a designated, safe special place for your child to play. This designated area could be wherever you see fit in your home, such as a corner in the kitchen, the center of the living room, their bedroom, or a playroom. Allow enough space for you to spread the toys out enough so that your child can reach out and feel to search for them.

Encourage your child to use their motor skills to crawl, scoot, or walk to toys of interest.
If you don’t want to leave the toys spread out, you could arrange organized boxes or bins with toys for your child to reach into and grab. Make sure your bins or containers are sturdy and don’t slide or roll when your child tries to get the toys out.
Keep the bins in the same spot so that your child is able to learn to put away their own toys.
If your child knows how to read braille, label the bins with the contents printed in braille. You can write in braille using a braille marker.
 Spend time each day engaging in child-directed play. This means following your child’s lead and letting them choose the activities. Instead of offering suggestions of what to do or how to do it, ask your child. This helps you connect with your child and give them your attention. This can help you connect and appreciate your child in a happy state of play.Say, “Where are the dolls going?” or, “What are we building with the blocks?”

, Help your child learn where the toys are and what is available for them. Show your child how individual toys work and how to play with them. When your child starts to play with a toy, explain to them what they are feeling and how it works.

Place your hand over your child’s as they feel the toy. Tell them what they are feeling. For example, say, “When you press here it makes the sound you hear,” or “This page of the book is soft, but this page of the book is rough.” This is especially important if the toy is new and unfamiliar to your child.
You can also allow your child to play with safe household items, which will allow you to teach them practical life-skills through play. For example, give your child pots and pans to play with. As they bang on the pots and pans, you can also show them how to use spoons, spatulas, or lids. Talk to them about what they’re playing with and how it’s used.
 A massage is a great way to relax and bond with your baby. It can help reduce crying, control stress, and improve sleep. Give a massage at night to soothe and relax your baby before sleep, or as a way to get your baby to take a nap. Lightly massage your baby all over their body. If they look uncomfortable, try a different location. Slowly stroke and knead their head, neck, shoulders, back, legs, feet, arms, and hands.The sensory experience of the massage can help your blind baby feel calm and relaxed.
Wait at least 45 minutes after your baby eats so that they do not vomit.
 Before identifying your child as blind or visually impaired, identify them as a child. While being blind or visually impaired is part of who they are, it does not define them as a person. They are unique in their own likes and dislikes and will create their own identity. Let them have opportunities and choose what they enjoy and do not enjoy as you would a sighted child.Blind children want to play and have fun just like any other child. Let them enjoy childhood in a similar way.
Connect with your child by playing with them and interacting with them through toys and play.
 It’s easy for parents of blind children to hover or keep their child under a watchful eye for their safety. Yet, blind children gather lots of information from their surroundings and are often more capable than people think. While it’s likely your child will experience difficulties and injuries from time to time, remember that this is true for sighted children as well.Let them explore the world instead of creating the world around them. It can be fun to see them gain their independence and be less scared.
If you feel trapped by always keeping a watchful eye on your child, accept that they will make mistakes and get hurt but will almost always be okay. Giving independence to your child can help you have more control of your own life again.
 Have special one-on-one time with your child. You might take them out for lunch or dinner or come get them from school to have some time together. Think about the activities your child enjoys and do them together. Perhaps they enjoy going to the pool or climbing trees. Whatever you do, make it special time for the two of you.Take your child to their favorite restaurant. Let them order what they want from the menu and give them your undivided attention.
 Give lots of affection including hugs, kisses, and snuggles. Run your fingers through their hair. Let your child sit in your lap or hold them. Let them know through your words and your touch how much you care about them and love them.Give affection and praise when your child does something positive, completes a task, or discovers something on their own.
 Think about the things that make your child special, great, unique, and fun. Especially when you’re feeling frustrated at your child or upset with the care required, think about all of the positive things they do. Consider their special abilities and the role they play in your family. Give thanks for who they are.

Think about how they have added to your life. Remember, the frustration doesn’t last forever.
Tell your child that you’re glad for who they are and that they are a part of the family.
 If you’re feeling frustrated or angry with your child, take a break. Kids can become scared by your anger, so if they’re pressing your buttons, take some time away or calm yourself. Model to your child how to handle difficult emotions.If you’re upset, take some deep breaths before speaking. If you need some more time, leave the room and come back in a bit.
If your child is angry and you’re struggling to manage your own anger, respond in a calm way by saying, “I can tell you’re upset, so let’s take a moment to cool off.”

, Connect with other parents who also have blind or visually impaired children. You may find other parents in your local community or on an online community. Knowing that you’re not alone and other parents have ‘been there’ can be comforting and reassuring.Ask for advice, get feedback, and connect with other parents who also need support.
 It’s okay to talk about your child’s difficulties. The more parents are open with frustrations and problems, the better they can communicate and work together to find solutions. Lean on your family and friends for support.It’s okay if you’re not “strong” for your child or for your partner or other parent. If you need to express yourself, do it. It’s okay to admit that raising a blind child is difficult.
 Finding out your child is different can be difficult, and it may take some time to accept these differences. You might feel disappointed, sad, confused or even guilty. It’s easy to get lost in thought about how your child will grow up and the hardships they my face. Instead of focusing on the potential negatives of the future, focus on your child as they are now. Let go of the “what if’s” and focus on what your child is doing currently.There are positives in each and every day. Focus less on what’s difficult and more on what makes your child unique and special to you.
Celebrate all of the things your child can do, like laugh and smile and crawl.
 As your child’s parent, you are their primary and most important advocate. Become an expert on the supports that your child needs and what should be available to them. Start early so that your child receives the help they need throughout their lives, including in school.

Know about your child’s diagnosis and individual needs so that you can better communicate with your child’s doctors and support specialists.
Know your child’s rights under relevant legislation. For example, in the United States, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) both guarantee that your child will receive the supports they need. Be prepared to explain that if necessary.
Talk to the people who will work with your child before enrolling them in a school or program. Discuss what they will do, as well as any concerns you have. Make sure that your child gets what they need.
Learn about the types of specialists who will be working with your child, what they focus on, and what they can or cannot do for your child. This includes their pediatric ophthalmologists, physical therapists, primary medical providers, and/or other therapists and teachers of students with visual impairments. As you meet these individuals, keep track of their names and contact information. Also keep the information of a back-up doctor that you can call in the event that your child’s primary physician is unavailable. Keep this information readily available.
 If you struggle with parenting a blind or visually impaired child and cannot seem to deal with the stress on your own, consider seeing a therapist. You can openly talk about your thoughts and feelings. A therapist can help you cope with your feelings and may also help you find resources to help you and your family. Your therapy should feel like a safe space to experience your feelings and challenges.Find a therapist through your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from your physician or a family or friend.

