 If a spiritual community is a good fit for you, they will nurture you in your spiritual life. Often it takes some time to find a really good spiritual community, so check out multiple spiritual communities.


Tell people that you are looking for a good spiritual community. Generally, the best way to find a spiritual community is through word of mouth.
One way that you can tell a good spiritual community is by whether the people there seem to have full spiritual lives. If the people who attend the spiritual community seem to be genuinely joyful and excited about their faith or spiritual life, you may want to stick around. If not, keep looking. , Go to activities and events and establish yourself as a part of the community. It is a good idea to do this as soon as you start attending a spiritual community that you like. The longer you wait to become involved the more difficult it will be to reach out.


Avoid spiritual communities that make you feel uncomfortable about showing your true self. If you feel stifled by the belief at a particular spiritual community, you may want to keep searching.
Avoid communities that may seem clique-y or are hard to socialize with. For example, a community with an extrinsic commitment to religion may put more value in religious traditions and appearance over spiritual growth and community.
 All societies, cultures, and spiritual communities promote this prosocial behaviour.When you do work for others you will often feel more connected to your spiritual life. Service will often help you to grow and change because you will work in places and with people you might not normally come into contact with.


You can find ways to volunteer through your spiritual community or a community organization. Talk to your spiritual leader or a community official about how to get involved volunteering regularly. For example, if you have free Saturday mornings you can volunteer at the local food pantry or kitchen that provides meal services for people in need. , Prayer and meditation help you to intentionally cultivate your spiritual life. These practices also help you develop both your own discipline and focus.


Research shows that meditation has many health benefits, including decreasing depression, helping with eating disorders, boosting endorphins and decreasing aggression and hostility in individuals. Many people pray with other people regularly in prayer groups. Praying with others will help you build relationships with people as you cultivate a healthy prayer life.
 Start keeping a journal about your spiritual journey. Journaling helps you keep your priorities straight and adds clarity to your understanding of what is going on in your spiritual life. Write down important or inspiration quotes from texts to keep your connected and motivated in your spiritual growth.

