 If the dog is small then work at a comfortable height for you, by putting the dog on a table. Lay down a blanket or towel so the dog feels more secure. For medium to large-sized dogs, work with the dog on the floor but back him into the corner of a room so he can't try to run away from you.


If you can, have another family member or friend hold the dog steady by the shoulders.;
, With this hand, form an upside-down "U" shape with your first (or middle) finger and thumb. Place this arch-shape over the bridge of your dog's nose with tip of your thumb and first finger resting on the outside of the upper lips where they cover the cheek teeth. Now apply gentle inward and downward pressure as if you wanted to slide your finger and thumb into his mouth from this position.This has the effect of compressing the lips against the cheek teeth, causing the dog to open his mouth slightly in order to avoid biting his own lips.
 With your dominant hand take the pill between the tips of your first finger and thumb. Rest your middle finger in the center of your dog's bottom jaw, between the canine (fang-like) teeth, which you can see because the mouth is partly open. Apply downward pressure with the middle finger which has the effect of levering the mouth open slightly.At the same time, lever your non-dominant hand backwards slightly so that the dog's head angles slightly more up towards the ceiling., With your dominant hand, advance the pill into the dog's mouth. The further back you push your hand, the better. Your aim is to put the pill over the back of the dog's tongue and then release it. If it is over the back of the tongue, your dog will find it difficult to spit it out. He also won't taste anything, since there are no taste buds there., Once you let go of the pill inside the back of your dog's mouth, remove your hand from his mouth and instead lightly wrap it around his mouth and jaw to hold it closed. Watch his throat to see when he swallows and, once he has swallowed, thus letting the pill fully go down his esophagus, let go of his mouth., To make him happier and more willing to be "pilled" next time, be sure to lavish him with praise and tell him what a super clever boy he is. You can also pet him and scratch his ears; do whatever behavior he normally likes as a "reward" for doing something right. You could also give him a treat, which will get him to swallow again to make sure the pill is down.Be sure as well to fill up your dog's dish with clean, fresh water. It's a good idea to encourage your dog to have some water after taking a pill so that you can be sure the table has passed all the way down into his stomach and isn't stuck in his gullet (esophagus). , If you're worried about putting your hand in your dog's mouth, ask your veterinarian about a pill popper. These are devices that hold the pill so you can advance it deep into the dog's mouth but with your fingers safely on the outside. Once the pill popper is deep enough into the dog's mouth, you press a plunger which knocks the pill off it's mount and into the dog's throat.