 The United Parcel Service has a variety of career paths from which you can choose. There are two basic career paths for a UPS employee who wants to work primarily in the field of physical labor: package handlers/helpers and drivers/mechanics.


Package handlers generally work part-time making sure sorting through packages and making sure they get to the proper addresses and that no damages are accrued on the journey. Shifts are somewhat short, about 4 to 5 hours each, and are dispersed throughout the day. Package handlers are often college students and parents looking to make extra money.UPS drivers are responsible for driving UPS trucks and delivering packages. This is a physical, fast-paced job where you'll be subject to regular physical exams and driving tests. Positions range from part to full time.;
, Being in physical shape is important for certain positions, such as package handling and driving. You'll have to handle packages between 25 and 70 pounds as both a handler and a driver.


If you're not already physically active, work on exercising on a regular basis. The job of a handler is physically demanding. Even if you want to drive, keep in mind UPS often promotes from within. It may be easier to start off as a handler and work you way up to a drive position. Start working out on a regular basis to work on your muscles and stamina.
Weight lifting should be a part of your workout regimen as UPS handlers have to be able to lift heavy packages. You should start slow with weigh training. Two 20 to 30 minute sessions a week, at first, will result in you seeing results. From there, you can work your way up to longer sessions and bigger weights.Make sure you learn the proper technique before beginning weigh training. Talk to a doctor or trainer about your goals with weight training. Allow him or her to talk to you about form and safety. You do not want to hurt yourself weight training.Always take a day to rest between weight training sessions. This gives your muscles time to recover from stress., There are no specific education requirements for UPS drivers and handlers. In fact, many handlers are college students looking for part time work. However, if you're aiming to eventually move up and become a driver consider getting a bachelor's or associate's degree in a field like automotive engineering. You can also look into vocational programs in car mechanics. This can make you a more employable candidate as you'll have basic working knowledge of vehicles you can use as a driver/mechanic.
 If you want to drive for UPS, work on maintaining a excellent driving record. You might also need certifications from the Department of Transportation, depending on your career path.


All UPS drivers have to pass a physical exam to assure they can keep up with the physical demands of the job. Work to assure you're in shape prior to the exam.Certain positions require special certifications in addition to a driver's license. You may need a commercial driver's license. You might also need a certifications from the Department of Motor Vehicles if your job requires delivering certain materials, such as a Hazmat certification. If a job requires such certifications, it should say so in the job description., The UPS corporation often hires from within. This means you can move up from position to position. If you work hard as a handler, you may be promoted to a driver. Down the road, and if you get the proper education, you could potentially move from a driver position to a management or administrative position.

