 If they can't give you a good answer, they probably got it out of a phonebook, or through another one of their current victims. Long story short, they don't know you, they didn't come across your name through reliable sources, and there is no reason to trust them just because they looked up your phone number and name., Con artists don't like putting their scams in writing, and might try to say they don't have time to do so. Any time a person who is offering you something refuses to put it in writing, you should be very leery of them. They are likely con artists., Any time you think someone may be trying to flim flam you, have them speak with your attorney, financial advisor, or accountant. A con artist will tell you they don't have the time, or they'll take down the contact info, but never make contact with your representatives., Ask to speak with several people who have already completed transactions with this person and seen results. Search for the names and numbers in the phonebook or on the internet to make sure they're real people. Don't accept testimonials as a substitute., A con artist will try to convince you that you have to act right now or else you'll miss your golden opportunity. However, if the good deal is not going to be available tomorrow, then it's not worth the risk., You should take some time to check if any complaints have been filed against the person who is offering you a “great deal” or any other suspicious offer. Chances are the person is not using a real name, but they may be using similar monikers used in other scams. Some resources to find complaints against scam artists are:National Financial Fraud Exchange (http://www.fraud.org/)
North American Securities Administrators Association (http://www.nasaa.org/)

, If you've already entered into a transaction with someone, there are some warning signs you need to be aware of. Keep an eye out for the following warning signs: Secrecy - Are you asked not to tell anyone?
Cash only - Many (but not all) con artists don't like to be paid by check because it leaves a paper trail.
Jackpot just around the corner - The con artist is stringing you along while he or she collects more money from you (e.g. "Any day now...). Your own denial might allow this procrastination to go on far longer than common sense would allow, because you don't want to face the possibility that you've been duped.Procrastination turns into intimidation - When your patience runs thin and you begin to question the con artist's credibility, you may end up getting treated like a traitor, or even a fool. They might try to intimidate you so you'll stick around until they can flee with the money. (E.g. "You're as guilty as I am in this."), There are characteristics and situations that con artists most often exploit. If you possess some of these characteristics, you need to be aware that con artists prey upon:Loneliness
Sense of charity
Desperation regarding money (e.g. heavily indebted, business financial problems)
Being unhappy with your life, and a tendency to look for a "quick fix"

Falling in love (If a new romantic interest wants you to throw in your lot with theirs, get a second opinion! Ask your family and professionals for their advice.)

, There are too many scams out there to list them all here. However, there are a few general set-ups and types of scams that con artists use often. Be on the lookout for:


Home improvement scams. Con artists will pressure you into making repairs or improvements you don't need.
Bank scams/false bank examiner. The con artist asks the victim (usually an older widow) to test the honesty of employees by withdrawing substantial funds, which are given to the con artist for "examination". The victim is given a fake receipt and the con artist disappears with the cash.
Investment scams. These include franchise scams, vending machine scams, land frauds, theft of inventions, securities investments scams, and work-at-home scams
Postal frauds. These are related to chain letters, magazine subscriptions, unordered merchandise, or correspondence courses.
Other scams. There are a handful of other scams out there, such as the bait and switch, charity rackets, computer dating, debt consolidation, contracts, dance lessons, freezer plans, psychic fraud, fortune tellers, health clubs, job placement, lonely hearts, medical quackery, missing heirs, referral sales, talent scouts, pyramid schemes, fake officials.

