 Please refer to the Food Pyramid or suggestions of nutritionists if you are unsure about what you should be eating each day. Normally, you should have 3-5 servings of fruits and vegetables, 5-8 servings of grains, 2-4 servings of protein, and 2-4 servings of dairy each day. Remember to eat three meals a day to sustain your energy and keep your sodium levels in check.;
, These include not only sodium but also potassium, glucose, proteins, and others. You can usually do this through a sports drink such as Gatorade. Switch between this and water while working, exercising, etc.
 This sweating is one of the major symptoms of hyponatremia. In order to keep your body cool while working outside, stay in the shade, wear a sun hat, and try to wear loose, light-colored clothing. Wear less restrictive clothing if possible, such as shorts, sandals, loose synthetic T-shirts, etc.
 These often resemble those of the flu. Early symptoms may include mild sweating, dizziness, or fatigue. Later stages include vomiting, severe confusion, convulsions or even coma. Please stay alert and call the Emergency Services immediately if you are experiencing any late stage symptoms.
 Going inside and resting by a fan or dripping ice cold water down your hair or back can help alleviate overheating. Try to do this at least twice an hour, or 5 minutes for every hour that you work or exercise hard.
 If your urine is clear or only pale yellow you are likely getting enough water and probably do not need any more fluid at the moment. If your urine is dark yellow it is a sign your body is not getting nearly enough water to be able to function properly. If it does not get better soon or is closer to a brown tint seek immediate medical attention.
 Remember to reapply at least every two hours with an SPF of at least 35. Though this does definitely have to do with skin cancer having dry sunburned skin; can severely increase the dangers of hyponatremia.
 After working hard your body and brain need to restore energy. Don't be afraid to nap but not more than 2 hours or you may not be able to sleep well in the night.

