 Since this is the Flower Fest, you obviously need to invest in flowers! Normally, you can find them scattered everywhere in the town. To pick them up, simply tap the flower or press X while standing near or on the Flower.;
, You can also buy flower seeds from the town store for 80 Bells if you’re running short on flowers. The town store is run by Tom Nook and is randomly placed in every town. Simply go up to a sack with a red label in the store, and say yes when Tom Nook asks if you want to buy it.
 Do this every day for the entire week, and he will give you different flower seeds every day.
 You might also need to clear out nearby trees if you run out of room to plant your flowers in. You’ll be needing an Axe and a Shovel from the town store to clear out trees, and they can be bought for 500 bells each.


To chop down trees, equip your Axe, and tap or press and hold A until the tree falls, then equip your shovel and dig it out with A or by tapping it.
 Plant a bountiful array at least 3 spaces around the sides of your house. To plant your flowers, stand on the spot you want them placed in, access your inventory with the Y button, and select the flower or flower seed by tapping on it or scrolling to it with your D-pad and pressing A. Choose the “Plant” option, and the flower will then immediately spring up on the ground.


To equip your tools, go to your inventory, select your chosen tool, then drop in on your character’s icon. The icon will change to your character holding your tool.
It’s best if you have a variety of flowers and colors arranged in a pleasing manner. Even if you don’t win this year, at least your garden would look pretty!

, While this is definitely not recommended, you can cheat by placing patterns on the ground and stealing flowers planted around other villager’s houses every day and planting them around your house. While they don’t actually get mad at you, sabotage is still a bad thing, and you should be ashamed of yourself if you do this.


To place patterns on the ground, once you’ve gone outside to the area of your choosing, pull up your inventory and tap or scroll to the red pencil symbol at the very top. Right at the bottom of the screen are a bunch of designs; select one. Any of those designs would do. Go to the rightmost symbol in the second row of circular options. The icon would resemble an inclined plane with an arrow pointing downwards beside it and a leaf symbol on the plane itself. Press A or tap on it to place it on the ground, and there you have it, a pattern resembling a flower!

, Water your flowers daily, and uproot weeds nearby. You can water your flowers by buying a Watering Can from the town store for 500 bells, equipping it, and pressing A or tapping the flowers. Properly watered flowers drip water and sparkle once you sprinkle them.


Weeds pop up every day, about 3 or 4 at a time. They look like long tufts of grass. You can uproot them by pressing A or B or tapping them.
 While running is a fun activity and gets you where you want to as quickly as possible, you run the risk of trampling on the flower and destroying it completely. Flowers have a chance of being destroyed when you run through them, and running through them a lot increases this chance. So once you’re near your house, slow down and stick to walking, unless you want your precious garden to be ruined.
 The Flower Fest ends at the dawn of the third monday of April. At the end of the Flower Fest, if you’re lucky enough (or ruthless enough) to win, you’ll get a shiny new Flower Trophy! Check your mailbox in front of your house, and a letter will tell you if you won or not. If you win, you’ll receive the trophy with the letter as well. If you didn’t, don’t fret, you still tried your best and you’ve got a beautiful garden to boot! And there’s always next year to try again!

