 Your shaving brush should have more water than normal. For best results soak your shaving brush in hot water using in a mug or shaving bowl preferably while showering. This will allow the brush to absorb the maximum amount of water preparing it for lather creation and shaving.
 A shaving bowl is needed to create superlather as it is used to for combining the shaving soap and cream together. You can use the shaving bowl used to soak your shaving brush in step one as this will heat the shaving bowl as well for warmer lather., In order for the soap and cream to properly and evenly mix together the cream should be spread around the bowl rather then placed in one spot. Use a little less shaving cream as you normally would when using just the cream by itself., It is best to use a glycerin based shaving soap especially if your shaving cream lacks this ingredient. Try to use shaving soaps that have qualities and ingredients that may be lacking in your shaving cream., Once the brush is loaded with shaving soap and the bowl with shaving cream, swirl the brush using circular motions in the bowl mixing the two together for at least a minute generating a rich creamy lather in the process., Continuously watch the shaving lather to see if it's too dry and has paste like qualities. If this is the case, add a few drops of water so the lather is properly hydrated and the brush moves around the bowl with ease., Your lather should look rich, creamy and have a shine to it when in direct light. When this is the case the lather can be applied to your face., Using circular motions with the shaving brush lather the shaving area of your face for at least a minute. This will make the lather even richer and allows it to get under your hairs while softening them as well making them easier to cut., Using your already learned shaving technique with the razor of your choice continue to shave as normal. After shaving, wash and dry your face and apply any aftershave treatment if desired., Part of the fun of creating superlather is the mixing and matching of various soaps and creams. Experimenting with creams and soaps that have various qualities and scents through superlather can be a never ending experience and allow you to find the ultimate shave.