 Introspection involves observation of one's own mental processes. Take a look at what motivated you, and why you are against LGBT+ people.


Many people who would try to influence their friends are motivated by disgust, self-righteousness, and selfishness. These are dangerous feelings that can harm others around you.
Learn to be motivated by love. Practice loving everyone around you. Reflect on your life and examine what motivates you day to day. When you do something, start to think about how your actions will affect those around you, and start acting in consideration of others before yourself.
 Before you proceed to try to convince anyone to change, you must reform your own lifestyle. If you are not willing to change and fix your own problems, then you cannot expect others to respect your advice concerning their lifestyle.


Consider that it may be you in the wrong. Use your imagination and immerse yourself in their way of thinking, leaving behind any prejudices or pre-conceptions you may have. Try to learn and grow. They may have something good to teach you. Treat it as an exercise in the expansion of your understanding of humanity and love. Tolerance is the key.
 Ask your friend what their beliefs are on LGBT+ issues. Some people are totally accepting of their sexuality, while others may struggle with internalized homophobia or even self hate.
 If you don't believe in gay marriage, for example, then you can follow that belief by not doing it yourself, but in countries with religious freedom, you can't prevent other people from doing it.If your loved one does not share your beliefs and isn't interested, don't harass them with the subject.
 Closeted people are at a higher risk of developing mental health disorders and destructive behaviors.On the other hand, research shows people who come out are happier, healthier, and they live longer.Pushing a person back into the closet due to personal beliefs or discomfort is not an act of love—it's an act of selfishness that could cause your friend real and serious harm.


Would you rather have a friend who is fearful, secretive, and afraid to be themselves, or a friend who is open and happy?
Put yourself in your loved one's shoes. Imagine feeling that if you expressed love for someone you really cared about, you would risk loved ones responding with rejection, disgust, hatred, or abuse. How would you feel? Is that the life you want for your friend?

, Every episode of victimization increases a person's risk of self harm by 2.5 times,and you don't want your words to be the reason someone begins hurting themselves. Say "I believe that it is wrong to be LGBT," and don't elaborate unless your LGBT friend specifically asks you to. Chances are, they are well aware of reasons why people don't accept them.


If they look at their feet, frown, look around as if searching for an escape, or cry, this means you've hurt them and you need to stop voicing your opinions.
Some opinions are much more hurtful than others. There's a difference between "strawberry ice cream is best" or "I'm against racism" and "your identity is fundamentally wrong and you're going to hell.", Are you emotionally ready to accept your friend as they are? If you love your friend unconditionally, you will allow yourself to continue acting as a positive and loving influence in their life. And after all, that's what life and love are all about.



Dealing with anti-LGBT friends can add a lot of stress to an LGBT+ person's life. If you're staunchly anti-LGBT, they're probably better off without you.