 Before you let your younger kids play with your new dog, try to poke, prod, and grab its fur. Imitate the sort of touching you might expect from a younger child. Give your dog a treat when you poke and prod it so it learns to associate this sort of touching with a reward.While you should of course never let your child hurt your dog, understand that curious kids have a certain way of touching things. Preparing your dog for these interactions will help avoid aggressive behavior in the future.
 You should avoid leaving babies and young children alone with any dog. Even well-behaved children and well-socialized dogs can do something that the other interprets as frightening or aggressive. Take additional precautions if you have a small dog, which aren’t the best choice if you have a toddler or small child.Toy breeds and other small dogs are typically very fragile, and well-intentioned child’s play can be too rough for them.
 If your child is old enough, have them train your new dog commands, under your supervision. Involving them in the training process will help forge a bond between your child and pet, and will help the pet learn to respect your child’s superior position.To teach a command, like sit, first say the command clearly then, if necessary, physically guide the dog into the appropriate position. Offer a treat as soon as it’s in the correct position, then repeat around twenty times per training session.
Say to your child, "You should learn how to give the dog commands so it knows that it should obey you in general. Watch how I tell the dog to sit and reward it as soon as it sits. It's important to give a treat right when it does the right thing so it learns how to follow the command."

, Even if socialization goes smoothly, consider taking the whole family to obedience classes with your dog. Going together can be a great bonding experience for all furry and not so furry family members. More importantly, it will help every member of your household learn proper handling techniques.