 Research a reputable canoe company and select the model of strip canoe you'd like to put together. Place your order and wait for the kit to arrive.


Your kit should contain the wood for your canoe, the layout and instructions, some hardware, and fiberglass cloth. You may require other tools to actually assemble your strip canoe.;
, This will ensure that you are completely prepared. Make sure you have all the necessary tools and equipment to put together your canoe.


This may take several hours, depending on the difficulty of the canoe you've chosen. Take your time to really read and visualize the instructions. If you don't understand a step or two, contact the company for assistance. This will save you time in the long run.
 This is what you will build your strip canoe on. Place a long thin table or platform on top of saw horses or blocks. The platform or piece of wood should be completely level.


Your sawback will probably be 12 to 15' long and will act as the skeleton around which you'll assemble your strip canoe., Hopefully, your kit contains molds or outlines for forms. Forms act as a support system to shape and hold strips that are stretched and attached to your sawback. Trace the forms onto particle board and use a saw to cut them out.


The forms will appear mushroom-shaped when stacked. The wider end will be placed on the bottom of your sawhorse or the bottom of your canoe.
Some kits may include pre-cut forms. In this case, simply spread them out in the correct order and begin to attach them to the sawback.
 You'll want to attach the forms to station blocks, small 1" wide pieces of wood. Make sure the wider part of the form is connected to the station block. Then attach the station blocks flat on the sawback using drywall screws.


Attach your forms/station blocks about 12" from each other and make sure they are evenly centered. This will keep your boat aligned.
 Depending on whether or not your kit includes them, you may have to cut 2 quarter-circle sections that will hold the shape at the end of your canoe.Again, use drywall screws to attach the ends to sawback. Make sure the ends are completely centered.


If you have to cut them, trace the outline onto plywood and use a saw to cut the sections out.
 You'll be attaching wood strips to the ends and you don't want them to accidentally adhere to the ends. Covering the ends and forms with masking tape prevents the strips from sticking and should make it easier to remove when you take the forms and ends out.


You need to cover the edges of the forms since glue from the wood strips could cause the strips to stick to your forms. The tape will make it easier to remove the forms.

