 You might probably log in via a link from your library.;
, The search box is found at the top center of the page.


Beneath the search box is a box of Search Options that takes up the rest of the page.
 Under the heading “Search Modes and Expanders,” there is another heading that just says “Search modes” and four radio buttons below it with the choices:


Boolean/Phrase—If you select this, your search will ignore words like “a” and “the” and words “and” and “or” take on new meanings. “And” means all your terms must be present for the result to show; “or” means that any of your terms can be present in a result. “Not” will exclude something from the results (e.g., “cars NOT Chevrolet” will return results about cars unless the article also includes “Chevrolet” in it).
Find all my search terms (selected by default)—This is the setting closest to a regular search engine search. It automatically adds an “and” to your search terms, making it so all must be present in the results.
Find any of my search terms—This option automatically adds an “or” to your terms, making it so any terms may be present in the results.
SmartText Searching—This is for entering long passages of text to find related and relevant articles. Copy and paste up to 5,000 characters with this option, and it will use its technology to determine what it’s about.
You may also select to “Apply related words” by selecting that button under “Search Modes and Expanders.”
You can “Also search within the full text of the articles” by selecting that box (by default EBSCOhost searches some fields about the articles, but not the articles themselves).
 Below “Search Modes and Expanders” is a section with the heading “Limit your results.” Essentially it is a series of choices and data entry fields that help you to logically sort what you’d like to find in your search, such as date, publication type, etc.
 If you’ve entered a search term or terms, selected your search modes and expanders, and limited your results, but you want to start over, just hit the Reset button at the top right of the Search Options box.


If you’d like to search with the parameters you just set, at the bottom right of the Search Options box, or up at the top next to the text entry box for your original term, click the Search button in either location. You should see your results in a moment or two.
 If after you see your results, you’d like to further pare them down, you may use the limiters on the left side of the result list to filter by dates, publication types, full text available, etc.

