 In order to ensure that you feel comfortable during the entire expedition, stick with people that you are compatible with. You should also make sure that you have at least one person in your group that you can talk to. This will ensure that you don't feel isolated during the expedition, and you'll also know that there are people willing to support you.;
, Be sure that you take each item on the list. If your teacher hasn't given you one, ask for one. It should include clothes, waterproof clothing, a 65-litre rucksack, a roll mat and sleeping bag, a First Aid kit, some personal belongings, safety equipment, and food. An audio book on a simple MP3 player could provide encouragement and relaxation. However, check with your expedition leader, as MP3 players may be banned. Avoid carrying unnecessary objects, such as makeup or books. These items will only weigh you down or hinder you from being able to bring essential items.
 Food containing carbohydrates, such as pasta and noodles, are a great source of energy. They not only boost your health but also provide your body with the necessary nutrition to properly function. When participating in the expedition, it is important to maintain your energy levels by eating the wholesome meals provided.


Although sweets may be tempting to eat, they will only hinder you from being focused and alert. The sugar may provide a temporary high, but it will soon leave you more tired than before. Instead, opt for healthy snacks, such as dried fruit, nuts, rice cakes, and cereal bars. Sweets can be saved for checkpoints along the route instead of using them as energy. You could also use them as a reward once you have set up your tent.
 In order to ensure that your feet feel comfortable in them, wear them around the house for periods of time. You could also use an old pair. The goal is to grow accustomed to moving around in your walking boots, which helps you avoid blisters or sore feet. Additionally, get used to the weight of your rucksack before you leave. If you're unfit, the time to start exercising is six to twelve weeks before the expedition, not two days before.
 It allows you to carry small, useful items, such as blister plasters and a water bottle. You'll also have them within easy reach rather than having to stop and rummage through your rucksack. Bum bags are sold in stores or online.
 They are not only appropriate for outdoor wear but also allow you to keep small, useful items in the pockets. Walking trousers tend to be the best as they are adaptable and dry quickly. However, cargo trousers, tracksuit bottoms, or even leggings are acceptable. If you will be walking in long grass, woodland or near nettles, shorts are not a good idea.
 Before you leave, note the temperatures for the next few days, but don't believe every prediction. Despite what the forecast might say, be prepared for both rain and sunshine. Bring an umbrella and sunscreen in case, as the weather can be unpredictable at times.
 Make sure it contains plasters, a few bandages, antiseptic cream, and painkillers. Also, include a few needles and a roll of thread, which acts as a sewing kit. Check that everything is within the expiry date. You should also make sure that you are familiar with using each item in your kit.
 You may need to bring an extra outfit or two, depending on what level you're participating in. You should also have at least one spare set of clothes to wear in case the others become wet or dirtied.
 You may also want to obtain a pair of waterproof trousers and gaiters. Test the clothes beforehand by going in the shower with them on or asking a younger sibling to attack you with a hosepipe.
 Coloured bags can help you organise your bag, ensuring that you are aware of each item's location. They're useful for everything. A pocket tool or a small pocket knife is also handy.
 In order to ensure that you and your group has a good experience with the expedition, be sure that you are responsible in bringing expected items. Also, check that the rest of your group members have their items. This will show that you are both responsible and considerate.
 Be sure that you are aware of the start of the expedition, as well as the time that you are to return home. Also, you should check the location of the expedition. Print out a map if necessary.
 Make sure that you are familiar with your group. Also, you should know the number of members travelling with you, as well as their names. Once in a while, you should check to make sure that everyone is still with you. You could also assign people to travel both in the front and the back of the group, ensuring that no one gets lost or distracted from the path. If your expedition leader finds out that your group has split up at any point, you automatically fail.
 In order to have a good experience during the expedition, avoid breaking your leaders or campsite's rules. They are there to ensure that you remain safe while having fun during the expedition.
 If you are in a group of six, save time by splitting them up to compete different tasks. Organize two people to cook while the others set up the tent. Be sure that each member has the opportunity to contribute an idea before you all make the final decision.
 Rather than looking out for yourself, do your best to help others out. Be sure that each member's needs are met in order to avoid having the group collapse. You should also make sure that the tasks are equally divided so that each member can participate in the expedition. Additionally, when solving problems, ensure that all the members have the chance to contribute their ideas or thoughts.
 This will ensure that you stay warm and healthy throughout the night. Thermal base layers are excellent. Wear a warm hat, gloves, and . It's also best to have a good quality sleeping bag, 2 seasons at a minimum.
 Regularly check on your group members' condition to see if they can continue travelling. If you notice that one of them is lagging behind, offer him help by spreading some of the weight in his bag to you and the rest of the group. Be sure that each member's needs are met, especially when it comes to his health. It won't help your group if you ignore them or become cross.


If you notice that more than one member appears exhausted or has trouble continuing, you may need to stop the group for a short rest.
 Separating the group often causes more trouble. However, if the need arises, send a few people ahead. Supply them with a first aid kit, a map, a compass, your map reference, and a mobile. Never wander off alone; instead, remain with a partner so that you are not alone if trouble arises.


If your group has to separate at one point, be sure that all members are aware of where they'll be heading. Point out the locations on the map so that people know where you are.
 Make sure that you follow all the rules. Clearly display your excellent teamwork, especially when the assessor is around. You should also regularly stop to check your current location on the map while making sure everyone sees. The assessor could ask anyone in your group to show him where you all are.
 Be sure that you keep your members' spirits high by offering encouragement and help if necessary. You should also spend some time with each member to find out more information about him while ensuring that he feels involved in the group. Talking to the members could also give you an idea of their strengths and weaknesses, as well as what task they would be best suited for during the expedition.


Offer sweets at checkpoints. Using small rewards as positive reinforcements will encourage the group to continue the expedition.
Avoid whining and moaning. Although you may feel stressed or tired, having a negative attitude will only lower your group's morale. Instead, stay positive and find the best in every situation.

