 Health care reimbursement plans are considered group health plans, but do not meet the marketplace requirements. Employers who offer reimbursement plans instead of insurance coverage are penalized an excise tax of $100 per applicable employee per day.This excise tax amounts to $36,500 a year per employee – enough to break even the most robust small-business budget.
However, there is tax relief available for small businesses with fewer than 50 FTE employees. Essentially, the excise tax won't be charged to small businesses for offering a plan that fails to meet the marketplace requirements.
Keep in mind this relief is temporary, so you should check the latest IRS publications on the matter or contact an accountant before you rely on it.
Offering an ACA-approved group health plan generally is the best way to avoid being charged significant penalties.
 Named after the section of the tax code that created these plans and gave them preferential tax status, Section 105 plans are a type of group health plan that allows tax-free reimbursement of employee medical and insurance expenses.In some instances, your employees may be able to get lower premiums by purchasing an individual policy on their own through the consumer marketplace on healthcare.gov than what is offered to your business.
Before you decide to go the reimbursement route rather than providing group health coverage, spend some time on the individual consumer marketplace and compare rates to see if your employees would truly be better off.
You also want to look at what would work for your budget. Examine all options and consider a reimbursement account a last resort, especially given their dubious legal nature under the ACA.
 A health care reimbursement plan meets the definition of a group health plan under the ACA, and therefore must follow the rules the law establishes for group health plans.Your plan cannot have an annual or lifetime limit on essential health benefits for any employee, and must cover 100 percent of basic preventive care services such as annual physicals.
The ACA also has administrative and reporting requirements that must be met by all group health plans.
To be sure your plan is in compliance with these regulations, you may want to consider having a benefits company administer your plan. There also is third-party reimbursement software available that is designed to meet the ACA's administrative and reporting rules.
 In addition to meeting the ACA requirements, your reimbursement plan also must comply with federal medical privacy and non-discrimination laws to fall within Section 105.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) sets minimum standards for information and disclosures provided to employees regarding health plans. It also requires you to set up a formal grievance and appeals policy and establishes that plan administrators have fiduciary responsibilities.
Independent benefits or health management companies typically are already set up to be in compliance with ERISA standards.
Your reimbursement plan also must comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), which include important amendments to ERISA regarding employee privacy and their right to continue health coverage.
 Your reimbursement plan must follow the IRS guidelines set forth in Section 105 of the IRS Code. You must complete written IRS plan documents for each employee enrolled in the plan and keep these on file to comply with IRS audit requirements.The plan document defines the expenses that are eligible for reimbursement, how much you will contribute to the plan each month, and other procedural details to enable your employees to claim reimbursements.
There is specific language that must be included in your plan document to demonstrate compliance with the IRS's anti-discrimination rules. You can find details about what should be included by reading Section 105 of the IRS Code.
Reimbursement plan software typically includes plan documents that already have all required language included.
You may also want to consider having a benefits company create your reimbursement plan for you. This way you can ensure the plan follows all federal laws and regulations.
 Employees must submit documentation that verifies their claim for reimbursement, such as a premium notice or a bill from a hospital or doctor's office.
Supporting documentation must be kept on file for ten years from the date of the employee's claim for reimbursement.

