 This will help to protect your voice and to improve your vocal range.The length of your warm up routine depends on the type of singing you are practicing. A classical singer who uses the higher octaves of their voice may need more warm up time than a singer of a contemporary genre who is only using a limited vocal range. As well, a belter may need more warm up time than someone who sings soft, gentle children’s songs.
The time of day you are singing may also affect your warm up time. Many singers need more time to warm up in the mornings because their voice has not been used for many hours (during sleep). If you have seasonal allergies, you may need to have a longer warm up to remove any excess mucus in your throat and lungs.
 This exercise will help to reduce any tension in your mouth or jaw. Loosening up your jaw will also help to loosening up your voice.Place the heels of your hands directly below your cheekbones.
Push in and down from the cheeks to your jaw line, massaging your facial muscles.
Allow your jaw to open as you move your hands down your face.
Repeat this several times.
 Lip trills are an exercise where you blow air through your pursed lips, letting out a sound on any given pitch. You can do any scales, intervals, melody patterns, or even whole songs on the lip trill.


To do a lip trill, you need to have an even flow of air, very relaxed lips, and control of your breathing. The air pressure must be constant but not too high.Begin by trying to make an “h” sound during a lip trill. Then, try a “b” sound.
If you can’t get your lips to buzz, lift them slightly with your fingers. Think of holding the vowel U inside your mouth to keep your larynx relaxed. But don’t push or strain your vocal chords.
 This exercise will relax your tongue and engage your breathing and your voice.Place your tongue behind your upper teeth.
Exhale and trill your tongue with an “r” sound. Hold the sound steady and keep your breath connected.
Try to vary your pitch up and down the scale while trilling. Avoid straining or pushing your voice beyond what is comfortable for you.
 This exercise will allow your vocal folds to stretch and expand.


Start in a low pitch and glide up the scale, making a “me” sound. Don’t push the top or bottom of your range. Instead, try to increase the range every time you do the scales.Reverse and glide down the scale from top to bottom, making an “e” sound.
Try to do this exercise on an “oo” sound.
 This exercise will improve the sound of your voice and stretch your vocal folds.Pretend you are sucking spaghetti as you inhale. On the exhale, make a “woo” sound. It should sound like a buzz.
Hold the buzz steady. Repeat the sound 2-3 times.
Use the “woo” sound to go up and down the scales.
 Humming is a great way to warm up your voice. It highlights the frontal vibrations in your lips, teeth, and face. Humming is also a good way to cool down your voice at the end of a warm up.Begin with your lips closed and your jaw loose. Breath in and exhale while saying “hum”.
Make a nasal sound with “hum” and glide down from a high to a low pitch, as if you are sighing.
You should feel tickling vibrations in your lips and nose as you hum.

