 Most leases outline the reasons why a landlord can keep your security deposit. Before vacating an apartment, make sure that you satisfy all requirements under the lease so that the landlord cannot justifiably keep your deposit. Some justifications a landlord may use to keep your deposit include:


Failure to pay rent.
Failure to leave the apartment in a clean condition.
Failure to make minor repairs.
Failure to give appropriate notice of vacating the apartment.
Failure to return keys.
Failure to remove trash or all personal belongings., Before leaving your apartment, you can request that the landlord walkthrough the apartment with you and note any issues that need to be remedied before you leave. If you have significantly damaged the apartment, you may be required to repair the property. However, you are not responsible for normal wear and tear on the apartment that occurs from reasonable use of the space.


By requesting a walkthrough, you are putting the responsibility on the landlord to note any issues before you leave so he or she can not use them as a justification for failing to return your security deposit later., After you have cleaned the apartment and removed all of your belongings, you should photograph the condition in which you left the apartment. By having documentation, a landlord cannot justifiably claim that you left the apartment in a condition that violated the lease., Most states have laws that detail the timeframe a landlord has for returning your security deposit. You can review state laws at: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/security-deposit-limits-deadlines-your-state-36186.html.


Make sure that you give your landlord your forwarding address so that he or she can return your deposit to you., If your landlord fails to return all or some of your deposit within the timeframe set forth by your state’s law, you should draft a letter requesting the return of your deposit. Your letter should include the following:


A detailed description of the condition that you left the apartment and why you are entitled to receive your deposit back.
If the landlord kept a portion of your deposit and you dispute his or her reasoning, you should explain why the landlord wasn’t justified in keeping any of your deposit. You can send a copy of the pictures of the apartment as evidence of the condition of the apartment when you vacated it.
Cite your state’s laws regarding the return of the security deposit and explain that the landlord is violating the law.
Explain that you will take the landlord to small claims court unless the matter is resolved.
Send the letter certified mail via the United States Postal Service.