 Birdcages can vary in size - but you'll want to get a fairly big one. Depending on the type of bird, you'll want to invest in different types. Make sure the bird cannot escape through the gaps and has enough room to stretch its wings and fly about. Tip: remember perches for the cage!;
, Keep the cage in a safe place, and keep it away from any cats (or dogs). Over time, your bird(s) may feel more secure around any other pets - so don't abandon them, just avoid any possible threats scaring the bird.
 Perhaps add a birdbath to the cage to freshen itself up. Bird do naturally keep them clean - but a small and extremely shallow (a centimeter deep) bird bath won't hurt. Also, clean out the cage properly. Do this on a basis (2-4 days - or it could be once or twice a week), depending on how long it takes for the cage to start to show any signs of uncleanliness. Cleaning out the cage means:


wiping down the whole cage, perches and toys too






replacing the sandpaper at the bottom of the cage






new food and water






clean bird bath water (if you have one)







, Just sterilize the perches and food and water bowls in boiling hot water.
 Feed your bird food suitable for that specific species. Most pet shops sell much different bird food for many different species. Keeping it healthy otherwise (exercise) just consists of different bird toys and making sure it has enough space. If you think your bird has developed any possible illnesses, speak to a vet.
 A little friend to keep it company. This is particularly useful if owners aren't in the house for long periods of time on a daily basis.
 Care for your bird(s) and show you love it. Give it lots of attention, and make things fun for it. Add a few bird toys to the cage and always keep it healthy and happy. Remember as long as your bird has the following:

Food and drink






Safety






Warmth






Love







, Make sure all curtains are drawn over the windows and all poisonous plants and wires are covered or even better removed. Also, make sure there is no water in the room so the birds don't drown and all ceiling fans are turned off. If you think your bird will get harmed by something it is best to prevent it in some way. You also need to know how to catch the bird.

