 Open a new web browser tab, and visit the Facebook website. Enter your registered email address and password into the fields at the top right of the page, and click “Sign in” to continue.;
, Type “Picasa uploader” on the Facebook search bar at the top left of the page, and press Enter. From the results, select the App (not the App page).


Alternatively, you can go to the page directly here


, Click the large green “Install” button that appears on the app page. Click “Install Picasa Uploader” on the next page to begin installing. An installation wizard will appear; follow it’s instructions, and when a new window opens requesting you to confirm “Launch Picasa and import the new button,” click “Yes.”

, You will be taken to the Configure Button window on Picasa. On the left-hand side, you should see a blue “Facebook” button. Click the “Add >>” button next to the “Facebook” button to move it to the Default Buttons section on the right-hand side of the window.


Click “OK” when you’re done. At this point, the Facebook icon should appear at the bottom of your Picasa Window within the button bar.
 Double-click the Picasa shortcut icon on your desktop if you have it there, or launch it from your Programs menu.
 Select the pictures that you wish to share with your friends. You can click on as many pictures you want to upload.
 Once you’ve selected the pictures you want to upload, click the blue “Facebook” button at the bottom of the Picasa window. Picasa will notify you on how many pictures you have selected and will prompt you to start uploading them. Click the blue “Continue” button on the Upload to Facebook window, and then click the blue “Upload to my Profile” button on the next page that opens, on the same window.
 A new window will open prompting you to log into your Facebook account. Enter your Facebook login credentials in the provided fields, and click “Log in” to proceed. Click the blue “Allow” button on the Request for Permission pop-up to continue.
 After you’ve linked Facebook and Picasa, you will be taken to the “Upload Options” page. On this page, there are provisions for creating a new album or choosing an existing album. Fill in the information on your photo album and other relevant description.


Afterwards, set who can view the photos by clicking the arrow on the “Share with” option. You can set it to “Only me,” “Friends, and “Custom.”

, Once you’re done, click the green “Send to Facebook” button, at the bottom of the window. The photos will then be uploaded and posted to your Facebook wall.


Visit your Facebook account to tag friends and to add or edit other details.

