 Before you begin acting, at least read through a few scenes to get a feel on what the play is about. Figure out the genre, and who are the protagonist and antagonist. Try to understand the story line and the meaning of the play.;
, If it is a well known play, try finding character profiles online or their insights and past. Some sites may even tell you why they do things and how their mind works. Learn as much as you possibly can about the character.
 Now that you know more about the character, get into their shoes. If you can, tell your friends about it, and practice having a conversation or doing things as if you were the character. Talk like they would, walk like the would, watch the shows they would, and do the things they would. In every situation, be your character.
 Once you get used to your character, read over the lines. Read the other characters lines in your head, and read your lines out loud. Think about how fast or slow they would say it, and add stops if you think it is needed. Be the character and imagine you are in the story. Breathe the air, watch the grass...or maybe you are in the middle of a war scene...maybe even in the middle of a mystery. Be part of it.
 Stand up, memorize a couple lines and practice moving with it. If the play doesn't tell you what actions to do, do what you think the character would do. You are now the character. If he would hold his head while screaming, do that! If he is very clumsy, imagine you were speaking with a friend, and then trip in the middle of the conversation. Do what needs to be done.
 Don't take in too much at the same time. Do one or two scenes a day and work on it. When you sleep, you may think of better ways to say or do something, so use this quiet time to review your acting.
 Before all the cast members come together to practice, be sure you know your lines for that day. During practice, you want to make sure you work more on your acting then just reading off the book. If you are reading, your hands and eyes are occupied, so learn ahead of time.
 Be confident or not. Whatever your character is supposed to be. If you must, practice being in character an hour before practice or the show. During practice, be sure your actions work well with your other cast members. Unless it is a one-man-play, listen to their input. They may have better ideas and even ways to improve your actions. Take this to heart. If you must, ask multiple people what you should do. Remember, the play is for the audience, so do what makes most people happy.
 Once you got your lines and actions down, practice. Practice as often as possible. Recite your dialogues in your head, and practice articulation and projection. See if you can get your costumes ahead of time and practice in them to get more comfortable.
 Unless this is Broadway, enjoy the practices and the mess ups. No one will be perfect the first time or on the first day. Go out with your cast members for a meal or games and get closer. Plays turn out better when everyone is comfortable around each other, so mingle and have fun.

