 Mold can be visible, but it can also grow in air ducts, crawlspaces, rafters, and between walls. If you can’t see any mold, but you detect a noticeable musty earth smell, you most likely have mold growth that you can’t see.
 Mildew and mold will begin developing within 24-48 hours of exposure to moisture. It will quickly continue to grow until the moisture is completely removed and the mold is exterminated., If any cables or wiring are wet or moldy, shut the power off before cleaning. Have an electrician examine the wiring before turning the power back on again.
 You will want to dry out the moldy or wet area as quickly as possible to prevent the mold from spreading. The longer you leave an area wet, the more likely mold will form.


Open the windows if humidity outside is lower than inside.
Use fans to remove moisture only if mold has not started growing. Fans can spread mold spores to other areas.
Remove all wet items from the area, including furniture, carpets, toys, etc.
Throw away any moldy carpeting. Mold will be almost impossible to remove from the carpet fibers. All other items can be cleaned and disinfected separately.
Discard any contaminated food products. This means anything not sealed in a watertight container.
 If the wall has been water damaged by a flood, you will need to remove all of the wet material, including insulation, wood by-products, and anything else porous.


Drywall is incredibly porous and should be replaced at the soonest sign of water damage.
Remove the wallboard to a foot above the water mark.
You can drain walls by removing the baseboard and drilling holes into the floor.
Make sure to check the interior of the wall for any hidden mold growth.
 If you are faced with a significant amount of mold growth, consider hiring professional cleaners. Mold is very hazardous when being cleaned, because disturbing the mold will cause it to release spores.


Make sure that the area you are cleaning is well-ventilated.
Always wear gloves, a mask or respirator, and eye protection.
 Material such as metal, solid wood, plastic, and glass should be washed first with a non-ammonia soap and hot water. Use a stiff brush on rough surfaces such as concrete.


Use a wet-dry shop vacuum to remove standing water.
Disinfect all surfaces after cleaning with a 10% bleach solution. Allow the solution to stay on the surface for at least 10 minutes before rinsing with clean water or drying.
 Upholstered furniture, clothing, bedding, rugs, carpets, books, and more are all porous items. If you can’t decide whether to keep a contaminated object or not, err on the side of caution and throw it out.


Clean the material and then disinfect with a pine-oil cleaner. Let the material dry completely. Monitor the material for several days after cleaning for any fungal growth or odors. If mold returns, be sure to discard the item.
 As soon as you start feeling adverse effects, stop what you are doing and consult a professional cleaning service. Signs include:


Breathing difficulties, including wheezing
Sinus congestion
Hacking cough
Eye irritation, redness
Bloody nose
Rashes or hives
Headaches, memory loss