 Each jurisdiction sets their own regulations regarding animal vaccinations. Your vet will be familiar with these rules. But, you can also contact local government authorities for more information. It is possible that you will need to send in a copy of your cat’s rabies vaccination every year, every three years, or less frequently depending on the area., The vaccination schedule should start as soon as your kitten is starting to less frequently nurse from their mother, usually around 6-8 weeks of wage. This means that the antibodies from the mother’s milk will coincide with the protections provided by the vaccines, providing overlapping protections. If you didn’t take your kitten to the vet early on, it is possible to catch them up via later boosters., If you’ve started the sequence, don’t try to space out or remove booster shots, otherwise your cat will only be partially protected, if at all. This means that you will need to get one initial shot and then expect a series to follow. There are guidelines regarding how far apart these boosters must be placed in time., If you’ve decided to adopt or purchase a new cat, make sure to get all of their personal records as part of that transaction. Look over the records with your vet to see if there are any gaps in coverage. Particularly with adoption, you may need to start from ground zero., Because a cat is not fully covered until they’ve received the full vaccination sequence, which can take weeks, make sure to plan well in advance before you attempt to board or travel with your cat. Many boarding facilities will require that your cat has completed a full course of yearly vaccinations. And some require that this occurs weeks prior to boarding., Each country has a list of restrictions regarding the conditions of animals allowed in from elsewhere. Make sure to look at that government’s website to determine the exact requirements that your cat must meet for entry.


For example, in the UK, a pet cat must be microchipped with a vet certificate showing proof of a rabies vaccination., You may want to get extra vaccine coverage for your cat if there is an outbreak of a particular illness if your area. Leukemia, for example, often occurs in waves in communities, leading cat owners to seek out their vets. For information on outbreaks, contact your local Department of Agriculture in the U.S.