 Providing a secure nesting location is one of the best ways to attract bluebirds to your property. Whether you purchase or build your nesting boxes, its important to make sure that they are good quality so they will last a long time.They should be constructed of rot-resistant wood, such as cedar.
They should be easy to open for cleaning at the end of the season.
They can be painted on the outside, but the inside should be untreated wood.
The roof of the box should be water-tight, but the floor should have drainage holes.;
, Bluebirds prefer nesting boxes that are five to six feet off of the ground. Ideally, your nest boxes should be on posts in wide open areas, as bluebirds often do not like nesting in wooded areas.Be aware that a bluebird will typically not nest within 100 yards of another bluebird. If you want to attract multiple bluebird families, make sure your nesting boxes are far enough apart from each other.
 Eastern bluebirds compete for nesting space with non-native species like house sparrows and starlings. In order to make sure you attract bluebirds, it's important to make your nesting boxes unappealing to their competitors.Do not use nesting boxes with attached perches.
Make sure the opening to the nesting box is no bigger than 1-1/2 inches, which is too small for starlings.
Make sure the interior nesting space is no bigger than 4 x 4 inches, which is too small for house sparrows.
If you have consistent problems with other bird species inhabiting your bluebird houses, you may need more bird houses. While bluebirds do not like to nest close to one another, they often do not have a problem nesting within close proximity of other species., Bluebirds start nesting in the spring, so it's important to have your nesting boxes up and ready for them by then. Depending on your longitude, bluebirds may start nesting in your area anytime between February and April.Bluebirds don't always leave their northern habitats in the wintertime. In fact, many stay in the same area all year round, roosting with other bluebirds in the cold weather. If you want to encourage your bluebirds to stay on your property during the winter, leave your nest boxes up so that they have access to them all year round., Just as important as attracting the bluebirds to your nesting boxes is keeping dangerous predators out. If you want your bluebird families to live long lives and come back to the nesting location again and again, it's best to provide some kind of barrier to predators.You can buy or make a Noel guard for your nesting box, which is mesh barrier that attaches to the front of the box, surrounding the entrance hole. Birds may be deterred by this device, so consider waiting until the bluebirds have laid eggs to install it.
You can also mount your bird house using a wobbling baffle, which is a sleeve that fits around the pole and moves to prevent predators from climbing up.
 To encourage bluebirds to keep coming back to your nesting boxes, you should be sure to clean them each year before nesting season. In addition, remove the nesting material and clean out the box after each brood of babies has left the nest. This will encourage the parents to have more babies!While cleaning the nesting boxes, inspect them carefully to ensure that they are still safe. Perform any repairs as needed.
 Bluebirds prefer to live in areas that are wide open with lots of short grass, as well as a few shrubs and trees. If possible, find a spot on your property that offers bluebirds the open space they desire. Orchards, meadows, and large lawns provide the optimal habitats for bluebirds.
If you live in the woods or in the center of a city, you may have a harder time attracting bluebirds.
 Bluebirds need water both for drinking and for bathing, so providing a convenient sources of fresh water near the nesting area may help attract them. Moving water is preferable, although a standard bird bath may be just fine.Change the water frequently to keep it fresh.
The birdbath should be no more than three inches deep, and should have gently sloping sides with a rough texture to keep the birds from slipping.
Ponds attract tree swallows, so try not to put your bluebird habitat near one.
A heated birdbath may provide extra incentive for bluebirds to stay on your property during the winter., Bluebirds like to perch up high to look for insects to feed on. To make your yard a convenient place for both nesting and foraging, make sure they have plenty of different locations to perch.If there's nowhere for bluebirds to perch in your yard, consider installing perches in various locations. These can be as simple as stake in the lawn with a horizontal piece near the top for the bird to perch on.
Bluebirds will use things like trees and fence posts for perches, so you may not need to install anything new if you already have lots of existing perches.
Ideally, you should provide a perch 10-20 yards in front of the nesting box.
 Cats are predators that may kill Eastern Bluebirds and other species of birds in your yard. If you have cats, try to keep them indoors (or at least away from your bluebirds habitat) in order to keep the space safe., Bluebirds eat insects, so they will be more likely to inhabit your yard if there are lots of insects to eat. Make sure there is plenty of food for them by avoiding the use of chemical pesticides.Because they eat insects, bluebirds are excellent at providing pest control for organic gardeners.
 In addition to insects, bluebirds also eat berries. To help give them a varied diet, try planting indigenous plants that bear berries around your property.Good examples of plants include holly, American elderberry, eastern red cedar, pokeweed, and flowering dogwood.
 Bluebirds absolutely love to eat mealworms. If you want to attract bluebirds, try putting some mealworms out in your yard. To get started, you can simply put a few mealworms in a dish in the area that you have prepared for bluebirds.You can also buy special bluebird feeders for feeding mealworms. This may make it much more convenient to offer mealworms to bluebirds, as other animals will have a harder time accessing them.
Live mealworms are the best for attracting bluebirds, but offering these may not be practical, especially if you haven't seen any bluebirds in your yard yet. If you can't offer live mealworms, consider offering canned or roasted mealworms, which will last for longer., Along with mealworms, you can add some enticing fruits to your bluebird feeder to help attract the birds. If you know there are bluebirds in the area, consider putting out some berries that have been chopped into small pieces. If you need the food to stay fresh for longer, offer dried fruits like raisins, blueberries, and cherries.Bluebirds do not eat seed, so they will not be attracted by traditional bird feeders.

