 Most people fear the death of a loved one at some point in their lives.Additionally, most people experience loss of loved ones in their lifetime.According to terror management theory, thinking about death or a loved one dying can produce paralyzing fear.Thinking about another person dying also highlights our own mortality.


Know that you are not alone. Other people can empathize with your situation because they have probably dealt with a similar issue. If you feel comfortable, you can share you feelings with others that have dealt with loss and this can help you have a sense that you are supported and validated in your feelings.
Validate your own fears and feelings. Say to yourself, “It is okay to be fearful or sad. These are normal responses to the situation.”;
, If you are caring for an ill loved one, this can create additional anxiety, distress, burden, and loss of independence.While you can definitely do your best to help your loved one, you may not be able to control how long your loved one lives. Focus instead, on what you can do today such as spend time with him or cope healthfully with your fear and sadness.


Think of everything you can control about the situation. For example, you can control your own behaviors – what you chose to do about the situation. You can focus on doing your best to comfort and care for your loved one. You can also focus on soothing yourself and expressing your own emotions with loved ones in order to process your grief.
Let go of what you cannot control. Visualization and imagery can help use gain perspective on what we can and cannot control. Imagine placing your fears on leaves that are floating down a river. Watch them as they drift away.
Set your limits. If you are caring for a loved one who is ill, this can cause a variety of extra challenges including stretched limits, anxiety, and depressed mood.Only do what you can do, and set aside time to take care of yourself. You may need to set boundaries with others in order to preserve this time alone.
Use mindfulness to pay attention to the present moment. We fear because we are thinking about the future and what might happen instead of focusing on the here-and-now and what you can do with this moment. Take charge of what is happening right now (as you are doing by reading this)!

, Studies show that when people have more acceptance surrounding death in general, they have an easier time dealing with loss and show more resilience overall.You can begin to practice acceptance by making a list of all of the difficult emotions and thoughts that coincide with the fear of losing your loved one. Write down your most intimate thoughts and fears and accept each one. You can say to yourself, "I accept my fear and pain. I accept that I might lose this person some day. It will be hard, but I accept that loss is a part of life."
Remind yourself that death is a part of life. Unfortunately, loss is also something that almost everyone deals with in their lifetime.
 When individuals believe that the world is just and fair, they are more resilient and have a less difficult time coping with the loss of loved ones.One way to think positively about the world is to recognize the circle of life and that both life and death are natural. In order for there to be life, there must be death. Try to see the beauty in both life and death. The life cycle is an amazing thing that we can learn to appreciate and be thankful for. When one person dies, another can live.
Practice gratitude. Say something to yourself like, "I may lose my loved one, but at least right now I have the time to spend with him. I will focus on this and be grateful for this time that I have. I am so thankful for each moment I get to spend with him." We can also choose to be grateful that we all, including our loved ones, have the chance to experience life.
If your loved one is in pain, you can focus on the idea that after he passes there will be no more suffering. You could focus on the fact that regardless of his (and your) beliefs, he will be resting in peace.

