 The most important skill to master in singing and dancing at the same time is becoming a pro at controlled breathing. You want to be able to have a sustained and smooth exhale for long notes and slow phrases. The goal is to learn how to breathe from your diaphragm, which means you will learn to breathe more deeply to avoid airy singing. Here is an exercise to try:Hold a feather in front of your mouth as you breathe so that you move the feather. You want a steady stream of breathe that is long and controlled.
Continue blowing the feather. Be aware of your body as you exhale, and keep your chest from collapsing.
Do not inhale until you are completely out of air and feel the immediate urge for more air. Keep practicing this exercise, each time trying to blow the feather for longer periods of time.;
, Singing and dancing both require a lot of air, and you need to learn how to breathe from your lower back and belly to achieve a roundness in your breathing. If you take shallow breaths from your chest, you will not sound as good.For deeper breaths, try plank exercises by laying on your front side, and lifting your legs and shoulders up off the ground. As you do this, take slow, deep breaths. This will strengthen your breathing.Yoga classes are a great way to learn to breathe deeply and strengthen your muscles., Inhaling is when breath enters your lungs, and exhaling is when breath leaves. You have to learn how to exhale and inhale quickly and deeply because the music will not wait for you to catch up. Before strengthening your breathing technique, it is important for you to feel your breaths, and be aware of what your body is doing when you take deep breaths. Here are some exercises to help you become more in-tuned:Visualize the air weighing 50 pounds as you take a deep breath, and imagine the air falling low into your body. Think about it slowly falling below your belly button, and really focus on the sensation. Then, slowly exhale.
Inhale again, but a little faster. Continue to imagine the air being heavy and falling deeply, but allow yourself to visualize it faster than before. You should feel your abdomen and lower back expand as you take in air. Then, exhale the air a little faster than before.
 If you have doubts about how deeply you are breathing, you may find your answer by watching how your external body changes while you are breathing. If you are taking deep breaths, you should see your diaphragm release, and your gut expand. If your body is not changing on the outside, you are not taking deep enough breaths.During breathing exercises, rest one hand on your chest and the other hand on your abdomen. Use one hand to make sure your chest is steady as you breath, and the other to feel your abdomen expand and release. This will help you to feel if you are breathing deeply enough.
 With certain dance routines that are high energy and extra challenging, you may need to stagger your breaths to make it through the song. This means that you need to take short breaths at strategic places during the song.


While practicing the song with the dance, plan out when you will take your breaths by finding breaks in the music. By planning out your breathing, you can more easily make it through the song without running short of air.
If you know a long note in the song is coming up, make sure you find a place in the dance where you can pause, and take a long, deep breath.
 Efficient breathing is more than just learning to exhale and inhale. Your posture needs to work with your breathing in order to improve your singing and make taking a deep, full breath easier. If you allow your body to slouch over, your diaphragm will lock and keep you from taking proper breaths for singing. Always keep your shoulders back, and stand straight to allow your chest and ribs to expand for deep breaths.