 Court and legal translating are set apart from general translating duties due to the high ethical standards required to deal with defendants, litigants, victims, and witnesses in civil and criminal cases. You can become a certified Federal Interpreter in Spanish - or a State Interpreter in any of 20 languages.Eligibility requirements for state interpreters vary from state to state so check with your own court interpreting program.Eligibility requirements for federal interpreters are to have native-like mastery of English and Spanish as well as to be able to perform three modes of interpretation at speed: consecutive interpreting, simultaneous interpreting, and sight translation of documents. The sensitivity and complexity of interpretation in court settings means you must work rapidly and precisely.
 To be a federally certified interpreter, you must pass a two-part (English and Spanish) written and oral exam. The FCICE handbook tells you how to prepare for the written and oral examinations with specific advice on error detection and the ability to use synonyms. A good tip for success is to take the online FCICE self-assessment test. Be honest with yourself about your true skill levels. This will arm you with knowledge about the areas you need to work on to make sure you ace the test.The FCICE website offers candidates full-length practice examinations. Take advantage of them to give you insight into the questions you will need to answer on the test. , You must pass a two-part test which can be taken in your area. Test requirements and fees vary from state to state so it is vital to consult the specific requirements for your area. Take advantage of the practice tests on the NCSC website to help you prepare, identify your specific skill gaps and take steps to remedy them.A great tool are the self-study resources and toolkits on the NCSC website. These outline study materials, reference materials, consecutive and simultaneous dictionaries for your target language. , Once you have qualified you will be nationally recognized as a professional interpreter in a legal setting. These skills are transferable to different geographic areas and areas of expertise. It will show your commitment and ethics and will ensure that anyone you deal with will be assured of your competence and ethical standards.


Federal court interpreter certification is recognized at the national level by both state and federal courts.
State court interpreter certification is subject to reciprocity requirements that vary by state.

