 Before getting the training, you need to make sure that you know what you are getting into. Motorcycle mechanics need to know how to repair, maintain, adjust and test all the components of a motorcycle. They should be knowledgeable in the complete mechanics of a motorcycle and be able to recognize and fix mechanical problems.;
, Even though this is not a requirement, a high school diploma is a helpful foundation to build upon. Any mechanical training will be easier to comprehend once you have completed classes in basic English, math and science.
 Not only do colleges offer mechanical training for motorcycle repair, but some dealerships do also. Look in trade magazines for information or search online. Ideally you should opt for training that covers different model bikes, unless you prefer to specialize in 1 particular model.
 This may be a requirement in the area that you want to eventually work in. Find out what the exact requirements are, and complete the certification as soon as you can after completion of your training.
 Experience is a great way to train. When you work in the actual environment you hope to eventually have a career in, you will gain valuable knowledge. Internships provide you with real life, day to day, situations that you probably won't experience in a classroom. You could set yourself up with an internship while you are taking classes. This way you can practice what you learn in the classroom, out in the field.
 You can start off doing odd jobs or running around for the head mechanic. Once you have your foot in the door, you can work your way up as you prove your competence as a mechanic. If you become a valued employee, you can ask your employer if there are any motorcycle repair courses in place that you can attend. Your employer may be willing to pay for you to get further training in the field.
 This may mean continued training so that you are familiar with recent trends as technology changes. By doing this, you are improving your chances for advancement in your company. Additionally, you will increase your value within your company, making you less likely to be laid off or replaced.

