 You should have specific job duties in mind before attempting to find a sitter, as it is important that you match your needs with the sitter's capabilities. For example, if you have 2 large dogs that need to be walked twice a day and a full garden that must be tended, you will need to specify those tasks when scouting for house sitters.;
, Use a reliable website to find potential matches. Contacting neighbours and friends for references works as well. Find candidates for the house sitting job through a variety of resources. Be sure to include specifics about the job in all of your solicitations.
 Whether it’s through a messaging portal on a website or texting/calling, take the first steps to contacting your house sitter. Ask them preliminary questions such as their location and availability., Select candidates who have the qualifications you desire.
 Home owners have to entrust a lot to a house sitter! Good references can definitely sway someone to hire one house sitter over another., Get a list of references from each potential house sitter you have selected, then call each referee to verify the candidate's information. Call your house sitter’s references! The main purpose of having a house sitter is preventing burglaries so it’s important that your house sitter is trustworthy. It is very important that your house sitter doesn’t commit theft themselves - having multiple references ensures that your house sitter is reliable. Take candidates whose references do not check out off your list.
 Figuring out a wage for your house sitter can be tricky. In some cases, house sitters won’t receive pay at all in exchange for free rent, utilities and food. house sitters should definitely be paid if they are providing housekeeping and pet care services., If all the above steps have gone well, meet your house sitter to interview them! This is the most important step - you never want to see your house sitter for the first time right before you leave and decide then that they are not the right fit for you.

Try posing questions like “What would you do if…” to get a sense of their competency in problem solving.






Explain every aspect of the house sitting job in detail to each interviewee. Verify that those duties are acceptable and manageable to interviewees.
Allow potential house sitters to interact with your pets (if applicable), to see if you feel it is a good match.
Gauge the interviewee's reactions to your tasks list and questions, and choose the sitter you feel most comfortable with, and who most suits the job.
 On the day of your departure, make sure that your house sitter is well-prepared. Be sure to leave the following items:

Emergency contact information
Pet care instructions and location of food (if necessary)
Where cleaning supplies are stored (if housekeeping is expected)

, If your trip is extended, consider texting or calling your house sitter to ensure that everything is fine in your house., Upon your return, make sure that all your valuables are in place and everything is well kept. If your house sitter went above and beyond in their duties (e.g. cleaning when it is not needed) you might want to compensate them for these extra services or offer to write a good reference.