 Sometimes you have to deal with overly optimistic people by bringing them down to earth. Specifically, in situations where their extreme optimism might have serious negative consequences, talking to them about the reality of the situation is often the best course of action.Let them know that you are talking to them because you are concerned and want the best for them.


Explain to them that while optimism can definitely be a good thing, being overly optimistic can actually cause problems.
For example, being overly optimistic when making a risky investment (“I know this horse is going to win!”) can lead to financial ruin. Or as an extreme example, being too optimistic that an abusive spouse will stop can eventually lead to serious injury or worse.
Talk to them in a respectful way in private. Try saying, “I admire how you always see the good in everything! I am a bit concerned, though, that your optimistic outlook might have negative consequences in this situation”

, People that are overly optimistic are often thinking about the ‘big picture’ and not focusing on the details of how that picture will be made.Gently challenging their outlook by asking for details forces them to consider the likelihood and reality of what they are proposing.


For example, if a co-worker is sure that a new workflow plan will solve all the company’s problems, ask them about budget, staff, product, process, etc.
You could say for example, “That sounds like a great goal! What specifically will we need to do and have to reach it? Do we have those resources? What is the timeline? What steps do we need to take? How likely is it that we can complete all of the tasks needed for this to work? ”

, Sometimes you can show someone the absurdity of their plans by presenting them with more reasonable alternatives. If someone is overly optimistic about something, talking to them about other options is a gentle way to challenge their outlook.For example, if your friend is heavily in debt, yet still optimistically planning an extravagant vacation, talk to him about some more economic alternatives that can be just as rewarding.
Try saying, “That sounds exciting! Have you considered any other options? Like, what about…”

