 A sneeze, known technically as a sternutation, is a major deal for the body. The typical sneeze removes air from your body at speeds up to 100 mph (160 km/h), tremendous velocities that can cause serious injury if incorrectly stifled. That's why you should never try to stop a sneeze that is in progress.


For example, do not hold your nose or block your mouth while sneezing. Doing so can cause serious injury. The force and velocity of the average sneeze, if prevented from ejection from the body, can eventually cause hearing loss and damage the blood vessels in your head, especially if you make a habit of stopping a sneeze when it's already begun.
 If you're around others, you risk spreading harmful bacteria when you let one (or two or three or maybe even four) out into the air. The "spray" you emit can reach up to 5 feet (1.5 m) away from you! That's a radius that encompasses a lot of people. So be careful!


If you can, sneeze into a tissue and dispose of the tissue. If a tissue isn't available, sneeze into your sleeve. If you do end up sneezing into your hands, be sure to wash them afterward. Your hands touch doorknobs, your face, surfaces, and other people constantly. And, if you happen to be away from water, carry hand sanitizer to save the day., When you're in a group of people, you'll surely be given the evil eye if you wind up for a sneeze and deliver with flying success. You're spreading germs and disrupting the flow, so it's best to sneeze as discretely as possible.


Sneezing into your elbow can diffuse the sound. If that's not an option, grab a tissue, tilt your head down, and sneeze as quietly as possible.
 If you have a broken rib, a sneeze can hurt very badly. Exhale as much air from your lungs as you can. This will reduce the amount of pressure placed on your ribs and weaken the sneeze greatly, and the pain will be less.


Really, if anything in your core hurts, a sneeze can be the last thing you want to encounter. Take the precautions listed above, but concentrate on the exhale. With little air to expel, your insides won't lurch, preventing the sneeze from having a longer-lasting effect.

