 Many employers these days offer dental insurance as part of a comprehensive benefits package. If you do not currently have a job that provides dental insurance, you might want to consider trying to find a position that offers such benefits. Even some part-time jobs now offer dental coverage.If you do not have dental insurance through your employer, you can purchase a stand alone dental insurance package. Do some research on the Affordable Care Act and what it means for you.Understand your plan. If you have insurance, make sure you understand which treatments are covered and which are not. You should also make sure to know how much your co-pay is for each procedure. If the insurance is through your employer, you can ask your Human Resources representative to explain your benefits. If you have a stand alone policy, you can call the customer service center for your provider and ask for clarification on any questions.
 Once you understand your policy, make sure that you are taking advantage of all of your coverage. For example, if your policy covers one cleaning per year, make sure to schedule it before the end of the calendar year. You should also find out whether any of your funds "roll over" to the next year.You might also be able to put funds into a Flex Spending Account for medical purposes. This money can help you cover the costs of any treatments that are not fully covered by your insurance., The government provides many resources for those who are unable to afford necessary healthcare. This includes dental treatments. This is especially true for the elderly and those living below the poverty line. You can check with your local social services office to get more information about these programs and to see if you qualify.The government offers special programs for children's dental care.
 Once you have gathered information about how much your treatments will cost, you can account for that money in your monthly budget. Take a look at your spending and figure out some areas where you can save money. Try using an online budgeting tool to help you figure out creative ways to save.