 Due to alexithymia, autistic people may have a harder time understanding their emotions, and may only notice physical problems. The autistic person may mention headaches, stomachaches, muscle tension, or other physical problem caused by stress.
 Under stress, an autistic person may revert to "younger" behavior: sucking their thumb, wetting their bed, losing the ability to speak, or no longer using a skill they had learned recently. This may be caused by trauma, or by something else.Regression can be a difficult symptom to pin down in autistic people, because they may regress due to many different stressors, and they often hit milestones at their own pace.


A number of stressors can cause autistic regression. It could also be from moving house, too much pressure in therapy, illness, not enough downtime, and so on. Trauma is one potential cause.
The autistic person has not permanently lost the skill. However, when "in regression" they are simply too overtaxed to use more sophisticated skills. If and when they have more energy again, they will most likely be able to use the skill again.
Conversely, some teens become more independent after trauma, or oscillate between regression and independence., Rocking and stimming can signal trauma in non-autistics, but is normal for many autistic people. Instead, notice if your loved one is stimming a lot more or a lot less than usual, or if they have adopted self-injurious stims when this was not a problem before. This can be indicative of a problem.
 Stress may manifest itself as a more sensitive sensory system, and a traumatized autistic person may have their sensory issues worsen. For example, a young woman who ordinarily enjoys thunderstorms may start crying and covering her ears when she hears thunder.


Your loved one may startle more easily than usual.
They may have more frequent meltdowns, shutdowns, and instances of sensory overload.
 Your loved one may eat less, overeat for comfort, or complain of digestive issues that they did not have before. They may face sleeplessness, frequent nightmares, or fatigue.