 The first way to stick to a low budget when designing an office space is to choose a room that doesn't require a significant amount of structural work. There are only so many design solutions you can achieve through decor alone. Think about how the room’s layout and level of finish will contribute to your efficiency.For example, when you choose your office space, make sure the room has enough electrical outlets for your needs. Two outlets and affordable power strips should allow you to plug in your computer, printer, cell phone charger, at least two light sources in addition to the overhead light, and any other objects that require electricity.
An interior room without a window might make you less likely to want to work in that room, thus decreasing your productivity. Likewise, budget-friendly decor options can’t do much for an unfinished basement room. Make sure your space is clean and free of leaks or structural issues in order to encourage efficiency.
Even a nook in your bedroom or living room can offer more inexpensive, ergonomic, and efficient options than a larger spare room lacking outlets, insulation, multiple light sources, and other necessities.
 From planning your budget to picking out furniture and accessories, your number one priority should be storage. A minimalist office look might be trendy, but splurging on stylish decor options that lack storage will max out your budget, decrease your efficiency, and limit your ability to keep the space organized.Keep your budget in check by optimizing the storage space you already have available. If you're using a spare bedroom as an office, use the closet for storage to hide clutter. Install shelving for better organization if there aren’t any already present.Ensuring everything in your office has a designated place and keeping your spaced organized are among the easiest and most affordable ways to maximize your efficiency.
 Making sure your office smells nice is among the most budget-friendly ways to increase efficiency. Believe it or not, recent studies suggest a more fragrant office not only improves comfort, but encourages productivity.Experiments show that scents including lavender, rosemary, jasmine, and lemon encourage efficiency.
Remember inexpensive candles, diffusers, and other fragrant accessories can also be visually pleasing additions to your home office.

