 Yodeling requires you to switch between your chest register (normal voice) and upper register (falsetto). Where normal voice transitions to falsetto, there will be a break or voiceless gap in your tone.You’ll have to vocally jump back-and-forth across this break when yodeling.Your normal voice will vibrate your chest and have a mellow sound. The break occurs where your normal voice transitions up to breathier, shriller, non-chest vibrating tone, which is your falsetto.;
, This might sound painful, but it won’t hurt your voice at all. Pick a vowel sound, such as "oh," and move your voice from a low rumble to as high as you can. Try that in reverse now. At some point between your chest voice and falsetto, you’ll hear the break.


The point at which your voice breaks will be unique to you. If you're having trouble finding yours, slowly descend from a high-pitched siren-like “Aow” until you feel the tone vibrate in your chest., You might be surprised at how much this works out your vocal chords. Keep relaxed and take frequent breaks, especially if your voice feels tired or overworked.Practice moving from low to high notes, making sure to emphasize the break.


Since yodeling alternates between consonants and vowel sounds, you might practice by singing a mid-range note in your chest as "Yoh," then jump up to a high note in falsetto using "Dee."
Emphasize the break between chest voice and falsetto when you practice. Unlike other styles, where singers try to move smoothly from one note to the next, the break is essential for yodeling., Once you get the hang of it, the alternating consonant/vowel pattern of yodeling will come second nature. But until that day comes, you can use the following knock-knock joke when practicing:



Knock-knock. Who's there? Little old lady. Little-old-lady-WHO! Practice your yodel by singing "little-old-lady-WHO." Jump from chest voice to falsetto between "lady" and "who.", Most styles of yodeling are founded around three notes: the triad. Try singing the notes middle A, E, then D to form a triad yodel. The A should be sung in your chest voice, while the E and D notes should be sung in your head voice.


You can listen to a reference to the tones for middle A, E, and D online, on an instrument tuner, a pitch pipe, or on instruments that hold tone well (like a piano).
Once you've mastered the triad, try putting the word "yodel" in front of it to sing "yodel - A (Ay) - E (Ee) - D (Dee)!", Try singing the same "yodel-A-E-D" pattern you did previously for each note on an eight-note scale. Sing your triad on middle C, then move up to middle D. Continue to scale up until you transition to high C, eight notes above where you started.


This may be easiest to do with an instrument playing the root note (starting note) of the triad as you sing it.

