 That means no monkeys, koalas, or pandas. However, if you feel like they are good animal choices, choose them. Wolves, foxes, snow leopards, arctic wolves, and bunnies are the recommendation of many Jammers.;
, Names like 'Baron Cool Scurvy' aren't cool at all. Names like 'Major Major major' or 'Mythical Thecat' makes you sound experienced. Be sure that these names fit your animal. If you're a penguin, don't make the suffix horse, seal, wolf, etc. This goes for all animals.
 If you are still in your starting colors, change them. Don't go for anything too wild or crazy. Also, if you're a girl, don't go for all pink. Most jammers that are rabbits change their pattern to spotted. For wolves, arctic wolves, foxes, and snow leopards, black, white, gray, red, and blue is best recommended. For snow leopard's spots, make them the opposite of your color, or a lighter or darker shade of your original color.


Fake it until you make it! If you can't quite get your paws on something rare, purchase the silver glove (available at Epic Wonders in Coral Canyons). Many people confuse it for a plain white glove; therefore making you appear more rare.
 Don't go insane with color, but wear things that match or are close to your animal's color. Wear wings if they look good on you. Depending on the size of the animal, wings will look different. Rabbits look adorable, and wolves look too large. Avoid the butterfly wings; as they are almost always in stock. Buy clothes at stores that everyone ignores, an example is the new store in Appondale. Newer Jammers might think they are worth plenty because they haven't seen it in Jamaa Outfitters.
 Many Jammers make the mistake of getting a randomly colored pet instead of one that matches. Having a purple and neon green hamster while you're brown looks strange.
 There are video tutorials on this if you need help.


Speak with proper grammar. Use your shift key, know when to add an apostrophe, and add punctuation at the end of every sentence. It may take a few more seconds to type, but you'll come off as mature. You can have free chat when you're a member.
 These don't have to be relatively rare, but at least put a few on.


Steer clear from items you can buy. Items like the tiara and necklace are always in stores and having them on your trade list is worthless. Play Phantom Invasion a few times and put your rewards on your list.
 Play many different games, gain as many gems as possible, buy at least 25 clothing items; these are all way to get achievements. If you need, look up a list of them and how to earn them.
 Buy some furniture, and go on a serious Journey Book find. But make sure your den isn't cluttered!

