 In some cases, you may not have running water or soap to keep germs off of your hands. If this happens, you can use a hand sanitizer to clean them of germs. Be aware that hand sanitizers are not as effective as soap if your hands are visibly dirty or greasy and do not eliminate all types of germs.Get an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. You can also use antimicrobial wipes or towelettes. These should also contain a high percentage of alcohol.
 Open your product and squirt enough of the product to wet both hands completely. If you’re using wipes or towelettes, open two so that you have one for each hand.Check the back of your sanitizer packing. It may have recommendations for how much of the product to use for both hands.One teaspoon of sanitizer is generally enough to cover both hands., After you’ve applied the sanitizer to one palm or opened a towelette, cover every surface of your hands with the product. Be sure to get the front and back of your hand as well as between fingers and under your fingernails.Observe if you have every surface of your hands by noticing that they appear or feel wet.
 Keep rubbing the sanitizer into your hands until the product dries. This ensure that it kills as many germs as possible.Let the sanitizer dry on your hands if you’re using wipes or towelettes. It usually takes about 30 seconds for sanitizer to dry on your hands., Even if you disinfect with hand sanitizer, germs can still linger on your hands. In order to ensure that you’re hands are germ free, wash them with soap and water as soon as you are able.Remember that you should wash or sanitize your hands:Before, during, and after preparing food
Before eating food
Before and after caring for someone who is sick
Before and after treating a cut or wound
After using the toilet
After changing diapers or cleaning up a child who has used the toilet
After blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing
After touching an animal, its food, or animal waste
After touching garbage

