 Party girls always keep their looks on point, no matter how wild their nights get. The basic party girl uniform is a cute dress and a nice pair of heels.


Dress in a way that makes you feel comfortable. You want to wear something that's easy to move in and that makes you feel confident.
You'll probably be dancing, so you need clothes you can move in. Don't wear clothes that are too tight or restricting.
Pack a pair of flats in your purse. Many women in general carry an extra pair of comfortable shoes in their bags,but for party girls they are essential. No matter how skilled you are at dancing in heels, your feet will be hurting by the end of the night. Give them a break.
If you must wear pants, make sure they're cute (and preferably tight) and match the dress code of wherever you plan on partying. You don't want the embarrassment of being turned away at the door because your venue of choice has a ban on jeans.;
, The typical party girl wears a lot of makeup. If that's the look you like, go for it. Just make sure to wear makeup with staying power that isn't prone to sweating off. For long-lasting makeup, start with a moisturizing primer and top everything off with a translucent powder.Right now, the party girl look is all about smoky, heavy eye makeup.If you want to follow this trend, pack on the dark eye shadow, eyeliner, and mascara.
 This means that your hair should be in a manageable style that stays in place. You don't want it coming undone while you dance.


If you want to wear your long hair down for part of the night, try pulling it back in a ponytail when you dance.
For a classier look, you can also try a bun or some other type of updo. Just make sure your hair is secure before you go out.
If it starts to come undone halfway through the night, it's better to just take your hair down completely.
 A party girl will enjoy partying most when she's self-confident and happy with herself. Self-confidence will boost your charisma and make you the life of the party.



Build your self-confidence, be confident and develop your self-esteem.
Even if you don't feel confident, do your best to pretend. If you aren't naturally outgoing, challenge yourself to change that. If you have a habit of self-deprecation, work on curbing that.
Surprisingly, maintaining good posture goes a long way towards boosting confidence. Keep your back straight and your shoulders dropped. Posture like this will have you both looking and feeling more confident than you would slouching.