 You may want to borrow a foam roller before you invest in your own.


Use a foam roller at the gym. If you cannot find a foam roller in the facility, ask the front desk. They may be located in the physical therapy or classroom section of the gym.
Borrow or buy a foam roller at a physical therapy office. Injured athletes frequently include foam rolling in their recovery routine. If you know someone who is a physical therapist, they may be able to loan you 1 for a short time.
Take a pilates class. Pilates studios keep foam rollers on hand and they often incorporate them into their core and stretching classes.
Buy a foam roller. Go to a local sports equipment store or look online. Get a high-density foam roller or a roller with a PVC core for maximum durability. They are available for $10 to $50.;
, You will need a flat space that is approximately 4 feet (1.2 m) by 6 feet (1.8 m) in order to stretch your body on the roller.
 The process of myofascial release, or self-massage, requires you to press down with your body weight on the soft tissue called fascia. The pain on tight muscles is akin to that experienced during Swedish massage.


Try to find a private space if you experience intense muscle pain. You will learn to control the level of pain by placing more or less body weight on the roller.
Focus on your tightest muscle groups. Although they will initially cause more pain, this is what the foam roller is designed to treat.
 Start by sitting on the floor with the foam roller beneath your bent knees. Begin with your hamstrings.


Place your arms behind you and rest the majority of your weight on the arms, keeping them right below your shoulders.
Lift your butt up and rest your hamstrings on the foam roller. It should sit right below your buttocks. This is at the beginning, or proximal, part of the muscle.
Allow the roller to move down slightly and back up. This is a short kneading motion that will target the fascia.
Glide the roller down the length of your hamstrings. Use smaller rolling, kneading motions, taking at least 1 minute to move the entire length of the muscle.
Control the amount of pressure and pain with your arms. Lower the arms or straighten them to adjust.
Massage the entire length of the muscle 3 to 4 times before moving on.


Move on to your calves, after you have done your hamstrings. Start just below the knee joint and massaging the entire length for 3 to 4 repetitions. Focus on particularly tight areas for longer, kneading them for 1 to 2 minutes before rolling the entire length of the muscle again.






Try the foam roller on your buttocks. Start at the top, just below the hip bones. Use kneading motions in the fleshiest parts of the muscle. For added targeting, get into figure 4 position, with your right shin resting on your left thigh as you roll. Switch sides and repeat.






Turn on your side and work on the muscles in the hips. Use your legs and elbow to keep you steady on your side as you work from the top of the hip down to the upper thigh.






Flip over onto the roller. Get into a plank position. Target your hip flexors and quadriceps.






Target tight spinal muscles with the roller. Begin at the bottom of the spine and move in short, gentle rolls toward the top, near the shoulders. #*You may hear cracking as tension is released. Do not try this area if you have severe spinal problems.
 Each person is different, so tailor your routine to the tightest muscles.


Assess when your muscles begin to release. You may find the pain is less acute or the muscle is suppler after rolling.
Repeat several times per week. Many athletes use rollers for massage every other day.

