 The Hib vaccine, or shot, is the best way to prevent Hib infection and is 95% effective. All children younger than 5 years old should get the Hib vaccine.Make sure your child gets all doses for the best protection, and if you miss a dose or get behind schedule get the next dose as soon as you can.Children should get a Hib vaccine at:


First dose: 2 months of age.
Second dose: 4 months of age.
Third dose: 6 months of age (There are two types of Hib vaccine for babies, and depending on what brand of vaccine is used your child might not need the six month dose. Your healthcare provider will tell you if this dose is needed.)
Final dose: 12 through 15 months of age.;
, The Hib vaccine is given as an injection into your baby’s upper thigh in infants and toddlers, or the upper arm of older children.Hib vaccines are safe, but mild or moderate side effects can occur, usually lasting 2 or 3 days.The most common side effects include redness, swelling, and warmth where the child got the shot, and fever around 100F (37.8C).The vaccine cannot cause Hib disease. The Hib vaccine is an inactivated and fractional vaccine, containing only part of the Hib germ. Only the entire Hib bacteria can cause Hib disease.To minimize shots your child has to receive, the Hib vaccine can be given at the same time as other vaccines. Some brands of vaccine contain Hib along with other vaccines in a single shot, such as the DTP-HepB+Hib (Diptheria-Tetanus-Pertussis + Hepatitis B + Hib).Rare problems that could happen after any vaccine include brief fainting spells or, very rarely, severe shoulder pain in the arm where a shot was given.
 Some adults and children over age 5 are at increased risk for invasive Hib disease and may need additional doses of the Hib vaccine even if they got all their shots as babies. Hib vaccine is not routinely recommended for healthy adults 19 years and older even if the person did not receive Hib vaccine as a child. However, Hib is recommended if a person has the following conditions:


Sickle cell disease.
Asplenia (no spleen).
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) infection.
Antibody and complement deficiency syndromes.
Receipt of chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer.
Receipt of hematopoietic stem cell or bone marrow transplant., Severe allergic reactions from a vaccine are very rare, happening in fewer than 1 in a million doses. If one occurs, it is usually within a few minutes to a few hours after the vaccination. Problems might include rash, trouble breathing, or changes in your child’s behavior.