 If you’re living within your comfort zone, know that there’s a lot of life you’re missing. Some indicators of living only within your comfort zone include feeling bored, restless, tired, dissatisfied, and lacking enthusiasm for life.The good news is that it doesn’t have to stay this way! Find ways to do things that feel uncomfortable. Do the things you’ve never done but always wanted to do. Think about what scares you, then go tackle it. Remember that you’ve already tackled many fears in your life, and that you are capable of tackling whatever is in front of you. Don’t let fear hold you back.


It’s hard to get over the fear of stepping out of what feels comfortable. Take some baby steps, start small and celebrate your successes. Get inspired by other people who have stepped out of their comfort zone and thrived, then know that you can do it, too!
Staying within your comfort zone in fear of embarrassment limits and deprives your life of the fun you can experience. Step out of it with courage and boldness; who cares what others think of you? Be yourself, and do what you want.
Check out How to Step Out of Your Comfort Zone for more tips.
 Mindfulness practices encourage being in the present moment and benefit your physical and mental health.Being mindful means engaging your senses and observing your thoughts without judgment. Feel the ground beneath you when you walk, listen to the sounds around you, taste each bite of food you eat, engage your sense of smell, and observe your surroundings with your eyes. Use your senses to the fullest instead of letting them run on autopilot. Then, practice mindfulness on your thoughts and emotions, consciously observing each without judgment.When you taste food, devote your thought processes to the food. Take a moment to smell the food, and notice how your body reacts to the smell. Then, put the food in your mouth, but don't chew yet. Observe the texture and the flavors. As you begin to chew, notice how it feels between your teeth and on your tongue.
Notice when you become distracted, and bring yourself back to the moment with your senses. Let your thoughts take a break and engage with your environment.
 It’s time for you to move the Thanksgiving turkey aside and get into the practice of giving thanks daily. Grateful people exhibit health and happiness benefits, such as sleeping better, having increased empathy and decreased aggression, improved self-esteem, and improved physical and psychological health.Begin and end each day by observing three things for which you are grateful. Connect with the feeling of gratitude, don’t list things you have. The less material your focus, the better. Be grateful for your friends, for the ability to walk to the market, and the feeling of the sun on your shoulders.
 Always look on the positive side of all situations, no matter what! Even if the situation seems entirely negative, there has got to be some positive in it, big or small. A good attitude will help you get through many of life’s difficulties. Having a positive outlook is associated with health and psychological benefits, such as lower rates of depression and distress and having a longer lifespan.When you notice negative thoughts, observe them, then choose to think of something positive. For instance, combat thoughts like, “I’ll mess this up; I’ve never done it before!” with “I am so proud of myself for giving myself the opportunity to try something new.”
If you’ve really embarrassed yourself and feel like your life is over, tell yourself, “Everything will pass and eventually blow over. Britney Spears shaved her head and had a public meltdown, and nobody seems to care about that anymore, so nothing will follow me forever.”

, Remember that what feels perfect lasts only moments. Don’t cheat yourself out of a happy life by trying to make it "perfect," because an entirely perfect life is unattainable (and probably unenjoyable). Perfectionism can create unhappiness and an inability to celebrate your successes as not being “good enough.” Perfectionists can fall in a trap of having a fear of failure or a fear of taking risks.For example, if you’re trying to learn a new language, the best way to jump in is by speaking. It can be terrifying to speak a foreign language, but accept that you will make mistakes and learn from them. Improvement often requires risk, and it’s okay to make mistakes!
Recognize that even things that look like mistakes or failures can be learning experiences for growth. If you encounter setbacks, don't give up: tell yourself, "Now I'm more aware of what doesn't work," and try something different.
 And that’s ok! When you are 30, your version of a perfect life may be living in a different country and learning a different culture; at 32 it may change and your perfect life may include adopting a baby. Don’t get too attached to what you thought your perfect life was, but be flexible and adaptable to it changing. Changes are part of the adventure.

