 Discovery is the process through which opposing parties share information with each other. These requests must be answered under oath, and can result in evidence of fraud committed by your spouse.Work with your divorce attorney to determine what types of discovery requests to make. Keep in mind that the financial disclosure form required by the courts is itself considered a part of discovery.
Based on your spouse's answers on the financial disclosure form, you can ascertain what records you should request in a request for production. These records can help you determine whether your spouse was lying on the disclosure form.
If you've found discrepancies in your spouse's discovery responses and the answers provided on the financial disclosure form, your attorney may recommend deposing your spouse to get explanations of these discrepancies.
Since depositions are live interviews conducted under oath and recorded by a court reporter, your spouse can be charged with perjury if he or she lies during the deposition.
 If your spouse refuses to respond to your valid discovery requests, you can file a motion in court asking the judge to compel answers. Violating a motion to compel and continued refusal to respond can result in stiff sanctions, including jail time.Sometimes, rather than produce documents that would contradict statements your spouse made on the financial disclosure form, your spouse will simply not respond to your discovery requests.
However, judges take discovery deadlines very seriously. Failure to respond to your discovery requests in a timely fashion can cause serious problems both for your spouse and for his or her attorney.
Judges tend to be particularly skeptical of defenses or excuses for a failure to respond to discovery requests that seem intended only to delay the proceedings.
You may need to push your attorney in this situation. Attorneys often excuse delays, particularly when there's another attorney involved, because they want to continue a good relationship with that attorney.
If your spouse refuses to respond to discovery requests and you know that they have malicious or deceptive intent in doing so, let your attorney know.
 Once you've acquired financial records through discovery requests, you have the tools to potentially uncover false statements made by your spouse on the initial financial disclosure form.Pay particular attention to any accounts of which you weren't aware during the marriage, as well as any accounts or lines of credit that your spouse opened after you filed for divorce.
Analyze the responses to your requests carefully, especially if your spouse claims that records you believe exist, such as digital accounting records, were deleted or destroyed.
A spouse trying to hide fraud or other improper use of financial accounts also may "dump" documents on you in response to your production requests.
Be especially skeptical if your spouse sends paper documents that are undated, not separated by account, or not in chronological order. They may be hoping that if you are confused by the documents you'll overlook their misdeeds.
 A financial disclosure form is completed and signed under oath. Any evidence that your spouse lied on the disclosure form or attempted to conceal assets should be brought to the judge immediately.When you uncover evidence of fraud committed by your spouse during divorce, tell your attorney about it immediately.
Keep in mind that many judges will give your spouse at least one chance to amend the financial disclosure form or other documents, particularly if you are alleging perjury because they omitted accounts or other information.
While you can sound the alarm, you can't necessarily charge your spouse with perjury yourself. Perjury is a violation against the state and the judicial process, not against you personally.
However, bringing up evidence of perjury can mitigate the damages you may suffer as a result of your spouse's fraudulent acts.

