 The hydrating properties of petroleum jelly cannot be understated. Petroleum jelly is very emollient and actually forms a barrier that prevents moisture from evaporating from the surface of the skin.It is also a cheap and cheerful option for treating dry skin on a budget.


As petroleum jelly can be thick and sticky, it may be best to apply it at night. Try dampening your skin, putting on a layer of your regular moisturizer, then applying a thin layer of petroleum jelly to seal everything in.
You can also use petroleum jelly for dry hands and feet. Coat your hands and feet with a layer of petroleum jelly before bed. Cover them with cotton gloves and socks to promote absorption and prevent the jelly from rubbing off on your sheets. Your skin will be supple and moist in the morning.
 Mash up one half of a fresh, ripe avocado, then add in a quarter cup of organic honey. Include a teaspoon of milk or yogurt, if desired. Smear this creamy skincare recipe on your face and neck. Finally, wash it off with cool water after 10 minutes for super-nourished skin. , Banana can rejuvenate dry skin, making it soft and supple. Mash up half of a banana in a bowl and spread it onto your face and neck. After 5 to 10 minutes, you may rinse it off with lukewarm water. To increase the effectiveness of this facial mask, you can add a teaspoon of honey to the banana., Milk has been used as a hydrating beauty balm for a very long time - in fact, Queen Cleopatra used to bathe in it! If this seems a little extreme, try washing your face with milk to hydrate the skin and reduce blemishes. The best way to do this is by pouring a little whole fat milk into a cup, dipping a soft washcloth into it, then massaging the milk into your skin. The lactic acid gently cleanses the skin, while the high fat content is good for moisturization., Mayonnaise is considered excellent for dry skin. Apply a mixture of two tablespoons of mayonnaise, a tablespoon of lemon juice, and half a teaspoon of honey directly to your face and leave for about ten minutes. For best results, use this mayonnaise mask once a week., You can make your own sugar scrub for exfoliating and hydrating dry skin using just half a cup of brown or white sugar and a splash of olive oil. If you like, you can also add a drop or two of a fragrant essential oil such as mint or vanilla extract, or a teaspoon of softening honey., Aloe helps to rehydrate the skin and also naturally reduces redness and inflammation. To use, break off a leaf from an aloe vera plant and rub the clear, sticky sap all over your face. Leave it on for 15 minutes, then rinse off. For best results, apply an aloe mask once or twice a week. You can easily get an aloe vera plant at a nursery or home improvement store., Natural oils such as olive oil, almond oil and coconut oil are all fantastic home remedies for dry and flaking skin. Simply apply a thin layer of the oil of your choice onto your skin, morning and night, for softer, smoother skin.
 Try rubbing an ice cube all over your face, this makes your blood circulate round your face more, and brings moisture to the surface. Great for getting rid of dry skin and having a glowing face!

, Take few drops of glycerine and apply it all around your face and neck. Leave it on your face for 20 minutes, then wash it off with lukewarm water. You'll get a glowing and supple face.

