 It may seem like a retroactive step, but grooming a candidate for management requires a look in the mirror. Are there any obvious signs of demoralization? If so, pay attention to and investigate the employees' concerns. People are simply more productive when they are happy and feel valued. Get to know your team and encourage an open door policy.


Make sure management candidates get to see supportive approaches and team spirit exemplified by you. Project humility and a willingness to support.
Make sure that your management candidate gets to see what a true open door policy looks like.;
, In turn, evaluate each person on a composite level, strengths, weaknesses and all other relevant competencies. Try to make sure that your employees have the equipment, means and time to do what they need; find out what is needed by being supportive and listening carefully.


Help your management candidates attain growth in areas that they struggle in, while tasking them with things they are uniquely gifted for. 
Allow your management candidates to give feedback on how operational goals might be better met. It may save the company time and money and will give the employee a sense of ownership, satisfaction and pride. Show your management candidates how you do this every day.
 Allow plenty of time for collaborative problem solving between peer employees. Cultivate a culture where employees can be part of the solution to the organizational challenges that you face. If something needs improvement, let an ad hoc committee be formed to help make that happen, or at least create a research framework.


Let your new management candidate try their hand at solving a problem, such as getting budget approval for new equipment, or streamlining a work process.
 Congratulate them on their successes and console them in their grief. Managing people is all about relationships, and a management candidate that wants to succeed should see a real leader at work.
 If some employees are not getting along, take them all out for lunch with margaritas or a bonding event that is not forced. No koosh ball or trust falls, but just a break. When the tension in the room is so thick that one could slice it with a knife, no real work is getting done. Take that time for team-building.
 Management can be overwhelming, but having a bit of knowledge here and there will help your management candidates develop contacts from the bottom up, top-down and a more cohesive idea of how the company is fundamentally run. Even more importantly, knowing who to contact about what is something that takes years for some employees in larger, more bureaucratic organizations. Relationships, again, are key to solving problems and getting key information. More often than not, that knowledge will come from below, and people will more readily respect a neophyte manager who cares about them. More people respect that knowledge was earned from the bottom to the top, with a willingness to get their hands dirty and pitch in than just having an MBA.
 This will help them to develop analysis, requirements gathering, presentation and other managerial skills.
 They need to know how to set up new user logins, develop staff, create SOP's, lead employees, and if they can do that, they will make you look good. Your new manager, protégé, what have you, is your fruit. If you cannot churn out good people to replace you, you cannot, and you will not, be promoted. Make sure you set everyone who could fill your shoes next up for success, no matter what your job is, because people will always remember what you did for them, or didn't do for them. Ultimately, as a manager, your job is to cultivate talent, develop employee potential and assist in facilitating human resource development. If you leave your protégé stranded, you have missed the whole point of management.
 It's hard to truly be successful without having the team backing you. Help them create meaningful relationships with people that will be directly reporting to him or her, to the people he or she will be reporting to or by finding ways to focus on common problems and solutions. Soft skills are hard to come by, but a bit of coaching on potential pitfalls can keep you, your new hire and your department looking ace.

