 Social media is one of the best ways to promote and sell a product, as it gives you an opportunity to build a fan base for little-to-know cost. You can set up business pages on many social media platforms, though for some, you'll just set up a regular page.For instance, on a platform like Facebook, you can set up a business page, which you can then use to invite friends to like and promote your product. However, because Facebook has changed some of their policies regarding how people see business posts, you sometimes need to pay a small fee to promote your posts if you want to reach new customers.
Another good platform for businesses is Instagram. One reason this platform works well is you can use hashtags to gather new followers, as hashtags gather posts into categories that users can scroll through. Just be sure to pick more popular hashtags to garner more attention. When you're typing in a hashtag, Instagram will tell you how many items are under that hashtag, so you can gauge how popular it is.;
, To build your own business, you must support other businesses by commenting and liking on their pages. The more you interact with other people, the more you get your name out there for the world to see, which only helps you.Part of building relationships is not posting exclusively about your business, especially when you're first getting started. You need to establish that you're interesting and worthy of being followed before jumping into your business talk.
Stick to promoting yourself on your page about 10% of the time. The rest of the time, try to push other types of content.
That means posting content that's relevant to your business and interesting, either other people's content or content that you've created. For instance, if you're using Tumblr, you can post a short infographic on moisturizing that can be reblogged by other people.
 It's important to continually keep in contact with your fan base, as in today's fast-paced media world, you're forgotten quickly. That means posting on all your platforms often, at least once a day if you can manage it. If you don't have the time to do it yourself, you can hire someone to post for you.Another option is setting aside a day to put together a variety of posts that you can schedule to pop up at a later date. That way, you can just devote one day to it instead of messing with it every day.
 While it's important to be up-to-date on posts, it's even more important that you're making quality posts. That's because quality posts build quality relationships, and if you have 200 people that are devoted followers, that's better than many more followers who will leave you at a whim., It takes time to build up a fanbase on social media, but it does happen as long as you're consistent with your content and you keep working at it day after day. You won't get 5,000 followers overnight, but over time, you can easily build up to that and more., Once you've got followers, you need to direct them to places that sell your products, either your own website or online handmade or skincare sites. Listing on a site like Etsy or eBay is easy to set up, and you don't need to pitch your products to a manager.Once you set up a shop, you list your products individually with a price and a shipping cost. The site will charge a listing fee and usually a percentage of the sale.
You'll need high-quality photos of your products to draw customers in. Be sure to take photos in good natural light that highlights the product with a fairly blank background.
You'll also need good descriptions listing all your ingredients and describing your product. It helps if you can tell a story about your product, such as why you created it or why you believe in it.
Most sites also allow you to list keywords for your product to help people find it. Be sure to pick unique keywords that people are likely to search.

