 Even if you don’t have anything valuable to sell, your family probably has some stuff lying around the house or garage that is just taking up extra space. Ask your parents if they’d be willing to clean out some old junk and let you collect the proceeds as long as you do the grunt work. If they say yes, empty out your closet, attic, or basement and advertise your sale around the neighborhood.


Even though it may seem odd, don’t price anything! People often start bartering at prices which far exceed what you had been expecting, so let an interested buyer name a price before you say anything.You can make a little extra at a yard sale by offering cheap beverages or snacks. If it’s nice weather, offer lemonade or soda; if it’s cold out, offer hot tea or cider.
 While charity shops like Salvation Army take clothes on donation, other for-profit thrift and consignment stores pay money in exchange for used items of clothing. Gather up any articles of clothing and accessories which you don’t use or like anymore and take them to a local recycled fashion store like Buffalo Exchange or Crossroads. The store attendants might not purchase your items if they’re out of fashion or in poor condition, but you can always donate the refused items to a charity shop.


Make sure you wash the items before offering them to the store, as their cleanliness and condition will influence the shop’s consideration and evaluation of your clothes.
Consignment is your best option for articles of designer clothing. You don’t get any money up front, but you’ll get a higher cut of the proceeds once the item sells., If you have any big-ticket items like valuable collectibles which you are willing to part with, you can auction them on websites like Ebay. Unlike the random passersby who come by yard sales, you’ll find people who are specifically interested in what you’re selling and thus willing to pay a higher price.


The most important thing about listing your items online is including good photographs of your wares. Buyers won't take the risk if they can't see a high-quality, detailed image of what they're bidding on, so use a nice camera and good lighting to capture your inventory before listing.Make sure to talk about Craigslist-transaction safety with your parents beforehand and have your parents present if you’re doing an in-person transaction.
 If you’re good with your hands and you enjoy art class, try making your own crafts that you can sell online. You can make friendship bracelets, beaded jewelry, origami, or silk-screened t-shirts, depending on the equipment you have and have much money you have upfront to pay for materials. Start by advertising your new storefront and crafts on your personal social media and by word of mouth to friends and family.


Browse around Etsy for a while to see what kind of options you have and what kind of crafts seem to sell particularly well on the site. Doing your research first can save you some valuable time and costly mistakes.Eventually, you’ll want to be charging about twice what you spent on materials and production, but you’ll probably want to start pricing at more moderate levels so you can start building a customer base.If you’re not sure you want to go all-in with an online store, try making some seasonal crafts during the holidays that are easy and require minimal investment. For example, you can gather mistletoe and/or pinecones, tie them into bunches with ribbons and cheap bells, and sell them as decorations. If it goes well and you enjoy the process, think about opening a more permanent storefront.

