 If you rush into the splits, you may hurt yourself. You must stretch before you do the splits even if you have done the splits a hundred times. Stretching your muscles will help you to ease into the splits more carefully.;
, Do each stretch a few times repeatedly, so to increase flexibility in those stretches.


If you want to follow a specific program, try physiotherapist Lisa Howell's flexibility program called The Front Splits Fast.
 Look for a good spot to do the splits. Doing the splits takes up a good deal of space. It would be bad if you tried to do that splits in your room and accidentally broke your favorite lamp. Instead, try doing the splits in a large room with nothing at a leg's distance that you can break.


You can also try doing the splits outside, on your front lawn. Make sure that the grass is dry––if it's wet, it could cause you to slip while going into the splits and thus maybe injuring yourself.
 Do a couple more stretches to make sure that there isn't anything nearby that you could land on if you accidentally fell while going into the splits.
 If wished, arrange some pillows to help you get into the right position.
 Many people favor one leg more than the other and it will be easier if you use the favored leg at first. To find out which leg you favor, place one foot in front of you and the other behind and stand for a few moments, then swap over and do the same. The leg you had in front when you felt the most comfortable is your favored leg.
 Place the other leg behind. Stand up with your hips square. If using pillows, place the pillows between your legs, where your hips will be.
 Slide down. Slide the front foot forwards and the back one backward. Aim to go as far as you can without forcing the movement, making sure that you have a support to hold onto so that you don't go too far.
 When you start to feel the pull of your muscles, hold it there for 10 to 15 seconds.


Hold your position by supporting yourself with your hands.






Focus on your breathing. Use your mind to relax your muscles instead of forcing them.






Don't force yourself into the splits flat on the ground because this could seriously injure your legs.
 Once you've held the position there a few times, it's time to go a little bit further. Ease yourself down by a centimeter (1/2 an inch) at the absolute maximum, if you feel ready. Pushing more than that at one time will hurt and could cause damage to your muscles, so once you're down another centimeter, hold your position, as long as it doesn't hurt too much. Hold that for about 5 seconds.
 Then repeat the process of slowly working your way down to the ground.
 Few people achieve this quickly, it takes practice, from days and weeks to even months and a year. Stop doing the splits if you feel a lot of pain. You know your own limits, so don't go over them.
 Soon enough, you'll be doing flat box splits at your own pace.

