 Everything you do, from dressing yourself to posting online, presents an image to the world that sets you apart from others. Create your own personal image, using your favorite role model as a guide. What image do they portray, and how do they portray it? For example:


If your role model is Beyonce, consider getting fabulous highlights in your hair.
If you want to emulate Leonardo DiCaprio, grow out a goatee and wear stylishly casual clothing.
If you want to be like Miley Cyrus, get a bold pixie cut and wear fashionably androgynous clothing.;
, If you’re quiet all the time, no one will notice you. If you disagree with someone, speak up! People notice when others have strong opinions. However, avoid disagreeing with everyone all the time just for the sake of disagreement. You will be perceived as a fake and contrary individual. For example:


“Even though ‘The Avengers’ was a popular movie, I didn’t really like it. I prefer Wes Anderson movies.”
“You don’t like the new math teacher? I love her! She’s smart and tough.”
“Even though you guys like to make fun of Pokémon Go players, I’m going to keep playing that game. It’s so fun and interactive!”

, The more people you meet, the more attention you’ll get. Make an effort to have meaningful conversations when you’re introduced to someone. Invite them to activities with your friend group to make them feel included and build a connection.Some examples of showing friendliness include:


“Hey, Stacy! How have you been?”
“Hey, John! My friends and I are getting lunch, would you like to join us?”
“Last time we talked you mentioned an algebra test. How did that go?”
“Mark, meet my new friend Jessica. We met yesterday afternoon.”

, This will help you stand apart from the crowd and make you more memorable to others. This can often mean enhancing aspects of yourself that you may perceive as flaws.


For example, if you feel like your nose is larger than normal, don’t try to minimize the way it looks. Instead, get a nose ring and bring attention to it.
If you’re a part of a sports team, wear team memorabilia to school.
If you’re a tall girl, embrace it by wearing six inch heels wherever you go.
 Try to become the best employee in your department. Additionally, be flexible by working outside of your job description to make sure things get done.This will show your boss that working hard is your priority. Some other ways you can impress your boss include:


Coming to work early every day
Giving 100% on each task, no matter how small
Maintaining a positive attitude under stress

, Your clothing will introduce you better than words ever could. What do your clothes say about you? Similarly, your level of grooming will speak volumes about your personality. If you want to appear professional, you need to be very well groomed.


Your clothing should always be clean and ironed.
If you have facial hair, keep it trimmed and tidy.
Practice good personal hygiene.
 Use confident body language at work to draw the attention of others. For example, relax your stance slightly by resting your weight on one hip or crossing your arms. This will tell others that you are calm and in control. Some other examples of confident body language include:


Looking your coworkers in the eye when you’re talking to them
Smiling a lot to show that you’re feeling calm and self-assuredUsing good posture

, People are naturally drawn to genuinely self-assured individuals. If you feel good about yourself, people will notice. Kill any negative thoughts you have about your self-image, body, or personality. Instead, nurture positive, constructive thoughts.For example:


Instead of thinking about why you’re unattractive, focus on all of your attractive features.
If you’re worried that you’re boring, remind yourself of all of the interesting aspects of your personality.
 This can include chores, schoolwork, getting a summer job, or helping out with your siblings. If your parents are upset with you, it will be hard to receive any positive attention from them. However, don’t expect them to give you extra attention just for meeting their basic expectations as most parents take good behavior for granted.For example, if your parents expect you to make decent grades in school, make an effort to do so.
If your parents expect you to do certain chores around the house, make sure you complete them regularly.
 If your parents aren’t giving you attention, they’re probably very busy. Show them that you appreciate their hard work by helping them around the house or with your siblings. If you help them out, they’ll have more free time to spend with you. For example:


Do the dishes after dinner.
Fold a load of laundry.
Offer to put your younger siblings to bed.
Tidy the house.
 Find something praiseworthy and work hard to excel at it. If you give your parents a reason to brag about you, they’ll give you more attention. If you want your parents to publically show their support, choose an activity that has events that your parents can attend. Examples of praiseworthy achievements include:


Making really good grades
Joining and excelling in a sport
Being a leader in your local youth program
Becoming active in a charity organization

, If you’re still not getting enough attention from your parents, try talking to them about your feelings. Your parents probably don’t know that you feel like you’re they’re ignoring you.Speak politely and present reasonable solutions for your parents. For example:


“I feel like we don’t hang out enough. Can we go to dinner, just the three of us?”
“I’m sad that no one comes to my soccer games anymore. I would really appreciate it if you could attend a few of them.”
“I want to spend more time with you. We should join the local disc golf team!”

, To get noticed, you’ll need to stand out from the masses. Therefore, you need to use your social media profiles to send a unique message about who you are. Ask yourself questions such as:


What kinds of posts align with the image I’m trying to portray?What kinds of things would my role models post?
What social media accounts do I need to have to portray myself well?

, Before tweeting, posting on Facebook, or putting a picture on Instagram, ask yourself if your message helps reinforce your personal image. For example, if you portray yourself as an easy-going indie music expert, you should avoid posting long anti-establishment rants on your social media accounts.


If you need inspiration, look at the social media profiles of your favorite celebrities or role models.
 Draw attention to yourself online by popping up on your friend’s newsfeeds. This will help you stay relevant in their lives and keep people talking. However, don’t spam someone’s page just because you want attention. Only post when you have something interesting to say or to remind them of a recent shared experience.


If someone else mentions you on their social media page, respond quickly and positively.