 Find a sock long enough to cover your arm. It can be any color or pattern. A solid sock would work for just about any character, while a spotted one could make a leopard. You can even used a striped sock to make a zebra! Once you are happy with your sock, cut the toes off with fabric scissors, using the toe seam as a guide.









Those funky, fuzzy socks work the best for this type of puppet, but you can use plain socks too.
 Get some thin cardboard. Draw an oval on it that is about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) long. It should a little narrower than your sock.Cut the oval out with a pair of scissors.









You can use an old cereal box for the cardboard.
 Use the cardboard oval you just cut out to trace another oval onto a sheet of felt. Cut the felt oval out, then set it aside. You will be gluing this to the inside of the mouth later.









Pink or red would work the best, but you can use a different color too.
 Make sure that you are folding it in half hamburger style. Unfold the oval when you are done. It will be bent like a V, which is good.
 Keeping it bent like a V, tuck the oval into the sock. Pull the cut edges of the sock over the edges of the oval. Don't worry if things don't look perfect. You will be fixing that later.
 Set the sock down and open the mouth. Pull the edges of the sock over the top and bottom (narrow) ends of the oval by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter). Glue them down with hot glue. Don't worry if the sides get messed up. You'll fix that next.








If you don't have hot glue, fabric glue or tacky glue may also work.
 Pull a bit of sock over the side edge of the oval by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) and glue it down. Work your way from the top edge of the oval to the bottom. When you are done, do the other side of the oval too.
 Draw a line of glue around the inside of the puppet's mouth. Press the felt oval into the glue. Make sure that the edges match up. This will give the inside of the mouth some color and cover up the cut part of the sock.








If you are using hot glue, work a little bit at a time so it doesn't dry too fast.
 You can have the heel part be on the top or bottom of the puppet. Glue some googly eyes or buttons for the eyes. Add a smaller pompom or button for the nose. If you want to give your puppet a tongue, cut a long tongue shape out of red or pink felt, then glue it inside the mouth.


Don't glue the tongue all the way down. This way it can flap around!
For more decorating ideas, click here.


