 Argan oil has a “non-comedogenic” rating of 0 out of 5.This means that argan oil will not clog pores and it is unlikely to cause acne. Nevertheless, it's best to test argan oil on a small area of your face before you use it.


To test argan oil, put a small amount of argan oil on a small, clear area of your cheek. Do this for three days and then stop using the argan oil for a week.
After one week, check the area to see if there are any new blackheads, whiteheads, or pimples. If your skin is clear, you can start using argan oil as a face wash.;
, You will only need to use a few drops of argan oil. Wet your face with warm water and then apply the argan oil to your face with your fingertips with gentle circular motions.


Be gentle as you wash your face. Scrubbing can irritate your skin, which is why most dermatologists recommend washing gently with only your fingertips.Avoid using a washcloth or sponge because these may irritate your skin and cause your skin to look reddish.
 It is important to rinse your face well after washing ti with argan oil. Use lukewarm water to rinse the excess oil off of your skin. Do not use hot or cold water as these may irritate your skin., When you are finished washing your face, pat your face dry with a clean cotton towel. Avoid rubbing your skin. Use the towel to gently pat your face dry., Tour skin gets dirty over the course of the day and it is important to wash away that debris. To keep your skin as clean as possible, wash your face in the morning and evening.It is also a good idea to wash your face if you get really sweaty, such as right after a workout.
 Using argan oil as a moisturizer may also help to treat and prevent acne.You can use argan oil as a moisturizer after cleansing with argan oil or after using another type of cleanser. You should only need to use a few drops of argan oil to moisturize your face, but you can use more if your skin is extra dry.To moisturize your skin with argan oil, apply a few drops of oil to your fingertips and small, circular motions to work it into your face and neck.

