 Kissing a girl for the first time doesn't have to be scary. Just remember to be confident, take it slow, and know what to do with the rest of your body. Don't put too much pressure on yourself to have a perfect first kiss with the girl, and just focus on enjoying lip-locking with the girl for the first time. Here's how to do it:


Look into her eyes and brush her hair out of her face. Let her know that you want to kiss her without saying so.
Move toward her with your lips slightly parted. Kiss her and see how she responds. You can lock lips for a few seconds or even longer if she's pulling away.
If she wants to keep kissing, then you can even try to French kiss her after a few minutes; just don't put your tongue into her mouth right away or she'll be thrown off guard.
Gently move your hands around her waist or shoulders, but don't start groping her in inappropriate places or she'll get uncomfortable.
 Once she lets you know that she's ready to take it to the next level, you can start touching her more intimately while you're kissing. If she moves onto your lap, or if you're on top of her, then things are getting hot and heavy. You can try running your hands over more intimate parts of her body once she's comfortable. This will turn her on and may get her in the mood for more.


If you've been kissing for a while and she's starting to touch you all over, run your hands over her breasts, but do it very carefully to see how she responds. If she lets you know she likes it, then keep going.
Stroke her thighs and the space behind her thighs. Keep going as long as she's letting you know she likes it.
You can start kissing her on her neck or below her ears. You don't have to limit kissing to lips.
 For some people, hooking up just means kissing, and if you've achieved that goal, then be happy for a job well done. But if both of you are wanting more, then it's time to go to the bedroom and start taking off your clothes. Help the girl remove her clothes gently, and don't be too forward about it.


Don't take off all of your clothes at once. Once she starts taking hers off, you should maintain the same level of relative nudity.
Don't make her uncomfortable by taking off all of your clothes while she's fully dressed, or by taking off all of her clothes while you still have yours on.
Unbutton her shirt or slide it over her head. Then, take off her bra by unclasping it in the back; don't make awkward comments about how tricky it is. Just relax and you'll be able to get it off.
Don't rush to take off your clothes. Wait for her to pull your shirt over your head or to start removing your belt.
Once she's undressed, tell her how beautiful she looks.
 If you want to have sex with the girl, make sure it's what she has in mind too. You should both be sober, into each other, and ready to have a good time. And being ready to have a good time means behind prepared in advance with condoms or anything else you might need to have sex.


Don't rush into sex. Make sure you have the girl's consent first, and that she's doing it because she really wants to, not because you're really putting the pressure on.
Even if it's clear that you both want to have sex, you should spend some time on foreplay so you're both turned on when the moment comes.

