 These could include prison, homelessness, job loss, financial difficulties, serious medical problems such as an overproduction of serotonin and even death.;
, Maybe investing in a career, or practicing an instrument. Drugs can destroy family ties, so spend time strengthening bonds with your family and friends.
 Think about the compliments received from utilizing your skills, the rewards of pursuing an interesting career, or how much your new found self-esteem really means to you. Write down your goals and tick each goal as you achieve it. Don't set your goals too high, make sure they are reasonable, or you will just set yourself up for failure.
 If you were taking drugs, the results would never be as good.
, It could be a street corner or a party. By now, you should be able to tell the person why you choose to refuse or chose not to participate in what they are offering. If in a moment of weakness you choose to try drugs again, first, think it through very carefully. Second, make sure you are in a safe environment with people you love and trust.
 Try immersing yourself in activities that are made more difficult by drugs, such as driving, talking on the phone, learning something new, or jogging.
 This will help you be more accountable, and it should provide you with positive feedback from someone who genuinely cares about you.
, Just because many Rock Stars, actors or friends use them doesn't make them cool; you must make your own decisions. For every star who looks cool taking drugs, there is one who is in rehab, or has died.
 If you don't make mistakes in life, how will you learn? Accept your mistakes and don't be hypocritical when you see people around you making the same mistakes. The thing that matters is what lies ahead of you, not what is in your past. The past has taught you a valuable lesson. Learning from your mistakes has made you a stronger person today.
 Make sure you are firm and strong. If you come across as weak, the person following you will latch on.
 Try to lose them if at all possible. Find a crowded location or look for somewhere you can find someone responsible and reputable. If you're in school, find a teacher.
 Make sure that you alert an appropriate person about the encounter. Give all the details you can.
 This step is one to take if you are not in school. Move away from those who have offered you drugs before calling the police. If they hear you, they may become angry or violent.
 You should avoid the person who offered drugs at all costs. It would also be advisable to avoid the place where you were offered drugs.
 example: No thanks, lets go play some baseball.
 example: No thanks! My parents would ground me for life!

