 Parrots are highly intelligent creatures that will need to be entertained and engaged. You'll want to provide plenty of fun and challenging puzzles and toys for your parrot to play with. These toys are especially important if you have to leave your parrot alone for any length of time during the day.Provide a wide range of toys and puzzles for your parrot. Branches from non-toxic trees, hard or soft shell nuts and broccoli can all make great toys for your parrot.
Avoid offering metal toys or toys with pieces that could break off and be swallowed by your parrot.
Regularly changing out toys can help keep your parrot engaged and entertained.
Allow your parrot time outside of its cage to give it a change of pace.
Spend lots of time talking with your parrot or teaching it tricks.
 A poor diet can stress your parrot out. Because of this, you'll want to take a look at the food that you're offering to your parrot. Make sure your parrot's diet contains some of these following elements to help keep it happy and lower stress levels:Roots, seeds, nuts, fruit and berries can all be part of your parrot's diet.
Bananas, nectarines and oranges are all safe fruits to give to your parrot.
Make sure your parrot is eating the recommended daily amount of its food. This amount will vary depending on the type, age and size of your parrot.
Avocado and rhubarb should not be given to your parrot, as they may be toxic.
Onions, garlic, cabbage, kale and mushrooms should not be given to your parrot.
 Parrots are empathetic birds and will often take cues from the moods of those around them. Whenever you are spending time with your parrot, you'll want to consider your own mood and behavior. Always present yourself as being relaxed and cheerful when interacting with your parrot to help reduce stress.Yelling or being overly loud when interacting with your parrot can increase stress.
Moving too quickly around your parrot can stress it out.
If you are in a grumpy mood, your body language can convey that mood to your parrot and stress it out. Try to be in the best possible mood you can be when spending time with your parrot.
 Parrots enjoy knowing what to expect and can benefit from establishing regular routines in their lives. If your parrot is showing signs of being stressed out, you'll want to establish some regular activities to help keep it calm. Try implementing some of these ideas into your daily parrot care routine:Saying goodnight to your parrot in the same way each night can help it relax in the evenings.
For example, you might open your parrot's cage in the morning and say "Good morning."
Each night, when you put your bird in its cage, you might say something like "Sleep tight."
Try to let your parrot in and out of the cage the same way each time.
Offer treats in the same way to help your parrot know that something tasty is on the way.
Try to feed, water and let your parrot out of its cage at the same times each day.
 Parrots are easily startled by loud or sudden noises. Parrots can also be scared by having a person or other animal suddenly appear near their cage. You'll want to make sure your parrot's cage is in the most relaxing space it can be to help cut down on stress.The area near your parrot's cage should be quiet.
You'll want to put your parrot's cage in a place that allows it to see the entire room it is in.
Placing the parrot's cage near a window can cause them stress.

