 One way to strengthen your dog's immune system is to make sure that your dog is eating a well balanced diet. Before changing your dog’s diet, talk with your veterinarian about the changes you will be making. For instance, you may want to ask your veterinarian to provide you with suggested foods to help boost your older dog’s immune system. They may be able to give you a list of dog foods that are suitable for older dogs, or they may suggest making your own food.Ask your vet if a dog food designed for "senior" dogs is suitable.
If your dog has any pre-existing health conditions, for example liver or kidney problems, your vet may suggest a special food to help with these conditions.;
, It is important that senior dogs eat a well-balanced and healthy diet in order to help maintain their immune systems.There are several things you can look for to help you select a good quality pet food.Look for the manufacturer’s name and contact information. This can make it easy for you or your veterinarian to get more information about the diet, like caloric information. If this information is not readily available to you, you should be wary about choosing this diet for your dog.
Look for dog food that is AAFCO certified because it means that the diet is complete and balanced for your dog's life stage. Some foods have the AAFCO statement printed on their label, but you may need to go to the manufacturer's website or call them to get confirmation.
Higher quality dog foods will have the protein source listed as one of the first two ingredients.
Also avoid any foods that contain artificial flavouring.
 If you decide to feed your senior dog homemade food, it is important that you ensure they get all of the vitamins and minerals necessary for proper nutrition. In general dog food needs to contain a protein source such as chicken, beef, fish, or liver; a fat source such as canola, olive, or fish oil; a high fiber carbohydrate such as brown rice, sweet potato, barley, or whole grain pasta; and fruits or vegetables.Homemade foods can be great for dogs, but they require considerable planning and attention to detail because you need to make sure that your dog gets all the nutrition that it needs.
Your veterinarian will be able to direct you to good sources for homemade dog food recipes and ingredients, so ask about their recommendations.
If you're interested in making your own dog food, a good place to start is www.balanceit.com because the recipes are formulated and approved by veterinary nutritionists.

