 If an accident with a deer or moose is inevitable, here are some suggestions for lessening the impact:


Try to move to where the animal came from. This may take you away from it and the animal is more likely to keep moving forward rather than backtracking. This will only work if there is one animal. This will not work for deer.
Shift your line of eyesight to that spot as well - don't look at the animal or you'll steer that way.
Try to skim rather than fully impact the animal. Brake firmly, angle the car/truck and take your foot off the brake as you impact. The release of the brake will cause slight lift of the vehicle and this may be enough to stop the animal from rising into your windshield if your vehicle is tall enough.
If you're heading into a collision with a moose, lean toward the door pillar. In the Mythbusters where they tested this, the center of the car was completely crushed in every impact but the triangle by the door pillar was intact in each accident. No guarantees are offered; you are far better off avoiding the collision.
 There are some important steps to take after assessing if everyone is relatively unharmed:


Pull over if possible. Put your hazard lights on and if you can, put the headlights onto the animal or as close as possible.
Check passengers for injuries and treat accordingly. Even if there are no injuries, shock will probably occur fairly quickly. Try to reassure one another and if it is cold, put on warmer clothing immediately as shock or fear increases the inability to ward off cold. If it is winter, stay in the car for warmth.
Avoid going near the animal; it may kick or gore you from fear and pain. If it blocks the road, use your hazard lights and headlights and keep your car stationary. Only attempt to move the animal if you are 100% certain that it is dead.
Use road flares or triangles if you have them.
Call the police immediately or flag down help. Remember that most insurance companies won't pay for the damages you suffer from hitting a deer or a moose if you don't file a police report.

