 Use a gentle face wash designed for oily skin. Liquid face washes containing alphahydroxy acids (AHAs), such as citric acid, lactic acid, or glycolic acid, exfoliate your skin and remove dead skin cells. Cleansers with emollients (petrolatum, lanolin, mineral oil, and ceramides) or humectants (glycerin) hold moisture in your skin. If you have acne, use medicated cleansers that contain salicylic acid, sodium sulfacetamide, or benzoyl peroxide. These ingredients fight acne while cleaning your skin.Salicylic acid clears blocked pores and reduces swelling and redness.
Benzoyl peroxide is an exfoliator and kills bacteria.
Sodium sulfacetamide fights the growth of bacteria.;
, First, clean your hands. Wet your face with lukewarm water. Apply cleanser with your fingertips.Gently cleanse your skin--do not scrub it harshly.When you wake up and before you go to bed are ideal times to wash. Also be sure to wash after exercising or sweating profusely. You can wash over the sink or while showering. The shower acts as a giant steamer, opening your pores and liquefying sebum--your skin's oil.Do not scrub your face too hard.Also, do not use water that is too hot. Sebum is meant to lubricate your skin and protect it.Use an exfoliator once or twice a week to remove dead skin cells and keep your pores open.On the other hand, using a washcloth or buff puff can increase oiliness.If you wear make-up, cleansing is better than using makeup remover wipes. If you must use a wipe, avoid products with alcohol and fragrances. Choose products designed for sensitive skin. If you have acne, buy wipes containing salicylic acid or do not use wipes at all.Regardless, be sure to wash your face afterwards. Wipes are not a substitute for washing. Coconut oil is an effective, moisturizing, natural product for makeup removal., If possible, change your face towels every day. Oil, dirt, and bacteria get trapped on your towels. It is essential that you do not transfer these things back to yourself. Use a smaller sized hand towel or washcloth to reduce laundry.
 After you wash and dry your face, it is important to apply an oil-free moisturizer. Even oily skin needs to be moisturized. Vary the amount you use based on how oily your skin feels.Minimize the amount of moisturizer you use on your oiliest areas.

