 Wet a cotton ball with nail polish remover and remove any traces of polish from your fingernails. Be sure to work the cotton ball into the cuticle of the nail to get stubborn polish out of any creases where the nail meets the skin.






;
, Use a cuticle pusher to gently press the edges of your cuticles back, working from one side of each nail to the other. This lifts any dead skin that lays flat against the nail. Do this to all ten fingers.
 Use a nail file to shape your nails into a square or oval shape as you prefer. Use the coarse side of the board to even out nail length first. Then, using the finer, less coarse side of the board, rub the nail from one side to the other to create the shape you want.
 Use a nail buffer or the finer gritted side of the nail file to rub the top of each nail gently. This creates an etched surface that will help your polish adhere more fully, extending the life of your shatter manicure.
 Apply an even layer of base coat to all your nails using the polish’s built-in brush. Let this dry completely. This will create a good base for your shatter manicure.








A base coat protects your nails from staining that can occur when you apply color to the nail directly.
 Select the polish color you’d like to be the cracks of your shatter manicure. Apply the polish evenly by painting a stripe down the middle of your nail then filling in the gaps on either side. Do this on each nail, and let all your nails dry completely. Apply a second coat for more opacity as desired.








Since shatter polish creates such a busy effect, stick with a smooth, non-glittery solid color for your first experiment with this kind of polish. This will highlight the crackle effect as much as possible.
 The thinner the coat, the more crackled the effect will be. If the coat is thicker, there will be fewer cracks and the effect will be less obvious. Work quickly and avoid painting over areas you’ve already painted. Let the polish dry completely.








You can purchase shatter polish at your local beauty store or online.
The polish will create its signature shatter as it dries.
 Use a clear topcoat to seal your newly painted nails and protect them from chipping. This will extend the life of your manicure. Let the topcoat dry completely.
