 There are a variety of different wall types, including drywall, plaster, and masonry. A particularly heavy mirror will need a stronger backing like masonry to stay in place. The wall's material will also determine how big your screws and anchors need to be., Make sure you have a good idea of what your mirror weighs, which will help you get the right size hooks. Hanging hooks have a weight limit on them, and if you go over it, your mirror will fall off the wall, break, and probably damage your wall in the process. A bathroom scale should be enough to get a good weight., Make sure you have enough space on the wall for the mirror, and otherwise decide how you want it positioned relative to other items on the wall and in the room. Hold your mirror up to the wall to see how much space it will take up. Finding a stud can be useful, but not necessary if you have a strong enough hanger.Once you have a good place, mark where the top of your mirror will go with a pencil or some painters tape so you'll be able to measure for the hangers. You can also use those pencil marks and a level to make sure your mirror will be straight.
If your mirror is too large to hold up easily and mark at the same time, measure it with some measuring tape or a yardstick, and see how those dimensions fit.
 Your mirror should already have something on the back that it can hang with, either a wire or D-rings. In both cases, you should be sure to mark where the hanger will go, not the screw. You won't be hanging your mirror from the screw.If you have a hanger wire, probably only on a smaller mirror, you will only need one hole. Measure the width of your mirror, and mark a point in the middle of that line. Take the wire in your picture, and hold it taut from the center to measure the distance from the top of wire to the frame. Then, transfer that measurement to your markings on the wall so you know where to put the hanger.
If you have D-rings, they will be fastened to the mirror, and not move. Measure how far apart your fasteners are from one another, and how far they are from the top of the mirror. Once you have these distances, transfer them to the wall by measuring and marking from your earlier pencil line., If your screw is into a stud, you should be fine without additional support. If not, you may want to include a wall anchor with your hangers., These are little spots made of rubber or plastic that will help keep the mirror from tilting, and prevent it from leaving marks on the wall. You should be able to find them at a hardware or craft store., Line up your rings or wire with the appropriate hook, and hang the mirror. If your mirror is too heavy or large for you to lift easily, get someone else to help. You may also want another person to help look in the back to make sure you are placing the wire or rings in the right place, especially if the mirror is large enough that you can't see around it while holding it up.
 Now that it is in place, polish or wipe down the mirror so your surface is clean and reflective. Enjoy its new place on your wall.

