 Just as with anyone else, your state and local law enforcement agencies will take tips on suspected criminal activity committed by illegal immigrants.Keep in mind that local police do not have jurisdiction to simply arrest someone for being in the country illegally, because local police departments do not enforce federal immigration laws.
To file a report with state or local law enforcement, you must have facts that would give officers probable cause to search or arrest individuals for violation of a state criminal law.
Be careful not to put your own safety, or that of friends or family, in jeopardy while you are gathering information about criminal activity.
However, the more details you are able to provide, the more valuable your tip will be. For example, if you have names and addresses of the individuals engaging in criminal activity, and can point to specific dates and times when you witnessed that activity, law enforcement know where and when to investigate.
 As with making anonymous reports to federal government agencies, the degree to which you protect your identity depends on the reasons you want your report to be anonymous.You may have the ability to file a report online or over the phone. When doing so, take steps to make sure the tip can't be traced back to you or your home if you feel such steps are necessary to protect yourself.
Typically, you simply want to make sure that the people you're reporting don't find out the report came from you. Where that's the case, it may not matter that the police could potentially trace your call.
 Local police departments typically have an anonymous tip line that you can find by going to the department's website or in a local phone book. You also have the option of calling national numbers such as Crime Stoppers, which will forward your information anonymously to the relevant law enforcement agency with jurisdiction.Most law enforcement agencies, especially in larger metropolitan areas, have toll-free hotlines that are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
For general tips, you also may be able to call the local police department's non-emergency line. You may be asked for your name, but you can refuse to give it. Depending on your location, this phone line may not be available 24 hours a day.
If you want to call to report criminal activity in progress, or if there is an imminent threat of violence or other hostilities, try to get somewhere safe and call 911 immediately.

