 This also works with a regular notebook, too. This way, you can write all you need to fool your friends.;
, Also, state where you were born on it, such as write, "I was born on the planet Conhora and I was born in a tiny area of water called Conhorasea". Make your planet unique to you.
 This helps anyone reading your diary understand your facts better. You can write something like, "I was born on the planet Conhora. I was born at 2:30 AM as a beautiful fairy. My mom said I was a bundle of joy."

, State your real name (because your earth name is an undercover name), age, a little about your friends, and anything you want to! Write something like, "My name is Oceania. My specific type of fairy is water. I spent all my time next to rivers, streams, and beautiful lakes. I loved to write in my diary, but I left it there. So, now, I have a new diary to write in by the river. I am 113, just becoming a teenager, and my best friends are a fire fairy and a night fairy. Their names are Flame and Luna."

, For example, don't write, "We had the Civil war three and my parents abused me." Some people on Earth will think that's nothing compared to them. Write something more like, "We faced our enemies, the Magnolians, every day in a war for almost 100 years. They were very scary. They were half human and half spider. They tangled us up in webs."

, Your talents will be nothing compared to Earth. So make something up and be creative! Write something like, "I was very good at sword fighting, but also archery and something called swittle sewing. We sewed with a pine cone to make swittles, which were jumpsuits we loved to wear. My mom even told people about my swittle sewing skills."

, Write something like, "I was a bit of a rebel and broke some rules to do what I loved. Archery was against the rules, even though my talent was archery. I was caught a couple of times. I liked dark clothes with skulls and controlled the water. I was very bubbly sometimes, but mainly, I was a kind of fairy who liked to be serious and practice my fighting. Being rebel is just part of being me."

, "I hope the Magnolians won't come to Earth anytime soon. Last time I visited Magnolia, they were plotting to come to Earth and destroy it! This is top secret, so reading this is something I do not wish you'd do. Plus, this news is serious and scary. Signed, (the name you had on your planet)."

