 It can be tempting to use a credit card to purchase items that you do not really need. To avoid making poor spending decisions, you will need to learn to think before you purchase anything and avoid purchasing things that you want but don’t need.


Determine if you need or want the item. For example, you might want to purchase a few new outfits, but you might need a new computer if yours is broken. Never purchase items with your credit card that you want. If you have to use it, only use it for things that you need.Another way to prevent yourself from using your credit card without thinking is to leave your credit card at home so that you are not tempted to use it when you are out.
Remember that you should only use your credit card for assets and never for disposable goods such as groceries or gas.
 By paying the whole balance off, you ensure that debt will not accumulate. You’ll also avoid having to pay late fees and interest on your balance.


If you repeatedly pay your bills late, the credit card company which issued your card may jack up your interest rate, digging you even deeper into debt.
 Try to pay more than the minimum payment required each month. Not paying the full amount will only add to the next billing statement and be compounded with interest and additional charges. As interest and charges accumulate, you could soon find yourself in credit card debt.Try to make payments more than once per month, perhaps at each pay period to minimize your balance and interest charges.
 You might be spending more than you think. Organizing and reading your credit card statements might also reveal expenditures you didn’t know you were making.


When you look at your statements, confirm that each charge is appropriate and in the right amount. Make sure that you notify the credit card issuer immediately if you find a discrepancy.
Order your statements from newest to oldest, with the newest on top. Place them all in a folder and label the folder with the name of the credit card (for instance “Amazon card,” “Bank card,” etc.). Each time you receive a credit card statement, place it on top of the stack in the folder.
If you have multiple cards, create a separate folder for each, but keep the folders in a safe place together. If you have a home office or desk, keeping them there is a good option.
If you’re already battling credit card debt, having your statements accessible and organized will help you track how much progress you’re making in paying down your debt.
Many banks offer online banking where credit card statements are visible. Ask your bank or credit card company if and how you can sign up for online statements, or get statements emailed to you. If you can get them emailed, make sure to keep the emails and download the statements into a folder where you can organize them all by date.
If you’re confused by your credit card statement, educate yourself about its major elements., Many people who make donations to charitable organizations, sign up for monthly magazines, or subscribe to video streaming services receive bills for the same amount each month. These automatic monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly charges are recurring bills. Many people enroll in recurring payment plans for the convenience, but later forget they did so. Checking your credit card for such regular but invisible expenditures will help you decide if you’re still in a position where you can afford to make them.If you fail to account for them when balancing your finances, you might run quickly into debt.
 However, having more than two will only tempt you to use them unnecessarily.


Don’t fall for gimmicks which entice you to enroll for new credit cards. Many credit card companies lure potential customers with promises of free air miles with certain airliners, free gasoline at certain stations, and credits of other kinds at various store. While the offers may be technically true, you may end up paying more than the value of the sign-up gift in expenditures needed to keep the card active (and avoid fees).
 But taking out cash advances causes you to pay higher interest and transaction fees. On top of that, you won’t have a grace period, so interest on the cash you withdraw begins to accrue immediately.


Use an ATM card or go to your bank to make a withdrawal instead of getting cash advances.

