 If he or she can speak, listen. It could be comforting to remember and chat about good memories, happy times, or to look at old pictures together.


It's nice to have good talks; elderly people, for example, love sharing stories and experiences. You could ask them questions like "What are your best childhood memories?" or "What are some of the most important lessons you feel you have learned over the course of your life?"
If you want to know if they are in pain, ask. Don't guess. If they can communicate, listen to what they say about their care needs.See what they are feeling, what they want, what they think is best for them, what they want to still do, and what they feel needs to be said. Don't tell them what you think they need. Listen to what they say they need. If they bring up spirituality, encourage the conversation on their own terms., Make sure they have the correct supplies if they're in any pain (such as morphine drips and regular medication). You can ask a doctor if they feel they can't talk to one themselves.


You can also do basic things such as keeping them warm and bringing them anything they need for support, such as extra pillows. Show them love. Paste drawings or cards nearby, and invite his or her loved ones to make new ones.
Make sure you communicate with them about what they need to be comfortable - their needs are the most important thing at this time. This could be bringing certain foods and drinks they want, fluffing their pillows, or something else. People who are dying may prefer a quiet room.Take some time to read about the final stages of life. This will help you understand what they are going through physically and how to respond to different situations.
 It may be a struggle for them, but it will make them feel better about themselves if they can at least do some simple things on their own.


Sometimes they can be embarrassed about becoming weak and incapable of doing simple things like sitting up, so they might not want someone watching them all the time.
You must remember that their mental health is very important at this stage. If they're the leader of the family, reassure them that everything will be in order when they've passed.
The things they do on their own could be small gestures (such as picking up the TV remote or brushing their teeth).
 Don't feel as if you must have all the responsibility as other people can usually be there to give you a hand. It is extremely hard to care for a dying person, and it will be emotionally draining for you, but it will mean the world to them that you are helping and that you care.Understand you can learn a lot from dying people. To know that there will be a point where you will no longer be here too should cause you to reflect. It should allow you to place things in perspective, find out what really matters, and give yourself the motivation to make changes.
Understand you may need a break from care giving sometimes. That's okay. Don't be hard on yourself. You need to stay emotionally replenished so you can care for them best. There are many support groups for people caring for the dying. Ask at your local hospital for one of them. It can be very helpful to speak to people who understand what you're dealing with; vent to those people, not the dying person.

