 This is a commonly recommended and handy way to add tradelines to your credit account with very low risk. Quite simply, credit accounts can often have more than one authorized user. If you ask someone you have a trusting relationship with to add you to their account as an authorized user, the tradeline will be added to your credit report. This means you can benefit from the other person's positive repayment history.


On the other hand, you can also do major damage to the other persons credit history (and they can in-turn do damage to yours).
To correct this, ask to be added as an authorized user, but be given no access to the accounts. This means you will not receive a card or any other means to spend with. At the same time, make sure the person who authorizes you has excellent credit history and stable income to make sure they do no damage to your credit history. IZM Credit Services offers this type of service.
 Three credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) determine your credit score, and creditors typically report your credit information to them. However, not all creditors do so, and this is especially true for various in-store accounts (like with a department store for example) for which you may have an installment loan. You can get these added to your credit report, which will add tradelines.For example, you may have bought a refrigerator, jewelry, a washer/dryer, or a new hot tub. You may be paying these items through an installment loan, and you may be paying these items regularly, and on-time.
These stores often do not report credit information to the bureaus unless the account has gone to collections. However, they should be reporting positive information as well. You can simply ask them to report your account to the credit bureau's if you have been re-paying on-time and on-schedule.
Make sure they report the information to all three bureaus.
 Once you have added in-store accounts, you want to actually check your credit reports to see what is currently on there. The reason for this is because it will be important to confirm that all your current credit is on there (especially fully paid previous accounts). To get your credit report, visit www.annualcreditreport.com. You can get one free credit report every 12 months from each of the three bureaus through this site.


Make sure to obtain reports from all three bureaus to make sure there are no inaccuracies or inconsistencies between them.
Note that the credit score is not free ( a small fee needs to be paid) but your main interest is in the reports, so you can check what tradelines are currently listed.
 All your current accounts should be listed on the report, but it is important to note that former loans that were appropriately paid can and should also be listed as tradelines. If you have successfully paid off a loan, creditors should know about it, as this helps give them a more complete picture of your behavior as a borrower.


For example, you may have a previous auto-loan, or student loan that you successfully paid off. If these items are not listed on your report, it is very important you call your lender and request the item be sent to the three credit bureaus.
If they state they have sent it to the credit bureaus, the issue may be on their end. In that case, you can contact them to ensure to see where the error was and how they can correct it. This simple step can add greatly to your credit.
 Utilities, like department stores, often only report you to the credit bureaus if you account has been sent to collections, or if you have not been paying on-time. If you have been regularly and successfully paying your utilities bills, however, this should reflect on your credit report. You can contact your utilities company and ask them to add the data to your credit report.Not all utility companies will comply, but many will. It is always worth it to ask, as the results can significantly improve your credit report.

