 Doing strenuous activity, such as brisk walking, swimming, or jogging) in the late afternoon is associated with a more restful sleep. People who don’t get enough exercise often have more trouble with insomnia.If you have a hard time exercising during the day, try doing some gentle exercises at night. Stretching, yoga, or other movement routines can help you unwind before bed.
Avoid overly strenuous exercise in the 2 hours before bedtime.
The more active your body is earlier in the day, the more likely you’ll be able to unwind in the evening before bed.
 Avoid eating food that’s likely to cause you stomach upset as you try to unwind from the day. Some experts suggest eating your largest meal at dinnertime if you have trouble sleeping, but don’t eat so much that you’re uncomfortable when you’re trying to sleep. Ideally, you’ll be neither hungry nor full as you try to get to sleep.Avoid late-night snacking on high-sugar, high-fat foods.
If you feel the need to snack at night, stick to high-protein, low-sugar options. For example, a glass of milk, a protein bar, or a spoonful of peanut butter can satisfy your craving while not interfering with your sleep.
 Most people are aware of the hazards of drinking caffeinated beverages such as coffee late in the day, but caffeine can also be found in many sodas, energy drinks, and non-herbal tea. Even decaffeinated coffee contains a small amount of caffeine and can interfere with your sleep.In addition to other health hazards, smoking before bed stimulates your nervous system and may keep you from being able to relax. The stimulating effects of nicotine take hours to wear off.
While one glass of wine can help you relax, drinking more than this is likely to keep you awake longer, and results in sleep disturbances that interfere with your ability to relax.
 If you have a hard time with anxious thoughts before bed, it can be helpful to develop a routine of writing a list of things “to do” or worries at another time during the day. When you’re lying in bed, you can remind yourself that you’ve created a list, and you don’t need to worry about those things now.


This is a cognitive behavioral strategy, a technique developed to help someone redirect her thoughts from a negative to a positive direction.
If you find yourself unable to “turn off” your thoughts, try listening to guided relaxation audio.
 If you’re able to get outside earlier in the day, your melatonin will be able to kick in during the evening hours. Early morning exposure to sunlight has been shown to be clinically effective against insomnia, premenstrual syndrome, and seasonal affective disorder (SAD).Ways to get exposure to sunlight in the early morning hours include walking or jogging.
If you can’t get outside, you can achieve the same benefits by getting exposure to very bright artificial lights.
 Practical strategies to manage your stress levels include getting organized, setting priorities, and managing the amount of work you have to do. If you’re having trouble with these things, consider asking for help. Sometimes talking to a friend, a parent, or a counselor can help you come up with more effective management strategies.Having a long talk with a good friend can also be an effective stress management tool.
Make time in your schedule to practice stress-management tools, such as organizing your schedule and planning your work for the week.

