 You can use just about any bowl or small container to serve as a hermit crab bath if you intend to help the crab bathe yourself. If you are going to keep a hermit crab bath inside the tank, you may want to use a small water bowl designed for pets in tanks to ensure the crab can enter and exit the water easily.Choose a bowl with a flat bottom so the crab can easily maneuver while in its bath.
If you will not be present as your crab bathes, ensure it is able to easily get out of the water.
Hermit crabs can knock over light bowls, so if you leave a bowl in the tank, ensure it is heavy enough that the crab can’t knock it over.;
, Hermit crabs drink freshwater, but need to be bathed in a salt water solution. There are a number of products available for sale at your local pet store to help you add the right kind of salt to your water.Products like Hermit Crab Salt or Oceanic Salt provide the right sort of salt content for your hermit crab bath.
Use distilled, room temperature water instead of tap water to ensure there are no chemicals that could harm your hermit crab in the water.
Use one teaspoon of salt per every one hundred milliliters of water for the best mixture.
 Once you have your container and your salt water mixture, you will need to fill the container to the correct height to serve as a hermit crab bath without putting the crab at any risk.


Do not fill the container so the hermit crab would be completely submerged in water, instead make it so the top of the water will be just below the top of the hermit crab’s shell.
If you are keeping the crab bath in the tank, make sure there are pebbles in it and a way to exit the water so the crab does not end up trapped in the container.
 Hermit crabs love a good bath, but don’t forget that they are land crabs and require oxygen to breath. Keeping the crab submerged in its bath for too long could kill a hermit crab.Do not leave the hermit crab unattended in the bathing container if you are bathing your crab separate from its tank and it is unable to climb out of the container on its own.
Only keep your hermit crab in the water for a few minutes, then return it to its tank.

