 Standard rabbit hutches are made with wood and wire and can vary in shape and size depending on your preferences and how many rabbits you’ll be keeping. There’s no one way to design a hutch but here are some things to keep in mind:The rabbit should at least have enough room to sit up on its back legs and stretch out.
The cage should be roughly 4 times the size of your rabbit at the very least. Keep in mind the age of your rabbit and how much it will continue to grow.
Hutches are typically divided into at least two sections in order to give the rabbits sleeping areas that are separated from the other area(s).
If it’s an outdoor hutch, it should be built on legs that are at least 4 feet (1.2 m) tall, so that they cannot be easily reached by predators.;
, You will need at least 2 large pieces of plywood. The dimensions will vary depending on the size of the hutch you’d like to build

For example, two pieces of plywood with measurements of 24”x72”x3/4” would be adequate for building a hutch that’s meant for up to three rabbits.






Unless you order pieces of plywood that are to your exact specifications, expect to do some cutting, most likely with a power saw.
 In order to build your own cage, you’re going to need some good wire. Here are some things to consider:

Chicken wire will not be strong enough to house rabbits and keep out predators.






Use 14 or 16-gauge galvanized wire, preferably made specifically for rabbit or bird housing.






The mesh for the top and sides of the cage should be 1”x2” or 1”x1”, but the floor wire should be approximately ½”x1” so that it can support the rabbit’s feet.






Be sure to have a good pair of wire cutters and gloves. A Dremel tool or metal file will also be needed to remove any sharp protrusions from the wire.






Rabbit wire can be purchased from most rabbit cage suppliers, and can be purchased in full rolls of 50’ to 100’ or can be cut to your specifications.
You may also want to consider purchasing a pre-made rabbit cage and simply building the frame around it.
 Other supplies will be discussed in further sections, but at this time you may also want to consider some recommended, though not necessary additions.


Drop trays aren’t mandatory, but they’ll make cleaning beneath the rabbit hutch a much more pleasant experience. They also add some extra protection from the bottom of the cage.
Roofing material such as shingles, plastic, metal, etc will add extra protection from the elements and will make your hutch last longer.

