 In fact, being nice is probably the best thing you could do for yourself and people around you. Just think about it! Would you rather be loved (pretend love, that is) because people are afraid of being bullied by you, or be loved because you're super nice? We think that it's a pretty easy choice.


Always think before you speak. Words can really hurt people, and if you're the one saying them, that needs to stop! If you're the kind of person that blurts thing out before thinking, Try to stop yourself. Before you speak, take a moment to think about how what you're about to say will affect others. If it will affect them negatively, don't say anything.
Be honest, but in a nice way! Honesty is super important in a trendy girl, and even in a good friend. We want you to be honest, but be kind about it. There's always a nicer way to say something! For example, if your friend got an awful haircut and asks you how it looks, say "It's nice, but it doesn't suit your pretty face as well as it should." Your friend might be taken aback initially, but will appreciate your honesty and will take the suggestions that you've made into consideration. However, always know when to draw the line of being honest and not being honest. Sometimes, little white lies are okay.
Don't get trampled on! Stand your ground and make sure everyone knows that you won't get walked over! Friendship and relationships should always be at a green light. If it has turned yellow or red, then it's time to inspect if that person is really worth being in your life.
 Obviously, no one likes talking to a person who has no idea what they're talking about. Pay attention in class, no matter how boring, and talk with your friends outside of class or when the teacher says you can talk. Brush up on knowledge and keep your computer homepage on a website like Yahoo so you can see the latest news as you log in to your favorite websites. We know that being smart can be kind of 'nerdy' to some people, but better that then being labelled a 'stupid ditz'.
 If someone doesn't want to tell you something, you can't make them speak! Be a good listener, and try not to gossip about people. It's okay to look at celebrity magazines every once in a while, but keep in mind the difference between that and gossiping about peers. You've probably seen people being torn apart by rumors. Don't start them and you won't be involved with them. Also, pay attention and help out your parents. They are the ones that have raised you and taught you what you know. Respect them and they will more than likely listen to what you have to say.
 Know when to leave an argument, a situation, or even a relationship. Never take sides in an argument, even if you see one person's reason and not the other. If a friend comes to you for advice, give it, but don't give anything that could hurt others or hurt your friend. In fact, if they ask for advice, give them a word of encouragement and suggest a nudge towards figuring it out themselves. That way, no one can pinpoint something directly onto you. Know when to walk away from a situation if it's getting to risky or dangerous. Also, know when to walk out of a relationship, especially if your boyfriend/girlfriend is trying to convince you to do something that you don't want to do.
 Do what you like to do. There will be people who get you down, but who's living your life? If you have a religion, believe in it strongly. If you don't, that's okay too. Respect everyone's beliefs and state your own too. Find some hobbies you like and stick to them. Remember that it's okay to be different, whether this means racially, sexually, intellectually, or whatever. Be confident and proud of yourself!

, Read good books and listen to music you enjoy. If you want, get an Instagram or Twitter, but never give out your info to strangers. Add only people you know. And don't say anything bad about anyone, especially on the Internet--there's a log somewhere out there that records what you say. Think before you type.

