 If your friends seem to always find excuses for arriving very late, you may not be able to trust them when you need them to be there. People who you can trust will show up on time, either all or most of the time. They don’t leave you hanging.For example, let’s say you and your friends made plans to hang out over the weekend. You set a date, time, and location. They said they were free to come. You text them that you’re on your way to the place, and they don’t respond. You arrive, and they text you they’re running late, and then they show up more than an hour late.
Think about whether you can depend on them to be there when you need them for something important.;
, Some friends may promise to attend an event, or promise to work an important home project with you. They may have good intentions, but what happens when the time comes for them to show or to give support? They don't come through. Think about if you would be able to trust them if they do this,time and time again.Remember, too, to be forgiving. Sometimes people make honest mistakes, like double booking themselves, or the letting the time slip away, or emergencies. Instead of dropping them immediately, notice how frequently it happens and how important the events are. For instance, missing a coffee date is nothing compared to missing a wedding.
If your friends keep their word, they are likely trustworthy. You don’t have the question whether or not if they’ll stick to what they said.
But, if they get caught up in an exciting time and over-promise, then they may not be thinking through on what they’re saying.
For example, let’s say you and some of your friends make a pact to go to a concert together since you all found out that a band that you all love is playing in town soon. You get your ticket and then your friends don’t show or make other plans.
 Do you feel included or excluded when hanging out with some of your friends? Do they seem to put you in a different category than their other friends? See if your friends make you feel welcome when they’re hanging out with their other friends.


Do you make plans with a friend to hang out one-on-one, only to have them always invite others to join?
Do they cancel plans in order to hang out with other people? Do you feel as though you are often invited along to do something with your friends only as an afterthought?
Some friends will be closer to you than others. You’ll feel more trusting of people who are your closest friends, rather than friends you hang out with off and on.
Identify the difference between feeling welcomed by your friends, and feeling used by them. If they seem to only want you around for their own advantage or benefit, then they are likely less trustworthy.

