 Your horses fore legs can be either splayed, pawing, stomping, or striking. Here is a guide to understanding your horse’s fore legs:


If your horse’s fore legs are splayed, i.e., its fore legs are spread out to the sides and the horse is leaning back, then your horse is scared and may be seconds away from bolting. Splayed legs can also be a sign of malnutrition or a neurological impairment, especially if the horse is unwilling to or cannot move. Call a veterinarian.
If your horse is tied up, pawing, i.e., an arcing fore leg that is digging a trench in soft ground, may be a sign of boredom and a signal that your horse is either tired of standing or ready to go. Stressed horses may paw if they are in a trailer or before feeding time. Horses may also paw of they are angry, but it is not common. However, if it is combined with pinned ears, then it is a signal that you need to heed. It is a sign of anger or aggression, and charging or some kind of attack, like biting, usually follows it.Some horses develop pawing as a bad behavior to get attention. Knowing your horse's normal behavior can help you figure out if this is why your horse is pawing.
If your horse is stomping, i.e., raising and lowering a foot forcefully in place, this is a common sign of irritation. It could be something minor, like a fly, or something bigger, like your horse is frustrated with something you are doing.
If your horse is striking its fore legs, i.e., a forceful and aggressive forward kick, this is a sure sign of anger or aggression. It is usually preceded by stomping or pawing, wide eyes, and an elevated head with pinned ears. Take caution if this happens.
 A horse’s hind legs can be either cocked or raised. Learn how to determine the different signals by following this guide:


Cocked legs may either signal resting, pain, or irritation. Your horse is relaxing if it rests the leading edge of the hoof on the ground and drops its hip; this is usually combined with a lowered head and ears hanging to the sides. Your horse is in pain if it shifts its weight from one side to another rapidly. On the other hand, if your horse is frustrated and/or defensive, it will cock its hind leg, elevate its head, and cock or pin its ears back.
If your horse raises its hind leg, cocks and pins its ear back, and/or sways its head, this is a sign that it is frustrated and bothered and ready to kick., The tail is one of the more mobile signs of communication. Your horse can raise or flag its tail, clamp it down, or swish it rapidly. Here’s a guide to know what each signal means:


A raised or flagged tail means your horse is excited. This is a tail that is held above the level of the back. A horse with a flagged tail isn’t usually paying much attention to you, and is prone to being startled. Regain your horse's attention by calling its name and putting it to work.
A clamped tail, i.e., the tail is pressed down or in between its hindquarters, is a sign of a nervous or stressed horse. Additionally, if your horse clamps its tail while you are riding it, this is a sign of discomfort or pain. Make sure your horse’s tack fits well. If the movement persists, contact a veterinarian.
If your horse is gently swishing its tail, this is just a sign of fly control. However, if your horse is quickly jerking its tail from side to side or up and down, this is a sign of anger and frustration, and a precursor to bucking or kicking. On the other hand, if your horse is frequently swishing its tail while you are riding, this can be a sign of discomfort; make sure the tack is properly fitted and no sharp or protruding edges are hurting it.

