 It’s easier to do your best work when you do something regularly – preferably every day. Make working towards your goals part of your everyday routine. Think of doing your best as a new lifestyle, not something you do separately from your “ordinary” life.For instance, if you’re working towards a degree, make some time to study every day, not just when you have an exam coming up.
 Multitasking prevents you from focusing deeply on anything. Work on one thing at a time, and give it your full attention.Do your best to block out distractions. Go somewhere quiet to work, or wear noise-canceling headphones to discourage people from talking to you.
 Use to-do lists and time-bound goals to stay on track. If you still struggle with getting things done on time, make yourself accountable to someone else for some added motivation.For example, you could make yourself accountable by signing up for a class or finding a workout partner.
A time-bound goal has a built-in time limit. For instance, you might set a goal to learn to cook two new healthy recipes this week.
It might seem like procrastination prevents you from failing, but in reality, it just prevents you from learning and improving.
 As you make progress towards your goals, don’t forget to congratulate yourself for the things you achieve along the way. Take time every week or month to look back at how far you’ve come, and give yourself a pat on the back for your work.You might even set up a reward system for various milestones in goal completion. When you pass the first marker, you might reward yourself with a night out with friends. The second marker: new clothing or a gadget. The third: a short getaway. Just use things that you actually want to earn, so they are motivating.
 Take breaks and look after your health, no matter how busy you are. It’s hard to put forth your best effort when you’re run-down, stressed, or in poor physical shape. Good self-care habits can help prevent you from burning out.Take care of all the dimensions of your health – physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual. Neglecting any of these dimensions can cause problems.

