 If you already know how to touch-type on a QWERTY, the same fingers operate the same keys. The keys just produce different letters. The home row is:


Dvorak: AOEU - ID - HTNS
QWERTY: ASDF - GH - JKL
If you lose track of where to put your fingers, search for the raised dots on the keyboard. In the Dvorak keyboard format, they are on U and H. Put your left index finger on U and your right on H to bring your fingers back to the home row.
 Don't use one finger to find and "peck" at the letters of the keyboard when you are learning how to type. Keep your fingers on the keyboard and use the same fingers to reach keys as you do on the QWERTY keyboard. Since you aren't used to the keyboard you might be tempted, but don't do it! If you type like that, you'll never learn how to type correctly using Dvorak and you will not be able to type quickly or comfortably. , You're just learning this keyboard layout, so it's not expected that you can type fast! Taking the time you need is actually better than speeding through and making mistakes. By being accurate, you are beginning to create a muscle memory with your fingers that eventually will allow you to type without even thinking about what to do with your fingers.
 As you're learning, put a Dvorak keyboard diagram next to you. This will save you time because you won't have to keep moving your fingers out of the way to see the keyboard letters. It also might help your visual memory of how the keyboard looks., As you get faster and more confident at typing, don't look down at the keyboard until you make a mistake. This will help you to develop touch-type so you eventually won't have to look down at the keyboard at all.
 Learning the Dvorak layout will be challenging. Luckily, there is a wide array of resources available through the internet that can help you learn. Videos are an especially useful resource because you can follow along with them.


Youtube has an array of videos meant to help you learn Dvorak typing. These videos are free and readily available.
If you prefer a series of lessons, there are some good programs that teach Dvorak programs.You can do some research to help you find the best program for your needs. Make sure you go through lessons at a reasonable pace. Although the lessons may be easy, do them multiple times to ensure you have mastered everything they offer., Try to use Dvorak as much as possible, even if you hate how slow it is at first Practice will make you more familiar with the keyboard layout. Practicing for small amounts of time, such as fifteen minutes per day is more effective than practicing for hours once a week.Make practicing fun. Instead of calling a friend, talk to her on instant message or Facebook chat. This is a way of making practicing less tedious. 