 You don't have to be a "warrior parent" or caregiver, nor do you need to toss and turn at night because the autistic person won't eat carrots. It's okay if their diet isn't perfect. You aren't a bad caregiver.It's okay if the autistic person isn't eating the same foods that their neurotypical peers eat. They're autistic. That makes them different. You haven't failed as a parent or caregiver.
Try offering gummy vitamins for nutrition to take off some of the pressure.
 For an autistic person, eating food with onions may feel as pleasant as chewing on a raw lemon.If an autistic person cannot handle the food, let them avoid eating it.


It's okay to encourage them to try new foods and offer options. There is a differing between giving them something to try and pushing them to eat something they can't handle.
Have them help you with the grocery list so you buy foods they can tolerate.
 If bouncing on an exercise ball or fiddling with a tangle toy is what allows them to sit calmly, then they should use it.


Suggest that the autistic person grab a stim toy from their bin before coming to the table.
Talk about cleanliness and personal space (e.g. not whacking people in the face) as necessary.
 A busy room with talking and food smells may cause overload in some autistic people. Encourage them to self-monitor and tell you if they need to eat in a room by themselves.


Immediately paying attention and respecting their decision will make them more likely to talk to you when they need to leave.
Notice if they are looking stressed, so you can ask if they need to leave. Sometimes autistic people have difficulty identifying how they feel.
 Talk about your day, silly things, your plans, their special interests, etc. Take time to ask them about their thoughts and listen to their responses. Turning mealtimes into quality time together will help them look forward to it.


Try playing games. For example, tell them how many bites to eat and say you will eat more bites than them. Encourage them and tell them that they'll finish before you. If they do, reward them with playing another game with them, hugging them, or even giving them a high five. They will learn that they will get rewarded when they win or do something correctly.

