 You may not be sure how she feels about you at this point. If she does not respond, or takes a long time, that is a sign that she is not interested. It might help you to be honest when reaching out to her and acknowledge your previous rejection. You might say something like, "Hey, sorry for telling you no when you asked to hang out. I'm not sure what was going on with me..."If she responds to your messages, she may still be interested. If she does not respond or takes a day or two to respond, she may not be interested.
Also pay attention to how she responds. If she only responds with one word answers and does not try to keep the conversation going, she may not be interested.;
, Try to spend time around her if you can. Her actions can let you know if she is still into you. Things you can look for include fronting, proximity, touching, and lingering eye contact.Fronting refers to the positioning of her body when she speaks with you. If her body is turned towards you, this is a good sign.
Proximity refers to how close she stands to you when you talk. If she is standing within 18 inches of you, she is likely interested. To test this out, take a step closer to her when you are talking. If she stays in the same spot, she is interested. If she takes a step back, she may not be interested.
Touching refers to if and/or how she touches you when you talk to her. Does she touch your arm or shoulder? The more touching, the more interested she is.
Making direct eye contact with you and staring for two or three seconds is also a good sign., Her friends will know if you have a chance. They probably already know what happened between the two of you. Let her friends know that you really like her and you made a mistake. Ask them if they think you have a chance.


You may say, “Hey, do you think Ashley would give me another chance? I really like her and made a mistake last time.”
You could ask her friends, “Hey, I really like Ashley. Can you put in a good word for me?”
If her friends say that she is not interested, ask them why and get some feedback. Ask them what you could do to change her mind.
Her friends will probably tell her that you asked about her. This may help your case.

