 Place the straw attachment on the spray nozzle. Press the other end of the straw attachment against the opening of the lock.


Select a silicone spray. Silicone lubricant will help the key slide out easily, and since it is water resistant it will help to protect your lock against rust.You can also try to use a graphite powder. It can help to lubricate without gumming up the lock.;
, The cylinder will need to be in a locked or unlocked position to be able to extract the key fragment from the door. If you try to remove any key when the key is in between states it will stay stuck in the lock.


Use needle nose pliers to reach inside the cylinder. Turn the cylinder until the door is locked or unlocked.
 Slide the handle portion of the key into the lock until it reaches the broken segment. You will want to see where the large groove on the side of the key is located. This is the best spot to insert your extractor tool.
 Key extractor tools are generally sold in a set with a variety of different key hooks and spiral extractors. You can buy them online or at any hardware store. The key hooks look like miniature harpoons, with long, thin rods and can have a variety of hook shapes on the end. Spiral extractors are thin, bendable metal rods with tiny hooks all along the length. While any of the tools might work for a number of different keys, it may take some trial and error to find the tool that best fits your lock and grips your key fragment.


Start with the small hook tool. The small hooks on extractor tools can usually grab the majority of key types and shapes.
 The hook should be facing upward to easily hook the teeth of the key. Direct the tool so that it slides in along the groove on the side of the key.
 Once the extractor tool is in the lock, turn the tool toward the key slightly. Then pull the tool back while pressing the handle end away from the lock. This will press the hook against the key and help slide it out of the lock. Keep trying until the hook on the tool catches one of the teeth and you are able to pull the partial key free.If using spiral style extractor tools the same rule methods apply. However, instead of twisting a small amount, you will want to spin the handle several times before pulling the tool straight back to remove the key fragment.
You can try using an additional extractor tool on the other side of the key at the same time. Slide the key in the same way and pull the tools back and with slight pressure in the opposite direction to help grip the key between the tools.
If the key comes part of the way out, use a pair of needle-nose pliers to grip the exposed portion and finish removing it.You want to be sure you don't accidentally knock it back into the lock.

