 Think of how you can illustrate your story, name, word, or individual letter purely with colors, images, and designs. Use the defining characteristics of a person, setting, or story to decorate your illuminated letter.


Try one of many traditional motifs for illuminated letters, which include birds and feathers; fruit and flowers; ribbons, vines, or rope; and Biblical motifs.If the themes of a text or your own interests or personality are more abstract, think of how they can be made into a symbol you can draw. For example, an image of weighted scales often represents justice, and a rose can symbolize romance., Use a pencil to sketch out the images you want to decorate your letter. Draw your designs inside or around letter, or even taking the shape of the letter itself.


Keep the drawing balanced with the shape of the letter by drawing a faint box in pencil around the outside of it as a guide for where decorative elements should end. Then erase the box, or build on it to create a decorative border for the letter if you wish.
Reach outside and overlap the lines of the letter with your designs to create a full and dynamic illustration.For example, you could decorate the letter “S” with a snake and create the illusion that the snake is coiled around the letter, or even that the snake makes up the letter with its own body.
 Create a border around your letter to add further decoration and a frame for your designs. Continue your design theme when decorating the border, or just create a simple frame to showcase your letter.


Try a traditional square shape for your border, or perhaps a circle or oval for a letter that features round elements.
Fill the space between your letter and the border with decoration, or with a solid color. Or leave it blank to add more contrast for your designs.
 Go over your pencil sketch with color when you’re happy with your designs. Use ink pens, markers, colored pencils, or paint to fill your letter with any colors you like.


Color in the elements of your design with a pigmented marker or ink pen, or try some shading with colored pencils or crayons by using three different shades (light, medium, dark) of the same hue to create depth.Add the characteristic gold or silver details that would have appeared in earlier centuries to highlight areas of your own drawing if you wish. Gold leaf would have been traditional, but you can also use inexpensive materials like gold or silver metallic markers, glitter, or paint.