 The Home / Start screen is the first thing which catches the eye of any user of any electronic gadget. Therefore it is necessary that the start / home screen is very stylish and impressive.


The Start Screen of Windows Phone

Windows Phone 8.1 is one of the most stylish operating systems for smartphones.
It stands out unique with its "vertical-scrolling" interface of Live Tiles, each of which acts like a widget.
The Start Screen is colorful and absolutely has lesser empty space when compared to Android.
Each of the tiles is arranged properly in the form of grids, that makes it less cluttered and more organized.


The Home Screen of Android OS

Android on the other hand has a "horizontal-scrolling" approach.
It has more empty space when compared to Windows Phone.
Though the shortcuts and widgets are arranged in the form of grids, they seem to be more cluttered due to a large space between the rows of tiles.
There is a "bar" at the bottom, no matter in which tile you are.
There are customizable widgets such as a running clock, a news feed or a calendar.
In fact almost everything in Android can be changed and altered.


You may alter the shortcuts and widgets as you want, both in Android and Windows Phone, yet Android is much less stylish when compared to Windows Phone.;
, User Interfaces stand to be a good reason for the success or the failure of a project. User Interfaces ought to be user friendly and easy to access. Let us now compare the interface design between Windows Phone and Android.


Look of UI in Windows.

Windows Phone 8.1 is designed to fit the outer look of the smartphone which the user is using and the interface as a whole.
The user can choose between a "Dark" theme and a "Light" Theme.
Thus Windows Phone has a minimalistic look in the area of "Interface".


Conventional Interface of Android.

In Android, the look of the UI can be modified by different theme-based apps called "LAUNCHERS".
The traditional interface offers a black background with White and Grey lettering over it.
In case of Android smartphones, each manufacturer can put their own overlay on the manufactured phone.
Yet the stock applications seem to provide a fair, unified look.


Both Android and Windows Phone offers a similar look and feel, but the look of the Android phone depends on the manufacturer of the smartphone.
 The number of applications supported by a device matters to most people. The more the number of apps supported, the more easier the device rolls out.


Lesser availability of apps in Windows Phone

Yes! Windows Phone OS has app issues.
The number of available apps for Windows Phone 8.1 is rising day by day and includes popular ones like Facebook, Whatsapp, Instagram,etc.
Whatsapp lacks the "voice-call" feature when running on Windows Phone.
Windows Phone provides a native support to the Microsoft Products such as Office along with Xbox Support.


Wider range of Apps in Android

Android offers approximately 1,300,000 apps whereas Windows Phone offers only 400,000 apps.


There is a wide selection of apps in the Android Platform. So Android just has a sharp advantage of the wide range of apps.



Windows Phone does not bear the necessity of an Antivirus app.

The Windows Phone operating system can only be changed by OTA (over-the-air) updates released from Microsoft.
Downloads are released direct from the servers to the phone and hence there is no way that a piece of code from other source can get into the phone's core operating system.
Moreover the Windows Phone devices have a secure memory known as the "sandbox" memory, that is inaccessible by the third party apps which the users install.
Windows Phone is well protected from the threat of viruses.


Android has no antivirus, then you have absolutely no protection.

There are reports and statistics that malware is frighteningly common in Android devices.
Any Android Device without proper protection is sure to get infected.
To stay secure, the user must only install software from trustworthy market places (such as Google Play).
The user must also, not use very often for web-surfing and emailing for protection.


Thus if you are looking for a well reliable, well protected smartphone, then you definitely have to say hello to Windows Phone!

, The first thing that flashes in our mind when we picture a smartphone is the notification jingle that pops up. Microsoft has its "Action Center" and Android has its "Notification Area"


The Action Center of Windows Phone.

The Action Center is similar to the notification area in Android.
It provides quick access to the notifications.
It also brings up commonly used settings under a small swipe.
The user gets a chance to choose his frequently accessed settings that can be arranged in his own order in the Action Center.


Android on the other hand had introduced the feature of "Notification Area"ages ago.

Android has now has incorporated "two" notification trays on Android running tablets.
Android lacks a feature of User Customized Notification Area.


Windows Phone has a customizable action center, and so the user gets a chance to pin the frequently used settings in the area, whereas in Android all factory set settings are pinned.
 A keyboard is really difficult if you have to tap letter by letter. So the feature of auto entry was introduced. Yet users had to tap a minimum of three or four letters. The feature of gliding through the keyboard was primarily for the touch based smartphones.


Word Flow Keyboard of Windows Phone.

The Word Flow Keyboard helps the user to glide their fingers through the keys rather than tapping them.
This keyboard is a pre-built app and requires no third party apps.
Most of the languages of Windows Phone support the word flow keyboard.


The Flow keyboard on Android

Android requires third party apps such as Swype or Google Keyboard to incorporate the gliding feature.
Only selected languages are available as a third party app have the gliding feature.


Windows Phone has a stock feature of Word Flow. Hence if you are not ready to install third party apps for this feature, Windows Phone has a beat.
 Battery is the lifeline of a gadget and most users prefer a good battery, so that they don't have to attend to save the battery again and again. Moreover hard core users feel irritated to charge their gadgets once in every minute.


The battery discharge and battery saver in Windows Phone.

By statistics, when compared to Android, Windows Phone has a longer withstand capacity battery and the discharge rate is comparatively lesser.
There is a stock Battery Saver app in Windows Phone which helps the user to save battery on a larger extent.
Battery Saver can be scheduled to run, always or until next charge or when the battery is on the verge of exhaustion.


Android has a lower capacitance of batter.

The discharge rate of Android is relatively higher especially when one connects with an Internet or do high-end gaming or watch lengthy videos.
There are no stock battery saver apps in Android.
There is a battery monitor app that helps the user to tuck in the apps that is not used much frequently.


The battery life of a phone depends on the manufacturer too.Battery Saver in Windows Phone has a feature over the one in Android as it does not require the user to manually tuck in the apps. Thus for a longer battery Windows Phone has a chance.
 Its been in recent times that users tend to use multiple apps at the same time since all is under one hood. Multitasking is an effective feature in both Android and Windows, but in Windows the memory is cleared out on a time basis.
 Social networking is one of the widest oceans in which one can swim throughout.


One-Stop Windows:

Windows Phone is a beat ahead because it integrates Facebook, Outlook, and other social networking apps.
It does more than providing a contact picture and phone numbers.
Windows phone automatically updates, the user contact's latest updates making the contact list, social.


So if you are an untiring social networking person, then Windows Phone helps you a lot.
 Contact storage is a factor for those people who have a large range of contacts. Contacts are generally stored in either SIM card or on a local storage in the smartphone.


Infinite Storage from Microsoft.

Contacts, their numbers and other information which users store on the"People" app in Windows Phone gets integrated with a Microsoft Account.
Thereby it is easy to retrieve your contacts, and their information by accessing the account through the Microsoft website.
All that a person requires is a working internet connection and a Windows Phone in hand.
Infinite Storage of contacts is offered by Microsoft to those with a Microsoft Account.



