 Maybe you have an idea for a blog that you have been meaning to start, or you want to write a book but can’t find time. Use software your phone already has or download some and start speaking what you want to write. You could also use this option to write a letter or email to friends and family.This type of software does not always catch your words exactly right, so you will have to proofread what you write before doing anything with it. But this is a good way to get a start and get a lot of content down quickly.
Make sure you are being safe anytime you handle your phone while driving. Start the software at a point when you are not driving.
 Long drives often end up being mostly highways and interstates, which are faster but can often become very boring. If you don’t mind taking a longer drive, consider using smaller roads that offer more scenery. You may drive a bit farther and take longer, but the drive will be more enjoyable than faster routes.This is probably best done if you are a very good navigator or have GPS handy so that you make sure you still get where you are going without getting lost. You don’t want to get stuck on back country roads with no idea how to get back to the highway.
If you have kids who are old enough to read a map, you can let them choose the route you take. Make sure you double check to be sure you are still going in the right direction.
 If you have some time to spare, or you just need a quick break from driving, stop at some attraction you see signs for along the roadway. There might be a local museum, a state or national park, or a unique attraction like the giant ball of yarn or Carhenge. Almost anywhere you drive will have something interesting you can stop and look at.


This doesn’t necessarily have to be completely spontaneous. You could look ahead at your basic route and see if there is anything interesting to stop and see along the way.
Even if you don’t see a sign advertising anything, you could choose an exit to take and just see if there is anything interesting in the area around the exit.
Allow kids to point out attractions they see that look interesting and stop at them. You could say that each kid gets to pick out one stop along way.
 If you are on a long trip with a couple people you don’t know very well, take the opportunity to find out more about them. You may have to push the conversation forward at the beginning if they are shy, but don’t be afraid to. Ask good questions and let them talk while you listen to their answers.You can always ask the standard questions like what they do for work, what they are studying if they’re in college, or what their hobbies are.
When you want to dig a little deeper, you can ask them what social issues they care about, what they would do with their time if they didn’t have to work, or just ask them to tell a story about something that happened to them in the past.
You can ask kids a lot of different questions to keep them entertained. Ask what kind of jobs they might enjoy someday. Ask what places they would like to travel when they have the chance. You can often keep kids talking for a while without too much work.

