 It is important to find a responsible breeder in order to get a healthy, well-socialized Lab. By seeking out a responsible breeder, you can also avoid supporting breeders who do not take good care of their dogs. You can find a responsible breeder by checking with your local American Kennel Club.Try searching the AKC directory for a responsible breeder in your area: https://www.apps.akc.org/apps/clubs/search/index.cfm


, If you decide to go through a breeder, make sure that you visit the breeder and see the pups with the mother. Never buy a puppy if you are not allowed to see the mother, no matter what the excuse. Puppy mills separate puppies from the mother at a young age, so she doesn’t get to nurse them and so that she can get pregnant again.Young pups without a mother are a strong indication that you are dealing with a puppy mill. Do not encourage this immoral trade by purchasing their pups.
 It is a good idea to visit a few different local breeders before deciding who you want to buy your puppy from. Do not buy a puppy from the first breeder you visit. You may even want to expand your search outside of your own local area in order to find the best breeder and puppy for your needs.Never buy from a breeder online without visiting the breeder’s location. If a breeder does not allow you to visit and wants to meet up somewhere else, then this should be a red flag to stay away from this breeder.

Never have a puppy shipped. Shipping puppies is very stressful on them and often results in a sick, frightened puppy when you pick them up from the airport.
 It is a good idea to get to know your potential puppy before you commit. If the breeder does not want you to meet the dog before you commit to buying it, then that should be a warning sign that something is wrong.See how the Lab reacts to you. Try some basic commands see how he responds. See if the puppy is curious and comes to investigate (this is a good sign) or if he cowers in a corner (this is a sign of timidity). Watch how he interacts with the other puppies as well. He should seem playful and energetic., A puppy that has been raised by a responsible breeder will seem healthy, energetic, and well-fed. If the puppy seems lethargic, malnourished, or has other signs of illness like a runny nose, cough, or skin sores, then that will indicate that the puppy is in poor health. Do not purchase a puppy from this breeder., The breeder should be willing to show you the dog’s health records including all immunizations, clearances, and guarantees. If you are getting your dog from a breeder, ask to see the papers for the mother and father of the puppy.


Be aware that Labradors are prone to a number of hereditary diseases which are passed down along the generations. Responsible breeders will try to eliminate these diseases, which involves the breeder submitting their breeding stock to genetic tests and radiographs to work out if they are carriers or at risk of transmitting, certain conditions.
Keep in mind that these tests cost the breeder money, so you will need to pay more for a puppy from screened parents. The payback is that the puppy is less likely to develop serious conditions such as hip dysplasia, elbow dysplasia, or eyesight problems.