 As you begin to dive into being a hipster, you can’t suddenly change yourself overnight. It will be too expensive and you’ll risk looking like a poser. Make alterations to your closet one step at a time, and be patient with yourself as you learn how to be more of a genuine hipster.


Capturing the hipster look is difficult because the goal is to avoid mainstream fashions which are also not easy to define.
Overall, being hipster is about looking different than the masses. The irony is that you may end up looking just like other hipsters who are trying to be different.;
, Black needs to be the number one color in your closet. It goes with everything, is slimming, and pairing it with other colors is edgy.To avoid looking too gothic, pair black with bright colors or a mix of olive, navy, and khaki.


Mix your colors but don’t match them exactly to each other. You want a smorgasbord of color options instead of the same thing repeated over your whole body.You can mix patterns as well as styles. Two different kinds of stripes on your jacket and pants can work together-just pair it with a plain undershirt.
 Your goal is to look different and stand out from all the people who wear mass-produced items. You will need a few staples in your closet:


A vintage leather or denim jacket
V-neck t-shirts in plain colors for layering
Button down flannel shirts, hoodies, or baggy sweaters
A beanie or vintage brimmed hat
Skinny jeans
Any kind of leather boots, vintage sneakers, or moccasin-style shoes

, Pants are an important asset in the hipster wardrobe. Your pants should either be very tight, like a pair of skinny jeans, or extra baggy, like jogger pants or 70s style bell bottoms. Traditionally, skinny jeans are your best day-to-day option.
 The most recognizable hipster glasses are the black, squared-off frames for both guys and girls. You can also get a pair of brightly colored ones to help you stand out even more. If you don’t wear glasses or wear contacts, invest in a pair of sunglasses that are mirrored and have that same squared-off hipster shape to appear mysterious and cool.
 Accessories don't just have to be for girls. Hipster guys defy the norm. A tote bag from your local record store or a messenger bag for biking around will hold all of your essentials. Scarves can be worn on your neck with a deep V-neck or as an armband.


Observe other hipster guys to see how they style their scarves with leather and metals cuffs to make a feminine accessory more rugged.
Common hipster hat options include: beanies, classic fedoras, porkpies, and bowlers for the more daring., Facial hair is a staple for hipster guys. It makes you look rugged and . You can also grow your hair out down to your shoulders and pull it back with bandanas, hats, or hair ties. The more hair you have, the more you’ll look like a hipster.Invest in beard or ‘stache wax to keep your hair looking groomed and attractive. Trimming is also important to do every once in awhile.
If you let your facial hair become scraggly, be aware that you’ll start to look like a mountain man hipster instead of an urban one. The choice is yours though, either look is trendy right now.
Don't worry if you can't grow in full facial hair. It's an addition to the hipster look, not a requirement.
 To find the right pieces to fill your wardrobe, you can’t always shop at mainstream stores at the mall. You still want to fight the appearance of being mainstream so you need to dig around in little hole-in-the-wall shops to find the right pair of distressed boots and pre-owned leather jackets.The older, the better should be your rule of thumb.
Thrift and consignments stores will help you save money since they're less expensive than most name-brand stores.
 As a hipster you need to be picky because you don't have time and money to do everything, so you need to know what's worth your attention. Decide which music you like best or which coffee shop in town has the best drinks. You want to have standards and be able to tell people which restaurant is the best in town or why a certain film director is better than another.


Always have a reason as to why you like or dislike something. You need to be able to explain to people why one musician is superior to another.
Be careful not to make any feel inferior because they like something you don’t. You can voice your opinions, but don’t be a jerk about it.
 Pepper in quotes from indie films or song lyrics from obscure bands. If your friends can chime in, that’s great, but it’s even better when you can impress people with knowing things that they’ve never even heard of.Watch classic 80s movies or look for vintage game consoles like Nintendo 64 or Intellivision to impress people of your knowledge of old-school culture.
Nostalgic things are a big part of hipster culture. Any TV shows or bands or fashion trends from your childhood or even your parent’s childhood are worth looking into and talking about.Hipsters take pride in “bringing things back” from the past.
 Part of the hipster lifestyle is being on the lookout for secret restaurants or coffee menus or that elusive taco truck in the park on Thursdays. If you can find something exclusive and unheard of, it gives you the satisfaction of knowing you found it first. You have the power to keep your discovery to yourself or share it with your friends and social media., This is the most difficult part of being a hipster to master. Being ironic means to be intentionally contradictory to what people expect. For example, wearing a t-shirt with a classic rock band name on it would be ironic if you don’t like classic rock but instead love techno music. Sarcasm is another form of irony that you can work into your vocabulary.
When you react to events, do it in the opposite way people would expect. For instance if you’re favorite band is coming to town and your friends know you’ll be excited, react as if it’s not a big deal because that is what they would not expect.
Irony is not a concept everyone understands correctly. Know that there are many ways that people define and interpret irony.
 Now you definitely do like and care about things in life, but being a hipster means that you don’t show it. By actually caring about things but acting like you don't, you'll also be acting ironically. Practice reacting to things apathetically, as if they're not too exciting.
 Shop at your town’s farmer’s market or explore the used book and record stores instead of going to a corporate store. As a hipster, you want to support smaller business and start-up companies instead of the big, overbearing corporations that run the country.The attitude behind shop local for some hipsters is that big companies don’t need more money and don’t care about you anyways.
Getting to know the businesses in your area is a better way to avoid being mainstream.
 Secret or 'underground' shows are a great way to find new bands to listen to that only a small group of people know about yet. Many of the artists and bands that you’ll want to listen to will be “indie” or independent musicians without a major record label. Indie music is a staple genre in any hipster’s music library.Your local record shop will have plenty of flyers and people who can tell you where to find shows and what bands are up and coming.
In addition to indie music, any vintage or old music.
Your music tastes are how you can show people that you’re cultured and well-rounded.
Even though you’re looking to enter the hipster subculture, you can stay true to your own music tastes. Indie and classic music has so many different subgenres that you’re bound to find some new favorites.
 Instagram, Twitter, Tumblr, and Facebook are some of the biggest platforms for hipsters. You have the ability to share articles about new indie bands or post photos from the secret new juice bar in the yoga studio downtown. The internet is a tool you can use to show other people your hipster outfits of the day and how you’re working on the hipster lifestyle.
 Hipsters are often confused with being hippies, but in some ways the two subcultures are similar. Going vegan, not eating or consuming any animal products, is an active way to deviate from a mainstream lifestyle while also helping the environment., If you really want to commit to a hipster lifestyle, look into buying a fixed gear bike and use it for your main transportation. You’ll be getting a workout and helping the environment at the same time.
 You don't have to jet set around the world to travel; you can treat your hometown as a whole new world to explore as well. Use social media to research new places to visit or find urban art or hole-in-the-wall venues yourself.


Make sure your phone and camera are charged and have free space for all of the pictures you’ll want to take to show everyone back home.When you do travel to other cities, use new companies like Airbnb to book quirky places to stay instead of a typical hotel.
Do your research before going to a new city or place so you know where all the cool locals hang out.
 Being around other hipsters will help you learn the culture and attitude of being a true hipster. You don’t have to completely change groups of friends but look to make new friends as well.


Some of the most popular watering holes for hipsters are the independent coffee shops, record, book, or comic shops, or concerts.