 Grab a pen and paper and start making three detailed lists about yourself. Make one list each for your strengths, achievements, and things that you value about yourself. This will help you focus on the positive aspects about yourself. You can also read the lists anytime for a quick self-esteem boost.Have a friend or family member help you.
Read over your lists regularly to help remind you of how important you are.;
, Remind yourself that you are valued and important by taking excellent care of yourself. Caring for your health and personal needs can help you to have a healthy amount of self-esteem and self-worth.Get enough sleep at night.
Eat a healthy diet, getting plenty of fruits and vegetables while avoiding foods with high levels of fat and sugar.
Exercise regularly to help you feel your best and stay strong and healthy.
 At least once a day, set aside time for an activity that you love doing. Whatever that activity may be, you can show yourself that you are important and deserve the freedom to do what interests you., Select a new hobby or activity that has always interested you and start doing it. Set goals to improve your skills in this new hobby and start working to meet them. This will allow you to remind yourself that you are capable and confident when meeting a challenge.Try learning how to play a musical instrument.
Learn a new language that you find interesting.
Try taking up a new sport or exercise program.
 A large part of our self-esteem comes from the people we surround ourselves with. Being around negative or critical people can cause self-doubt to arise. However, surrounding yourself with positive and energizing people can help make you feel important and valued., Gratefulness can remind you of what is important to you, your life, and the people who matter to you. Think about all of the people, whether it's friends or family, who hold you in high regard. Remembering gratefulness can help you remember that you are important., Work on building your self-esteem enough to realize how much you matter.


Try doing a self-assessment of your talents. Write all the things you are good at, and how you use that talent in your daily life. For example, maybe you are a good listener, and you use that skill to be a good friend and to help people at work resolve company issues.
Write down how you can use your skills to follow your dreams. For example, maybe you always dreamed of helping people and making a real contribution to their lives. You can use this skill to go to school to become a psychologist. This will make use of your natural talents of listening to people and your passion to help people.

