 There are many reasons why someone wants to put a child up for adoption, and no one can tell you whether or not it is a good idea do so. However, you should take some time to clarify why you want to put the child up for adoption. Sometimes, people are overwhelmed with responsibilities and feel that they have no choice but to give up a child. A little reflection should reveal whether you truly want to go ahead with the adoption.


Think about what it would take for you not to give the child up. Do you need more money? Would it help to have another person in the home to take care of your children? If you can identify something that is obtainable, then you might want to seek out financial or familial support instead of giving the child up.
Clear your head and think over your decision. You don’t need to rush into anything. Write down your reasons and revisit them to make sure you still feel the same way throughout the adoption process.
There is no right or wrong reason to give a child up for adoption. Putting a child up for adoption doesn’t mean you love him or her any less.With “open adoption” available today, there is also no reason why you can’t visit or hear from the child after adoption.;
, In an open adoption, the birth parents and the adoptive parents share identifying information with each other. This means that you will know the names of the people who adopt your child.With an open adoption, you and the adoptive parents can agree that you will maintain a presence in the child’s life. For example, you might agree to visitation or to receiving letters from the child.


A closed, or “traditional” adoption, is different. No identifying information is passed between the birth parents and the adoptive families.You therefore will not be able to track down the adoptive parents or your child at a later date.
Closed adoptions are ideal for those parents seeking closure or privacy.You can give up your child and move on with your life, secure in the knowledge that no one else will know of the pregnancy or adoption.
 If you cannot raise a child, then you could seek to have a family member raise him or her as a legal guardian. When a family member becomes a legal guardian, he or she has the legal authority to make decisions about the child’s medical and education needs. At the same time, your legal parental rights are not severed.To learn more about legal guardianship, see Become a Legal Guardian. You should also meet with a lawyer to discuss how to request guardianship from a court.
 You should not give up your parental rights lightly. If Child Protective Services has removed the child from your home, you should talk with an attorney. Do not simply assume that you can’t get your child back. You should also meet with a lawyer if you are a biological father who has been contacted by the birth mother and told that his child is being put up for adoption.


You should talk with a lawyer about your parental rights and what responsibilities you will have if you do not go through with the adoption. For example, you may be responsible for child support or for raising the child yourself.
To find a qualified family law attorney, see Find a Good Family Law Attorney.
 There are more than 2,000 adoption agencies in the United States.An adoption agency will find adoptive families and perform background checks on them. Because of how stressful the adoption process can be, a qualified agency will help smooth things out for you.


A great resource is the search engine at the Child Welfare Information Gateway, which is a service provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.In this search engine, you can select a state and then “Private Domestic Foster Care and Adoption Agency.”
You can also do a general Internet search for your state or county. Type “adoption agency” and then where you live. Write down the names of adoption agencies. You might also look in your phone book.
 Before selecting an agency, you should get a general sense of its reputation. You only want to work with a reputable adoption agency. Take the following steps:


Look at the website. Does it strike you as professional looking? Or does it contain poorly-written, inaccurate content? The more professional an agency’s self-presentation, then the more professional the agency probably is when handling adoptions.
Contact the state’s licensing agency. Each state should have an agency that licenses adoption agencies. You want to contact this government office and see if an agency is in good standing.Search for your state’s Licensing Agency on the Internet.
Check to see if the adoption agency has ever been sued. You can find this information by contacting your state’s Attorney General’s office.Ask for references. The agency should be able to give you three references for adoptions that they have handled over the past few years.
 As you attempt to narrow down your list of adoption agencies, you can call the references provided. Have several questions prepared to make the most of your telephone conversation:Were they pleased with how the adoption agency handled the adoption?
Was there anything they didn’t like? How responsive was the agency to suggestions or criticism?
What post-adoption services were available? Was counseling made available?
Would the reference recommend the agency?

, Once you have selected an adoption agency, you should schedule a meeting. You want to meet the staff and see the office that they have.
 You should be open with the adoption agency about whether or not you want your child to be raised by someone of a certain religion, or by parents who share your race or ethnicity.


At some adoption agencies, you can look through a book of prospective adoptive parents who have been screened.This is true of an open adoption, since you will know the adoptive parents’ identity.
You may be involved in selecting families as well. After you narrow down the parents that you want to consider, the agency will share detailed information, such as a Home study Report, with you., It is illegal to sell your child. However, you can be reimbursed for expenses, such as living, medical, and pregnancy-related expenses.For example, your visits to a doctor may be covered.
 The adoption agency should handle this. Each biological parent has parental rights which cannot be terminated without a court order. If you are a birth mother, then you cannot terminate the father’s rights yourself. Indeed, if he were to show up and assert his parental rights, he could stop the adoption.


For this reason, the adoption agency will probably want to contact the father. You should be honest with the agency about who the father is. Do not try to hide the identification out of embarrassment or fear. If the father finds out about the pregnancy and intervenes, the entire adoption could be derailed. It is best to tell the agency who the father is, even if he doesn’t already know.
A court needs to terminate the parental rights during a hearing. If the father refuses to consent to the termination, then he will need to attend the hearing and prove that he intends to support the child.
 You want to give birth to a healthy child, so follow all advice given by your doctor. If you are advised to stay in bed or avoid certain foods, then do so.
 You will need to sign away your parental rights. Typically, you must wait a certain amount of time to recover from the childbirth. The waiting time can vary, but is often between one and two days. You most likely will need to sign in front of a notary public or a judge.You also will have a certain amount of time to change your mind. This amount of time varies by state. For example, in Maryland you can revoke your consent to the adoption within 30 days., Many adoption agencies will have counseling services available to mothers, both before and after the adoption.You should take advantage of any services offered.


Adoption counseling can help you deal with grief and stress.If you have an open adoption, then adoption counseling can help you deal with setting boundaries with the adoptive parents.

