 The essence of tango is something you feel, not something you do. Any master of this art form will tell you that the music has to flow through you in order for you to truly grasp the tango. So start listening! Put it on in your car, have it on while you're doing dishes -- get to the point where you can tell where it's going. Then when you dance, there will be fewer surprises!


Need some names? Di Sarli, Canaro, Pugliese, D'Arienzo, and Laurenz are five names you should definitely check out. Throw on YouTube -- it's all at your fingertips.;
, This is numero uno when it comes to the tango. The embrace is physically simple, sure, but it must also be sensual, loose but firm, and poised. Generally speaking, both parties mirror each other.


Partner A (typically the man, though we'll try to be as astereotypical as possible) raises his (or her) left hand and wraps their right arm around their partner, placing their hand on her (or his as the case may be) back, centered slightly below the person's shoulder blades. Partner B then raises their right hand to partner A's left and places their left arm around B, with their hand on the center of A's back, as well.
 It may have started out in the poorer barrios of Argentina, but that doesn't mean that it hasn't evolved since. In order to give tango its proper due, you must dance with the correct posture. That means your head held high, your spine straight, your core strong and chest lifted, and confidence oozing from your body language.


With the wrong posture, not only will you look a little ridiculous, but you also risk injuring your partner. Imagine if you're all slumped over, forcing them to arch their back in abnormal ways and to step around your slightly-pigeon-toed feet like they're walking on eggshells. That's a quick way to get rid of any prospective partners!

, Before you get going with a partner -- especially if you're leading -- it's important to know the basic step. Imagine going into gym class in a mini-skirt and high heels! No thank you. You gotta be a little prepared for this kind of thing.


For both parties, remember this: slow, slow, quick, quick, slow. But for the leader, here's your five steps:

Forward with your left
Forward with your right
Forward with left
To the right with your right
Feet together, moving left to meet right. That's it! Repeat!


For the partner following (you're just mirroring):

Backward with your right
Backward with your left
Backward with your right
To the left with your left
Feet together, moving right to meet left. Ta da! Repeat!



, There's obviously more to it than slow, slow, quick, quick, slow, but that's the gist of it. Once you have that down and can do it in a counter-clockwise circle, grab someone to work with. Whether you're leading or following, feel their presence and flow with them. Otherwise you're dancing near each other, not with each other.


Experiment with different partners. Some will naturally be easier to work with than others. Certain styles just mesh together better than others. And, of course, if you can find someone who's a bit better than you, learn from them!

, In American style tango, progressive rocks are where you rock back and forth moving your weight from foot to foot instead of taking a step. So in the basic step we talked about, instead of quick, quick being two steps in one direction, it's one step and then rocking your weight forward. Clear as mud, yeah?


If you're leading, you're taking a two steps forward on quick, quick. Instead, take one step forward, and then throw your weight back onto your back foot (without moving it). If you're following, it's the opposite: step back on quick, and then move your weight forward on the second step.
 With progressive rocks and cortés, you can get two moves in one. The corté is the same as a progressive rock but on the first two steps (slow, slow). To give it more oomph, make sure your strides are long and fluid.
 Now have you and your partner facing the side -- this is called the promenade. Instead of thinking forward and back, you're thinking to the left or right. This way you can add in swivels and turns. In most tango forms, the follower (or woman) does most of the dirty work, but men can get in on the action, too!


Let's say, as partner B, you take two steps to the right (slow, slow). Immediately after that second step (and before the third), throw your torso to face the left. Then you resume moving backward. Swivel check!
For turns, the leader turns toward his partner 180 degrees on the first quick step and the one following steps between his feet. Now we're getting fancy!

, It would seem like leading is easier -- being able to read someone's mind is no easy feat -- but leading has its own perils, too. You always have to plan a step ahead and know where you want the dance to take you. So while you're working your way around the circle, think 8 steps into the future.
 You get to have the peace of mind that you just have to go with the flow. But going with the flow can be a little disconcerting if you don't trust. The easiest way to know that you're capable of depending on your partner is to feel their weight. Feel where it's going. Feel where it is between the moves. Balance with them. It'll take you with it.
 You can do all the fancy moves you want, but if you and your partner don't have that synchronicity, that gel, that essence is the tango, it doesn't matter. Don't feel pressured to spice it up. Stick to what you feel. Keep it simple, master the simple, and the rest will come.


Have you ever seen an old couple that just walks a simple dance together? How moving it is because you can see how they just get it? That. That is what you're aiming for.
 The teacher should be able to dance both lead and follow so he/she can teach you both how to do it and how it feels for your partner. Try to find a class that has a dozen or so people so you have a few partners to work with but still can seek individual attention.


There are three types of tango: Argentine tango, International Ballroom tango, and the American Ballroom tango. Argentine tango has become quite popular because of its free form, ad-lib steps and greater focus on the woman. Many amateur groups exist to teach and promote it.
 Whether you're in class or at a party, the tango generally happens in a circle. There are a couple things to know:


It moves counter-clockwise. You don't have to worry about turns, swivels, or anything fancy -- just know that you're moving counter-clockwise.
Generally speaking, the better tango-ers take larger steps and dominate more space. The less-confident dances end up getting relegated to the center of the circle, all smushed in by the more audacious dancers. Don't let this happen to you!

, If you go alone, find a partner to have a "cabeceo" with. However, you don't ask; you simply make eye contact. If you meet eyes, you smile or nod. If they don't meet your gaze, move on. It's less intrusive and doesn't leave one party pressured to say yes.


Generally, a round, or "tanda," is 4 dances. So if you're not sure you want to dance with this person for 4 dances, ask them on the 2nd or 3rd!

, The tango requires balance and the willingness to learn. At first there will be a heck of a learning curve, but trust that it will go away. The steps will come. You'll step on a few toes, but they'll heal. If you keep with it, you'll only get better.


The tango is not a dance that can be learned in one evening or with one lesson. That is what makes the tango so much fun! There is so much to learn -- it can take you your whole lifetime to learn and understand the tango. But don't let that discourage you; let it intrigue you. When you've mastered it, you've mastered an art.

