 For most users, Fitbit recommends wearing the tracker on your non-dominant side. However, the decision is ultimately up to you. With a few basic tweaks, the device will function just as well on either arm.If you’d rather wear your Fitbit on your dominant hand, you can adjust the settings to account for the extra movement, which may influence your activity reports.Your Fitbit can double as an all-in-one timepiece when placed on the wrist you usually wear your watch on.
 Straps that are clasped too tight can begin to irritate your wrist when worn for hours on end. Let your arm breathe a bit by leaving a space of about half an inch between your wrist and the band of the Fitbit. This will ensure that it never becomes a distraction.


The device should be able to move up and down your wrist naturally as you run, cycle, row or lift weights.
It’s usually best to not wear your Fitbit continuously for more than about an hour at a time., There may be times (like during a climb or in the middle of an intense Crossfit session) when you want to make sure that your Fitbit stays where it is. In these situations, cinch the band closer around your wrist. It's important that you don't wear the band too tight—just secure it enough to keep it from bouncing around as you move.To prevent the band from pinching or cutting off your circulation, push it up a couple inches above your wrist, around the spot where you would normally take your pulse.In addition to staying in place better, the Fitbit will have an easier time keep track of your heart rate and subtle movements when worn a little closer to the skin., Though the Fitbit was designed to be worn like an ordinary watch, it can still be just as useful when sported in a less cumbersome fashion. The Fitbit One and Fitbit Zip models, for instance, give you the option of clipping the tracker to your shoe, sports bra or some other article of clothing so that it doesn’t get in the way during a workout.Try attaching the tracker to a belt or armband, slipping it in your pocket or looping it around the handlebars of your bike.
Wearing your Fitbit somewhere other than your wrist may make your readings less accurate.

