 Stress, especially chronic stress, has been linked to acid reflux. To help with your condition, you need to destress everyday. To relax, go into a quiet room or a quiet space outside and breathe deeply for a few minutes. Inhale through your nose slowly, and exhale through your mouth. Take twice as long to exhale as you do to inhale. If you have trouble keeping straight how long you breath, counting can be helpful. Inhale for the count of 6 to 8 counts and exhale, counting to 12 to 16. Repeat as often as you can., Since stress is such a common problem, the American Psychological Association (APA) has come up with multiple ways to help you relax. They suggest progressive muscle relaxation. For this exercise, stand straight up. Contract the muscles in your feet and lower legs, tightening them as much as possible for 30 seconds. After this amount of time, slowly release the tension. Move on to your upper legs and repeat.


Continue these exercises for your hands and lower arms, upper arms and shoulders, and finally your stomach and abdominal muscles. Repeat daily., The APA also suggests that, no matter where you are and even if you can't go on an actual vacation, you can take a mental vacation. Take a few deep breaths, relax, and close your eyes. Imagine the most beautiful place you have ever been or your dream vacation spot.


Try to experience that place as fully as you can, smelling the smells, feeling a breeze, hearing the sounds. Repeat daily., The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends certain emergency stress relievers. They suggest that, if you find yourself under too much stress, count to 10 before you speak, take 3-5 deep breaths, walk away from the stressful situation, and say you'll handle it later. You can also try going for a walk to clear your head.


To reduce stress, don't be afraid to say "I'm sorry" if you make a mistake.
Avoid stressful situation by setting your watch 5-10 minutes ahead to avoid the stress of being late, driving in the slow lane, and avoiding busy roads to help you stay calm while driving.
Break down big problems into smaller parts. For example, answer one letter or phone call per day, instead of dealing with everything at once., Your sleep hygiene is your daily routine of sleep related activities and your sleeping patterns. The National Sleep Foundation (NSF) recommends that you avoid naps during the day because naps tend to disturb the normal cycle of sleep and wakefulness. Also avoid stimulants, which include caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol, too close to bedtime. Alcohol can help you get to sleep, but can disrupt sleep later on as the body begins to metabolize the alcohol.


Only do vigorous exercise in the morning or late afternoon. Try more relaxing exercises, like stretching or yoga, later at night to help get a full night's sleep.
Avoid large meals, chocolate, and spicy foods around bedtime.
Make sure you get exposure to natural sunlight. Light exposure helps maintain a healthy sleep-wake cycle., Try to avoid any emotional, physical, or mental upset before trying to go to sleep. Try not to dwell on problems in bed. If you find yourself reviewing the day or reviewing problems you have, try getting up again for 10-15 minutes.


During this time, do something that relaxes you like reading a book, doing deep breathing exercises, or meditating. Then, try going back to bed.
Associate your bed with sleep. Don’t use the bed to watch TV, listen to the radio, or read. If you link your bed with activities, your body will not want to sleep while in it., If you have faithfully tried the lifestyle modifications and the natural remedies recommended and still have no relief after about 2-3 weeks, call your physician. You may need more direct medical help.


If you are pregnant or nursing, call your physician for advice on dealing with hyperacidity. Don’t try any of these approaches without discussing it with your physician first.
If you are taking medications and believe that your hyperacidity may be caused by these medications, call your physician and see if the medications or dose can be changed.

