 You should seek immediate medical attention if you experience any symptoms that are severe and arise suddenly. Get evaluated immediately if you or your child suddenly experiences extreme thirst or dehydration, nausea and vomiting, extreme weakness, and unconsciousness.Remember that the severe and acute symptoms associated with type 1 diabetes can be related to any number of significant medical issues, like the flu. Thus, getting a correct diagnosis from a medical professional is essential.Although type 1 is more likely to cause immediate danger, both types of diabetes can lead to toxicity and result in nerve damage, amputation, respiratory damage, and have long lasting effects on the muscular system and vision.Early diagnosis and treatment or important for both types.
 If you suddenly show diabetic symptoms like extreme thirst, weight loss, fatigue, blurry vision, or frequently passing urine, you might be suffering from diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). DKA is when your body breaks down fat and muscle tissue for energy, and produces ketones, which are poisonous chemicals, as a byproduct. Type 1 diabetics are often undiagnosed until they require hospitalization for DKA.DKA is a life-threatening and severe condition that requires immediate medical attention.
Other people will often be able to smell a distinct pear-like scent on the breath of those suffering from DKA. They’re actually smelling ketones saturating your body.
 The only way to ensure a proper diagnosis is to see your primary care physician or a general practitioner at a clinic. These medical professionals are authorized to order a series of tests that will verify whether or not you are diabetic. They will also determine the status of the disease and extent of damage to your body, and help the doctor to determine the appropriate treatment plan for you. To make the most of your visit, ask questions such as:What treatments are available, and what’s best for me (or my child)?
Do I need a referral to an endocrinologist, dietitian, or other specialist?
What are my specific dietary, nutritional, and exercise needs?
How to I monitor the presence of ketones in my bloodstream?
How often should I visit the doctor and other care specialists?

, Type 1 diabetes is typically diagnosed in childhood, and usually is associated with serious disease, infection, or damage to the pancreas. On the other hand, testing for type 2 diabetes should be routine for people over the age of 45. If you have other health or lifestyle factors that put you at greater risk for type 2 diabetes, you should be tested annually as well. These risks include:Obesity or being overweight
Family history of diabetes
Sedentary lifestyle (exercising less than 3 time a week)
High blood pressure, or a mark of over 140/90
Low HDL levels (“good” cholesterol) and high levels of triglycerides
Smoking

, You can prevent or delay the onset of diabetes with a number of lifestyle choices. It’s especially important to take on these life changes if you can check off any of the risk factors, or if you’ve screen positive for prediabetes in the past. Proactive life changes include:Exercising 30 or more minutes most days
Managing your blood pressure
Eating a well-balanced diet
Keeping your weight within or near your recommended range

, Like types 1 and 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes affects how the body processes glucose. However, it only occurs in pregnant women. It causes high blood sugar that can threaten your pregnancy and your baby’s health.Gestational diabetes doesn’t cause noticeable signs or symptoms, so it’s difficult to diagnose on your own.If you're trying to become pregnant, consult your doctor for blood screenings to determine your risk of developing gestational diabetes.
Once you become pregnant, monitoring its signs and symptoms, like your blood sugar levels, becomes a routine part of prenatal care.
It’s not clear why some women develop gestational diabetes, but risk factors more commonly associated with the condition include: being over age 25 at time of pregnancy, family or personal history of type 2 diabetes, and being significantly overweight.