 Biblically, a tithe is literally one-tenth of what God has blessed you with. This is not necessarily limited to your paycheck, but that is where most people today begin. The question of whether to tithe off of the gross or net pay is really a matter for your conscience, but your aim should be to give to God one-tenth of your best. So if seventy-five percent of your check is deducted before you ever see it, you may want to take that into consideration. Either way you will need to budget your tithe. Make it a priority and not an afterthought.;
, Don't set up automatic draft and avoid giving cash when possible. The automatic draft is too easy. You can easily forget that you are giving back to God from His blessings and find yourself irritated by the periodic debit, or worse, get hit with a fee for insufficient funds. Cash is better, but doesn't offer the incentive of being tax deductible like checks do. Christians are taught to be good stewards, so if you can get tax deductions go for it. If you get a tax refund, you can tithe from it - or give it all.
 Most church budgets today include both a general fund and several other "dedicated" funds. While the general fund covers most of the operating expenses of the church, a dedicated fund is for a specific item, such as "world missions". These dedicated funds are either replenished with personal giving or smaller percentages from the general fund, or both. Most people simply tithe to the general fund. However, if you feel led to give more, or all of your tithe to a dedicated fund of the church, it is still going to the church.
 There will be opportunities for special giving, and they generally come up quickly without advance notice. Plan ahead. Look at how you've budgeted your tithe to decide if you should give from your tithe, or over and above your tithe. You may want to budget for special giving so you are able to when the time comes.
 Take time to think about your giving. Think about where the money will go and pray for God to bless it. Take time to write the check out before you go to church and not in a mad rush as the ushers come down the aisle. Do not allow it to become a meaningless routine. The point is to savor this worshipful act to God, because tithing is worship.

