 Start wearing your favorite clothes around them. This will change how you act, your attitude and personality, and will make you more confident.
 Just do not pretend to be someone you aren't! You should change your life in a positive way: Become smarter, nicer, etc., but always be real! Just show people your nice, happy side! For example, start doing more chores around the house, help people out, answer everybody's questions, show your talent (e.g. singing, piano, etc.). People will more than likely start to talk about you and how you have changed. This will make your cousin get jealous.
 Do well in school, make more friends, be outgoing, act smart, positive, bright, and act confident. But most importantly, do your best.
 When your cousin shows off, brags, tries to impress you or other people, or tries to be cool in front of everyone, say, "Oh, I got an A+ on my math test on Friday! I had 100%!". Be sure to get good grades in school. Try getting all A's because most of the people that are popular in school have good grades. Not only that, but everyone should have good grades regardless, not just to get / be popular!

, If you realize your cousin likes to paint, why not take up painting, too? Practice hard and long until you become better than your cousin.


If your cousin notices how you took up their hobby and they say, "You're a copycat! I can do it better!" or something of the sort, do not react. Just say, "Well, you've been doing it for years and I just started." Then go and do something of that hobby and say, "Wow. I actually think this is a great project I did." Pretend to say this to yourself when you're around them. Then casually look up and smile, saying, "Have you completed a painting / project, etc. like this yet?".
 If your cousin pretends to be so cool -- say, "Hey,I just got a new boyfriend / girlfriend a few days / weeks ago!" or "I made so many new friends from school and they never stop calling and texting me"!

, They will have some sort of reaction, and they may seem immature when they face you and have seen you have matured, but they haven't. And when people see you have changed in life they will think better of you, while your cousin hasn't changed and acted more mature in life since they've been "showing off" or acting "cool" or "bragging about themselves" instead of being his/her real actual self this whole time!

, Always look on the bright side whether if it is a problem, or someone hurt, or someone sad and your cousin will notice you are mature because you are always happy and want to think about good things, not bad things.
 Take Charge. If he / she tells you to do something and you don't want to do it, don't do it. Show her that he / she cannot boss you around.
 You will show her how much you have matured, and while he / she is still complaining, the adult will see that you are way more mature than him / her.
 If your cousin teases you, makes fun of you, mocks you, or embarrasses you, or even makes a low comment about you, just ignore it, and act as if you did not even hear what he / she said. Also, act like you do not care about what they said negative about you.
, Not to make them angry but to show them that you can do things as well as him/her too.;
, I can do it better!" or something of the sort, do not react. Just say, "Well, you've been doing it for years and I just started." Then go and do something of that hobby and say, "Wow. I actually think this is a great project I did." Pretend to say this to yourself when you're around them. Then casually look up and smile, saying, "Have you completed a painting / project, etc. like this yet?".
 You just want to make them jealous, not make them hate you...

