 Your court may have created printed Request for Production forms that you can use.Check your court’s website or ask the court clerk. If a form exists, you can use it as a template for drafting your own Request.;
, You should format the document like other documents in your case, e.g., the complaint or answer. Be sure to set the font to a comfortable size and style. Times New Roman or Arial 14 point is standard.
 You need to include the caption information at the top of your document: the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number. You might also need to add the judge’s name.


Remember to title the document. If you are the defendant, then you can title the document “Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents.” If you are the plaintiff, then title the document “Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents.”, In the introduction, you should state the rule of civil procedure that authorizes you to make these requests. You also should give a deadline for the production of documents.


Sample language could read: “Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34, the Plaintiff requests Defendant to produce and permit inspection and copying of the documents listed in this Request. The inspection and performance of related acts shall be made at a site agreed upon by the parties, within 30 days of service of this Request.”, After the introduction, you should include a section in which you define any term that you think needs to be defined. Common words or terms that are defined in Requests for Production include:“You” and “your,” which should be defined to refer to the party you are requesting documents from.
“Communication” should be defined broadly, to include any “disclosure, transfer, or exchange of information or opinion, however made.”“Document” should also be defined broadly to include any written, recorded, or graphic material of any kind that is in the other party’s possession, custody, or control, regardless of who made it. The definition should also include electronically stored date from which information can be obtained.
 Instructions can help the other party understand the scope of your requests and how it should interpret the requests. You should think about including an instructions section. Helpful instructions include:The relevant time period. For example, you may want all documents in the other side’s possession, custody, or control as of January 1, 2011.
The method of producing electronic information. For example, you may want emails printed off, or you may want them produced in electronic format.
The date and time to inspect material, if you don’t want a copy provided.
A reminder of the other side’s duty to supplement responses. According to your applicable rule of civil procedure, the other side is probably under a duty to supplement any response if they learn that their initial response was incomplete or incorrect. You should remind them of this duty, and cite the relevant rule.
A request to describe documents which have been destroyed. The other side may have destroyed a document that is responsive to your document request. In this situation, you should instruct the other side to identify the document by author, addressee, date, number of pages, and subject matter. They should also explain in detail how and why the document was lost or destroyed and when the document was last in their possession, custody, or control.
The method of claiming privilege. The other side does not have to turn over documents protected by certain privileges, such as the attorney-client privilege. However, you should instruct the other side to identify the document by author, date, subject matter, addressee, and number of pages. They should also state the basis of the claimed privilege.
A request to translate documents. For any document not in English, the other side should provide a word-for-word translation.
 Each request should be individually numbered under the heading “Documents Demanded.” If you need to, you should break out requests into subparts for the sake of clarity. However, you shouldn’t create compound requests if they are confusing.


A sample request might read: “One copy of each of your most current employee lists and organizational charts.”
You can sometimes use subparts to list information. For example, you might want a copy of any communication between the other side and a list of people. You can list each individual person using subpart (a), (b), etc., After your last request, add a signature block. You don’t need a conclusion to your Request since you aren’t generally filing the document with the court.


Tab down two spaces below your last request and insert the words “Respectfully Submitted,” and then insert a signature line beneath these words., You should certify that you sent the Request to the other side. You can provide this certification by adding a certificate of service on a separate piece of paper or at the very bottom of your Request.


A sample certificate might read: “I hereby certify that a true copy of the above document was served upon the attorney of record for the Plaintiff by regular first class mail postage pre-paid at this address: 1245 Downy Street, New Caledonia, MI 11223 on May 1, 2016.”, Once you have completed the Request, you should make several copies. One copy will be for your records. You will serve the original on the other side.


Provide courtesy copies to other parties in the lawsuit. For example, you may be one of three different defendants. If you make your Request on the Plaintiff, then you should provide a courtesy copy to each of the other two defendants., You should have someone make service on the other side. If the other side has a lawyer, then make service on the lawyer.You generally cannot make service yourself; however, someone 18 or older unrelated to the lawsuit can serve for you.


In most courts, you can serve a copy by first class mail. Check your Rules of Civil Procedure.
 You need proof that service was made on the other party. In some courts, your certificate of service will be sufficient. However, other courts might require that your server complete a Proof of Service or Affidavit of Service form.The form should be returned to you. Hold onto it in case there are any questions in the future about whether the other side received your Request.
 The judge probably created a pre-trial discovery plan, which will set the deadlines for serving your Request for Production. Take out your discovery plan and read it. You shouldn’t wait until the last minute to begin drafting your requests.
 These rules will provide you with important information as you plan your requests, such as the maximum number of requests you can make.


In federal court, Federal Rules 26 and 34 are the relevant rules. You can find these rules online.Your state court should have similar rules. You can also probably find your state’s rules of civil procedure online. If not, then visit your nearest law library, which may be at the courthouse.
 You can get a copy of almost any document so long as it relates to a claim or defense that you or the other side is making.Before drafting your Request, sit down and think about what kinds of information the other side would have in their possession that would be helpful. Consider the following:


Communications about the incident. The other side might make damaging admissions, particularly in an email or letter. You should request copies of communications that refer to or relate to the incident.
Documents you need to prove your lawsuit. You might be suing for employment discrimination. In this situation, you need copies of certain documents: your contract, your employment manual, any annual review. You might not have kept copies of these documents, so you can get them using a Request for Production.
Documents the other side might use in its case. There are two sides to every story, and you can expect the other side to try to win its lawsuit. It will use documents to help them. For example, if you are the defendant in a personal injury lawsuit, then you can expect the plaintiff to introduce photographs of his or her injuries, as well as medical reports and medical bills. You will want to see these before trial, so you should request them.
 With the rise of the personal computer, more information than ever before has been created: emails, word documents, rough drafts of documents, etc. You can potentially access all of this information.


You should also make requests for social media discovery.Social media is used by almost three-quarters of all Internet users. You can request information from the other side involving their social media accounts.
 You should make your request as broad as possible without being too broad. For example, you can’t say, “Give me a copy of all documents in your possession” because that sweeps in material that isn’t relevant to your lawsuit.


However, you could write, “Provide a copy of any communication relating to the subject matter of this lawsuit.” This kind of broad request can pull in any communication made that relates to the incident.
You want to draft requests broadly because there may be information the other side has in its possession that you don’t know about. One purpose of discovery is to uncover helpful information so there are no surprises at trial.