 Although you won't get the same benefit to your lower body, you also can do a modified version of the five pointed star pose at your desk at work, provided you have the space to extend your arms.Take a seat on the edge of your chair (preferably a stable chair and not a chair with wheels) with your feet flat on the floor. Extend your arms out to either side and breathe deeply.
Keep your back neutral and focus on your breath. When you exhale, think of reaching out through your fingers. As you inhale, think about lifting the crown of your head toward the ceiling.
 The seated crescent moon stretches the side of your body, which can get crunched if you're sitting at a desk in front of a computer all day. Stretching your sides can help relieve shoulder and neck strain.Come to a comfortable seat on the edge of your chair with your feet on the floor. Make sure your back is neutral and your shoulders are rolled back so that your shoulder blades fall alongside your spine.
Raise your arms overhead and press your palms together, fingers wide. Lean to one side as far as you can go and feel a good stretch. Take two or three deep breaths, then return to center and repeat on the other side.
 Chair pigeon pose is a good pose to add to your work yoga routine because it helps balance your hips and spine and gives your hips and inner thighs a good stretch.Sit on the edge of your chair with both feet on the floor. Make sure your back is neutral and your shoulders are rolled back. Bend your right knee and cross your right leg over your left so that your right ankle is resting just above your left knee and your knee is at a right angle.
Make sure your weight is evenly distributed on your sitting bones. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths before releasing and switching sides.
You can reach your opposite arm around to grip your knee if you want to add a gentle twist to your chair pigeon.
 The cat/cow flow is a favorite among yoga instructors, and with the chair modification you can use this flow as part of your work yoga routine. This pose helps increase circulation and loosen up your spine.Find a steady chair without a back, or sit sideways in the chair so that you'll be able to curl your back freely. Place both feet firmly on the floor and extend your arms straight out in front of you.
As you inhale, press your stomach forward and arch your back to come into cow pose. Keep your face soft and avoid jutting out your chin.
When you exhale, open your shoulder blades and curve your back outward, tucking your chin to your chest for cat pose. Continue moving between the two for 10 to 20 breath cycles with a breath for each movement.
 Desk upward dog pose can improve your posture in your upper back, especially if you sit hunched over a computer all day. It also gives a good stretch to your shoulders and chest.Stand next to your desk, about arm's length away, and rest your hands on the edge of the desk about shoulder width apart. Lift up towards the desk, keeping your arms straight and rolling over onto the tops of your toes.
Keep your legs straight and arch your back slightly, opening up your chest. Roll your shoulders back by turning the insides of your elbows to face forward.
As you exhale, push your hips back and lower your torso, maintaining a flat back as you come even with the top of your desk. Repeat the movement for 5 to 10 breath cycles.

