 A trust is a legal arrangement in which someone holds property for someone else. You can use a trust in the place of a will or to supplement a will. Accordingly, you can put all of your property into the trust and hold them in the trust for the benefit of your beneficiaries. You should first identify your property and consider whether you want to include it in the trust:Real estate, including your primary residence and any other real estate that you own an interest in.
Financial investments, such as stocks, bonds, and ownership interests in businesses.
Personal property. Personal property is property that is movable. This includes furniture, valuable works of art, jewelry, etc.
Intellectual property. If you have patents, trademarks, or copyrighted work, then you can also put them into the trust.
 The trustee manages the assets in the trust.With a revocable trust, you will likely be the trustee during your lifetime. You will need to choose a successor trustee to take over once you die or otherwise become incapacitated.Unless you have a complicated trust, you will probably choose someone you know, such as a spouse, child, or other relative. If your estate is large or complicated, then you should have your estate attorney help you identify professional trustees you can hire.
You can name more than one successor trustee. For example, your spouse might be your first choice. However, since he or she is probably near your age, you might also want to name a second successor trustee from a younger generation.
 The beneficiaries receive the property you put into the trust.You can prevent your assets from going to distant relatives by naming beneficiaries who are not those relatives. You can name anyone you want.


If you have beneficiaries who are young children, then you should name someone to take care of the property on their behalf.
 You can create a do-it-yourself trust using either online software (around $60) or a book (around $30). A lawyer will cost much more, around $1,000-2,000.You can draft a trust yourself and then show it to an estate attorney to review. If your estate is complicated, however, you should have the attorney draft the trust from scratch.
 It’s not enough to list your assets in the trust document. You also have to transfer assets to the trust. For example, if you are putting real estate in the trust, then you need to create a new deed.If you want bank accounts or securities accounts put into the trust, then close the old accounts and open new accounts in the name of the trust.
You also have to draft deeds of trust for personal property, like art work or jewelry. The trust book or program you use should have forms to help you draft these documents.
You shouldn’t put everything you own into the trust. For example, most people do not put in checking accounts, small items, or property they intend to sell, such as automobiles (which can be difficult to insure if they are owned by the trust). Furthermore, life insurance and retirement accounts (IRAs, 401(k)s, etc.) are not put into a trust because you should have named a beneficiary when you created them., You can amend or even revoke a revocable trust at any time.For example, you might want to add more property to the trust or change a beneficiary or successor trustee.


You can revise the trust by creating a new trust document.To add new trust property, remember to retitle the property so that it belongs to the trust.
If you decide to revoke the trust, then remember to create a will, otherwise your estate could pass to distant relatives.

