 If you have long hair, make your hair messy, but not frizzy. Use curling shampoo while taking a bath, and afterwards when it's dry, curl strands of your hair around your fingers to help it get in the mood. It's important for this preppy look that your hair is in the right mood. If you have straight hair, keep it straight. Dead straight, in fact. Straighten your hair, but don't damage it. If you have short hair, keep it in a bob cut. NO bangs allowed! But small, side-bangs are acceptable. Recently, a lot of girls are getting perms, apparently.;
, Make-up session is in something, apparently! Always keep one style for your make-up. Don't over-do the make-up ever. It can ruin the whole image. Keep the make-up low...for example, a few brushes of rose pink blush on your cheeks, and a dab of plain, light-pink lipstick. No gloss, but make the lips nice and kissable. Put light, faded mascara and a few dabs (no more than 5-6) of eye shadow, on your eyes preferably. Remember: stick to light colours.
 Keep a nice, light complexion with an extremely light tan if you want to be mature and preppy according to this article. People with absolutely any skin colours at all can be mature and preppy in their own way. Visit the beach often but remember to get your biggest, over-sized Chanel sunglasses and a big hat. Always take care of your skin. Wash it every morning after you wake up, and also before the night to keep it refreshing, smooth and 100% healthy even when you sleep. Night starts at around 20:00 hours so be sure to wash before then. You may wish to keep your complexion clear by making sure you remove all your make up before you go to bed at night with a suitable cleansing product and some eye makeup remover. Don't sleep with a fan on. People who sleep with a fan on cannot obtain this article's preppy and mature look.
 Always keep your cool no matter what you wear. The most important rule in prep is to look mature. Instead of old raggy buy 2 get 1 free t-shirts, get the ones that are great quality. Well known brands are J Crew, Lacoste, Rugby, Polo etc. Polo shirts work great. Add a handbag and sunglasses on top of your head and ta-dah! You have yourself a perfect preppy outfit! Practice putting clothes together to make a nice, low-cut choice of outfit that is totally hip and preppy according to this article.
 You can, but it won't look very...real. Instead, walk in normal speed, with your head high, especially if you are talking on the phone. Get the top most hair to fall down in your eyes, works if you have a side fringe. It looks totally preppy.
 Wear nice, low profile jewelry. Don't wear overly large obnoxious pieces, no one likes obnoxious jewelry. Wear classic simple jewelry that you can always keep on, not necessarily gold and silver but maybe pearls too. Stay away from plastic if you can.
 Make sure you have nice pair of sunglasses. Not too big and also not too small. Chanel or Glacier sunglasses that are affordable. Chanel sunglasses are apparently affordable. But not too cheap! Have a handbag too, which would look good with Capri pants. Go according to color. Like you can't wear a canary-yellow hippie shirt with a dark, navy purple handbag. It would totally not coordinate! Be careful when you go (where?) according to color.
 Some preppy shoes would include: sandals, sneakers (Tretorn, Camper, Converse Jack Purcell, or Keds), low-cut and not-so-high-profiled heels. BOOTS! They are simply preppy and will go with some outfits, such as boots, jeans and a nice top. If you simply want to wear flip-flops with capri's, go ahead! It will look awesome and totally preppy, but not flip-flops with jeans. It won't match at all. Since, according to this article, boots are totally preppy, wear them with capris.

