 If the person flirts back, there's a good chance that they're interested in you. If they just nod, but don't engage, they might not be paying attention – or they might be scared they'll say the wrong thing. If they start acting nervous and fidgety, they could really like you and feel anxious that you'll reject them, but they could also be figuring out how to let you down easy. Trust your gut! It can be hard to tell, but your intuition can lead you in the right direction.Bear in mind that some people are naturally flirty. Flirting back does not necessarily mean that the person likes you – it might just indicate attraction, or that he/she is especially outgoing.
Try casually touching the person to see how they respond. Put your hand on his/her arm or shoulder when you're speaking, and sit with your thighs and shoulders touching. If the person seems to respond well to your touch, it might be a good sign., Many strong relationships have begun as simple friendships. If you become this person's friend, you'll learn more about them and they'll learn more about you. If the two of you are compatible, you might start to like each other. This can also help the person feel more comfortable around you.


Try going out with a group of your friends and inviting the "Someone." This can make it much more comfortable to be around someone that you like.
 You can't necessarily force this, but you can ride the momentum if it happens. Bring up the inside joke again a day or two later, and see if the person remembers it. This can be a good way to gauge whether the person places significance upon your interactions.
 It may indicate attraction if the person pays rapt attention when you talk about yourself. He/she might ask you questions about your life. As you get to know each other more deeply, you might find yourselves talking about personal preferences and experiences that don't normally come up in conversation. If he/she listens and remembers the details hours or days later, then there's a good chance that he/she likes you.Again, this is not a certain method of telling that someone likes you. However, it can be a pretty good indication.
Try telling a long story to see if the person listens – but don't make it a boring tale. If he/she is hanging off of your every word, he/she probably finds you interesting.

