 Potential gum remover customers include:


Public Properties: airports, playgrounds, zoos, bus and train stations.
Hospitality/Tourism: hotels, casinos, amusement parks.
Education: schools, colleges, campuses.
Government: parks, state properties, municipal buildings, libraries, picnic areas.
Health care: hospitals, daycare centers, nursing homes.
Commercial Properties: parking lots, supermarkets, apartment complexes.;
, Consider the following:


Where have you worked previously?
Have any friends or family that work in any of the organizations listed above?
Ask your contacts on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and other social networking sites?
Not using social networking? Get with the program!

, In larger markets, experienced chewing (gum removal), contractors charge as much as $3,500 a day. You have several billing options:


Charge per square foot: This allows you and the customer to develop a price for each job, something many organizations prefer. Typical pricing ranges from $.75 to $1.50 per square foot. For smaller customers, start on the low-end. Also, offer quantity discounts. Be sure to examine the surface and condition: The more gum, the higher the price. An experienced gum removal contractor, using Daimer® equipment, can clean 2500 sq. ft. in one day.
Charge per hour: Gum remover professionals using gum remover equipment charge up to $200/hour. Again, adjust pricing to the customer and the job.
 In addition to gum removing, quality gum-removing machines can perform double-duty cleaning of hard surfaces, like tile and grout, wood and vinyl floors, and spot-cleaning carpets and upholstery. Look for equipment with EPA-registered ATIS® anti-bacterial technology, ideal for healthcare and food service customers.


Charge per hour: Look for tile and grout cleaning services using gum removal machines that can generate around $1.00 per square foot or more, and up to $200/hour. Pricing will vary depending upon the geographical area and your needs.
 These are what you need to know and purchase:


An integrated commercial-strength steam vacuum. Extraction means no wiping, faster cleanup, and the ability to completely remove gum residues. Machines without a vacuum do not remove tough gum wads effectively and require more cleaning time per gum spot on common hard surfaces, such as: tile, granite, concrete and cement walkways, pavement, asphalt, driveways, pavers, parking lots and garages.
A patented gum remover subsystem. Look for machines that include a double squeegee head and a 1 ¾-inch-diameter over-sized, heavy-gauge, stainless steel brush. The brush should be easy to thread and screw into the gum tool to provide a comfortable cleaning position, which means less fatigue and superior cleaning results. smaller, softer, less-expensive, brass brushes will wear down. Look for additional gum removal brushes included in the price.
Get an economical, super-concentrated gum-dissolver. Look for a gum-dissolver that is low cost, and concentrated.
Choose proven technology. Look for such elements as: oversized stainless steel boilers, removable heating rod design that extends boiler life, and self-regulating refill chambers for continuous, non-stop cleaning; availability in configurations that generate steam with temperatures as high as 329ºF and pressure levels topping at 120 psi.
 Once you're ordered your equipment, decide on a business name, register the business, create a website and start knocking on doors!

