 This often is a matter of trial and error, however make sure you learn from the errors. Generally, your limit will be linked to your weight and gender. Women, being generally smaller, weighing less, and having a naturally higher fat content, have a natural handicap when drinking alcohol.Generally, moderate (and likely nausea free) drinking entails:



Men

100 - 149 lbs: 1 - 2 drinks per hour
150 - 200+ lbs: 2 - 3 drinks per hourWomen

90 - 100 lbs: 1 drink per hour
101 - 180 lbs: 1 - 2 drinks per hour
181 - 200+ lbs: 2 - 3 drinks per hour, This is harder than it sounds, especially when friends are encouraging you to have another and your inhibitions are lowered by the alcohol you've already had.


A good defense is to say, "If I have another I'll be sick." This is especially useful if you're talking to the person that lives wherever you're drinking.
 Cooling yourself off is a big part of feeling better. Parties tend to get hot, and going outside will relieve you of this oppressive, potentially vomit-inducing atmosphere.As an added bonus, if you do vomit it won't be while you're surrounded by people, and throwing up outside requires less involved clean up.
 If you get close to vomiting, if you heave or gag, the best policy to ensure you do not vomit is to call it quits drinking for the night. Especially after you vomit, even if you feel much better, drinking more could lead to more vomiting and potentially something more serious, like alcohol poisoning., Though not definitively proven to help with nausea, most doctors don't see any harm in using accupressure to receive relief. Find the Neiguan (P-6) pressure point on your inner arm. Position your hand so that your palm is facing upwards. Place your middle three fingers across the wrist starting where the wrist meets your hand. The outside of the finger closest your body should mark this pressure point P-6. Now you can use your thumb to press this point, moving in a circular motion for a short period of time.You might gain additional relief by repeating this process on your other wrist.
 It may offer you relief if you rest in a sitting or lying on your left side, in a propped up position.Activity may worsen nausea and can even cause vomiting.

