 Have a child make something with you. You can find easy crafts online, with everyday materials. Get toilet paper rolls and put a face on it with creative supplies, like paint, small toys, string, or/and any other materials that you can find.;
, There's a lot of ways to exercise a child. You can simply play with a ball. Get a ball, have the child stand at the bottom of the staircase, and try to throw the ball all the way up. If the child does, then the adult bounces it back down. It's easy to find games to play, like soccer, or just passing the ball back and forth.
 Maybe in the park, the house, or the backyard. A great way to entertain and tire the child is to pretend one of you is a lion or something of that sort. Just don't say anything like a monster or a ghost, as the whole game becomes traumatic. Make it a game with funny facial expressions and pretending to fall down every once in a while.
 Children love the playground. Playgrounds are meant to be played in, and they are there because children love to play. Maybe go and have a picnic with your child, then let them play. This is also a good idea if you would like to read, or occupy yourself while they play but always keep an eye on the child. 


Go to the pool to go swimming and cool off, or a more natural experience at a lake. If you're near a beach, children love the sand. Water-parks are a safe place to go, as they usually have areas with sprinklers. If you are taking them somewhere to cool off in water, bring swim diapers, plans for food, (either money, or a picnic, which is fun), change of clothes, and normal diapers. Never leave the child unattended near or in water.
 All sorts of games. You can entertain a child with simple, fun board games, like Hungry Hungry Hippos, Twister, Candyland, and depending on the age, more thoughtful games like Guess Who?. Games like Monopoly, Chess, or Scrabble are likely to be confusing and boring for young minds.
 Tablets and phones have so many gaming options for all ages, even little kids are included in the demographic. It's easy to find a game a child would want to play, as they can choose the app that they would like according to their personality. Beware though; while children are in love with technology, they're clumsy. Make sure you have a secure phone case that will protect your phone in case it's dropped.
 If you have toys that you can play with, you might want to get a ball and simply pass it back and forth. You can also create a kingdom of animals, create an army out of stuffed animals, or anything else that you can think of. You can also pretend to be these animals, like you are the human and the child is the lion. Children tend to find it funny when you run away screaming that the kid is a lion like a mad-man. Just make sure you stay close, as they find the reaction on your face entertaining. Fainting is a funny addition to the act.
 Storytelling relaxes kids and is fun. Have a child sit in your lap or near you, and start telling the story. Add fun movements and get them involved. For example––You: And then Jack looked up at the sky and saw the giant beanstalk. He slowly started to climb up. Start tickling the child from their toes all the way up to their head, to imitate your hands climbing. That is just one way to get them involved. You might even want to invent a story with the child, like asking what the main characters name is, what pet it has, etc. Make funny voices for each of the characters to make it more interesting to listen to.
 While you are able to entertain a child, a child can also spend time eating and cooking. Most children love to cook. You can make cookies together, and have the child help you. They can help you with things like cracking the eggs, stirring, and putting the cookie-dough on the cooking pan. Afterwards you can enjoy the treat together. If you're babysitting, taking pictures would be nice for the parents and proves you did something productive.
 That means simple things with strong flavors, like macaroni and cheese, chicken nuggets, or sandwiches. If you're planning on going out, fast-food restaurants are an easy go-to. If you're going for a healthier idea, head to a grocery store and pick out some quick food. You can also just ask the child what they would like to eat, and serve that up. If they suggest something that is not ideal, you can try to find a compromise or make something together.
 If the child is young enough to still be taking naps during the day, make sure that the child does. Putting a child to bed is easier if they know you, but if they don't, they will want their mothers. Still, children will go to sleep if they are tired, even though they might fuss. If you really try for an hour to get the child to fall asleep, and doesn't, then try an activity that will exercise them.

