 A variety of different prescription medications have been shown to help with symptoms of fibromyalgia. Consult your physician to start finding the best medication regimen for you. Unfortunately, no single treatment works for all symptoms, so you may have to try several combinations of drugs., If OTC pain relievers aren’t properly managing your pain, then ask your doctor about prescription-strength options. Tramadol (Ultram, Conzip) are common options that your doctor might prescribe.Most doctors will not advise narcotics for fibromyalgia pain. Narcotics can create dependency in users and even worsen pain rather than alleviating it over extended use., Though not expressly developed for symptoms of fibromyalgia, different antidepressants have proven effective at helping with symptoms by altering levels of neurotransmitters in the brain.The classes of antidepressants your doctor may suggest include:Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine (Prozac) to help you sleep better and reduce fatigue
Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as duloxetine (Cymbalta) or milnacipran (Savella) to help minimize pain and fatigue
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as amitriptyline (Elavil) to help reduce fatigue by promoting quality sleep

, Some epilepsy and anti-seizure medications have also been successful at reducing fibromyalgia pain in some sufferers. Pregabalin (Lyrica) is the first drug the FDA has approved to help treat fibromyalgia.Your doctor may also suggest gabapentin (Neurontin, Gralise) to help combat fibromyalgia symptoms related to pain., One of the primary things your physician can do is to simply validate your condition despite the lack of an organic disease.The battery of tests those with fibromyalgia go through to rule out other conditions is exhaustive and fraught with instances of tests showing nothing. Your doctor can provide the necessary assurance that despite your condition being real, you have nothing to fear regarding the pain in your joints, muscles, or bones handicapping you or stopping you from leading a full, active life.
 A big part of improving your quality of life with fibromyalgia is not giving in to despair over the condition. A counselor or therapist can help arm you with a wide array of resources to strengthen your confidence in living with the condition, as well as to help deal with the stressful situations that come with having fibromyalgia.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is one popular school of therapeutic thought that can help you think more positively about your condition. CBT is a type of talk therapy that can help change how you think and feel about your condition., Your therapist will also have a variety of relaxation therapies available for you to try, so do the one that feels best after trying out a few. Relaxation techniques can help greatly in reducing stress, which can lead to fewer flare-ups. Some of these relaxation techniques may include:Autogenic training - This method focuses on the physical sensation of your own breathing or heartbeat.
Biofeedback - Biofeedback-assisted relaxation utilizes electronic devices to monitor your body’s reactions to techniques in order to teach you how to produce the relaxation response consciously.
Deep-breathing exercises - You consciously slow your breathing and focus on having deep and regular breaths.
Guided imagery - You focus on relaxing and pleasant images as a substitute for negative feelings.
Progressive relaxation - Also called progressive muscle relaxation or Jacobson’s progressive relaxation, you focus on tightening and relaxing the different muscle groups in your body.
Meditation - This includes both meditation and yoga, which make use of breathing techniques, concentration, and body movements.

