 Notice if your dog scratches or licks a particular spot constantly. This is usually a sign that he is suffering from some sort of skin irritation.;
, Examine more closely the problem area you have identified. Hot spots can be difficult to see with the naked eye because they tend to spread under the cover of the dog's fur. Usually by the time you notice them, hot spots are well established and growing rapidly. , Hot spots are red, moist, hot and irritated rashes. Other identifiers of hot spots include discharge and an unpleasant odor.Hot spots are most commonly found on a dog's head, hip or chest area.
Dogs with long hair and thick coats are most commonly affected.
Dogs who are not groomed regularly and have matted coats are also prone to developing hot spots, as are dogs who swim or are frequently in the rain.Dogs with hip dysplasia or anal sac disease are also more likely to suffer from hot spots because they tend to lick the skin on their hind end., If you do identify a hot spot, take some time to carefully check the rest of the dog’s skin. Part the fur in the area surrounding the hot spot and examine for any other moist or reddened areas. All spots need to be treated immediately and, if possible, you should try to ascertain the underlying cause of the hot spot (flea bite, scratch, allergy, etc.)., If this is your dog's first hot spot, seeing a vet is crucial. Your vet can give you an accurate diagnosis and develop an appropriate treatment plan., Exposing the hot spot to air will dry out the moisture and help speed up the healing process. Be careful not to pull the hair, irritate the skin or cut your dog's skin.Disinfect your scissors or clippers before clipping. In cases where there is a lot of discharge emerging from the hot spot, you will need to clean your clippers frequently while removing hair. Otherwise, the clippers will become plugged with debris. Remember to clean and disinfect the instrument after use.Have your dog sit or lie down for this process. Get a second person if you need help keeping the dog still.
To avoid accidentally cutting your dog's skin, don't cut too close to the skin itself and instead leave a quarter inch of stubble.If the affected area is too large, shave it., Use an antimicrobial shampoo that you can purchase at a vet's office or a pharmacy for humans.A good product will contain chlorhexidine as an ingredient.You can also clean the area with a mild, water-based astringent or antiseptic spray.Consult your veterinarian before use of any product on a hot spot., This will allow the medication in the shampoo to settle into the affected area and begin working. Rinse thoroughly after 10 minutes and dry the affected area completely.If using an alternative solution, read and follow the accompanying instructions on how to apply.
 Your vet will usually prescribe a topical medication, such as a Gentamicin or Betamethasone spray. Your vet may also recommend oral antibiotics, depending on the situation.You can apply an antibiotic treatment on the wound up to three times per day., The air will help the wound heal more effectively, whereas more moisture will facilitate the wound's growth.


Keep in mind that hot spots can't be covered with a bandage because this traps moisture in and thereby worsens the wound., If there is a buildup of discharge, repeat the shampoo process (shampoo, rinse, dry) to keep the wound clean., This check should be done daily, particularly if it is hot or humid out.
 Hydrocortisone spray and Benadryl tablets work well. The appropriate dosage is 1 tablet per 50 pounds.


Your vet may also prescribe steroids. Steroids work well for severe spots, but may cause side effects and can be harmful in the long-term. In addition, if the steroid is stopped before the spot is completely gone, the hot spot may come back and be worse than before.
Avoid using creams on the hot spot. Creams keep moisture in the area, and the spot needs to dry completely before it can heal.
 The cone-shaped collar will restrain your dog's reach, making him unable to further irritate the wound.An Elizabethan collar should not be used as the sole means of treatment for hot spots. Collars don't treat the hot spots but prevent your dog from making the lesions more severe. Untreated lesions will only grow and become more serious, in addition to being painful for your dog.You can wrap a sock around one of the dog's rear feet and tape it into place if the hot spot can be scratched by a rear foot.
 This keeps your dog from having a ready way to scratch the area and spread the infected discharge.