 The requirement for jobs teaching English in Japan can vary considerably, and will depend on the school or scheme you are applying for. In most instances you will need to be a native English speaker, or have significant and demonstrable mastery of English, such as a Bachelor’s degree from an English language university. You will generally need a degree, but it doesn’t normally make a big difference what the degree is in., A specific ESL teaching qualification is not essential for you to find work teaching in Japan. Most schools will offer training after you arrive to help you learn how to teach. Taking a course before you go, however, will give you a competitive advantage in the job market and will help you be more prepared for the work.


There are a number of different courses you can take, ranging from high-level courses such as the CELTA qualification, to short online TEFL courses.
The kind of course you might consider depends on whether you are looking to build a career teaching English, or work for a shorter period to try it out.
The more high-end courses can be very expensive, so it is advisable to try the work out for a while before deciding whether or not you want to make the investment., One of the best ways to get work teaching English in Japan is through the government’s JET (Japan Exchange and Teaching) Programme. The majority of JET workers will be assigned as Assistant Language Teachers, who will assist and support the Japanese English teachers in the classroom and in extra-curricular activities.The Assistant Language Teachers are there particularly to help the students with their speaking and conversational English.
In Japan there is a strong emphasis on reading and writing English, so native speaker Assistants can play an important part in the speaking element.
JET contracts last for a year, starting in the summer, and can potentially be renewed for up to four years., Aside from the JET programme, the other main employers of ESL teachers are private language schools. Searching through the internet will reveal a huge number of potential employers, and it can be difficult to judge from a website what a school will be like and what your working conditions will be.


The US Embassy in Japan provides a webpage with links to a number of organisations in Japan that employ ESL teachers: http://www.us.emb-japan.go.jp/jicc/japan-links.html#Employment

Whatever schools you find that you want to apply to, always do plenty of research online about the school as well as the city or area in which it is situated.
Ask around in ESL forums online for advice and stories from people who know the area and the schools., When applying for a teaching job in Japan, you should be wary of potential scams and dubious recruiters. Always insist on getting everything in writing, and ensure that you are given a formal working contract. Watch out for tell-tale signs and signals, such as the recruiter asking for some upfront fees or payments, or asking for money for some leads on jobs. Some other key signs to watch out for include:


Being asked to pay a processing fee for a visa. Your employer should pay this, not you.
The company using a Post Office Box address rather than a street address.
A company that says they will arrange a working visa after you arrive. It is illegal to work in Japan on a tourist visa.
Being asked for personal information, such as your bank card details.
Being pressured to take a job immediately with a line like “we have only one job left, you have to accept now.”, It sounds obvious, but you should be sure that you have a valid passport that is not due to expire while you will be in Japan. Check with this plenty of time before you are due to fly, because it can take a while for a new passport request to be processed.
 The school or company you will be working for should do the work to arrange the appropriate visa for you before you arrive. If you are working and being paid you will need a proper working visa, not a tourist visa.


You can go to Japan on a tourist visa and look for work, but you will only have three months to find work and get the appropriate visa before your tourist visa expires.
It should be possible to find work when in Japan, but be aware that most big companies only hire from outside Japan.
If you are in Japan you are more likely to find work with smaller companies, with fewer school branches., It is possible to apply for a working visa yourself, but you must have a job before you do this, and you must have a college degree. Your visa application needs to be sponsored by an employer, so you can’t get a working visa until you have a job offer. The application process can take two or three months. The visa typically granted to ESL teachers is called the “Specialist in Humanities/International Services” visa. You need information about you and the company you will work for, including:


Copies of the company’s registration and financial accounts.
Documents detailing your duties, and your contract.
Certificates and qualifications that show your education and career achievements.
A completed visa application form with two photos.
Your “Reason for Invitation Form.”
A “Letter of Guarantee Form.”, Before you leave it’s sensible to make copies of all the important documents and pieces of paperwork. This could include your passport, your visa, your insurance and your contract. If you are planning to look for work after you arrive, you should bring copies of all your qualifications and certifications., It is common for your accommodation to be organised by your employer before you arrive. If you are participating in the JET Programme, for example, you will be provided accommodation. You will typically get a small apartment, but you should ensure you know what to expect before you arrive.


Apartments in Japan are typically small and sparsely furnished compared to your average apartment in the West.
Not all apartments will have an internet connection, so be sure to ask before you arrive., Before you get out in Japan, you should make sure you completely understand how you will be paid, and what, if any, costs will be covered for you. In some instance your accommodation will be provided for free, other times you will have to pay. You will generally receive a monthly salary paid directly into your bank account.


Depending on your employer, your pay may have all the usual tax and insurance deductions included.
Generally the big schemes, such as JET programme, that are designed for people coming from outside Japan for a year or two, will organise all the taxes and insurance for you.If you working more independently for a private school, you may be expected to make arrangements for insurance and tax yourself.
 If you are keen to teach in English in Japan, chances are that you are already interested in Japanese life and culture and want to experience it first-hand. Even so, it’s a good idea to do some further research on daily life in Japan and specifically in the place you will be living and working.


It could be fun to draw up a list of things you want to do in your spare time, such as learning more Japanese and trying out loads of great sushi.
 You will only be expected to speak English at your workplace, but it’s a good idea to spend some time trying to get to grips with some Japanese basics before you head out. Being able to ask for things politely and greet people in Japanese will help you settle in when you arrive. Here are a few words to get you started:


Hello – Konnichiwa (KOHN-NEE-CHEE-WAH).
Welcome – Youkoso (YOH-KO-SO).
Thank you – Arigatou Gozaimasu (AH-REE-GAH-TOH-GO-ZA-EE-MAH-SU)., If you have a job arranged before you arrive, you will most likely find yourself in the classroom soon after you arrive. There may be some training, but you should expect to be getting involved in the classroom quickly so it’s best to be prepared. Some small things can help make the first few classes a little easier, such as bringing small gifts from your home country for the students, and bringing educational games like Scrabble.


Make sure you have a good English dictionary, as well as a comprehensive grammar book.
Bring along some resources, such as a book of ESL lesson plans to help you.
Take some glossy magazines and other resources that you can use to engage the students.