 You have enough stress as a college student. You don’t want to add more stress by knowingly putting yourself into contact with things that trigger your addiction. Make a list of people, places, things, or situations that trigger your addiction. Keep this list with you and work on avoiding these situations.For example, if you have an alcohol addiction, you may want to add bars or parties to your list. If you have a drug addiction, parties or certain people may need to be on there.
For food addictions, you may write down going to the dining hall alone, or for a gaming addiction, you may add names of friends who encourage you to spend all your time playing video games.
 After you make your list of triggers, you will see that there are people, places, and situations that trigger your addiction. These people may encourage you to give in to your addiction, the places may make it easier to partake in your addiction, or the situation may lead to problematic behavior. Now that you have identified the triggers, you should actively avoid them.On your road to recovery, you may need to change things about your life to avoid any triggers. You may need to find new friends who participate in healthier activities that won’t lead to your addictive behavior.
Find alternate social situations or activities that don’t lead to unhealthy behaviors. For example, instead of going to parties where drugs and alcohol may be everywhere, you may instead go bowling, to the movies, to dinner, or camping with friends.
 The end of the day is the worst for your addiction cravings. At the end of the day, you are tired from a long day of classes, work, or internships. You may be run down, you may be irritated because of a tough assignment, or you may be frustrated with a friend. No matter how you feel at the end of the day, you should be prepared for potential triggers.You can’t control your day. However, you can control what you do and how you respond to these emotional triggers.
Come up with a way to fight cravings on these nights. This may be relaxation techniques, a night in watching movies, or hanging out with a friend.
 If you have an addiction in college, you may find yourself in many situations where you will face peer pressure to give into your addiction. Your friends may try to convince you at a party to drink or do drugs, or your friends may want you to share drinks with them at dinner. When you are coping with an addiction, be strong and don’t let others encourage you to give in.For example, you may have to tell your friends, “I’m sorry, I don’t drink. But we can still have fun” or “I’ll come to the party, but I won’t do drugs or drink.”
If you find yourself surrounded by people who keep trying to get you to give into your addiction, walk away.
 When you go out, you may need to take someone with you who will be your advocate. This person will know about your addiction, and they will be there to help you stay strong and not give in to your addiction. This person may be firm with you or remind you of your goals.


You and your friend should discuss ahead of time what they should do if you start to give into problematic behavior.
For example, your friend may pull you aside and say, “You don’t want to do this. You are stronger than this. You do not need to drink this” or “You gave me permission to remind you of how you should not be doing this activity. If you cannot handle being around the substance, we should leave.”

, If you have a craving or are tempted to partake in your addictive behavior, think about what will happen afterwards. How will you feel afterwards? Will you feel good? Or will you feel bad about yourself and disappointed because you gave into the addiction? Thinking about the consequences and the time after the temporary high can help you avoid giving in.Think about the disappointment and broken trust of the people who have been helping you overcome your addiction.
Remember the negatives connected to your addiction: feeling sick, grades slipping, social isolation, missing class, or losing chunks of time.
 If academic stress is your trigger, it can cause a potential problem. You don't want to drop out, but you also have to take care of yourself. You can start by talking to professors or campus counselors for help, creating an organized plan for your semester work, and learning to manage your stress.


Create a class management schedule. This schedule helps you manage your time, so that you can have enough time for class, studying, homework, work, and any social activities. Being organized and managing your time is one of the most important things for reducing stress while in school.
Lighten your load if you have to. Consider taking one less class, getting involved in one less club or activity, or cut a few hours at work each week. Don't overload yourself because that could lead to emotional exhaustion and cause you to give into your addiction.
Find academic buddies. These are people who can study with you, help you stay organized and on schedule, and support you if you are having a bad day.

