 Before you can approach a teacher with the intention of becoming a monk, you must be quite learned in the Buddhist tradition, well read in Buddhist teachings, and well versed in Buddhist thought. Begin your journey to monkhood by devoting yourself to the study of Buddhism., This step will be difficult if you are not already involved with practicing Buddhists, but in order to become a monk, you will need a teacher who can give you permission to be ordained. Seek out Buddhist temples in your area, or travel to a part of the world where Buddhism is more prevalent. Stay open in your heart and allow it to lead to you the teacher you seek.You may try writing letters or emails to Buddhist teachers in your area and opening a correspondence.
 A crucial component of the Buddhist monastic tradition is a deep and dedicated meditation practice. Some Buddhist orders actually value a strong mediation practice above knowledge of Buddhist teachings. Being able to demonstrate your own practice may be essential to showing that you belong within the monkhood.
 After you have sufficiently educated yourself, and found a teacher to take this education further, you must locate a monastery and spend some time there. If you are good fit, you be welcomed to take your “lay vows,” or the vows of Buddhist devotion and intention made by a lay person. By spending time in a Buddhist monastery, you will be able to make certain that this is the life for you., After spending some time in the monastic community, you may be invited to stay. You will be asked to take the lifelong vows of a Buddhist monk and you will be ordained as such. You will be asked to commit to a celibate lifestyle and relinquish your material goods., When one is ordained to be a Buddhist monk, one traditionally stays with that monastery for five years. Becoming a Buddhist monk means joining a religious community: the Sangha. The purpose of this community is to study and practice the teachings of Buddha, as well as to share them with others. As a Buddhist monk, you will strengthen the bonds of the Sangha over your five (or more) years with that group.