 It is a misconception that some people are just naturally positive. In reality, optimism takes practice. You can develop a bubbly personality by working to bolster your optimism.Become aware of your “self-talk,” or the thoughts that you have about yourself.
Don’t say anything about yourself that you wouldn’t say about a friend.
When you have a negative thought, try to alter it. Instead of thinking, “I’ve never done this before,” try to tell yourself, “This is an opportunity to learn something new.”
Try to be optimistic when you talk with your friends too, such as by pointing out the positive in a situation. For example, if a friend is worried about an upcoming exam, don't join in on worrying about the test with your friend. Instead, you might say something like, "You are a great student! I am confident that you are going to do a great job! But for now, let's enjoy this beautiful day!"

, Negativity leads to more negativity. So even if something is bothering you, try to let it go rather than complaining about it. Complaining only spreads your misery around to others (which is decidedly un-bubbly). Embody a bubbly disposition by breaking the habit of complaint.


If you really need to air your complaints, try writing them down.
Another option is to speak to a therapist.
 If you want to exude a bubbly disposition, you can’t be hampered down by stress. Find some methods of stress-relief that work for you and practice them regularly.Get a massage.
Go for a walk.
Diffuse essential oils (like lemon or lavender) in your home or office.
Try to relieve your stress before it even becomes a problem.
 When you feel genuine gratitude in your daily life, it becomes much easier to exude bubbliness. Develop and grow your experience of gratitude by keeping a gratitude journal. Get a notebook, and write down five things you are grateful for each day.
In time, your gratitude will grow and grow!

, You may find yourself grumbling, “I have to go to work,” or, “I have to go to school,” or even, “I have to pay my rent.” But try swapping out just one little word, “have,” for the more positive verb, “get.”


When you say that you “get to go to work,” it reminds you to be grateful that you have a job.
When you say that you “get to pay rent,” it reminds you to be grateful both that you have a place to live, and that you can afford to pay for it., There is a Polish proverb that goes, “Not my monkeys, not my circus.” This saying reminds us that we do not need to engage in the drama of others.When you encounter conflicts that do not directly involve you, try not to intervene.
Refrain from gossiping! Avoid talking about people behind their backs.
If you are constantly surrounded by the drama of others, consider surrounding yourself with new people.

