 Place the bag over the top of your head making sure it does not cover your eyes mouth or nose.The plastic should cover your hair and sides of your head. The remaining excess can be trimmed away later.
This plastic acts as a protective barrier against the duct tape.
 Tear off 5-8 inch strips of duct tape and attache them to the bag. You will cover the entire bag creating a helmet made of duct tape. Be careful not to stick the duct tape to your skin or hair and only attach it to the plastic.


You may find it easiest to begin at the top of your head and work your way around to the front, sides, and back.
Tape across the plastic covering your forehead. The duct tape should come down to your eyebrows before smoothly transitioning down over your ears and around the back of your neck.
For best results, use black duct tape. Doing so will be easier than attempting to color silver duct tape later.
 Fold a 4 inch strip of duct tape in half lengthwise. Tape the strip to the center of the forehead portion of your mask extending down between your eyes and over your nose.Attach two more folded 6 inch strips of duct tape from the nose piece extending outward to your ears. This will create a "T" shape that goes between and under your eyes and covers your nose.
Make sure that you do not cover your mouth.
Leave spaces for eye holes.
Apply more duct tape, as necessary, to create a snug fit around your cheeks and nose.
 Look in the mirror with the mask base on. Draw a triangle around your nose, extending from the top of the bridge down to the bottom of your nostrils.
 You will need to cut out two triangular pieces of cardboard to build your nose piece. After cutting the pieces out, attach them to the mask along your nose outline using more duct tape.


You may find it easier to remove the mask temporarily for this part.
Tape the cardboard triangles to the mask to create a pointed nose piece.
 Use more plastic bag material and duct tape to cover the rest of your cheeks. Cut two circles 4 inches in diameter to cover your cheeks.


Tape additional plastic cut from another bag to the cross strip going under your eyes. Cover the plastic with duct tape to finish the cheeks of the mask.
The entire mouth and chin area should still remain open.
 Each ear should be made from three triangular strips of cardstock, joined together to make a narrow prism shape. Stuff the prisms with newspaper, and tape them together with more duct tape.


Attach the mask ears at the top of the mask so that they line up with your actual ears. Use more duct tape to attach the ears.
As you wrap the ear shapes in duct tape, you should bend them slightly inward so that they have a slightly more rounded and less rigid appearance.
There are no exact measurements for the ears, but in general, they should be fairly tall and narrow. As an estimate, make the base about 2 inches (5 cm) wide. The length should be about 6 inches (15.25 cm).
 Remove the mask from your head. Use additional layers of plastic bag material and duct tape to define the eye holes, nose, and lower edge.


Fill the mask with wadded grocery bags to prevent the mask from caving in as you work.
The mask eyes should be a defined "almond" shape. The holes should be about twice as large as the shape of your eyes.
Use tape to create a smooth edge along the nose and the rest of the lower edge of the mask. Trim away any visible plastic.
If desired, you could also cover the mask with another layer of tape to hide any uneven, criss-crossing tape lines and provide the mask with more support and structure.
 It should be complete at this point.


If you are still unsatisfied with the shape or look of the mask, continue sculpting it while looking at yourself wearing the mask in the mirror.

