 Unlike bees, wasps and hornets do not die after stinging, and they will not leave their stinger in your flesh. They can, however, sting multiple times. Before treating the sting, make sure you are no longer near the wasp or hornet.
 If the sting is on your legs, arms, hands, or feet, you'll want to remove any tight clothes, shoes, or jewelry immediately. Swelling will occur, in which case it'll be very hard to remove these items later.


The arm or leg should be elevated for this purpose as well. The less it swells, the better you'll feel, so keep those limbs elevated. If it's on your leg, lay down as soon as you can.
 The best thing you can do for this sting is to ice it. Don't bother with the pharmaceuticals, don't bother with the old wives' tales of other remedies -- just place ice in a wrap of some sort and keep it on the area for 10 minutes. Remove it when it's getting too cold (you'll definitely know when that is), and repeat it in 10 minute increments. The pain and itchiness will subside almost immediately.


Use an ice pack, ice cubes wrapped in a towel, or whatever you have lying around. You probably don't want the ice directly on your skin, so be sure to wrap it up.
 Dab a cotton ball or paper towel into white vinegar, and wipe it over the sting. Wasp and hornet stings are alkaline, which means that they can be neutralized by an acidic substance like vinegar. You may need to do this every few minutes since vinegar dries quickly.

You can also soak a bandage in vinegar and place it onto the affected area. Change the bandage every few hours or as needed. This will keep vinegar on the wound at all times.
 These agents help the wasp or hornet sting by relieving the itching and burning sensation (antihistamine) and pain (acetaminophen). Symptoms will probably last 2-5 days; follow the instructions on the label for dosage.For those under 18, aspirin is not advised., Be sure to regularly clean the wound with soap and water. A sting is nothing to worry about unless it gets infected (or if you're allergic); by keeping it clean, you drastically reduce your chances of anything becoming serious.
 If the victim is having a bad reaction, they may be experiencing anaphylaxis. Call for immediate emergency medical assistance if you notice the following symptoms:Difficulty breathing or wheezing
Tightness in the throat
Trouble speaking
Nausea or vomiting
Fast heartbeat or pulse
Skin that severely itches, tingles, swells, or turns red
Anxiety or dizziness
Loss of consciousness

If an anaphylaxis action plan has been established and an Epipen is available, don't wait; inject it. Do not worry about harming the other person. The less time wasted, the better.
 The remedy second to the miracle powers of ice is toothpaste. The texture and bite somehow fool the brain into feeling like the area is being scratched, so there's psychological satisfaction as well.Dab a bit on the area, wait a few minutes, and the symptoms will subside.


You'll need to reapply in about 5 hours or so -- or whenever the symptoms wear off. That's probably enough to find (or make) ice, though -- probably a preferable option.
 It's not the best home remedy, but it can lessen your symptoms and get you feeling a bit better, albeit very temporarily (probably around half an hour). Just enough time to get a hold of a better cure.


You may have read about using a tea bag or tobacco on the area. Don't bother - neither "remedy" will not help your sting., There are a number of products out there on the market for stings, but none of them is as good as an old-fashioned bag of ice. But if you're curious, here are some details.Skeeter Stik or Survivor Gel Stick are basically tubes of "travel-relief" when camping or otherwise away from the amenities of everyday life. It's a great idea in theory, but not very effective. Some may contain ammonia, which can irritate your skin.
Caladryl can help. However, most creams, like Benadryl Extra Strength Itch Stopping Cream, are just okay. You might have relief for a few minutes. Hydrocortisone cream is better, but caladryl is best.

