 If you want to reinvent yourself, then changing your physical appearance can help you feel more like a completely different person. You won't feel completely reinvented if you look in the mirror and see the same old thing you always see. Here are some ways to change the way you look:


Consider a dramatic change to your hair. If you have long hair, why not chop it just above your chin? Sick of the same brown hair you've had since the beginning of time? Go blonde.
Change the way you dress. Have you always gone grungy? Go for a sleek look. Have you always been preppy? Try the hipster trend.
Improve your body language. Your body language is a big part of your appearance, so you can work on standing taller, keeping your arms at your sides instead of crossed over your chest, and making eye contact when you talk.
Smile more. Smiling will give you a healthy glow and will make you look like a more positive person.
 The things you say and how you say them can say a lot about you, so you should reinvent the way you engage in everyday conversation to be your best self. If you speak differently, you'll begin to feel like a different person. Here are some ways to change the way you talk:Change the amount of talking that you do. If you're a big talker, take the time to listen more and talk less, and you'll find that you'll learn a lot more. If you're shy, try to talk more often in everyday conversation, and you'll find that you have more to contribute than you think.
Change how you talk. If you're a fast-talker, take the time to slow down and articulate every word. If you talk softly, work on talking louder and with more confidence.
Change the things you talk about. If you spend more time grousing or complaining than you'd like, work on talking about the positive things in your life, and the things that make you happy.
Gossip less. Though it's tough to stop gossiping completely, try to avoid saying bad things about people behind their backs, making fun of people, or just generally being not nice. You'll feel much better about yourself if you find yourself saying nice things about people when they aren't there.
 If you really want to reinvent yourself, then you have to change many of the things you do on a daily basis. This can be anything from your work to your eating routine. Here are some ways to change the things you do as a way of reinventing yourself:


Change your career. Part of reinventing yourself can mean to change your career path into something that makes you more fulfilled and happy.Change your hobbies. Pick up a completely new hobby or interest, such as bird watching, surfing, writing poetry, or training for marathons. Do what you have to do to make yourself feel new.
Change who you hang out with. Try making new friends, turning new acquaintances into friends, and getting to know complete strangers. This will make you feel even more like a new person.
 Changing your environment can help you feel like a completely new person, get in a new headspace, and just feel closer to achieving your goals for your future self. Here are some great ways to change your environment:


If you really want to reinvent yourself, consider moving to a completely new place where you don't know anybody. This may be scary, but this will make it easier for you to disconnect from your old self.
Move into a new home. If you're sick of your old apartment but have been too lazy to move to a new place, now's the time. Living in a place that makes you feel comfortable and different can help you transition more smoothly into your new skin.
Go on vacation. Though a vacation isn't a good permanent solution to any problem, taking a week or two to travel in a new place, whether it's a foreign country or a national park a few hours away from home, will help you clear your head and better complete your vision of your future.
Renovate your space. If you can't move and don't have time for a vacation, try painting your walls a new color, moving your furniture around, and throwing out or donating any furniture or clothes you don't need. You can change your space enough to make it feel like a new environment.
Consider working abroad. This is a dramatic move, but it will certainly help you reinvent yourself even faster.

