 Some of the most popular bad movies are The Room (Tommy Wiseau, 2003), Birdemic: Shock and Terror (James Nguyen, 2008), and Troll 2 (Claudio Fragasso, 1990). If you need inspiration, there are plenty of lists of bad movies on the internet; a simple search should help you find plenty of them. Unfortunately, some of these movies are somewhat obscure and may be hard to find. Be sure to check Netflix, local used video shops, and online retailers such as Amazon. You may end up having to shell out a little bit of money for the movie, but hopefully the experience will be worth it.;
, Bad movies are almost always more fun to see with a group; the more people around to crack jokes and point things out, the funnier the movie will seem. Agree on a time and a location and prepare for a unique movie-watching experience.
 The biggest mistake you can make while trying to enjoy a bad movie is trying to make sense of it. Most of these movies don't make very much sense, and that is precisely why they are hilarious. Simply embrace the plot holes, horrible cliches, and seemingly pointless dialogue.
 Especially if you are watching with friends, this will make the movie seem funnier and create inside jokes that your friends will participate in long after the movie is over.
 Often, the more you think about bad movies, the funnier they seem, because you realize things you didn't notice while the movie was on. Also, look into the history of the movie and its director. Terribly hilarious movies tend to have terribly hilarious backstories that raise more questions about the movie's origins than they answer.
 The internet is full of reviews and commentary tracks that go along with laughably bad movies. Not only are they a great source to find other movies to watch, but they can also be shown before, after, or along with the movie for added hilarity.
 Inevitably, there are things you missed the first time. Also, watching the same movie with a different group of friends can be an entirely different experience.

