 Social anxiety can make you want to hide away from people, but that only makes the problem worse. To get over your anxiety, practice going out and talking to people on a regular basis. It might feel difficult at first, but you will gradually start to relax as you gain experience.Start with small interactions, like buying groceries in the regular check-out lane instead of the self-check-out. As you get more comfortable talking to people, work your way up to bigger interactions, like going to parties.
 Going into a new situation can feel less intimidating if you have an idea of what to expect. If you’re unfamiliar with a type of social interaction, a Google search can give you some information on how it usually goes.For instance, if you’re nervous about going to your first job interview, do some research on interview etiquette and frequently asked interview questions.
 If you’re feeling anxious, deep-breathing exercises can help you calm down. Breathe in slowly through your nose for a count of eight, hold it for two seconds, and breathe out for another count of eight.Breathing deeply forces your muscles to relax and ensures you get enough oxygen in your blood.
 If there are kids present in a social environment, take a breather and strike up a conversation. In comparison to adults, most kids are much easier to talk to. They don't care much about whether you meet certain social expectations and they may not require you to rush to fill the silence with small talk.


If you're feeling anxious at a weeding reception or party, go hang out with the kids for a few minutes. Saying "Hi...can I join you guys?" is enough to gain admission to their club.
 Thinking about how nervous you feel can magnify the feeling. Instead, turn your focus outwards. Notice the physical details of your surroundings and the other people in the room.For example, when you notice yourself becoming anxious, take stock of your environment. Play a mental game, pointing out to yourself some things that you see that are the color white or blue. You can also try looking for things that are round or square. Doing this pulls your attention away from how you’re feeling in order to reduce your anxiety.

