 CNAs work as aides to nurses, completing tasks such as cleaning, filing, or scheduling. You can receive your CNA certificate after approximately 72 hours of training., Earning an LPN degree typically takes one year of full-time study or two years if the courses are taken part time. LPNs are considered dependent practitioners, meaning they are always under the direction and supervision of another professional, such as a registered nurse. With this degree, you can administer medications, collect vital signs, and collect specimens from patients.In Texas and California, LPNs are referred to as LVNs (licensed vocational nurses).
Classes in an LPN program are heavily focused on anatomy and physiology, and the majority of the curriculum is clinical practice.
LPN degrees are offered at a range of settings, such as technical schools, hospitals, community colleges, and privately owned nursing schools.
 RNs can perform a variety of jobs within the healthcare world, including trauma nurses, occupational health nurses, psychiatric nurses, or intensive care nurses. To achieve this certification, you will need to either complete an associate of science in nursing (ASN) or an associate’s degree in nursing, which typically takes two years at a community college. Another option is to pursue a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN), which is a four-year degree.Attaining an associate’s degree in nursing is the quickest way to become a nurse, but BSNs typically hold supervisory positions, so the extra schooling may be of interest to you.
If you have an associate’s degree, you may be eligible for an accelerated RN-to-BSN degree program, in which you receive credit for skills learned through work experience and previous schooling. This typically takes two years to complete.
 To further specialize in the nursing field, you can complete an MSN program in fields such as nurse-midwifery, nursing education, or geriatrics. You will also be able to teach at the college level if you hold an MSN degree, which usually takes about two years to complete.Nursing professions collectively known as advanced practice nurses, like nurse anesthetists, nursing administrator, or clinical nurse specialist, require a MSN.