 Use magic on it. It should turn invisible. If it did, pull it out of the ground. (NOTE: This may take a couple of times to do.)Put wings on. Fly through the hole the lake was in. You are in the ground. You can also escape through the hole, or from any other surface. If you want, don't put wings on. You will FALL through the hole and the game will restart.;
, When you complete a level, when the Starite (objective to get in the game) appears, use a Pregnant potion on it. Please back up. When it gives birth, if you are too close, you may pick up the real starite. When it gives birth, the real starite will be skinny and motherly. Pick up the other starite. When you do the game freezes and sometimes crashes :)

, Type in 'neogaf". You get a small little ball that you can ride. Sometimes, it ends up being immovable.
 There is a goal to use the "secret adjective" on Super Scribblenauts. It is "Scribblenautical". That adjective is now going to be used. Spawn a rock, glue, and a Win Button. Carefully place the rock on the button. You get a random 5th Cell Developer with a rooster helmet that looks like Maxwell's hair style. Use different rocks (pebble, boulder, stone, etc.), for different people or sometimes animals.
 Spawn a Time Machine. Go to world 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 over and over again in any order. You can even do them twice in a row. Eventually, You will go to a secret world with a Starite in a tree. There is a Doppelganger that looks like you that ISN'T the evil twin! It has red hair and blue shirt!! Amazing! Use a handheld potion. Use it on "Maxwell". Pick him up. go back to the playground using the time machine. You will still have him. Now you have a Maxwell to play with! Use a cloning ray (AKA: Clone Ray) on him. do it over and over again. This only works on Super Scribblenauts. But on Scribblenauts Remix, type in "me" or "Maxwell" or "evil twin" or "doppelganger". Give him the "scared" adjective. His run is so hilarious. Also, on Scribblenauts, (the first version where you aren't allowed to use adjectives), Type in "evil twin". place him on the ground. Characters seem to put their hand up to their head. Maxwell's evil twin has unattached his body parts, then quickly back together, His movement looks like he is being scared, or struck by lightning.
 Type in "longcat" and there is a cute white kitty with no hind legs popping out of a white cloud. It is so adorable. They seem to eat birds.
 Spawn "me" or "Maxwell's notebook". Take the notebook from the doppelganger then delete him or take it from the screen. Tap on yourself. Press "use" and it will show up a random object. Be careful though! I've experienced some aggressive and mean animals/people I've wished up! If you want a bull to attack you, and you get one from Maxwell's notebook, type in "red shirt", wear it, and the bull will attack you. If that doesn't work, hurt it.
 Spawn a "Robosaur". It is a robot dinosaur. If you want to ride it, either shoot it with a mind control device or just use the adjective "kind" or "nice" before you actually spawn it.
 Spawn a hot dude and a shield. Put the shield in front of the dude. Spawn a Freeze Ray. Shoot the shield. It should be frozen for a second, but since the dude is hot, his heat makes the shield cold. The dude should be warm. Then, place the warm dude in front of the shield. Shoot him with the Freeze Ray. He should freeze. Then the shield should freeze. Either the shield or the dude should flash until the other object is frozen.
 Apes can ride each other. Make sure you have nothing but Maxwell as an object in the screen. Type in "ape". Keep on making apes until the Budget Meter is full. Stack them all up on top of each other. You will get an ape tunnel.
 Type in "Magic invincible gold sacred folding fan" and then type in "Medusa head". Shoot the folding fan with the medusa head then use the folding fan, crosses will spawn from random places like meteors.They will also appear even if you cannot create any more objects.
 Make a "Pool" (of course) and make a gold object. The pool may appear yellow on certain conditions.
 Typed in a "Katana" (of course) then I typed in "Bomb" multiple times and set them on fire, the katana the became an alive happy katana it grabs things and turns them into starites. Pichu 904-founder of this glitch.
 Type in a person with an adjective for example, type in "Blind guy" and type in something magic, do not take the shades off, shoot him with the magic object (It can be "Magic" or "Magic wand" just anything magic.) Keep shooting him you will notice he is changed, every time he is shades will appear.
 It is the same thing as "longcat" only type in "tacgnol". A black version of longcat with a white X for his eye appears. It has the same traits and motions at Longcat, eat birds, everything. It may be Tacgnol is Longcat's nemesis, although they don't attack each other.
 If you type in "Magic emerald frozen staff" (Weapon staff) spawn a "Fire" then put the staff in the fire a fireman will appear the staff will no longer be emerald but on fire the fireman will extinguish both the fire and the staff.
 To remember how to summon Tacgnol, just spell "longcat" backwards!

