 NaNoWriMo begins at 12:00AM November 1st.You should start writing on the first day to set up a habit for yourself. This will ensure that you get a strong start and that you do not fall behind early.
 To win NaNoWriMo, you should be writing every day. You must write at least 1,667 words a day to win. That said, you should aim for a higher word count. Try to establish a daily goal of at least 2,000 words. This way, if you must miss a day, you will not fall as far behind as you would have otherwise.To find your word count in Microsoft Word, look on the status bar that runs along the bottom of the document. The word count is between the page number and the language setting. You can also click the tab on the toolbar called "Review." A button that says "Word Count" should appear.
Two thousand words is roughly four typed single-spaced pages.
 Pick a time of day when you will do nothing but write. Some people find it helpful to write early in the morning or late at night.During this time, you should turn off your phone, and eliminate all distractions. Find a quiet, comfortable place where you will be undisturbed. While you can set the length of time that works for you, you should work for at least one or two hours a day.


You can break up your writing into several shorter sessions if you find it difficult to write straight through for a long period.
Warn your family and friends that you will be doing this so that they know not to disturb you.
 You may feel as though you have hit a dead end, but writer’s block does not mean that you have lost the challenge. Instead, you can work through your problems and return to your writing with new ideas. Some ways you can do this include:



Exercise: You can take a walk, do some yoga, or go for a run. The movement will clear your mind and get your brain working.

Freewriting: Write whatever comes to mind for fifteen minutes without stopping. It does not have to be about your novel. You can write about your day, your feelings, or your goals for the month.

Take a break: Do something else for a little while. Make dinner, watch a TV show, or clean your house. When you return to your desk, you may find yourself refreshed and ready., During the month of November, there are many local and virtual events that happen to help connect writers. These events encourage creativity. You should search your region to see what events are going on in your area. You can also follow the NaNoWriMo official Twitter account to learn about virtual events. If there are no local events in your area, consider hosting one yourself!


Write-Ins occur both virtually and physically. You can find local Write-Ins by searching your region on the website. You can also contact your local library, community center, café, or other creative spaces to see if they would be willing to host one for you.Word sprints (also known as word wars) are timed exercises where you are encouraged to write as many words as possible in a short period of time. You may be given a prompt or theme to help you write.If you live near San Francisco, you may might attend the Night of Writing Dangerously. This seven-hour write-a-thon is an official event and fundraiser for the NaNoWriMo organization and their Young Writers Program., Use breaks throughout the day to scribble down more words. If you have five minutes during lunch, use them. If you’re waiting in a doctor’s office, write down a few sentences in a notebook. You can even record notes in your phone while on the bus or subway. Every word counts.
 You may want to write the best novel that you can, but you should not worry too much about revision during this month. You can always return to your manuscript after November to polish the details. During November, you should focus on boosting your word count. Word count is the only factor considered in winning NaNoWriMo.