 Beat in the eggs, one at a time.






;
, Mix well.
, Continue stirring until the mixture turns crumbly and the ingredients are combined.
 Divide the dough into thirds and shape roughly into rectangles. Wrap each rectangle in plastic kitchen wrap.
 Place the wrapped rectangles in the refrigerator and chill for about 2 hours.
 The template can be drawn on cardstock or similar strong, thin cardboard.









2 rectangular walls (both same size)
2 gable ends (both same size)
2 roof sides (make these slightly longer than the walls and slightly wider than the Gable's slanted sides.)
Templates can be found online with a brief search.
,, Slide the dough still on the paper, as parchment paper can be baked.
 Place in the center of the oven for even baking. It's ready when it turns slightly darker at the edges and feels firm to the touch.
 Let cool before using (otherwise, the icing will melt).
, Choose cutters that match the gingerbread theme, such as gingerbread people, stars and Christmas trees.
 The time needed will be on the lower side, as these pieces are smaller.
 Beat until foamy (about 2 minutes).
 Beat it in until stiff (about 9-10 minutes).
 It's also useful to have some in a small bowl for dabbing here and there, as needed.
 It is helpful to have an extra set of hands at this stage––get the kids, your spouse or neighbors involved!









Glue the walls together first. Let them set in place before adding the roof pieces.
The roof pieces can be tricky but with the right angle and some patience at holding them gently in place until any risk of sliding is abated (about 1-5 minutes), they will sit firmly. If you don't want to hold them by hand, use props such as kitchen utensils or upturned mugs, etc. Size up your clean kitchen gear to do the task!

, Once the whole gingerbread house has set, the roof needs to be iced to represent snow. Use a palette knife or butter knife to spread the snow evenly across the roof.
 The candies will stick to the roof easily before it dries, so do this part now. Stick candies, dragées, sugar crystals and any other items on the roof.
 Stick the candy items and gingerbread cut outs to the walls using dabs of royal icing as glue.
 This can be as simple or elaborate as you like. You're not limited to edibles; a few plastic trees and the like can be added provided they're hygienic and food-safe.
 Admire your work and expect lots of compliments! In good conditions, a gingerbread house should last a few weeks provided nobody tucks into it sooner.








