 Silicone caulk can be seriously sticky stuff, so the more you can get off of your hands initially, the easier it will be to get your hands completely clean in the long run. As soon as you notice caulk on your hands, take a tissue or paper towel and immediately wipe it away. Discard the tissue or paper towel immediately afterward to avoid accidentally spreading the caulk.


Don't use a fabric towel (especially one that you care about). Once silicone dries, it's very difficult to get out. In addition, it's basically waterproof, so even if it doesn't ruin your towel's appearance, it may make it less useful as a towel.;
, Once you wipe the excess caulk off of your hands, grab a cheap plastic bag (like the kind you get at the grocery store). Rub your hands with the bag, using it the same way you'd use a washcloth. If the silicone hasn't already dried, it should cling to the bag more readily than it clings to your hands, removing much of the remaining caulk. Though this trick is a little unconventional, it's cited by certain home improvement resources as being effective.If you don't have a grocery bag handy, most cheap plastic bags (like, for instance, trash can liners) should work well.
 If the caulk on your hands hasn't had a chance to dry, you should be able to remove much of it with a paper towel or plastic bag. To get the last of it, rinse with water. As you rinse, periodically scrub your hands with a sponge, paper towel, or mild abrasive. As noted above, you'll probably want to avoid using "nice" towels to remove caulk.


You may use soap if you wish. However, it's unclear whether doing this has any significant effect.
 Next, dry your hands off with a rag or paper towel. Examine them carefully, checking for any remaining caulk. Be thorough — even a small amount can be annoying once it dries. If you see any silicone remaining, you will probably want to repeat the steps above as needed until it's been removed or it's become obvious that it won't leave your hands.
 When used for its intended purpose, silicone caulk can take some time to dry completely — roughly 24 hours for a standard "bead". However, when it's spread thin or in tiny drops on your hands, it can dry much faster. Because of this, time is of the essence when you're trying to get silicone caulk off of your hands. The quicker you start removing wet caulk from your hands, the less effort you'll have to spend trying to remove dry caulk, which is much harder to clean off.


Because a big part of keeping your hands clean when caulking is to be able to clean them right away, it can be very helpful to keep cleaning supplies with you as you do your caulking. Keeping a clean plastic bag and a few paper towels near you while you work can make the difference between completely clean hands at the end of your project and the lingering inconvenience of hands caked with dry silicone.
 If you've tried the tips above and haven't been able to get the caulk off of your hands, there's a good chance that it's had time to dry. Unfortunately, because dry caulk is a strong adhesive and is basically waterproof, paper towels, plastic bags, and water won't be much help removing it. In this case, you may want to try one of the many home remedies recommended for removing dried caulk from your hands in the section below. Though these methods aren't definitively proven, many online sources recommend them.

