 One of your biggest weapons against stress is in your ability to move your body. Staying physically active offers tons of meaningful benefits such as greater resistance to disease, weight loss, and an immunity boost. However, regular exercise also helps reduce tension, lift your mood, improve self-esteem, and help you sleep.Find an enjoyable activity that increases your heart rate and challenges you physically. Some ideas can be swimming, hiking, weight-lifting, yoga, and even walking your dog.
 What you eat can help you fend off stress, too. Certain foods and beverages can actually exacerbate or cause stress like fast food, certain cheeses, some kinds of nuts, caffeine, sugar, and alcohol. On the other hand, some foods can help your body fight stress. These include fresh fruits and vegetables, fish, yogurt, and drinking plenty of water., When it comes to stress and sleep, you can easily get confused as to which came first. Do problems with sleep cause stress? Or, does stress cause sleep disruption? Scientists believe both are highly probable. Americans get far less than the recommended 7 to 9 hours each night and when they do sleep, the quality is poor due to stress.To improve your sleep habits, try the following.Go to sleep at the same time each night, and rise at the same time each morning.
Create a “winding down” period each night in which you turn off all electronics, stop working, and engage in relaxing activities such as reading or taking a warm bath.
Make sure that your sleeping environment is dark enough and comfortable. Save the bedroom for bedroom activities only. Refrain from watching TV or doing work in bed.
Stop caffeine intake 4 to 6 hours before bed. Refrain from smoking cigarettes or drinking excessive alcohol too close to bedtime. , You can successfully do all the things to prevent stress, but you will still be faced with stressful situations at times. During troubling periods in your life, turn to your stress-relief toolbox to help you ease anxiety and improve your mood. There are a variety of activities you can do to manage your stress.


Practice deep breathing. In the moment, a deep breathing exercise can relieve tension and promote calm. Try the 4-7-8 method.Inhale through the mouth for 4 counts, hold the breath for 7 counts, and then exhale for 8 counts. Repeat as needed.
Try meditation. This is a practice of focused attention that enables you to be in the moment and bring greater awareness to your focus (e.g. your breathing, your body, your environment, etc.). There are many types of meditation that are useful for various conditions. Find one that works for you by trying out several variations.Take care of yourself. Regularly take out the time to do things you enjoy, whether that is getting a manicure, taking a long walk or cuddling up with your partner to watch Netflix.
 The people you spend the most time with are as critical to your health and well-being as other factors like diet and exercise. Psychologists often prescribe strong social support for getting over mental illnesses like depression or post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD.Even if you are not dealing with a serious mental disorder, you can still gain the positive benefits of social support.


Research has shown that a positive network of friends, family and peers can help you develop a sense of security, increased self-worth, and belongingness.Get out more to enhance your support system. Try to meet new people by joining a gym or social club, volunteering, approaching peers at school or work, or by initiating connections online. You will also want to show continued dedication to any existing positive relationships as well.

