 You'll probably want to build a press kit. This is the music industry's standard for a resume. Venues will look at your EPK (electronic Press Kit) before deciding to book you or not. Playing live is the goal -- it will get you some cash, exposure, and it feels awesome.


For your press kit, you'll need some graphics. Does any member have any experience in graphic design? If not, does a member have a connection? You don't need a logo by any means, but you do need images for your flyers, etc., that draw people to your events.
Look into getting a photographer for a quick shoot either at rehearsal or at a gig. Your image is a quick and effective fix for a poster that has little to put on it in terms of graphics.
 There are bound to be a few places that say, "We'd love to have you -- but we don't have a working PA system." Well, guess what? You have your own. Problem solved. You can charge more that way, too!


While you're at it, invest in some good recording equipment if you don't have it already. The less you're at some studio's beck and call, the better.
 Make flyers and take them to your work or school and paste them in places potential fans may be (and where you are allowed to). See if you can get friends to help you with this so the work goes faster.


Look into general merchandise -- stickers, business cards, t-shirts/tank tops, decals, whatever your band might endorse. At your gigs, be sure to bring them along!

, Always promote your band online and in person. A Facebook account for your band would make it easy for people to hear samples of your music and learn who you are. Another site to consider is SoundCloud. Do your research!


You might also consider joining newer music communities, since it never hurts to get into a good site before a lot of other musicians join.
 People you may not even know will get exposure to you and, inevitably, leave their feedback. Use the best comments you receive in your advertising feeds.


You'll get some naysayers. Ignore them. It's YouTube -- the cream of humanity is not overly present on this website.
 Cultivating relationships with professionals you'll need in the future, on an ongoing basis, can make the transition from garage band to featured performer a lot easier.


Considering hiring a consultant. They can point you in directions you may not have thought of and narrow down what's feasible and what's not.
Look to friends and connections that have done it. They'll be full of invaluable price that you don't even have to pay for (well, maybe for the cost of a beer).
 It's a long way to the top if you want to rock 'n' roll. Obstacles will abound and the word "no" will be something you'll probably hear quite often. If you stay passionate, you'll stay happy and you'll stay going.


Make sure your heart stays in the music. If you don't feel the music, you'll never be successful. Bands are never permanent; if you feel the need to part ways, recognize it.
 It will gain you experience and also let people see what kind and thoughtful people you are, which is what everybody wants from their idols., "If you don't ask you don't get" is the simple way to put it. So why not look up festivals, give the manager a call or an email and say how you are really hoping to gain experience, that you'll do it for free and send him/ her a free CD. Be careful though, don't be pushy because the music scene is a very tight circle and everybody knows everybody so don't push anyone away. Other than that, go for it because you only live once and there's no harm in asking, they can only say no and if you play your cards right they might just say yes!