;
, Exalt Him. Raise Him to dignity, honor and happiness. We lift up Jesus today when we exalt His Name, His person, and His work, grace, glory, and all that He is, which is endless! Jesus said, "If I be lifted up I will draw all mankind to me!"

, (Psalm 95:6)

, (John 4:23)

, (Psalm 119:54,55)
And this command I give you, 'Love one another, even as I have loved you.'

,, (Psalm 96:8,9){The word "fear" used to mean "revere" in Hebrew, but over time the meaning of the word in our language has changed to "fear" or, "a feeling of terror." A god who wants you to find rest and refuge in him would never want us to fear him (2 Samuel 22:3, Matthew 11:28, Psalm 111:10)}


He is Unmoved: Unchangeable, undefeated Conqueror and Champion of saving souls that are called to repent.
He is a Healer: "He was wounded for our transgressions , he was bruised for our iniquities : the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed." (Isaiah 53:5)
He is First and Last: the Beginning and the End, the Creator and Keeper of your soul!
He is Architect: of the universe and Lord of all time; He always was; He always is and shall be.
 God the Father of all Creation, His Son Jesus Christ and their Holy Spirit.
 So, give all honor to the Father, and the Son and to the Holy Spirit in all things good or ill--great or small.
 His eyes are upon them from early to late. His plan for his followers is a good plan never bad.
 Jesus said, "What you do to the least of these my children, you do to me." Strengthen one another.
 Jesus said.
,, (Matthew 5:16)



Let your light shine: Follow Jesus example and teach people in the ways of God so that they can follow. "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path". (Psalm 119:105)

Do good works: Jesus example of good works was that He went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him. Jesus has empowered believers to go and do the same thing Believers will lay hands on the sick and they will recover (Mark 16:18)

Glorify God: The result of Jesus example was "when they saw the dumb speak, the maimed made whole, the lame walking, and the blind seeing: and they glorified the God of Israel." (Matthew 15:31)

Seek the Lord with all your heart: So then you can follow Jesus' example "And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart." (Jeremiah 29:13) Then follow Jesus, no longer at a distance.



"And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning." (Acts 10:44-46 Acts2:4) "Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost. In view of the fact that God gave them the like gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ -- then what was I, that I could withstand God? When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, 'Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life.' " (Acts11:15:18)
So believers also should seek to get others (including themselves) baptized with the Holy Spirit as Jesus instructed his followers to do while he was here on earth.

