 Start by finding out whether there are any internal openings within your company that could take you overseas. If you are already working in a multinational company or with global brands such as Microsoft, Oracle, Apple, Motorola, Unilever, P&G, Kraft, Pepsi, Coca-Cola, McDonalds, KFC, etc. , then this may be possible. Check within the company's internal jobs database and you will find many global openings worldwide. After you find a job opening of interest, approach the human resources to make an inquiry about it and to ask how to pursue it.;
, If you don't work in an MNC or you totally want to switch fields or industry, you must research in the internet heavily every day. Do research such as googling the more respected jobs databases in your targeted country, and focus where your credentials, your language ability and your working visa will be supporting factors. Example: jobsdb.com, monster.com and more.
 Prepare your language proficiency specifically the one targeted to your country destination. If you need to start learning another language, do what is needed to prepare.
 Prepare your working visa requirements, whether or not you need a sponsor in your targeted country.
 Even if you do not have the language proficiency, the easiest job you can get is as a Native Speaker English Teacher in the targeted country. You just have to dare to take the step, be adventurous and willing to experience new things.
 Ready up your mind and your family members if you have to relocate Internationally by yourself or with your family. Children are particularly in need of extensive preparation, especially if they are of school-age, since you need to do credit transfers and such.
 Look at the bright side, it could be your chance to start your own business by offering your service in the targeted country. For example: you can be a hip-hop teacher, or opening a wine shop for expat communities for the targeted foreign city, opening a club, teaching classes in a fitness club (this requires no language proficiency mostly) or opening a flower shop and a flower arranging demo class.
 Last but not least, be ready to invest time and money in the country even before you have the firm job offer since company naturally prefers local candidate rather than having to give you a relocation benefit package.

