 While you may not have the means to go to private school like Kate, you can put emphasis on your own education. Kate studied hard and did well on her exams in England, and she went on to study at the University of St. Andrews, where she met Prince William. Therefore, if you want to be like Kate, study hard and try to get into a good university., As noted, Kate got her undergraduate degree at the University of St. Andrews, a degree in art history. Therefore, to be more like Kate, you should encourage your own interest in art. Try taking an art history class at a local community college, for instance, or visiting your local art museum. You can also check out books from the library on art history., Kate has always been the picture of discreetness. She kept her relationship with the Prince secret for several years, mostly because he didn't want the press involved., Even amidst all the royal protocol, Kate and William often strive for a normal life. In fact, for the first two years of their marriage, they lived in a farmhouse out in the woods so they could enjoy each other's company. So while Kate may be a Duchess, she still very down-to-earth. Strive for being down-to-earth in your own life by grounding yourself in your family life.While living in the farmhouse, Kate often shopped and cooked for William, for instance., As a royal, Kate has many duties she must fulfill, usually backing up the Queen at royal events. She does what is expected of her as a royal. You, in turn, should fulfill what is expected of you by your family if you intend to copy Kate.While Kate's duties might be attending a royal event, your duties are more likely to look like showing up for a family event, preparing dinner for your family, or being there when you're needed.
 Kate has always been athletic. In high school, she played tennis, field hockey, and participated in track events such as the long jump. She continued playing field hockey in college. To model yourself after Kate, get involved in a sport.You can choose a sport to play at school, or you can check with your local parks and recreation department to see what sports leagues they offer. Many departments have leagues ranging from toddlers to adults.
Out of school, Kate typically runs, often with William, to stay in shape., Kate has always shown integrity when it comes to the royal family. For instance, when Kate and William split up in 2007, she didn't pass on any secrets about William or the family to the media. She kept that information to herself, even when she could have made some money off of it., Kate is always perfectly on point when it comes to etiquette. While proper etiquette does involve things like knowing who to curtsy to, it's also a lot more than that. It's more about being gracious to the people around you, and making them feel like they are welcome.For instance, when you host a dinner party, proper etiquette would dictate that you don't point out the fact that someone is slurping their food. You want to make your guests feel like they can do no wrong.However, it doesn't hurt to learn the proper rules for dining, as well. For instance, the proper way to stir tea (the British way) is to gently move your spoon back and forward in your teacup without clinking the sides., When standing, Kate always has perfect posture, and she doesn't give that up when she sits down, either. Kate keeps her back straight. She also doesn't rest on the back of the chair or the armrest. Instead, she keeps a small amount of space between her back and the chair back, crosses her ankles, and keeps her hands neatly folded in her lap.Also, make sure your chin stays up, so that it is parallel to the ground, not slouched over.