 Weather conditions vary significantly from year to year, but recognizable patterns for given regions appear over time as well. If you are going to predict snowfall on your own, know the average temperatures and precipitation rates for your region.


The National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration provides searchable information regarding average temperature and precipitation by month and year for the continental United States, WeatherDB provides a searchable index of average snowfall in U.S. cities, and Weather Underground also offers searchable records of weather history).
 You can predict weather through measurable changes in the atmosphere. With a barometer, an anemometer, a weather vane, a screened thermometer, and a rain gauge you can make reliable short-term predictions. Gathering your own data will allow you to refine general forecasts for greater local specificity.


Learn how to set a barometer and how to read a weather map in order to track changing weather conditions for yourself.Typically, falling atmospheric pressure signals coming precipitation. If air temperatures are right, precipitation will fall as snow (typically between -2° and 2°C or 28° and 35°F).
You can purchase an all-in-one digital device that performs the functions of each of the instruments necessary for a functional weather station. Models can cost between $150 and $2,500 depending on quality and complexity.You can build your own instruments from common items., The appearance of clouds alone does not mean that there will be snowfall. Certain clouds, however, are more likely to bring snowfall than others. You can learn how to recognize clouds in order to anticipate precipitation.Cirrus clouds typically are accompanied by fair weather, while stratus clouds can bring light precipitation and cumulus clouds can bring heavier precipitation.
 If you are hiking, you may need to predict weather without the tools to make measurements or access to reliable forecasts. Recognize the reliable predictions that can be made following directly observable trends.


Learn dangerous weather patterns for the region in which you live or are traveling.Old sayings lack complexity, but can help you get a general sense for coming weather. Look to the eastern sky to see whether the air is dry: “Red sky at night, sailors delight. Red Sky in morning, sailors take warning.”Or, gauge air pressure by noting how high geese fly: “If the goose honks high, fair weather. If the goose honks low, foul weather.”

