 This is the grey icon with cogs on one of the home screens.


This may also be in the “Utilities” folder on a home screen.;
, This is in the third set of options.
 This is in the third set of options.
, You can now use the zoom controls to magnify the display on your phone:


Double-tap three fingers to zoom in on the position where you tap.
Drag three fingers to move around the screen while you are zoomed in.
If you see a small, magnified window appear on your screen, your Zoom Region is set to "Window Zoom". Double-tap with three fingers anywhere on the screen to make the window disappear.
 If this is on while your zoom region is set to "Window Zoom," zooming into the screen while you are typing will cause the window to follow the words that you type.


The window can be adjusted or moved around by dragging the bottom of the focus window.
 Once enabled, this will make the display zoom in to the selected text field when the keyboard is brought into view.


Follow Focus must be on for this option to appear.
 This brings up a floating menu that allows you to control the zoom from any screen.


Tap Idle Visibility and drag the slider to adjust the transparency of the floating menu.
Double tap the floating menu to activate/deactivate zoom. Move the menu’s button towards one of the arrows to move around the zoom.
You can move the menu by zooming out, then dragging the menu to another spot on the screen.
 This brings up options to adjust the area of the screen that is magnified when you zoom:


Tap Full Screen Zoom. Full screen will magnify the entire screen when zooming in.

Full Screen Zoom will override Follow Focus, but will automatically switch to Window Zoom when a keyboard appears if Smart Typing is in use.Tap Window Zoom. Window Zoom magnifies a specific area in a smaller window.
 This brings up options to change the lighting or color scheme of the screen when zoomed in.



Inverted: This will reverse all colors to their opposite shade.

Grayscale: This will remove all colors and only use shades of gray, white, and black.

Grayscale Inverted: This will remove all color and invert the lighting of all shades.

Low Light: This lower the brightness of the screen in the zoomed area.
When Window Zoom is in use, these filters will only affect the windowed area.
 Sliding to the the right will increase the amount of magnification when zoomed in. Sliding to the left will decrease the amount.

