 If you're still obsessing over the person, it might be because you just have too much time to let your mind wander. This isn't a horrible thing, but it's probably giving you too many opportunities to daydream. Pick up a new hobby by jumping into something you know makes you happy and busy, or explore something entirely new!


Consider hiking, surfing, ceramics, horseback riding, marine biology, fashion, photography, writing, gardening, roller/ice skating, modeling, crafting, biking, racing, rafting, debating, landscaping, chess, architecture, camping, writing, photography, robotics, or fencing. Anything that keeps you active will do. Don't worry about image. Do whatever excites you.
Volunteer. Volunteering is important because it shows you just how much you have. It forces you to realize that your small problem — trying to stop obsessing over someone — is a very privileged problem to have.
 Your friends are there to help you. Through thick and thin. They give you advice, along with a shoulder to rest on. Go out with your friends, be happy with them. Don't just sit locked up in your room, isolated from the people who want to be around you.
 This is not meant in the harsh physical way. It means you should do everything to show them you don't care anymore. Sometimes, this can simply be achieved by being your normal self. Stop trying to impress them if you did so in the past. Instead, start doing the things you want to do, such as wearing clothes you actually like, doing sports you love, listening to music you like, etc.
 It doesn't need to be far if that's not practical. A lot of people take time to "reinvent" themselves after a breakup, going to places like India or South America. These places are far away and expensive to travel to, so they may not be practical. But find a place that's special in your heart.


Go someplace you've never been before. As mentioned earlier, it doesn't have to be really far away or expensive to travel to. As long as you're interested in going there, traveling can be a great way to stop obsessing over someone.
Talk with locals, engage in the community, and have fun. When you travel, focus on the new you. The new you is excited about learning, will put him/herself out there, and wants to have new experiences. What's the use of traveling if you don't put yourself out there?

, Don't forget: forgetting takes time. It can take as long as years to get over someone. But it does get easier. Life is never easy, but the more you understand, and the better you understand about yourself, the easier it will get. Pretty soon, you'll look back, laugh, and wonder: "What was I thinking?!"

