 The best way to ensure you're impersonation is on-point is to watch it happen. Jim Carry famously spent hours in front of the mirror working on his celebrity impressions, and the work clearly paid off. Even if you aren't doing as much physical comedy as Mr. Carry, working in a mirror lets you make minute adjustments on the fly, seeing little things that you can't notice otherwise. The longer you practice in front of a mirror the better you'll get.


Close your eyes, take a deep breath, and then jump right into the impression as soon as you open your eyes. Practicing this "on the dime" switch will be key for a live audience., Take a few phrases and work on them first instead of trying to pull the accent out of thin air. Just try to perfectly replicate a few phrases exactly how your subject says them. Once you get these down you can start working on a more general accent, as your mouth and mind will be more comfortable with the impersonation.


Can you find other people or actors doing the same impression? This is often a good way to practice, as they will naturally exaggerate important areas to help you hone in on the impression.
Make a note of syllables that give you trouble, and try to find an example of your subject saying them.
Keep practicing the voice to get better and better. How long can you stay in the accent without breaking?

, A good impression doesn't have to be on-the-nose, especially if the impression is subtle or not particularly unique. A good example of this is Kate McKinnon's recent Hillary Clinton impersonation. Mrs. Clinton does not have a particularly unique voice, accent, or set of mannerisms, but McKinnon pushes harder on her costume, facial tics, and flat tone of voice to make something that is not quite the "real" Hillary, but is still an instantly recognizable impression.


Be careful about going too far, of course! You want to be recognizable, not a cartoon version of the person.
 Tina Fey's famous Sarah Palin impersonation is credited with the line "I can see Russia from my house," but it's not something Palin ever actually said.SNL's Bobby Moynihan made "Full Throttle" the Guy Fieri slogan he's never actually said. A recent Melania Trump impression on The Late Show introduced a steely, 5-10 second gaze at the audience that, while influenced by Mrs. Trump, is still a new spin on the "character." If you want to really push your impressions for the audience, you'll paradoxically have to make some things up on the fly.


Remember that if you're performing this for an audience, the impression itself isn't a joke. You'll need to actually do something with it to make people laugh or clap.
A classic, easy joke premise is to put your impersonation in a situation it would never actually be in, like a Barack Obama impersonation where he he has to order his own meal at McDonald's.
 A good impersonation is fluid, meaning you can react and respond to the conversation without dropping the impersonation. While common phrases and words can help people recognize the character quickly, you'll need to be comfortable on the fly to truly impersonate someone. This takes practice, as well as a commitment to the part. The more you can work on the impersonation, especially with a mirror and/or tape recorder, the better you will get.
 Your voice can only change so much. If you have a deep, bass-filled voice, then you will struggle with a high-pitched impression, and there is little you can do to get around this. You'll feel pretty quickly whether or not your voice can hit the right notes, but don't be discouraged if you can't. There are plenty of impressions in your own range.


Just because an accent or impersonation is hard doesn't mean it is impossible -- this skill takes practice. However, you should feel pretty quickly if the tone or pitch is impossible for you to mimic.

