 Ordinary ministers are pastors, preachers, bishops, priests, and sometimes deacons who are vested with the authority to perform the sacrament.Priests have the power to perform baptisms without consulting with a bishop, and they may delegate the job to a deacon.Technically, anyone can perform a Catholic baptism. However, this is usually only done in extreme cases – i.e. when someone is lying on his or her deathbed, and fervently wishes to become baptized and to receive salvation.;
, Perhaps you've had a born-again experience and you want to seek salvation to affirm your faith. Perhaps you were baptized as a child, and you wish to be baptized again. Perhaps you have recently joined from another church, and you want to be baptized according to your adopted tradition. The reasoning behind your choice will determine many of the details.


Remember that you are doing this for you. An adult baptism can deepen your relationship with God, and it can act as a lodestone for your faith. If it feels like the right choice, then perhaps it is the right choice.If you are joining the church from a different Christian denomination, but you have already been baptized in the original denomination: you may not need to get baptized again, depending on the denominations in question. The United Methodist Church, for instance, recognizes prior baptisms from all other Christian denominations except for Mormonism., Set a date. Invite friends and family. Decide whether you want a big, fancy event, or an intimate affair. Most people hold their baptism ceremony at their local church.You might want to stage a big event in order to solidify your growing role in the church. Baptism is a big step! On the other hand, remember that this moment is not necessarily about your friends and family. It is an act of commitment to yourself and to Christ.
Consider supplying food to create a reception-like time of fellowship. Hire a catering company and budget how much you will spend on food. Alternately, ask a friend or family member to help with the refreshments.
 When people are baptized as babies, they have holy water sprinkled over them. As a child, teenager, or adult, you will kneel, sit, or lie in holy water. Specific rites may vary depending on which Church is baptizing you.
 The administrator of the ceremony (the priest or minister) will bless you "in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." He or she will dunk you into the water, then pull you out again. Once you have been blessed and immersed, you have been baptized. Rejoice. You are a Christian!