 While Chinese dwarf hamsters can be kept in pairs, they're not guaranteed to get along. The best chance of them getting along is if they were raised in the same litter, or introduced very young. If introduced as adults they're likely to fight.


Consult a vet before getting another hamster to see if it is a good idea for the health and well-being of your pet. If you decide to get another hamster, you may need to use a split cage to introduce the new hamster to the old one before putting them into the same cage.Do not get a male and female hamster or they may breed out of control. While baby hamsters may be cute at first, hamsters breed quickly and it is easy for a pet hamster population to get out of control. Most people would find it difficult to provide adequate housing, food, and care for dozens of hamsters.;
, Since Chinese dwarf hamsters are quite small, you do not need a large cage, but you can keep them in a larger cage if you prefer. Line the cage with plenty of bedding such as timothy hay, aspen shavings, shredded paper, or pelleted bedding. Place the cage or tank out of direct sunlight and away from drafts. You don’t want your hamsters to get too hot or too cold.


Do not use pine or cedar shavings because the fumes may be harmful to your hamsters.Make sure that your hamster has plenty of bedding to dig around in. Hamsters like to burrow., For example, your hamster will enjoy an exercise wheel. Hamsters need lots of exercise to be happy, and an exercise wheel is a great way to provide them with that. Make sure that the wheel does not have any openings that may cause your hamster’s tail to get caught.


Give your hamster a nice enclosed place to sleep. Hamsters like to hide and sleep in tight, dark spaces, so place a small flower pot or a box in your hamster’s cage.
Add pvc tubes to your hamster’s cage for tunneling and playing. , Hamsters like to burrow and tunnel, so cardboard tubes from toilet paper or paper towel rolls are good toys for hamsters. You can also look for special hamster toys in pets stores. You can also feed your hamster’s need to shred things by giving them paper towels and napkins now and then.Rotate toys each week so that your hamster always has different things to play with. This will help prevent your hamster from getting bored., Look for a specially formulated hamster food mix at your local pet store. Follow the package instructions for how much to give your hamster each day and serve the food in a small ceramic dish placed inside of his cage.


Limit seeds and nuts since they are high in fat and may cause your hamster to become overweight.
Supplement your hamster’s diet with alfalfa pellets and fresh fruits and vegetables such as spinach, lettuce, carrots and apples.
Give your hamster a large chunk to chew on rather than several small ones or your hamster may bury them in the bedding. Remove any uneaten food after your hamster has finished with it., Hamsters need to have access to clean fresh water at all times. Use an inverted water bottle with a drinking tube to provide your hamsters with plenty of water. Make sure that the water bottle’s tip does not touch or come too close to the bedding or the water may drain out.


Check the water bottle’s tip daily to make sure that it is working properly., Like all rodents, a hamster’s teeth never stop growing. Hamsters need to chew to keep their teeth from growing out of control, so make sure that you provide your hamster with a pesticide and chemical-free stick to chew on. You can also use a dog treat., Hamsters like to be awake at night, so the best time to spend time with your hamster is after the sun has gone down. For this reason, hamsters make great pets for night owls. Be aware that if you try to pick up your hamster during the day, it will be more likely to bite you., To help keep your hamster happy and healthy, you will need to keep his cage nice and clean. Once per week you should also perform a deep cleaning on your hamster’s cage. Remove everything from your hamster’s cage (including your hamster) and scrub the sides and bottom with warm, soapy water. Then rinse and dry the cage before putting in new bedding, your hamster’s accessories, and your hamster. In addition to a weekly deep clean, you should also do the following every day:


Remove and replace any soiled or damp bedding.
Remove and dispose of droppings.
Remove old food.
Check the corners of your hamster’s cage for hidden food. Hamsters have a tendency to stash food for later., It will take some time and patience before your hamster is ready to let you hold him. Build up his trust in you by allowing him to sniff your hand and even give you a little nibble. You can also offer your hamster a treat from your hand to build up his trust in you. Once your hamster is comfortable with you, you can try to pick him up.


To pick up your hamster, gently cup both hands around him and lift him slowly out of his cage. Do not swoop in and grab him or you will startle him and cause him to hide from you., Hamsters also need time outside of their cages to be happy. Once you have established trust with your hamster, take him out of his cage once per day for a little supervised play time outside of his cage.


Make sure to keep him in a room where you can monitor his movement. Otherwise he might hide somewhere and make it difficult for you to find him.
Make sure that there are no hazards in the area, such as electrical cords, that your hamster might gnaw on., A healthy hamster will be much happier than an unhealthy hamster. If a hamster is well cared for, it may live to be 1-2 years old. Take your hamster for regular check-ups with the veterinarian to make sure that he stays healthy and happy.


An unhealthy hamster may have a variety of symptoms, such as dull-looking eyes, matted fur, weight loss, shaking, runny nose and diarrhea. If your hamster is sick, take him to see a veterinarian right away.
Hamsters can catch the common cold from humans. If you are sick, avoid holding your hamster until you are well again so that you don’t make him sick.