 The extravagance or simplicity of your party will be determined in large part by your party budget. With a big budget, you can afford to rent a venue, provide catering and entertainment, and decorate to the nines. If you don't have a lot to spend, you can still throw an excellent party for your loyal employees!


Consider if the party itself might be a business investment that might make sense for your company. For example, if you throw a big party and invite stakeholders, members of the community, and employees and their families, you can bolster your company's reputation and network through the event, which might mean that spending a little more money might not be a bad idea.
Don't let the party put you into debt or cause any financial problems for your company. Don't underestimate how quickly the costs might add up.;
, The venue will depend a lot on the budget for the party, your available resources, and the tone you want to set with your party.


On a budget, a party in a break room or at the company president's home can create an intimate environment. With some decorations, music, and mood lighting, it can still have a great ambiance.
On a moderate budget, you might look into local community centers, churches, or local parks. Most charge a fee to rent space, but the fee is usually minimal.
With a bigger budget, you could rent a convention hall or a local historic meeting place. You could even rent out a nice restaurant or a country club.
 Be sure to give everyone plenty of notice, especially if you plan to spend a lot of time and money putting the party together. You can send a save-the-date many months in advance.


Decide if you will invite significant others and/or children. Be polite but clear about your expectations in the invitation. If you plan to keep it employees-only, you can add a small line at the end of the invitation that says, "Employees only, please." Otherwise, you can ask invitees to "Please RSVP for you and a guest." For a family-friendly affair, be sure to emphasize that "Families of employees are welcome to attend."
As with any party, the invitation sets the tone. If you send a quick email, your employees will assume it is a casual affair. If you mail a crisp envelope and an embossed card, hand addressed, you are communicating that it is a more formal party.
 This can be as simple or complex as your budget and tastes allow. For a low-budget affair, having a company-wide potluck can be fun and affordable!


Consider hiring a catering company if many people will be attending or if you plan to serve a whole meal or complex, fancy hors devours.
Decide if you want to include alcohol, and if so, if guests will receive a limited amount or if you will have an open bar. Be aware that open-bar parties often lead to intoxication.
 In addition to music (which can be in the form of a live band or a stereo system, depending again on your budget), think of ways to incorporate your company's history into the evening's events.


Consider asking the owner, president, or department heads to give a toast or short speech about their best memories with the company.
If budget allows, you can prepare and show a video or slideshow about the history of the company. You can hire a production company to put something like this together, or do it in-house or by yourself with a lower budget.

