 What are you passionate about? What is exciting to you? What topics or activities turns you into a completely focused whirlwind? Passion and a love of something (or anything) is one of the perfect springboards for starting a website or blog.;
, Provide step-by-step instruction and education on choosing the right business clothes, hair care, cook, baby care, household maintenance, holiday decorations, win a college scholarship, train a puppy, landscaping… Ask yourself what do you know how to do well. There is an entire world of people out there who want to learn how to do just about anything! This wikiHow site is a great example. Each and every wikiHow is a website or blog waiting to be built!

, Who? What? When? Where?... What do you wonder about? What do you search for on the internet? Do you find the information you want quickly and easily? Does it answer your question and provide the information that you were interested in learning? If not, consider starting a comprehensive website or blog that does provide extensive information on that topic.
, Do you have a hobby or skill that you are good at? Crafts, automobiles, construction, gardening, writing, gaming, real estate, computers, sewing, animals, collecting… the sky’s the limit for interesting DIY instructional websites or blogs.
 Explore your own hidden inner comic and build a fun site around a collection of the funniest YouTube videos, the health benefits of laughing, great comedies on DVD, comic books.
 For example, if you love camping then a specialty niche might be a website on perfect tent camping camp grounds in the USA or what to bring on a hiking camping trip. Or if you happen to love to cook and your specialty is homemade pie, grilling, or shrimp appetizer dishes then you have found a great niche! Finding a good niche to create a website around can be very successful because your visitors will all be people who want to know about that particular specialty topic.
 You can create entire stores by becoming an affiliate with companies. (An affiliate is a company that you partner with who will pay you commission on the sales you make of their products.) Think of the range of products that Amazon.com has. They are just one choice among the thousands of affiliate companies available to partner with. As an Amazon.com affiliate you can choose any category of products they stock and market them yourself through a website. Do you love electronics, cosmetics, books, music, gourmet food items?

, Graphic design, legal, writing, book reviews, editing, website design, financial advise, real estate consulting, home decorating… Begin your own consulting services by promoting them through a website.
 Start a “best tips” website such as the best laptops, best cat breeds, best annual flowers to plant, best motorcycles, benefits of green tea, best hot tubs, wine and beer tips…

, Start your own blog share your views with the world.
 Start an interactive forum site on a topic you enjoy.
 Start a specialty auction website.
 Research what topics or products generate money. Financial websites, real estate websites, consulting, sites that sell “big ticket” items such as computers, cars, vacations… can all offer generous income potential if presented well.

