 Carbohydrates are sugars and starches that the body converts to glucose, a type of sugar the body can use for energy.There are simple carbs (such as in fruits and vegetables) as well as complex carbs (bread, cereal, rice, potatoes, etc.), and some low-carb diets focus particularly on cutting out the latter. The biggest problem, however, is probably the consumption of "empty carbs," or carb-rich foods with limited nutritional value (think potato chips, for instance).
There’s no single way to reduce carbohydrate intake. Some plans allow a limited amount of complex carbs, while others cut them out of the diet completely. If you stick to the diet, cutting carbs has been shown to quickly reduce weight, though it can return when you resume a normal diet.A good baseline for a low-carb diet is 60 – 130 grams of carbohydrates per day. Compare that to the 225 – 325 recommended for a regular, but still healthy diet.
Once again, your safest bet is to consult with a healthcare professional about low-carb diet options. Don’t blindly trust what you hear on commercials or see online.
 That said, it is not without risk.


Low-carb diets do seem to have an advantage over other diets in short-term weight loss; the evidence regarding long-term weight loss is less clear, although low-carb diets seem to be at least as effective in this realm as other diets.Low-carb diets may decrease your chances of heart disease by improving your HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels. It may also lower your blood sugar, decreasing your risk of developing diabetes. These benefits are associated with any weight-loss regimen, though, not just low-carb diets.
When you begin a low-carb plan, you may experience headaches, fatigue, constipation, and other symptoms as your body attempts to adjust. If your carb intake is too low, you risk nutritional deficiencies and disorders like ketosis, which occurs when you don’t have enough glucose stored for energy and your body responds with several unpleasant effects.
 Because so many of our calories usually come from carbohydrates, many people don't bother counting calories when they're on a low-carb diet. The foods you eat on a low-carb diet will fill you up and provide nutrition without bombing your body with calories. Typical foods on a low-carb diet include:Any type of fish or shellfish (excluding mussels and oysters)
Any type of poultry (chicken, turkey, etc.)
Any type of meat, assuming carbs haven't been added through processing. The most common culprits are bacons and hams that are cured in sugar.
Dark, leafy greens like spinach, arugula, and kale
All vegetables except for starchy ones like potatoes and parsnips.
Small amounts of cheese (about 1 gram per day)
Healthy fats and oils (butter, cold-pressed vegetable oils, olive oil, mayonnaise with no added sugar)

, The best thing you can do for yourself is stop eating processed foods. Though they're cheap and often delicious, they fill your body with empty calories without providing any significant nutrition. Foods to avoid include:Sugars: Some people choose to cut even simple sugars from fruits and juices out of their low-carb diets. At the very least, avoid the refined sugars found in soft drinks, candies, desserts, and sugary breakfast cereals. Avoid processed fruits (canned in syrup, dried).
Grains: This includes pasta, bread, rice, and cereal. Again, some people choose to cut all grains out of their diets. At the least, cut refined grains (white bread, white rice, regular pasta) out and opt for whole grain options (wheat or whole-grain bread, brown rice, whole-wheat pasta).
Starchy vegetables: Although potatoes and parsnips are vegetables, their starch content makes them a bad fit for a low-carb diet., Just like with calories, it's important to count your carbohydrates to make sure you're staying on track. This is especially important if you've decided to limit, but not completely eliminate common carbohydrate sources like bread and rice.


Check nutrition labels for carbohydrate counts
Measure food with measuring cups and a food scale
Keep track of your daily intake and make sure you stay within your daily limit.

