 You can find budgies for sale online, in want-ads, or in pet stores. You can also get one from your local animal shelter. Wherever you get your budgie from, make sure the seller has healthy and humanely treated birds.


Look at online reviews for the sellers you find. Are most buyers satisfied with the birds that they purchased from the seller?
If you have a friend that has budgies, ask them where you can get good birds. This is especially helpful if they got their bird, or birds, recently.;
, Assess how they make you feel. Does the space feel clean and well cared for? Do you think the people working at the store or the person selling the birds feels responsible and invested in the health and happiness of the birds? If any of this feels wrong, walk away.
 Are the sellers cleaning their hands before handling the birds? These are simple but important things that keep budgies healthy and happy.
 Budgies need a clean and spacious cage. Are there so many budgies in there they can't all move? Is the cage or bin dirty? Does the condition of the cage line up with what the seller told you they do to care for their birds? Do the birds have water? Do the birds have appropriate food, such as seed, pellets, and vegetables?These are all important things to assess before moving forward with purchasing a budgie.
 Are the birds interacting with one another? Look at the head, body, and legs of each bird you are considering. If it is healthy and happy its feathers should be smooth and shiny, not all puffed up. It should have a healthy appetite, so you should see it eating seed. Its beak and feet should not be crusted. Its vents should be clear and it should not have any nasal discharge.The feathers should have an appearance that is shiny, sleek, and smooth.The budgies should not have any growths or abnormalities.The budgies' feet should be clear of mites and its toes should be clean and smooth., If it is healthy and happy then it should be active and seem happy. Does it move around, eat seed, and drink water? While a budgie should be relatively calm when left alone, it is natural for a budgie to tighten its feathers when you come near its cage, so don't read that behavior negatively. Usually, the budgies from pet shops are not hand tamed, which means that you will have to be willing to take the time to help it get accustomed to your hand, if you want to be able to hold it. If you want to buy a budgie that is already hand tamed, you will need to go to a specialized budgie breeder.
 You can tell the age of a budgie by the black bars on the forehead. A young budgie (under 4 months) will have black bars all the way down to the cere, which is the fleshy part above the beak. Above 4 months, the bars will disappear.


If the budgie is "molting" it is around 6 months old, this is a good age to train a budgie.
 This only matters if you have a preference and only works when they are old enough that the bars are gone. For males, the cere is blue. For females, the cere will be very light blue, beige, or brown.


Male budgies are slightly better talkers, so if you are concerned with that you might want to make sure you get a male bird.However, a young healthy bird of either sex can be a great talker with the right training.
 If you are purchasing a budgie from a seller that has a lot of healthy and active birds, then feel free to pick your budgie based on looks. Budgies come in a huge variety of colors, so pick the color combination that you like best!