 Though spending time together is important for siblings, the age difference means there are some things the older siblings can do that the younger ones can’t. Avoid letting your younger children do everything the older ones do if it is not age-appropriate.For example, don’t let younger siblings play with dangerous toys or ride on bikes that are too large for them. They should also not be allowed to stay up late with their siblings, or allowed to watch everything their older sibling might be able to.
Remember, too, that your older child is still a child, not a babysitter or caretaker. If they are constantly forced to play with or watch their younger siblings, they may develop resentment. Make sure you are giving your older child time to be a kid and play with children their own age.
 While sharing is important, you may want to let the children have certain toys or items that are only for them. This means they are off-limits to their siblings. This can help them have independence and feel like they have their own space and things. Making sure all siblings respect this can help reduce resentment.For example, your children may have a favorite stuffed animal, doll, car, action figure, blanket, or pillow that they do not want to share. That is okay. Make sure the siblings know which items are off limits.
You may want to give each child a box with their name on it where they can put their special toys.
 Rivalry often occurs in siblings when a younger child’s inappropriate behavior is overlooked. This can cause bad feelings, especially if the older children get in trouble. To avoid this, teach all your children appropriate behavior. Help your younger children know when they are inappropriate and show them the proper behavior.For example, you can help the younger child not grab their sibling’s toys. When you see them snatch a doll or block, mildly correct your child.
You may say, “We must take turns with toys. Your sibling is playing with that doll right now, and you can’t grab it when they play with it. Instead, if you’re patient, polite, and wait your turn, you can play with it when they’re done.”

