 Acting agents utilize their contacts and inside information to help find you jobs. Agents want to find you work, it is how they make money. They will work to set up meetings with casting directors and get you auditions. Agents use your personal information and skills to send you out for jobs that suit you best. They also receive information you do not have access to such as why you may not have gotten a part you went out for. It may be hard to hear negative feedback, but it may also help you grow as an actor.Try to find a franchised SAG agent. These agents often have more connections, and they can offer you more legitimate representation.To find an agent, research agents online, and mark down the people you are interested in working with. You can read reviews about them, or look them up on the Better Business Bureau to see if they have had claims filed against them.Once you find an agent you want to work with, set up a meeting, or send over your portfolio. Hopefully the agent you desire is interested in working with you.Never pay an agent before you get a job.
 If you do not have an agent, or you just want to see what is out there, city websites can be an excellent resource for checking out local auditions and casting calls. Many films will post current projects and auditions that you can look into for free.Watch out for audition websites that require you to pay money to set up an account to find auditions. This might be a scam.
 One of the most important things you need to do for an audition is to memorize the script. This signals to the casting director that you take the job seriously, and that you are a professional. Besides just knowing the lines, make sure you understand the character. You should practice auditioning at home in front of the mirror, or other people, so you can get a good feel for the part, and gain confidence. You should practice the part enough so that it feels natural and believable.
 If you come across as disrespectful, it may not matter how great of a performance you gave for you audition, you might ruin your chances of getting the job. Here are some helpful tips to keep in mind at your audition:


Do not touch any of the equipment or food at the audition. You are there as a guest, and you should be respectful of everything and everyone around you.
Check your personal habits at the door. You should never smoke or chew gum during an audition, unless it is part of the role.
After your audition, be sure to thank the casting director, and anyone else who helped make your audition possible.
 Acting auditions are not available just anywhere, and if you want to increase your opportunity to launch and build an acting career, you may want to move to a city that can offer you more chances to audition, and build acting connections with other people in the industry.


While L.A. and Hollywood have a great reputation for actors to get started in their career, there are other places across the United States that have gained popularity among production companies such as New York, Chicago, New Mexico, Oregon, and Louisiana.