 Do you prefer bright colors, or a more natural look?;
, If you cannot be 100% objective, ask a friend to help. You need to keep only the clothing that makes you look great. Although that t-shirt is super soft, if it doesn't look good on you, it needs to go. If it isn't in your closet, you won't be tempted to wear it. If it doesn't fit your style, you should decide if it is worth it to keep.
 While earrings always look nice, you (or your parents) might not be comfortable getting your ears pierced. Stay away from piercings anywhere else, and don't have more than two holes in your ears. Necklaces and bracelets are great, but don't go overkill with too many of them.
 Do you have ten tank tops, but only 1 pair of jeans? Or are you short on everything? It may be helpful to make a list, so you can stay on track, and not come home and realize you have twenty tank tops. Keeping in mind that what you need will vary by age and location (Alaska and Florida have very different requirements!) these are some guidelines of what you should have:


Shoes.

1 pair of flats
High heels to match all of your dresses
1-2 pairs of sandals.
1 pair of sneakers. Choose a good brand.


2-3 graphic tees
4 plain shirts or T-shirts
Some nicer shirts
Shorts or skirts to go with those nicer shirts
1-2 tunics
3-4 hoodies
4-5 tank tops/camis
1 cardigan
Multiple pairs of jeans
2-3 pairs of shorts in different styles
1 denim skirt
2-3 pairs of leggings
3 pairs of sweats/lounging pants
2 bathing suits
A couple of nice dresses
10 pairs of underwear (1 tan, 1 black, 1 white. The rest can be any color)
At least 1 sports bra
At least 3 of the type of bra you wear everyday
1 bra for when you wear a nice dress

, It may be fun to bring a friend. Go to the mall, or wherever you get your clothes from. Find the clothes that you need, and fit your style. You may also want to think about what is "in," but you don't have to. You should also get whatever jewelry you decided you want. Because you should have a lot of the stuff you need already, it shouldn't cost too much, and your parents may help pay, especially if you need stuff like bras and underwear.

