 No matter what you're doing, your body is using energy at a certain rate. The BMR Calculator will calculate your Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR), that is, the number of calories your body burns if you were to do absolutely nothing all day. This will tell you how fast you're burning calories and therefore how much activity you must do and how many calories you need to cut to meet your weight loss goals. And yes, it does take into account your age, gender, and activity level.



BMR calculation formula for women: 655 + (4.35 x your current weight in pounds) + (4.7 x your height in inches) minus (4.7 x your current age in years).

BMR calculation formula for men: 66 + (6.23 x your weight in pounds) + (12.7 x your height in inches) minus (6.8 x your age in years).
 A number is assigned to each tier of activity. It is taken into consideration when calculating your daily calorie burn.


Little or no exercise = 1.2
Light exercise (up to 3 days per week) = 1.375
Moderate exercise (3 to 5 days per week) = 1.55
Heavy exercise (6 to 7 days per week) = 1.725
Very heavy exercise (intense workouts daily) = 1.9

, To determine this caloric rate, multiply your BMR x your physical activity rate.


This is your Total Daily Energy Expenditure (TDEE). It may seem like a high number; don't forget: You burn calories even while sleeping.
For example, if your BMR is 3,500 and you currently get moderate exercise, all you have to do is multiply 3,500 by 1.55 to get 5425 -- aka the number of calories burned to maintain your weight. For a goal of 20 pounds in a single month, you'll have to cut at least 2,000 calories a day using both diet and exercise. A steep goal, indeed.
 Since water comprises so much of the human body, our cells have a tendency to stash it away for future use. This can result in bloating and accumulation of water weight, tipping the scale higher and higher. Get rid of excess fluids by releasing water from the body in the form of sweat. An hour of continuous cardiovascular exercise or a twenty minute soak in the sauna can help you dump 1-2 pounds of water weight.Make sure you’re drinking a moderate amount of water to cycle fresh fluids into your system and prevent dehydration.Sweating has long been used by boxers, wrestlers and other combat athletes to make weight at pre-bout weigh-ins.
 In order to improve your overall feeling of wellbeing and run at top capacity, you need to make sure you’re well rested. Aim to get at least six hours of deep, uninterrupted sleep every night, though eight is preferable. While you rest, your body will repair damaged cells and tissues, allocate calories for internal use and restore fallen energy levels. When you wake up, you’ll be recharged and ready to redouble your efforts.Due to overwork, insomnia, stress and other issues, many people don’t get adequate sleep and find it impossible to lose weight as a result.
If you can’t find the time to sleep in one long block at night, try taking a couple short naps (10-15 minutes) throughout the day.