 Wash and iron all the clothes you will be wearing to school the next day. Dress uniquely, and most importantly, appropriately. A low cut tank or pants that are falling down to your knees may look cool to other peers, but not to your teachers. Think about what will get you further in life - impressing students or impressing teachers. Brush your hair, wash your face, and shower.;
, Don't be late, because in some schools if you're tardy too many times you get a detention, or you even get cut from the class. Being tardy to school shows irresponsibility, so aim for being early. If you happen to be late one time, don't make up excuses. Teachers can see through the acts - they've had to deal with tardy kids giving excuses for years.
 Just say a friendly "Hello, how was your weekend?" and talk a little bit about yourself, too. Teachers will be a bit friendlier to you if they know you're not just trying to get a good grade from them. Hold the door open for your teacher, and say hello in the hallways when you pass them. Never badmouth your teacher in public, no matter how much you dislike them. You never know who could have also been listening, and if the wrong person hears, word will get back to your teacher.
 Be prepared for anything. Bring at least two pencils, two pens, an eraser, highlighter, post-it notes, loose-leaf paper, textbooks, and binders. Sharpen your pencils, clean your erasers and prepare other things as well. Remember to bring any other specific things your teacher asks you to bring every day, such as a calculator for math or a ruler for science. You should remember this important fact as well because you must take notes on whatever the teacher is saying or referring to so once you take notes, you can understand things better and it also encourages you to study. When you study, you can ace tests and get an A all the time and your teacher will be very pleased.
 This will prevent you from fooling around during class, and it helps you focus better than if you were in the back. Studies show that generally teachers tend to prefer the kids that sit up front, because those kids have the self-control not to fool around. Sit up straight and don't slouch. This gives your teacher the impression that you care and are there to learn. If you can't see the board, consider glasses or contact lenses.
 Only miss class when you really need to (i.e. chronically ill, high fever, surgery, family issues...etc.). Go out of your way to tell your teacher in advance and explain why you couldn't make it. Get the class notes, assignments, and homework from friends in the class and make up all the work. Remember to show everything you did to your teachers when you get back.
 While the teacher is talking, make eye contact, look at the board, and take notes - even if your teacher doesn't ask you to. Highlight, underline, or circle anything your teacher stresses or repeats in your notes. Clear away all distractions. Turn your mobile phone off, don't pass notes, don't listen to your iPod, or talk to people near you when the teacher is talking. If this is hard for you, it may help if you sit away from your friends.
 Ask related questions and make comments on what your teacher is talking about. Aim to participate at least three times per class a day. Don't dominate a class discussion - teachers aren't looking for attention hogs. They want everyone to participate. Don't be afraid to ask the teacher to stop and go over a topic again. Most teachers will respect you for admitting that you didn't understand everything.
 This is especially useful to do in the days before a big test or exam. If you felt very confused during class then devote at least half an hour after school to pop into your classroom and ask for a recap and explanation on what was discussed in class earlier. Remember to ask in advance if you can stay after, because your teacher may need to go somewhere immediately after school/class.
 Homework can be a big chunk of your grade, and one big assignment can raise or lower your final grade for the class. Manage your time, and do your homework as early as possible. If you ever happen to forget to do your homework, then do it, and turn it in as soon as possible. Even if you don't get any points for turning it in early, you will have gained a degree of respect from your teacher, and you will know the material a little better.
 Ask if she needs help on anything.
 Don't pick on people. Don't be mean. Help new kids find their way to class. Being a nice person helps your reputation with everyone, not just teachers.
, You can try giving them a small gift or writing them a thank you note.

