 Plantar fasciitis treatment depends mainly on suppressing and relieving the inflammation at the plantar fascia ligaments area, then to build up the soft tissues again after ensuring full recovery from inflammation.


Through some stretching exercises to regain flexibility and normal range of motion, the full treatment plan may take several months to ensure complete recovery from plantar fasciitis that can reach to nine months up to maximum two years.
To prevent other chronic conditions that may develop if ignoring or not adhering to the physiotherapist plan, like permanent heel pain that can influence the patient’s walking way and his quality of life, this can be done by following the next points:

, Complete rest is required to allow natural healing time to occur, rest gives the soft tissues the opportunity to calm down and to get some comfort from stress and overload.


This is important to allow the inflammation to ease, forcing the ligaments or the weaken muscles to work can easily worsen the condition and delay the expected recovery time.
 Icing the affected heel area will make a great help in easing all the symptoms including the swelling resulted from the inflammation, and also the pain.


Ice effects come from its cooling effect that acts directly on the injured soft tissues with an astringent power, helping in reducing the amount of the escaped fluids to the nearby soft tissues, and so decreasing the degree of swelling, and suppressing much of the pain that would happen as a result of accumulated fluids pressing on the tiny nerve endings at the tissues around, causing the pain onsets to start.
Note that ice should never be applied directly on any part of your skin, it should be wrapped in a clean towel, then to be put on the affected heel, and on the upper portion of the affected foot too, ice should be applied for twenty minutes every two or three hours at the first three days, then to be applied only twice daily after, a physiotherapist would advise you to re apply ice after finishing your training program when recover or after finishing performing your sports.
 The doctor will prescribe some analgesics to relieve your pain, like non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are known to be powerful analgesics, anti pyretic and anti inflammatory agents, their effects come mainly from their actions in body by preventing the formation of prostaglandins, the main chemicals released during the inflammation process.


This is done by blocking the two enzymes responsible for their production named COX – I and COX – II, their effects can suppress the inflammation, irritation, swelling and pain stimulated at the affected foot, so that will help the patient to get over his painful times, and to achieve fast recovery, examples are as Voltaren (Declofenac salt) available as 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg tablets, effervescent sachets, injections, and topical applications, or Feldene (Piroxicam) available as 10 and 20 mg capsules, 10 and 20 mg dispersible tablets, injections and sublingual tablets.
NSAIDs can be taken as doctor’s orders or when ever needed, injections, sublingual tablets and effervescent sachets provide rapid relief from painful symptoms, topical gels as Voltaren gel can be applied on the upper or lower side of the foot, and around the heel to provide direct relief from pain and to get rid of inflammation.
NSAIDs oral formulations should be taken on full stomach to prevent any gastric upset or nausea feeling, while they are contraindicated in any case of gastric or peptic ulcers, taking blood thinners as Warfarin or having any hepatic or renal disorder.
 Corticosteroids can be injected directly at the pain point at the affected heel, this method can bring rapid relief of inflammation signs as injecting steroids directly into the injured ligaments will make their strong anti inflammatory properties to work, treating and masking all the irritation there, decreasing the swelling, pain and joint stiffness that would improve the patient movement. #*Steroids can also be applied directly on the affected foot by the patient through using one of their topical creams like Elocon cream (Mometasone) to be applied two or three times daily at the site of pain.
 Foot supporters like orthotics, foot insoles or heel cups are excellent in treating irritated, inflamed feet, in addition to many other various medical feet conditions like over pronation or abnormal foot arch.


For these different medical feet conditions; different kinds of these equipments are designed to match and suit every case to provide maximum support, by being extra cushions to absorb different shocks and tension instead of being transmitted to the patient’s feet.
Orthotics are good solution to give complete support to the whole lower portion of the feet to provide comfort to the full area along the whole axis of the plantar fascia ligaments, and to support the normal foot arch during each step and with any physical activities being performed.
Insoles can be added as extra supportive cushions inside your current shoes as they act as shock absorbers, having the ability to distribute the pressure evenly that can come up from the ground with walking, jumping or running.
 Night splints are leg braces that their function is to keep the foot in a flexion pose, they can be applied during the nighttime to make stretching to the patient’s calf muscle and foot arch.


This aids in lengthening the Achilles tendon and the plantar fascia ligaments at the same time, helping in reducing much of the strong morning pain attacks, heel stiffness and rigidity.
Splints are usually prescribed by doctors during the first weeks of injury, to be removed according to the patient’s condition and his response to his treatment therapy, the doctor may need to re prescribe them again if the patient condition didn’t show the expected improvement.
 Special training program is needed to strengthen the lower leg muscles, to regain normal balance and to remove any pressure or unwanted load on the injured over stretched ligaments.


Exercises should be done at the morning after getting out of bed to decrease much of the heel stiffness and pain felt at this time, the exercises have to be repeated during the daytime too.
Exercises help also in stretching the Achilles tendon and plantar fascia ligaments helping to ease the plantar fasciitis, examples can be written as:

, The patient can perform this exercise while sitting on a chair, and extending his affected leg in front of him while keeping his heel touching the floor, now gently he can raise his foot up and with his hand he have to hold his big toe and pull it toward his leg, count to twenty, then release.


Repeat three times and switch to the other leg, then to do the whole exercise few times a day including the time after waking up, the exercise makes a full stretch to the plantar fascia ligaments, depending on the pulling power by the patient’s hand while pulling his big toe.
This would release the stress and irritation at the ligaments, helping in suppressing the heel stiffness felt at the morning, by loosen them and gaining some flexibility, by time this exercise would provide a degree of flexibility and strength to these ligaments., The patient can perform this exercise while standing against a wall, depending on his both hand palms on the wall being in his shoulders line, and extending his affected leg behind him keeping his knee straight while his foot and heel on the floor, now slowly he can bend the front knee till he feels a stretch at his lower back leg, count to twenty, then release. #*Repeat three times then switch to the other leg, and to do the whole exercise few times a day, this exercise depends on stretching the calf muscle, and the Achilles tendon that will create a free space for the heel joint to move freely without any stiffness, it is suitable to be done at the morning to relief morning stiffness, any stress or shortening in the tendon will directly affect the plantar fascia ligaments and the heel movements.


Performing these stretching exercises will relieve the tension in these soft tissues, and will build up the required strength to provide a nice degree of flexibility, to be able to resist any sort of sudden pressure or shocks in the future.