 so don't wear tight, tight bras and make sure you have comfortable underwear on. Make sure that you wear clothes that fit you right, are breathable, and that you feel confident and sexy in. You won't be able to look sexy, enjoy yourself, or even play well, if you don't feel good in what you are wearing. Avoid extremely tight shoes as well (they can make you run/walk weirdly) Sneakers are cool, and, strangely, appropriate for playing sports. Huh. Imagine that.;
, You can win and you can lose just try your hardest and be a good sport about it. Being clumsy and weak on purpose will not make you sexy it will just make you seem ditsy. Try your hardest and have fun! Smile! Look happy and mess up your hair a bit. If you have your hair in a ponytail/bun don't make it too tight (it looks a little weird). High ponytails are very attractive, feminine and youthful. A loose, high bun can look good. Hair clipped or tied up into a loose twist or bun looks cute too, as do a few errant strands from your bangs. Of course, it's always good to keep your hair out of the way for sports, but regardless.
 You will naturally attract people if you enjoy (and look like you're enjoying) what you're doing.
 So don't be too concerned about it. That will dash your confidence and that's not sexy. Besides, a little sweat can even be pretty sexy! You aren't going to be sexy if you reek though, so take some precautions like wearing deodorant, showering before a game and putting on a little perfume (not too much). It really works, because if you're not dirty, you will not smell as bad because there is less dirt. Light fruity scents are sometimes not so nice, and lighter maybe earthier scents are better. A light sprinkle of lavender baby powder, or honey/vanilla scented powder on shoes and the upper body such as tummy, and chest and neck is a good precaution. However, never break out a large spray bottle of Burberry London or Lolita Lempicka and bathe in it pre game. Spraying the air in front of you and waiting 10 seconds and then walking through it with a light perfume is best. If you have a light, fresh perfume, you can use one or two sprays directly on your skin. Experiment a little with it first, so you know how potent it is, both before and after you heat up during the game.
 if you feel frumpy, then it will show. if you feel gross and stinky, then that's what people will see you as. The thing is that it's all about attitude. If you think sexy, then it will all work out.
 Instead of wearing tight tops with teeny tennis skorts, wear a looser shirt that still shows off a little, or wear a tight top and looser bottoms. Take note: subtle sexiness is sexier than blunt sexiness.
 If you look determined and focused, you look like you don't have a care in the world and everyone is watching you. if you do your best, everyone will notice it afterward, and that you looked good doing it. If you don't like the sport and are not trying very hard people will not notice you as much. Even if it isn't your favorite sport or you're not very good at it, try. Guys like girls who try new things, give it their all, and don't give up.
 Many guys think that flexibility is sexy, if not just feminine. (This may be due to the stereotype that strength is masculine and flexibility is feminine.) During any break in the game, do a stretch that shows off your most flexible joints, apparently out of boredom or staying limber. If you're a gymnast, dancer, skater, or all-star cheerleader, you'll have lots of chances to show off your skills and flexibility. Don't bend over and touch your toes (this destroys ham-strings.), instead, playfully do a split or back walkover, or simply show off your hyper-extended elbows and knees and bend your fingers backward. Be playful overall... When you are off the field, cheer for your team and wander along the field playfully.
 Clear lip gloss and a red lip stain/ red lip balm is very pretty, and a light powder to even out your skin tone is also nice if you have some inconsistencies. Be careful with the powder, as it might end up coming off as you sweat, which is decidedly awkward. As a rule, wear minimal makeup. Curled eyelashes, some brown/clear mascara and a touch of lip gloss is natural and adds a very youthful and "I'm naturally pretty" look.
 Don't overdo it, but it depends on which sport you're playing. When you make a point or score, occasionally wink at him but after that don't look at him for a while. It will leave them drooling!

, Have some fun, be yourself and enjoy!

