 At times your teen may be difficult to handle, but it's important to remember that they are dealing with a lot. Their hormones and body are changing, which can cause mood swings. They are also trying to more fully develop their identity, and may be dealing with pressures from school or their friends. When disciplining your teen, it's key to consider the context.Have they been rude and moody lately? Try to figure out if something outside the house is bothering them. Have you noticed their best friend doesn't stop by as often? Consider that your teen might be going through a stressful time and try to cut them a little slack.
Are their grades slipping? Take a few days to watch their habits. Teens need a lot of sleep, so maybe you need to help them get more rest so they can better concentrate.
Before deciding on discipline, consider all of the components of the situation.
 Being empathetic means that you are thinking about, or sensitive to, what someone else is feeling or thinking. When disciplining your teen, try to place yourself in their shoes. When choosing the right course of action, take their emotions into consideration.If your son or daughter reacts badly to not being allowed to go on a road trip with friends, try to think about what they are feeling. They are likely worried about being teased, or are maybe suffering from fear of missing out. You don't need to back down on the rules you've set, but you can offer compassion.
Try saying, "I imagine you're feeling pretty frustrated that you won't be going with your friends. Is there something else fun that you and I could do this weekend instead?"

, Dealing with a teen can be difficult. You might feel stressed, tired, and overwhelmed. Don't be afraid to ask for help. Maybe you have a trusted family member who can offer some advice on how to relate to your teen.Try talking to other parents. It's useful to know what your son or daughter's friends are allowed to do. You can try asking their parents about curfew, allowance, etc. to get an idea of the types of policies you want to set.
Your teen's doctor can be a great resource, too. He or her can help you make sure that your son or daughter stays physically and emotionally healthy. They can also offer outside resources.

