 If you're unsure of what you like to do, think back to your earliest memories and what you loved to do when you were a child. It's common for people as they get older to become disconnected with what they enjoy.Write down a list of hobbies and interests that you enjoy and think of ways to incorporate them into your current life. If you are a child or teenager, think of the things that make you the happiest and try to spend more time doing them.


Things like drawing, construction, science, or helping others, can translate to a career as you get older.If you've been passionate about something ever since you were young, it's a good indication it's something that you love it.;
, Finding what you like to do can be difficult, and money and time constraints can prevent us from pursuing our passion. Think about what you would love to do if time and money were of no concern.


Don't say things like "it's too expensive" or "I have no time." If it's truly something that you love to do, save up the money and make time to do it.
If money is the only consideration when you are getting a job then you may end up being unhappy with your profession., It may help to look into the lives of those that you look up to. Read into their lives and determine how they became successful and try to replicate it.These people could be anyone, including family members, mentors, sports stars, or celebrities.


While the people you admire can act as a good road map to success, make sure that you are still being you., Your family and friends may know you better than yourself. Fears and unconscious desires may be altering your self-image.You may think that you love doing something, but it's not really a genuine passion. Talk to your family and friends about your life. Ask for their insight into what they think you love the most.


When talking to a relative or friend, you can say something like, "I want to do something I'm interested in, but I'm not sure what that is. Do you have any idea of what I love doing?"

, If you want to pursue a career that you love but you're unsure of what kind of jobs to look for, consider taking a personality test like the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator or O*Net Interests Profiler. These tests give you a series of questions and then provide results on recommended careers based on your answers.While the accuracy of career tests are debatable, it may help point you in the right direction when looking for a job you love.
If you have no clue on what you love to do as a career, this can be a good starting point that can give you ideas but don't take the results as hard facts.
 If you're still unsure of the industry that you love or a job that you want to pursue, talk to a career counselor. They will look at your experience and determine your strengths and weaknesses through tests. Not only can they help you find a career that incorporates something you love, but they can also provide you with the support and guidance you need to navigate your new career. Search online for career counselors that service your area.
If you are attending high school or college, there are usually career counselors that are there to help guide students.When you call them, say something like, "I'm looking to switch careers to something that I love, but I'm not sure what jobs are available. Can I make an appointment to get evaluated?"

