 You can find basic information about a residential address by searching online maps such as Google Maps. This can be helpful if you know part of an address but aren't sure about the whole thing.Even if you find the address on an online map, you still should use other verification methods to make sure it's correct. Just because an address is mappable doesn't mean it's deliverable.
Additionally, some addresses my have P.O. boxes, or have a shipping address that differs from the street address.
However, finding the address on an online map can be helpful if you're just trying to figure out how to get to a location, but don't necessarily need to mail something there.;
, Residential property ownership is recorded publicly, so you may be able to verify the address by looking up the deed or property tax records for the property.As with online maps, the information you get this way won't necessarily tell you if you can deliver mail to that address. However, it will give you the correct street address for that location in most instances.
Keep in mind that if a residence may be identified using a metes and bounds or parcel number rather than a street address.
To find public records about a particular residential property, look for the local government records office. In the United States, this typically is the county recorder's or county clerk's office.
 In many countries, you can verify a single residential address by typing in a portion of the address on the postal service website for that country. This service typically is limited to private individuals and cannot be used for business purposes.For example, if you want to check a residential address in the United Kingdom, you can type the part of the address you know into the Postcode finder at royalmail.com.
The system will auto-suggest completion of the address as you type. If you see the correct location, simply click on it and you will see the full, standard address used to deliver mail to that location.
The UK online system is limited to 50 searches per day, and is only available for individuals who occasionally need to verify an address. If you have a business that has more extensive address verification needs, you can contact the Royal Mail regarding other address management products they have available.
 There are a number of address verification services that allow you to demo their product for free online without having to register or pay money for their services.This can be helpful if you need to check a residential address before you mail something there. For example, if you sold an item on an online auction site and want to verify the address of the buyer before you ship it, you could use one of these demos.
There are several data companies who have certified systems that will verify US mailing addresses. Some of these, such as Experian Data Quality, will verify international addresses as well.

