 People decide to quit coffee for different reasons. You may love the taste, but want to ditch the caffeine. Or, you may want something healthier that still has stimulant properties. Look for an alternative that suits your needs.For a similar taste without the caffeine, you can try chicory, dandelion root, or decaf coffee.
If you like your coffee sweet and creamy, you may opt for hot chocolate or chai lattes. Some coffee shops offer decaffeinated chai. These are high-fat, high-sugar choices.
If you’re looking for something that offers a stimulant effect, you can try green tea, black tea, or yerba mate.
Herbal teas such as chamomile, mint, and rooibos have zero caffeine.
 Coffee is a main source of antioxidants in many diets, and looking to stop coffee consumption means that you will need to find a new source of antioxidants for daily health. Decreasing your daily coffee intake may mean increasing the amount of tea you drink and/or the amount of fruits and vegetables you eat.Teas such as white and green tea have antioxidants that can replace those in coffee, but they also have caffeine. If you are trying to eliminate caffeine along with coffee, you may want to opt for whole fruits and veggies, or whole natural juices.
 Rather than decreasing the amount you drink incrementally, try drinking the same amount, but swapping some cups out for a coffee substitute such as tea or water. If you drink more than one cup of coffee per day, only substitute for one of them. If you normally drink one cup of coffee per day, drink a little less of it daily and then have some of your preferred coffee replacement.Make sure you have your substitute handy at all times. Keep some tea bags at your desk, or in the car. If you don’t have your substitute handy, you’re likely to opt for a coffee when it’s convenient.
Choose a substitute that you genuinely like. If you can’t stand the taste of green tea, you’re not likely to stick with it.
 Get used to drinking one cup less coffee per day. At the same time, you’re getting used to the substitute of your choice. This will help turn your new beverage choice into a habit.If you develop any caffeine withdrawal symptoms, such as headaches, take a caffeine-free pain reliever as needed.
 Once you’re ready, make the switch. By now, you should not be having withdrawal symptoms. You may find that you drink less of your substitute drink than you did of coffee. That is perfectly normal.You can always switch substitutes if you need to. You may eventually want to quit caffeine altogether, or do without all of the sugar in hot chocolate. Once you’ve quit coffee, quitting another beverage will likely not seem as hard.

