 If you're setting up a new iPhone 5 or later, you can use the "Move to iOS" app from Apple to quickly move your content from your Android to your new iPhone. You can download this app for free from the Google Play Store on your Android.If you've already started using your iPhone, you'll need to either set it up as new again (which will delete everything on it), or you can manually transfer content from your Android to your iPhone. See the next section for details.
This is an official Apple app, and is completely free.;
, You'll want to make sure both devices are connected to a power source during the transfer, as the transfer may take a while to complete. They'll also need to be near each other, so keep that in mind when you plug them in., Tap "Continue" and then agree to the to the terms and conditions.
 You'll be able to transfer all of your Android data during the initial setup process for your new iPhone.
 You'll be selecting you language and region, setting up Wi-Fi, enabling location services, and setting up Touch ID and a passcode. Proceed until you reach the Apps & Data screen.
 You'll see this in the list of options beneath the backup options. If you don't see this option, your iPhone is too old to perform the automatic transfer. See the next section on moving data manually.
 After selecting "Move Data from Android," a 6- or 10-digit code will appear on your iPhone's screen. It may take a few moments for it to appear. Your iPhone is creating a private Wi-Fi network that your Android will connect to. Enter the displayed code on your Android to make the connection.
 After the connection is made, you'll be taken to the "Transfer Data" screen on the Android. You'll see the types of data that can be transferred, including your pictures (camera roll), messages and email, Google account information, contacts, and bookmarks.
 Once you've selected what you want to migrate, you'll need to wait for everything to transfer. The time this takes is entirely dependent on the amount of content that you're transferring, and could take a while if you have a lot.


Make sure you want until the iPhone says it's complete. The Android device may indicate the process is complete before it actually is.
 After the transfer has completed on the iPhone, you'll continue through the setup process. The first thing you'll be prompted to do is log in with your Apple ID, or create a new one. If you don't have an Apple ID yet, it's recommended that you create one so that you can use the App Store, iTunes, iCloud, Find My iPhone, and more.


Tap "Don't have an Apple ID?" and follow the prompts to create one. Make sure to enter a valid email address so that you can verify your account. You can use any email address to create your ID, including your Gmail account.
Creating an Apple ID will allow your iPhone to match the apps you had on your Android and download any available free iPhone versions. Paid apps will be added to your App Store wishlist, as they'll need to be purchased again for iPhone.
 There are a few more screens after you've created your Apple ID that will get your iPhone configured for you. Once the setup process is complete, you'll be taken to your Home screen.
 Your matched apps will begin downloading, which may take a while depending on how many matches were found. Only free apps will be downloaded, as you'll need to buy any paid apps if you want the iPhone version.
 You'll be able to find your transferred information in the various apps on your iPhone. Most apps are self-explanatory: your photos can be found in the Photos app, your text messages in the Messages app, your contacts in the Contacts app, and so forth.
 You can transfer all of this information by syncing your accounts on both devices. The process will vary a little depending on your Android device:Sync your contacts with your Google account on your Android device. This will happen automatically as long as you are signed in with your Google account on the Android.
Open the Settings app on your iPhone and select "Mail, Contacts, Calendars."
Tap "Add Account" and select "Google."
Log in with your Google account and ensure that all of the sync options are selected.
 The easiest way to transfer your pictures from your Android to your iPhone is by copying them to a computer first, and them syncing them with your iPhone using iTunes.Download and install the latest version of iTunes on your computer if your don't have it already. You can get it from apple.com/itunes/download/.
Connect your Android device to your computer using a USB cable and open it in your file explorer. Open the "DCIM" folder on your Android, and then open the "Camera" folder.
Copy all of the photos from the Camera folder to a temporary folder on your computer. A folder on your desktop will be easy to find. The copy process may take a while to complete.
Connect your iPhone to your computer via USB and open iTunes. Select your iPhone at the top of the iPhone window, then click the "Photos" option on the left side of the screen.
Check the "Sync Photos" box, then select the folder that you copied the photos from your Android to. Check "Include videos" if the folder has videos taken on your Android as well. Click "Apply" to begin copying the photos to your iPhone.
 If you had MP3 files on your Android, you can use iTunes to sync them to your iPhone. If you used a streaming service to listen to music on your Android, you can just download the streaming app on your iPhone and log in with your streaming account.


Connect your Android device to your computer using a USB cable and open it in your file explorer.
Open the "Music" folder on your Android and copy all of the files to a temporary folder on your computer. Putting the folder on your desktop will make it easier to find later.
Open iTunes on your computer and click the Music button at the top of the window.
Drag the folder from your desktop into the iTunes window to add the music to your iTunes library.
Connect your iPhone to your computer via USB. Select it at the top of the iTunes window and then click "Music" on the left side of the window. Check the "Sync music" box and then click "Apply" or "Sync" to begin transferring it.
 You can't actually sync your apps across, so you'll have to go through your app list on your Android and search for the iPhone version on your iPhone's App Store. If the app was a paid app, you'll have to purchase it again for your iPhone, as they are considered separate products.
 Google has most of their apps available on the iPhone App Store, allowing you to access all of your Google services. This can help make the transition a little less jarring.


The Gmail app allows you to easily check your various Gmail accounts.
The Google app allows you to perform Google searches and access Google Now cards.
You can download Chrome and sign in with your Google account to access all of your bookmarks.
 One of the big appeals of the iPhone is Siri. Siri is a digital assistant that can perform a lot of different tasks for you. Press and hold the Home button to start Siri, then speak a command like "Text my wife."


For detailed instructions on getting the most out of Siri, see Use Siri.
 Apple Pay will allow you to enter your debit or credit card information so that you can pay at participating locations without taking your wallet out. Just put your phone near the payment terminal and the payment is handled automatically.


Apple Pay requires an iPhone 6 or later. See Set Up Apple Pay for details.
 This newsreader app will find stories that match your interests, and it comes installed with iOS 9. Find the News app on your Home screen and then select a few of your favorite publications to get started. See Use the News App in iOS 9 for more details.
 You can find any music files that you've synced to your iPhone in the Music app. You can also listen to streaming music through this app if you are an Apple Music subscriber. See Add Music to iPhone for instructions on syncing music to your new iPhone.

