 Studies suggest that people who have a history of depression may be more likely to use emotional regulation that actually keeps them depressed.This type of emotional regulation is associated with using negative coping strategies (such as drinking alcohol to excess) which increases depression instead of reducing it.


Avoid rumination. When you ruminate, you replay a negative situation again and again in your mind.While you may be replaying a situation to try and pinpoint what, exactly, went wrong, ruminating tends to only intensify negative feelings and offers little insight.Instead, try asking yourself: "What, if anything, can I change?" Make a list of small, manageable goals that address things that are within your power to change.It may also help to disrupt the thoughts if you go for a walk or exercise., Everyone has negative thoughts from time to time. However, the more negative thoughts you have, the more depressed you may feel. This is because our thinking has much to do with how we feel. Instead of believing negative self-talk, you can learn to challenge them and develop positive thinking habits.


Think of your thoughts as hypotheses or fleeting ideas instead of as facts. If you have a negative thought such as, “This situation is terrible. I hate it,” question your perception of the situation. This is called cognitive reappraisal.Is it all that bad? Is it really so terrible or can you try to cope with it? It is possible that you can change the way you think about it or find a way to help it be better? Tell yourself, “It isn’t so bad. It sucks, but I can deal with it.”

, Individuals who suffer from depression may get into the habit of self-loathing or negative self-talk. Some examples include thinking, “I’m not good enough. I’m a failure. I’m stupid.” If you have similar negative thoughts, these will most likely lead to negative emotions. In order to combat this thinking you can use positive affirmations.An example of a positive affirmation is thinking, “I’m doing the best I can and it’s good enough for me. It doesn’t need to be good enough for someone else.”

, Leisure and pleasure are an important part of having a positive sense of well-being. Being active can increase your ability to cope with stressful or depressing life events.Make a list of pleasurable activities and schedule them in each day. For example you could plan to: watch a movie, read a book, eat a favorite food, go for a walk, take a bubble bath, go to a library or museum, go window shopping, buy fresh flowers, get a beauty treatment or your hair done, or go out to dinner.
 Sometimes individuals with a history of depression have difficulty focusing on the positive aspects of their lives. Yet, your ability to focus on positive thoughts and activities can increase your positive emotions and decrease depressed mood.One way to focus on the positive is to keep a pleasurable events journal with either photos or writing. It can just be a few sentences about one thing that was good that happened that day, or a photo of one thing you found interesting or pretty.
Focusing on the positive also has to do with choosing appropriate activities that are going to increase your positive mood. For example, select appropriate viewing material; if you are feeling sad- don't watch the news, or a sad movie. This is just not helpful for people who are already tending to dwell on the negative things of life, it only adds fuel to the fire. So, turn off the news and read a positive and uplifting book. Or, flick straight to the sport section of the paper or the comics.

