 Approach the obstacle perpendicularly and straight on. Make sure you are also maintaining speed so you can clear the obstacle without any issue. The point of a dash vault is to skim over the top of an obstacle, rather than the up-and-over of other types of vaults.


Your speed will depend on the depth or width of the obstacle you are vaulting over. For example, if it’s a thin wall, you won’t need as much speed. However, if it’s a thicker surface, you will need to go faster to clear it.;
, The trick is to bring one leg up first and then follow with the other quickly. This gives the illusion that both legs are coming up together. It’s important here to take off with your dominant leg or the one you are more comfortable with.Imagine the way an athlete clears a hurdle; bend your dominant leg in a similar manner, slightly at the knee. Then, when you kick this leg forward, your other leg will naturally follow your momentum and you can bring it forward.
Make sure you are leaning back when jumping. Otherwise, your chest will prevent you from bringing your leg up for enough to clear the obstacle.
 Wait until your posterior has cleared the obstacle before putting your hands down on the edge of the item you're vaulting. If you started your jump feet-first like you were supposed to, your arms will be behind you anyways.
 Make this a near seamless movement. You want your body to continue past the obstacle without losing speed. This way, when you touch back down, you can keep running without stopping or slowing down.Actively push the obstacle away from you, so your arms are stretched out behind you and the rest of your body is pushed forward.
Then land one foot first, before the other, so you can go right back into a run.
 Don’t feel discouraged if you can’t perfect a dash vault immediately. It’s one of the most difficult vaults in parkour and should be taken slowly. However, after you’ve done it repeatedly, it will become second nature.
 Like most of parkour, performing a dash vault takes a lot of coordination and body strength. In order to get your body into the proper L-position for this dash, you need to make sure you have a basic foundation of core body strength. To do this, practice L-sits, butt scoots, leg lifts, and knee raises.The L-sit, in particular, will help you build the needed body strength to successfully hold the L-shape of a dash vault.
 Outside of core strength, flexibility plays a large role in performing a dash vault. You need to be able to get both your legs out in front of you while “jumping” over an obstacle. To improve your flexibility, try practicing some basic yoga, pilates, or taking a dance class. Also stretch regularly for 10-15 minutes every morning and evening., The last thing you need to conquer before you can dash vault is the mental aspect. You have to have the confidence in your ability to clear the obstacle in the correct fashion. To do this, you want to break the dash vault into steps and go through them slowly.For example, run up to the obstacle and jump on top of it. Then, sit down and place your hands close to the edge. Once in this position, kick your legs forward. Do this over and over until you feel comfortable with each step.
You can also start with a lazy vault and then try to straighten your legs out.

