 The best time of year for bass is the pre-spawn.This is the time of year when the fish are waking up from winter inactivity to start the mating cycle. It begins with the water temperature starts to rise to 55 or 60 degrees and the females and males start to come up in the waters and interact with one another. Since they have been mostly dormant during the colder months, they are really aggressive and angry this time of year. This time period falls around early spring and lasts the whole season.


During this time, you can catch bass closer to the shore and closer to the surface.
You can bass in any season, but they are really active during the spring months.
If you catch a female during this period, make sure you let her go so she can nest and populate the body of water with more bass., Find a map of the body of water where you plan to fish. The maps will show you the depths of the different areas of the water and any drop offs under the surface of the water. Bass like the lurk near the bottom in non-peak seasons, so having a map of the depths of the body of water you are fishing in can help you find the bass. It can also help you find underwater structures where the bass might like to hide.


Most bodies of water have a map available online from either the state or local natural resources website., The best times of day to catch a bass are the early hours of the morning and the last hours of the day. Try to get to your fishing spot about an hour before sunrise or an hour before sunset because the bass bite more at these times when the sun isn't too high overhead. If you happen to fish during the middle of the day, look for the bass in shaded areas away from direct sunlight. They avoid areas of extreme light and heat.


You can get bass to bite in the afternoon in open water if it is cloudy or if the water is muddy enough to shield the sun., Bass like to be near objects, vegetation, or obstructions in the water, such as a stump or tree that has fallen into the water. It can be near boat docks or bridge posts. Cast around low hanging tree limbs and in large patches of weeds as well because bass like the constant cover provided by these places in the water.


Be careful when you cast around these kinds of objects since you might get your lures or hooks stuck on them. If you do, you could lose your lure or have to re-hook your line. The risk is worth it because sizable bass are in these areas.