 For best results, wash your skin once in the morning after you wake up and once at night before you go to bed.You should also consider washing your face after you hit the gym, go for a run, or take part in any activity that produces extra sweat.
Stick with a facial cleanser instead of using regular soap. Facial cleansers have gentle formulas, but standard soap is usually too coarse and may irritate the sensitive skin of your face.;
, Scratching at acne and popping your pimples will cause inflammation and scarring. The added irritation can even cause more acne.
 You can use a cleanser with a special spot-treating formula to reduce the lifespan of a pimple by a day or two.


Apply the product early and often until the offending zit vanishes.
 After washing your face, apply a gentle moisturizer to prevent your skin from drying out. Choose a cream, gel, or serum that will rub into your skin completely to avoid clogging your pores.


If you do not moisturize your skin, you run the risk of causing dry, dead skin cells to clog your pores.
 This bacteria gets transferred to your skin, causing more acne to develop.


Throw out any makeup over a year old, even if it still looks clean when viewed with the naked eye.
Wash loose powder brushes every two to three weeks. Wash foundation brushes once a week.
Throw away sponges that are too thickly coated in makeup to clean.
 Even clean cosmetics trap toxins, forcing your skin to come into contact with them. Remove your makeup before you go to sleep in order to reduce the amount of time your skin must be exposed to these toxins.



Apply mint juice over your face every night to clear up any acne.
Clear body acne by crushing mint leaves into a paste and adding the juice of one lemon. Mix it with warm water until it becomes a thick liquid and apply it over your body. Rinse with warm water once dry.
 Papaya contains papain, an enzyme with antibacterial properties that also removes dead skin cells.


Reduce sun spots and freckles by regularly applying a papaya-based mask consisting of 1/4 cup (60 ml) cocoa powder, 2 tsp (10 ml) heavy cream, 1/4 cup (60 ml) ripe papaya, 1/4 cup (60 ml) honey, and 2 tsp (10 ml) oatmeal powder. Blend together to form a paste before applying it to your face. Rinse after 10 minutes.
 This herb lightens skin blemishes and has antiseptic properties.


Mix enough turmeric powder and pineapple juice to form a paste. Apply this paste to the dark bags under your eyes.
Mix 2 to 3 tsp (10 to 15 ml) sugarcane juice with a sprinkle of turmeric powder and apply to your face to reduce the appearance of wrinkles.
 Applying walnut powder is a gentle way to exfoliate your skin and remove impurities lurking deep inside your pores.


Mix 2 tsp (10 ml) crushed walnuts or walnut powder with 2 Tbsp (30 ml) plain yogurt. Gently scrub the mixture onto your face and rinse off after 20 minutes.
 Rice flour is thought to reduce the appearance of wrinkles while clearing your complexion.


Mix 1/4 cup (60 ml) rice flour with 1/4 cup (60 ml) milk and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) honey. Apply to your face and rinse after 20 minutes.
 Neem has antiviral and antibacterial properties that makes it well-suited for the purpose of clearing clogged pores and pimples.


Mix 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) neem powder with 2 Tbsp (30 ml) plain yogurt. Apply to your skin and rinse off with cool water. Do this up to twice a week.
 Cucumbers are effective at hydrating the skin while acting as an astringent. Using cucumbers regularly can prevent pimples, wrinkles, and dry skin.


Mix equal parts cucumber and milk and use the combination instead of a commercial cleanser.
Rub cucumber juice onto blemishes.
Place cucumber slices of packs of grated cucumbers onto your eyes to rid yourself of dark bags.
Rinse well with cool water after 20 minutes.
 This ingredient helps regulate the pH balance of your skin and keep your pores clear before pimples can even form.If you have oily skin, look for a face wash made with 2 percent salicylic acid.
For dry skin, choose a sensitive formula that only contains 1 percent.
 Pre-moistened cloths containing salicylic acid can be used to cleanse oil from your skin immediately after you work up a sweat.


You do not need water when using these pads.
Wipe the pads over zones that are most likely to get clogged with sweat, including your forehead, nose, and chin.
 Your skin needs to stay hydrated in order to remain healthy, clear, and free of dead, flaking skin.


Pick a moisturizer without oil to minimize the risk of clogging your pores.
For intensely acne-prone skin, use a moisturizing gel instead of a cream.
 Your skin can be pimple-free yet still appear red and inflamed. Apply an overnight gel if you have notably sensitive skin.


Look for gels containing botanicals like aloe vera.
 Exfoliating products usually contain slightly abrasive ingredients that remove dead skin cells and debris from your pores, thereby removing the environment bacteria needs in order to grow.


Exfoliating too much can lead to skin that is excessively dry and irritated, however.
 Retinol-based products are used to minimize the effects of aging and also clear up acne.


Gradually begin using retinol-based products by applying a night cream once or twice a week until your skin adjusts.
 Avoid exposing your skin to the sun as often as possible. Wear a hat to shade your face from the sun when you expect to stay out for a prolonged period, and avoid sun-bathing.You should also consider apply sunscreen to offer the greatest amount of protection. Most sunscreens are oily by nature, so to reduce the risk of clogging your pores, choose a lotion specifically formulated for use on your face.
Sunlight can damage your skin in the long-run but it can also cause your pores to get clogged, preventing oil from escaping in the process.
 Exercise regulates hormones, and many acne problems are related to hormonal shifts and surges. This is especially true of breakouts that occur during the teenage years.


Play sports or lift weights if either activity appeals to you. If not, at least go for walks or runs on a regular basis.
Wash your skin after breaking a sweat to prevent your pores from getting clogged.
 Sleep regulates the body's hormones and also reduces stress. Aim for 6 to 8 hours each night.
 Stress throws your hormones off, causes you to break into a sweat, and leads to an overall increase in acne. Calm yourself down after a hard day by doing something relaxing. By reducing your stress, you can reduce the number of future breakouts you experience. Possible stress-reducing activities include:


Taking a bubble bath
Exercising
Meditating
Listening to music
Painting, drawing, or indulging in a calm and expressive activity
Watching a movie or show
Reading a book

, Certain foods can keep your skin hydrated, healthy, free of irritation, and free of acne-causing toxins. Foods and drinks to gravitate toward include:


Water and water-rich foods (including many fruits and vegetables)Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, like salmon, mackerel, seaweed, free-range eggs, walnuts, and dark green leafy vegetables
Foods rich in flavonoids, like lettuce, citrus fruits, cabbage, lima beans, and kidney beans
NettlesArtichokes
Alfalfa sprouts
Peppermint
Beetroot
Red grapes
Acai
Fennel
Tofu
Whole grains
Green tea
Avocado
Garlic
Tomatoes
Dark berries
Sweet potato

, There are also foods generally linked to an increase in acne breakouts. Foods you should try to stay away from include:


Refined grains, like commercial cereal, white bread, and white rice.
Refined sugars, like chocolate, candy, soda, and cookies
Rich dairy, like milk or cream
Vegetable oils, like corn oil, sunflower oil, safflower oils, and sesame oils

