 The “speak” command teaches your dog to bark in response to your verbal cue. On its own, this command is something of a novelty. But in combination with the “quiet” command, it can help manage a barking problem in an overly vocal dog.Take extreme caution when teaching this command. Inexperienced trainers sometimes find "speak" training spirals out of control. They end up with a dog who barks at them all the time.
 "Speak" training requires immediate praise, more so than other commands do. Teach your dog to associate the click sound with a treat by clicking and treating a few times in a row.


Continue this clicker training until your dog sees the click sound as a reward in and of itself. The treat will come later.
 This will vary from dog to dog, so you have to observe your specific pet. He might bark most reliably when you withhold a treat, when someone knocks on the door, when someone rings the doorbell, or when someone honks a horn.
 Once you’ve figured out what makes your dog bark, perform that action in front of your dog. The idea is to encourage him to bark on his own, then praise him for the action.


You can see how this might be dangerous in the hands of an inexperienced trainer.
That's why "speak" training is a little different from the other commands. You'll incorporate the verbal command from the very beginning. That way, the dog doesn't think you're praising him for his natural behavior.
 As soon as your dog barks for the very first time, give the verbal "speak" command, click, and give him a treat.


The other commands thus far have taught the behavior first, then added a command that preceded the behavior.
However, "speak" training gets out of hand too easily that way. The dog gets rewarded for barking at first.
Thus, it's better to associate the verbal command with the behavior already in progress. Never reward the dog for barking without the verbal command.
 If you have a dog who naturally barks too much, you might not think teaching him to "speak" is going to help your situation. However, if you teach him to "speak," then you can also teach him to "quiet." While you may not need the "speak" for a dog who barks too much, you definitely need the "quiet."


Once your dog has mastered the "speak," begin incorporating "quiet" into your training sessions.
Give the "speak" command.
However, instead of rewarding the "speak" (barking), wait until the dog stops barking.
Give the verbal "quiet" command.
If the dog remains silent, reward the "quiet" (no barking) with a click and a treat.

