 Make a comprehensive list of how much you owe, on which cards, at how much interest.


Whether or not you include other types of debt, such as mortgages or car loans, is up to you. As a general rule you save the most money when you concentrate on paying off highest-interest debt first, and the less revolving debt you have the better your credit will appear. That usually means paying your high-interest credit cards off first.
If you've used balance transfers, cash advances or other special offers to pile up your existing credit card debt, you might have multiple balances accumulating interest at different rates on any given credit card. Every statement should list how much of your balance is accumulating interest at what rate, and how much actual interest was charged on each "chunk" of your balance for that billing period.
If you can't decipher your credit card statement, contact your credit card issuer and ask them to explain how much of your balance is subject to which interest rates.;
,


Remember that exceeding 25 to 50 percent of that card's available balance could reduce your credit score. But if you're paying high interest rates and already carry high balances on other cards, the money you save is probably worth it.
Most zero-percent offers are available for a limited time only, so make a note of when each offer expires. Once the offer expires, any remaining balance is usually subject to the credit card's default purchase rate.
Also note down any fees associated with the balance transfer offers. Most zero-percent offers will tack on a set percentage of the balance you transfer, and most balance transfer offers involve a minimum charge no matter how much you transfer.
 Multiply this by the number of months the balance will be subject to the zero-percent rate.


There's no point in transferring more than you can afford to pay off before the zero-percent balance is subjected to normal interest rates. Depending on that card's default interest rate, you might actually end up losing money instead of saving it if you transfer more than you can pay.
 In most cases, the balance-transfer fee will be substantially less than the interest rate--but you should always check to make sure.



If you received the balance transfer offer online, you can follow the prompts to complete the balance transfer online.
Occasionally, you'll also receive credit card balance transfer offers in the mail--usually along with your statement for an existing card. These might take the form of a check you just make out to the other credit card company (or yourself) and mail off or cash.
Be prepared to provide the credit card number for the card you're transferring a balance from. You might need to provide other information too, such as the name of the bank that issues the credit card. Make sure to provide complete, correct information; failing to do so could result in a delayed or failed balance transfer.

