 No skate punk is complete without tight-fitting skinny jeans, preferably in black. Look for brands that are made with elastic waists and offer some flexibility. If you can’t pull off your tricks or your feet are numb because your tight pants are preventing proper blood circulation, get something a little looser. Jeans are typically ripped or otherwise distressed.


If super tight pants aren’t your thing, skate punks occasionally wear baggy, knee length shorts. Choose dark colors or black.
The skater punk style takes its cues directly from the original punk style, which also favored black skinny jeans and other slim-fitting clothing.Original punk style is far more documented than skater punk style, so you can reference clothing styles of original punk and adapt it as needed. The authenticity will shine through.
 Look for the classic punk symbols, like skulls, or any other bold designs.T-shirt colors are often neutral in color – black, white, or occasionally an aggressive red.


Skate punk band t-shirts are also important to this style. A few classic options are Black Flag, Minor Threat, Suicidal Tendencies and JFA.The DIY spirit of skate punk also applies to printed t-shirts. If you can’t find things that you like, try creating customized t-shirts with your own designs.Regardless of what imagery you choose for your t-shirts, look for tight or slim-fitting versions.
 These have been iconic skate punk shoes since the early '80s. They are made of tough canvas and feature padded ankle collars and sticky soles that grip a skateboard really well.These shoes were loved by skate punks and also punk musicians - they were worn by members of Minor Threat and Black Flag.
Converse Chuck Taylor All-Stars are another classic shoe embraced by skate punks.
These are high-top trainers made of durable, flexible black canvas and feature the flat-soled grip that skateboarders love., Look for slim-fitting silhouettes in dark shades for all articles of clothing.


Make sure you top everything off with a black hoodie that zips in the front. Many skate styles emphasize oversized hoodies, but skate punks generally go for a tighter fit.
The skate punk attitude is very DIY. If you want to try a particular look and can’t find what you want in stores, make it yourself using thrift store elements.
 Skate punks don’t wear tons of accessories, since practicality is generally emphasized over some of the more classic punk elements like spikes and leather. However, a studded belt is a must and won’t get in the way of your skateboarding. Look for black leather or black material with metal studs for a classic skater punk look.


Tight-fitting arm bands and bracelets with a hardcore or spiked look are also popular.One or even a few studs in your ears will also fit well into this style and won’t hinder you on your deck.
 Skate punks generally never go for long hair, so keep your locks short and gelled. Dark hair or dyed black is the popular look. For a bit of an edge, try a dyed stripe of bold color, like red, blue or green.


Skater girls typically have a similar style for their hair – short, messy and dyed.