 The basic mechanics are mostly the same as previous zombie games. Zombies will try to enter your zone through barricaded windows. Keep them out and save up points by killing them.;
, The Beast is an alien form that players can temporarily turn into to do extra tasks. The Beast can traverse vast distances in quick time, open locked areas, revive players, and activate Perk machines. You can turn into the Beast by going up to any area marked by a chalice spewing purple fire and selecting "Turn Into the Beast".
 Gobble-Gum is a new feature that gives you a temporary bonus perk. Gobble-Gum machines are scattered throughout the map.
 Follow the blue light in the sky to find the Mystery Box and purchase a random weapon. Each weapon from the Mystery Box costs 950 points.
 There are three directions you can go after opening the first gate, each path splitting off into multiple possible courses.
 When in a pinch, buying a ticket across the map can save your skin. The transit will cart you all the way across the map, which can enable you to escape hordes or reach downed teammates.
 Inter-spaced between rounds, there will be bosses even more dangerous than zombies popping up to kill you.


The Margwa is a gargantuan monster with three heads. It is very fast, and can kill you with one hit, so run and gun. You can kill it by shooting into its opened mouths (indicated by a bright yellow light coming from their insides). It appears in a round with zombies, so you can't devote all of your time to killing it.
Parasites are bug-like creatures that shoot hazardous yellow material at you. They are relatively easy to kill, but they are agile, and often dodge shots.
Insanity Elementals are meatball-looking creatures that roll around at high speeds and explode. They follow the same mechanic of R.A.P.S. from the campaign and multiplayer. They will detonate when close to players, but can be destroyed from afar. The best strategy is to book it away from them, occasionally stopping for 2-3 seconds to turn around and shoot some. Make sure not to run into a corner, as they pile up fast, making escape tricky.

