 Nothing will make your parents lose trust in you faster than if you lie to them. This is especially the case when it comes to important matters like school. If you get a bad grade on a test, don’t hide it from them. If you do something you’re not supposed to do, own up to it.


Remember that negative situations often matter more than positive ones. Stepping out of line once can undo the effect of having obeyed the rules multiple times before that.;
, Doing chores regularly and before being asked will help your parents trust you more than if they have to remind you. You will probably get bonus points for doing extra tasks that they don’t ask you to do. That's especially the case if you do a chore your parents don't like to do.
 Young people often act without thinking first. That's because the area of the brain that governs good judgment is not fully developed until your mid-20s.If you want your parents to trust you, think before you act. Don’t do anything simply because other people are doing it, especially if it’s something potentially dangerous. Ask yourself “Would my parents be angry with me if they found out I did this?” If the answer is “yes,” pick something else to do.


Remember that if your friends try to pressure you into doing something that you don't want to do, they don't have your best interests at heart. You may want to consider finding new friends if that's the case.
 If you consistently act irritable, your parents will probably respond in kind.This doesn’t mean you can’t say what’s on your mind. Just remember to be mature and thoughtful when you do so. Take a few deep breaths if necessary and don't raise your voice.


It’s particularly important to express anger constructively. Whining or screaming if you don’t get your way will probably lead your parents to ignore or punish you. Do your best to remain calm. Part of growing up means understanding that you can’t always get what you want.
 Your parents will probably be more experienced at arguing than you are. If you want something that you don’t think they’ll want to give, lay out a well-reasoned case for why they should give it to you. Prepare that argument ahead of time so you can lay it out calmly and effectively.


For instance, “I want this because it will benefit both of us” is much more mature and level-headed than simply saying “I want this” without thinking of a reason that might benefit your parents as well.
 Never enter any discussion with your parents with the urge to dominate them. They may respond by punishing you. Remember that as long as you’re living with them and you’re under 18, they have more power than you. By cooperating with them, you are more likely to get what you want. Also remember that being able to control your temper is a sign of maturity and empathy, which your parents will appreciate.For instance, if your parents' schedule is so busy that they are unable to spend time with you when you want, work around their commitments. Pick a time that works for them. Don’t insist that they change their calendars to benefit you.
 Don’t make your parents repeat themselves. Learn from your mistakes. Listen carefully to what your parents tell you if you want to earn their trust.


If your parents tell you to do things that contradict each other (running two errands at the same time, for instance) explain to them why you won’t be able to do that. Again, act calmly and responsibly.
 Developing a close relationship with your parents will help them see that you’re not a little kid anymore. The more they know about what’s going on in your life, the more they will be willing to trust you.Ask your parents for advice. If you show them that you trust them enough to get advice on situations that matter to you, they will trust you more in return.
 Try to have quality time with your parents multiple times per week. This can be anything from simply talking with them, to playing board games, or going on hikes. The more time your parents spend with you on a day-to-day basis, the more they will understand how grown up you are.


Don’t skip family meals, if possible. Having dinner as often as possible with your parents has beneficial effects for both children and adults., Being a parent is tough. They appreciate it when they know that you know how hard they’re trying. Even something simple like cooking dinner or giving them a few extra hugs per week can go a long way towards convincing them to relax more around you., While you and your parents should strive for a friendly relationship, remember that they’re supposed to be more than just friends. They are your mentors and your protectors as well. So don’t get stressed out if your parents don’t always seem like your best buddies. That’s what you have friends your own age for!

, Discipline is necessary to raise healthy kids. But some parents exercise an unhealthy degree of control over their families. Such control can lead to serious health problems for kids later in life.It’s possible for your parents to be strict without being over controlling. If your parents tell you they love you regularly and provide constant encouragement, for instance, your family is probably healthy even if your parents are strict.
If your parents micromanage every aspect of your life, no matter how small, hold you to an impossible standard, and act as though you have to earn their love and support, they may be over controlling., Your parents are human. They have their own lives and their own flaws. Sometimes their actions toward you can be influenced by crises they don’t want to talk about or other matters that are bothering them.


If you believe that one or both of your parents may be suffering from mental illness, do your best to find them help. Mental illness in parents can lead to health risks for everyone around them, including children., If you can’t reach your parents no matter how hard you try, focus on pleasing yourself. Don’t be too hard on yourself, don’t criticize yourself, and never tell yourself that you’re no good. Always remember that you have worth.

