 In most states you can either request an absentee ballot online or print out the form online and mail it to the county board of elections or registrar, depending on what it's called in your locality. The best place to do so will be at your Secretary of State’s website. The contact information for the country registrar should be on the Secretary of State’s website.


You can find a portal that links to all fifty of the various Secretary of State websites at http://www.canivote.org/. The portal is maintained by the National Association of Secretaries of State.
 The rules determining who can and can’t vote absentee vary more widely than voter registration rules. Some states allow anyone to cast an absentee ballot (no-excuse absentee ballot), and some states only allow certain categories of people to cast them. Nonetheless, most voters are eligible in most states, even the states that don’t allow unlimited access to absentee voting.There are 27 states that offer no-excuse absentee voting, while Washington, Oregon and Colorado conduct all elections through the mail. The remaining 20 states require an excuse for the voter to cast an absentee ballot. You can find a complete listing at http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/absentee-and-early-voting.aspx

Curiously, while the requirements for showing ID are typically less stringent than they are for in-person voting, there are so many differences from state-to-state, and even for different categories of people within each state, that it is difficult to make any general guidelines. Simply check your state’s rules to make sure that you comply. They should be found on or near the absentee ballot application itself.
 There is so much variance in absentee voting deadlines that it is difficult to make any general comments about what is typical. The best advice is to check your state’s laws and make sure that you comply with them., Return your absentee ballot by mail or in person to the board of elections or registrar for the county in which you are registered within the appropriate deadline.

