 Shutting your blinds and curtains during the day will help block the sun's rays. As soon as the sun hits your building in the morning, close all windows and keep exterior doors and windows closed throughout the hottest part of the day. Do this until night falls and it is cool enough to open the windows for the night.Angle your blinds up, so that if you are looking through them you can see the ground, not the sky.
For even better protection, get cellular, insulated curtains, or window tint film, which, like car tint, looks like a dark or shiny part of the glass itself.
 Open strategic windows so that cooler night air is blowing in throughout the evening. Leaving all interior doors open (including closets and kitchen cabinets) helps, too. If you leave them closed, they store the daytime heat and your house won't cool off so quickly at night.Be sure to get up and close the windows and blinds as soon as the sunlight hits your house. This can be as early as 5-6 a.m. in some areas.
 Position a ceiling fan, an upstairs window fan, or an attic fan to draw off the heat collected in upper rooms and push the heat outdoors. Set up your portable fan so that the fan sucks up cooler air from the floor below, and blows hot air upwards towards the ceiling.


Use a combination of fans to create good air circulation. Blow hot air out by positioning a powerful exhaust fan near a window and use oscillating fans placed near other windows to blow in fresh, cooler air.
You can also turn on your stove ventilator hood fan or open up your chimney flue. These will also draw hot air out of the house and pull cooler evening air into the house.
 Put a metal bowl of salted ice in front of a fan, and adjust the fan so that the air is blowing over the ice. Or, use one or more 2 liter (0.5 US gal) bottles and fill them mostly full of water (70%) and rock salt (10%). Leave 20% of the volume empty for expansion. Freeze the liquid in the bottles, then place them in a large bowl (to catch dripping condensation). Position a fan to blow on them. As the salty ice in the bottles melts, the air around them cools and the fan will blow that air at you.The salt lowers the temperature at which the water freezes, allowing you to make the ice super cold.
The water and salt in the bottles can be refrozen every night and used repeatedly.
 Don't use the stove or oven for cooking. Eat cold food, or use the microwave or an outdoor grill when cooking your meals. Turn off your lamps and your computer when you're not using them. You should also turn off your TV since it gives off a lot of heat and take the power off of non-essential plug-in power adapters.Incandescent light bulbs also give off heat. Switch to compact fluorescents or LEDs.
 If your home has a basement and central air system, have an HVAC professional add a cold air return in the basement to pull the naturally cool air that falls down and recycle it into the rest of your home by simply setting your furnace to "fan" mode.


Install an individual room ventilation system with a cool air intake, hot air exhaust, and temperature and humidity controls. This will bring the night-time air in and let the A/C take over in the middle of the day.
 This will draw hot air up while circulating a cool breeze through your rooms. Turn the fans up to a higher speed to add an even cooler effect., This will pull hot air into the attic, where it dissipates via attic vents. To cool your house, open a door to the basement, and make sure that all doors between the basement and the room where the fan is located are open. Turn it on at night and open downstairs windows, and that will cool the house efficiently. However, make sure that you've got good attic vents, or your attic won't properly exhaust the heat.If you don’t have them already, install attic vents. It's amazing how much difference a cool attic makes to the temperature of a house.

