 Use warm soapy water to get rid of any dirt or dust that the parts may have accumulated while in the box. Allow the parts to air-dry.;
, The fountain you purchase will come with instructions on how to do this for your specific model. For any model, the tube should stand straight from the base. If your auger tube has multiple parts, you will first need to lock these together to create a longer tube.Some parts may already be assembled depending on the brand of fountain that you buy.
 Slide the largest tier down the auger first, locking it into place, then slide the second-largest tier, and so forth.


Slide your tiers face-down so that they don't trap and hold your chocolate as it runs down the fountain.
Some fountains will already come with the tiers attached to the auger tube.
 The auger looks like a corkscrew and is what drives the chocolate up the fountain. Slide the auger down the center of the auger tube and twist it clockwise into the base until you feel a light resistance - this means your auger is locked and ready to use.
 The crown secures the auger from the top end and is the finishing touch on your fountain.
 Plug it into the electricity and run the machine without chocolate to ensure that you’ve got a fully functioning fountain. Don’t turn on the heat.
 You can use any sort of chocolate in your fountain. However, a couverture chocolate, which is of higher quality and contains 32-39% cocoa butter, can taste better and look silkier when running in the fountain.If you decide to use any other sort of chocolate, add 1 cup of vegetable or canola oil per 5 pounds (2.3kg) of chocolate to soften the texture., Melt the chocolate either in a microwave (for at least three minutes) or with a double-boiler. After the chocolate has melted, place it in tubs inside a plastic or Styrofoam cooler so as to insulate it from the outside and keep it warm and liquid.Melt the chocolate only a couple of hours before your event so that it will remain warm and liquid.
 You can now turn your chocolate fountain on. The chocolate will travel up the central column and run down the sides into the base of the fountain. Once it’s in the basin, it will be pulled up the central column once more and the cycle will repeat.Follow the instructions in the manual that came with your fountain to know just how much chocolate you should be pouring.
 Chocolate fountains tend to be the main attraction at any snack bar, so place the fountain in the middle of the table for the best effect. The table should be sturdy and close to a wall with an electrical plug.


Tape the electrical cord to the ground so your guests won’t trip over it.
Place the table far away from the dance floor or from any areas with swinging doors or air conditioning ducts. If possible, refrain from using your fountain outdoors. You want your chocolate to stay warm and for the fountain not to tip over., Dipping food in a chocolate fountain can get messy fast! Chocolate will drip and splash. Prevent any incidents by placing a tablecloth on your table. Choose a tablecloth in a dark color so that chocolate drips don’t show.
 Snacks that go well with melted chocolate include pretzels, cut-up pieces of pound cake, and meringues.


Make sure your snacks are in bite-size pieces so it’s easier for guests to dip their servings in the chocolate.
 Bananas, strawberries, dried apricot, maraschino cherries, grapes, and pineapple are all perfect accompaniments to dip in your chocolate fountain.You can also serve more exotic fruits such as star fruit, dragon fruit, or coconut chunks. These also pair well with melted chocolate.
Dry your washed fruit so that the chocolate will adhere more easily.
 You should plan to have enough skewers and plates for each of your guests. Place these near the snacks and fruit so that people can help themselves in a clean, germ-free way.


Place a small garbage can near the table so that guests can throw away their dirty places and used skewers.
 Poke a snack or a piece of fruit with a skewer or toothpick and bring it up to the fountain. Place the food under the running chocolate, covering just the food and not the toothpick or skewer. Rotate the skewer or toothpick so that your entire snack or piece of fruit gets covered in chocolate. Enjoy!


The chocolate will drip from the snack or fruit, so place a plate under the dipped item to keep your clothes from getting spots!

, Food can fall into the chocolate basin, where the chocolate is heated, and jam your fountain. If this happens, turn off and unplug the fountain immediately, retrieve the snack or piece of fruit, and plug the fountain back in.Ask for a volunteer to “guard” the fountain. This person can ask people not to double-dip their snacks as well as turn the fountain off if they notice that an item has fallen into the basin., You can do this with a simple washcloth or with paper towels. Pour excess chocolate into the garbage can.


If your chocolate cools, it will harden, making the task of cleaning the fountain an arduous one. If the chocolate has hardened, turn the heating element on to re-melt the chocolate. Use a hair dryer to hurry the melting by aiming the warm air to the tiers and auger tube., Double-bag the fountain, if possible. The fountain will still have chocolate inside, so carry it home this way to avoid a mess.
 If the fountain has dishwasher-proof pieces, remove these, clean them in warm soapy water, and place them in the dishwasher. Scrub any pieces you cannot wash in the dishwasher with a soft sponge and soapy water.The motor and the pump should never be placed in the dishwasher. These are electrical hazards.Check your owner's manual for specific instructions on how to most efficiently wash your chocolate fountain.

