 Removing as much dirt as possible will make the rest of the cleaning process much easier.









While you're still wearing your shoes, gently tap them against the ground to remove excess dirt.
Once you take them off, tap the soles of the shoes together to get rid of more grime.
Use a small bristle brush to scrub the remaining dirt particles.;
, Throw them in a container with water and detergent to let them soak. A clean pair of shoelaces can go a long way in making an old pair of shoes look clean.









After they soak for a few hours, remove them and hang them up to dry.
If your shoelaces refuse to get cleaner, it may be time to buy a new pair of laces. You can still find a new use for your old laces, such as a funky bracelet or a cat toy.
 Fill a bucket with cold water and a few drops of detergent, and stir until you have a nice, soapy mix.









Make sure your bowl or bucket is only used for cleaning mud and dirt. Don't use any bowls that you use for cooking or storing food.
 Use an old toothbrush, or even an old electric toothbrush, to remove the remaining stains.









Work in a circular motion for maximum efficiency.
Focus on the outside of the shoe and avoid getting water inside of it.
 Continue to scrub your shoes with more of the mixture until you've removed the remaining dirt and soap residue.
 After the cleaning is done, it's important to dry your shoes the right way so they retain their shape and quality.









Crumple up old newspaper or paper towels, and put them inside your shoes to help them retain their shape.
Dry your shoes in the sun. This will not only dry them quickly, but will also kill foot bacteria.
If you're afraid that drying your shoes in the sun will damage their color or don't have the patience to wait for your shoes to dry, you can blow-dry them. However, you must remember to set the blow-dryer on COLD to avoid damaging your shoes.
Place a dryer sheet in each of your shoes to improve their smell.
 To fix any holes or tears in your TOMS, you'll need scissors, fabric glue, a paintbrush, and fabric.









Choose a fabric that is similar to the weight and texture of the fabric of your shoes. Try to find a cool and funky fabric since it'll be visible.
 If the hole is small and you only want to use a small patch, cut the fabric accordingly.









If there are many small holes and tears along the front of your shoes, however, you may want to cut the fabric to cover the folded, hemmed edge of the front of the shoe to maintain its original look in a new fun color.
 Use a paintbrush to cover the afflicted area evenly. Make sure to use enough glue for the fabric to stick, but not so much that it gets all over the place.
 Once you stick the fabric to the glue, you can trim it down if it's not the right size.









Once you trim your fabric, you can add a bit more glue around the edges to make sure it sticks.
Wait twenty-four hours for your shoes to dry. You can place a rubber band over the fabric to hold it to the shoe.
 You may also consider not using the fabric and just sticking to fabric glue to hold the shoe together.
 To make your TOMS last longer, you'll need the inserts that came with the shoes, duct tape, and scissors.









It's likely you don't have the inserts from your old shoes, so you may have to wait to buy a new pair to try this trick.
You can also ask any friends who are buying a new pair for their inserts, or find an insert of similar size.
 The thicker the tape, the better.









The sticky side of the tape should be facing up, and it should fall in line with the place where your toe hits the fabric.
 When you get them in the right position, press down on the fabric so the tape sticks to it.









Remove the cardboard and let the tape remain in its place.
 Now that you've reinforced your shoes, you can wear them in, so the new taped part doesn't bother you.









If the tape comes lose, repeat the process.

