 Invite the girls over for the evening and cook a delicious three-course meal. Decide on the appetizer, main course, and desserts in advance, and make sure you have all of the ingredients you need when everyone gets there. Then, follow the recipes to make delicious treats for yourself, whether you make a watermelon salad or mushroom risotto. Try to pick recipes that are pretty easy and which don’t take too long, so you can enjoy your meal without exerting too much effort.


When everyone gets there, blast some fun music and assign everyone to a certain task such as “Elizabeth does the chopping,” “Veronica cleans the veggies,” “Maria boils the rice,” and so on. Talk and have a good time! You can also play some music in the background to make things more fun.
If one of your friends really hates cooking, you don’t need to force her to do it, but you can put her on clean-up duty.
 Blast your stereo and sing and dance your hearts out to popular songs on the radio, or play your favorite CDs or songs from your iPod to get people grooving. Have fun just dancing like fools while you dance, or even make up a coordinated song to the beat of the song that you’re dancing to. The most important thing is that you don’t care what you look like and that you’re committed to swinging your hair and looking like a goofball.


You can even teach each other coordinated dances, such as “The Wobble” or “The Cupid Shuffle,” and have fun goofing off or even performing them for your other friends or siblings.
 Another fun thing you can do at home with your friends is to play with your pet. Take your dog out in the yard or to a park and throw a frisbee to him, or take turns letting people hold or pet your pet hamster, Nibbles. If you have a kitty who likes playing with his feather toy, then let your friends take a turn playing with him, as long as he doesn’t get overwhelmed. You may think that playing with pets is for kids, but this can actually be a nice change of pace for teenage girls, too.


If your dog needs to be walked, all of you can go take him for a walk together. This will let you bond with your pet and get some physical exercises. Besides, you never know what cute boys you might find when you’re walking around.
 Go to the store with a few of your friends and get all of the necessary ingredients for ice cream sundaes: ice cream, bananas, chocolate syrup, maraschino cherries, and crushed peanuts or anything else you like to add to your favorite treat. You can even get some waffle cones to crush up and place on the bottom for an added flavor. Then, throw an ice cream sundae making party in your kitchen, and have some soda or milk along with that sundae to boot.


You can also add some sprinkles to your favorite dessert.
If you have some friends who are opposed to ice cream, you can use frozen yogurt, instead.
Caramel sauce can be just as tasty as chocolate sauce.
 You may think you’ve outgrown board games and that you’re too old to really enjoy them. However, you can actually end up having a fun, silly night playing old games with your friends, whether you’re playing Sorry!, Twister, or charades or another game you haven’t played in a while. Don’t worry so much about looking cool or mature and focus on having a good time instead.


If you have old board games from your childhood, such as Pretty Pretty Princess, then you and your friends can have a blast playing them.
 Okay, so making prank calls may not be the most advisable thing you can do as a rule, and it can lead you to even get in trouble with the law, but calling up a boy you know and teasing him a bit or throwing him off guard can be a fun way to pass the time. Call up your crush, your boyfriend, or a guy one of your friends likes, and have fun disguising your voice and asking him if he ordered a pizza or asking him to report to the principal’s office as soon as he can.


Call from the phone of a person whose number he doesn’t have, or dial *67, if relevant, if you call from home so that your number is not identified. It can be more fun to call from home because then multiple girls can get on multiple phones to hear the funny conversation.
 Don’t think that scrapbooking is just for your mom and her friends. Get together with a few of your close friends that you’ve known for a long time, and compile a basket of old photos, old notes, and old trinkets and keepsakes that remind you of your friendship. These days, people actually print their photos less and less, and it can be nice to create a physical record of your friendship. This can also be a fun way to go down memory lane together.


Just make sure that all of the girls you’re with have known each other for a while, so that someone who is newer to the group doesn’t feel left out.
 Invite your friends over to watch your favorite Audrey Hepburn or Hitchcock film, get the popcorn popping, and enjoy snuggling up and watching your favorite films together. Not only will you be immersing yourself in culture, but you’ll be having fun in the process. If the classics are too much for you, you can pair a more classic film with something more contemporary or mainstream.


A movie night can be a great part of a sleepover. Consider adding a sleepover into the mix. It can be the just the thing you need after watching a movie with your friends.

