 If possible, close your bedroom door at night. Cats are notoriously difficult to sleep with as they rarely sleep a full eight hours and can cause you physical harm via biting and scratching if they're startled by your movements during sleep. It's best to keep your cat out of the bedroom at night, and establish altogether that your sleeping space is not a cat-friendly area. Leave the door closed during the day as well. Cats are territorial. The more access they have with a particular space, the more they think of it as their own, and the harder it is to keep them out when you're trying to rest.
 If your cat feels they have their own place to sleep, they're less likely to invade yours. Cats take refuge in comfortable spaces, surrounded by their toys, litter box, food, and bedding. Setting up a comfortable sleeping space for your cat can give him a place to go at night that won't interfere with your sleep.


A high resting spot is ideal, as cats are natural observers and love to view a wide scope. A multi-level kitty condo, available for purchase online or at pet stores, can be a good option as it's comfortable for rest and also allows your cat to climb high.Cats need multiple places to sleep, so provide them with multiple options. While many pet stores sell expensive bedding, just a pillow or blanket is usually sufficient. Place cat-friendly bedding throughout the house, and places where you are okay with your cat taking a snooze. Place a small pillow on the arm of your sofa, or a warm blanket on the top of the stairs. This signals to your cat that these are places for him to sleep.Cats are most vulnerable when they are sleeping, so they prefer to rest in areas where they feel safe. Provide refuge in quiet spots of the house, especially places that are somewhat hidden like behind or under furniture.
As stated, cats feel like a space is their own if their things are nearby. Set up resting spots close to your cat's food, water, litter, and toys so the cat knows this is a space for them., If your cat keeps trying to get in at night, there are a variety of ways to deter this behavior. Set up some kind of inconvenience for your cat, or something that will startle him, and he'll be less likely to come to your door to cry and scratch.


Place something in front of the door, such as vinyl carpet runner placed upside down to expose the knobby bits, double sided sticky tape, or aluminum foil. The unpleasant texture will make your cat less likely to bother you at night.
Set up a booby trap to startle your cat. Hang your blowdryer from the doorknob or place your vacuum 5 or 6 feet away from the door. Plug the dryer or vacuum into a remote switch, which can be purchased online or at a Radio Shack, and when your cat starts meowing or scratching turn the appliance on. The noise will startle your cat, and he'll be less likely to come back after that.