 Surround yourself with the people who know you the best and the people that want the best for you, especially if you have individuals in your life who know you struggle with depression or low moods.They'll be able to be sensitive to how you are feeling and may even know a way or two to try and lift your mood. You might find that the happiness will find its way to you through celebration with the right people.


Choose to spend the evening with a few friends, or family members, somewhere you feel safe and comfortable.
If family or close friends don't live near you (if you're traveling or living away from home, etc.), go out with some local friends or pick the friend that you are closest to and spend the celebration with him.;
, Even if you are not “feeling” the holiday spirit, start celebrating anyway! Go to a previously planned party at a friend's house, or gather some people and count down the final moments of the year (with some snacks and good music) in your own home. Participating in something social has been shown to help decrease feelings of isolation, anxiety, and stigma.You may find that the decorating, the atmosphere and the environment, or possibly just participating in doing something are enough to brighten your mood.
 If you feel the down mood will be with you no matter what you are doing, then try doing something to actively distract yourself from your negative thoughts.Focusing too much on the negative can actually make your mood worse, so instead, try and set yourself up to be distracted by an activity and the spirit of New Year's Eve being the start of something new.


Make a New Year's Eve craft or project.
Research a future vacation, a topic of interest, or learn something new.
Reorganize your room or apartment.
 If the idea of a quiet night in brings you peace and happiness, then do just that. Spend the evening pampering yourself, and taking part in what is appropriately called “self-care.”Self-care is extremely important in combatting feelings of depression, as the symptoms of changes in appetite, sleep, and lethargy directly affect your ability to care for yourself. Do whatever makes you feel refreshed, beautiful, and ready to start the year anew!Have a luxurious bath with candles, champagne, and music.
Give yourself an at-home manicure, pedicure, or facial mask.
Relax and get a restful night of sleep.
 It can be pretty easy to begin making unhealthy decisions when you are feeling depressed or down. Poor decision making and a lack of intuition have been linked to many symptoms of depression and the effects of depression on emotional and physical health.Eat foods that boost your mood and fight off depression.Fruits with Vitamin C, like blueberries, grapefruit, or kiwi.Food rich in Vitamin E, like nuts and seeds.Omega-3 fatty acids, like salmon, flaxseed oil, and nuts.Proteins like turkey, tuna, or chicken., If feeling down or depressed has you tempted to make unhealthy decisions regarding alcohol (or other drugs), fight it and try to make a concerted effort to stay healthy. There is a very strong relationship between alcohol use and depression regardless of which issue comes first, so be aware of the slippery slope which can occur when these two interact.Often drinking will only worsen your down moods in the short-term and create a larger problem in the long-term.


If you are not sure of your ability to limit your alcohol use, then it may be better to avoid drinking alcohol altogether. You will be happy you did later on.
If you do decide to drink, try limiting your drinks, or drinking a full glass of water after every glass of alcohol to pace yourself. Make sure you are not drinking on an empty stomach and eat during the evening.
 Working out is another great way to combat symptoms of depression. If you are not particularly a “work out” person, any kind of movement will do! Have a private dance party to your favorite music or take a walk outside.


Movement will help increase levels of serotonin in your brain and endorphins in your body, causing mind and body feelings of happiness and well-being.It will also help burn all those pesky post-holiday calories from Thanksgiving or other winter holidays you celebrate.
You will have the satisfied feeling of doing something good for yourself and your body to start off the new year right.

