 Monogamy means being in an exclusive relationship with only one sexual partner. Monogamy can help you to reduce the risk of contracting STIs. If you are going to be sexually active, consider being monogamous.Make sure that your relationship is mutually monogamous, which means you are both committed to only having sex with each other.
Trust is a big part of monogamy. Make sure that you and your partner are open and honest with each other about your sexual activity — past and present.
 Each time you enter into a new sexual relationship, it's important to take time to talk to your partner before jumping between the sheets. Be honest about your own sexual experiences and your own desire to practice safe sex. If your partner doesn't want to practice safe sex, or isn't forthright with you about their sexual history and experiences, don't have sex with them.You don't need to have the "numbers" talk, necessarily, but you do need to find out if your partner has regularly engaged in risky sexual behaviors. Get tested together before you decide to have sex.
Have consensual sex. Make sure your partner is capable of consenting to sex and that both people in the relationship agree to the sexual activity each and every time.
Consenting once doesn't mean consenting to future sexual encounters, and likewise consenting to one activity in no way suggests the consent of another. Never assume consent.
 Avoid mixing drugs and alcohol with sex. Having sex under the influence of drugs or alcohol is never a safe idea. Your safe sex practices can be compromised and less effective if you're drunk/high and you might misread the other person's signals or they might misread your signals, potentially resulting in non-consensual sex.If you go to parties and want to get drunk or use drugs, it's safest to be with friends. Look out for one another.
Don't share drinks. Don't accept a drink from someone you don't know. Keep your hand over the top of drink and keep it with you at all times — don't leave it sitting exposed if you go to the bathroom. Being mindful of your safety can help you avoid falling victim to "date rape drugs."
Common date rape drugs are rohypnol (roofies), GHB, and ketamine. Common symptoms include dizziness, confusion, and difficulty with motor skills.
Get medical care if you suspect you have been drugged.
 No one has the right to pressure you into having sex. This applies to intercourse, but also other forms of sexual activity. If you feel uncomfortable, remove yourself from the situation.Common pressuring tactics include threatening a break up or trying to influence you with drugs or alcohol.
You can say, “I don’t feel comfortable. Please stop.”
You can also say, “I was really enjoying kissing you. I’d like to keep things on that level.”

, Whether you are a virgin or just starting a new relationship, you might be nervous to have sex with someone new. That’s perfectly normal. It’s a good idea to take a self-assessment. Reflecting on your feelings can help you decide if you’re ready to take the next step.Ask yourself a series of questions. For example, are you prepared to talk to your healthcare provider about your sexual activity?
Additionally, you should ask yourself if you feel comfortable discussing intimacy with your partner. Moreover, do you feel comfortable saying that you don’t want to have sex?
If you can’t confidently answer “yes” to these questions, it might be a good idea to hold off on having sex. Remember, every relationship moves at its own pace.

