 You must be at least 21 years of age to get a gun license in Georgia. However, if you’ve been in the Armed Forces, you can apply at age 18 if you have completed basic training and can provide proof that you are either on active duty or have been honorably discharged., You can’t get a gun license if you have a felony conviction in Georgia or in any other state.However, you can qualify if you have your right to own a firearm restored.You are also prohibited from getting a license if there are criminal proceedings pending or if you are a fugitive.
 You are ineligible to receive a gun license if you have been convicted of any offense arising out of the manufacture or distribution of a dangerous drug or controlled substance.For example, you’re ineligible if you’ve been convicted of making or selling drugs.


A misdemeanor drug conviction does not result in a lifetime ban. You can get a gun license if you’ve been free of supervision for at least five years. You also can’t have been convicted of a second misdemeanor conviction involving use, possession, manufacture, or distribution., You can be prohibited from getting a license for a certain number of years depending on your other convictions. Check the following:Illegally carrying a concealed weapon or a pistol without a license. You are ineligible until you are free of supervision and five years have passed.
Domestic violence. You are ineligible to get a gun license unless you receive a pardon or have your gun rights restored.
 The county probate judge must approve your application if you’ve been in a mental hospital or drug treatment center within the past five years. The judge will ask the superintendent of your treatment center or hospital for their opinion.You will need to pay an extra fee.However, if you’ve been committed to a mental hospital against your will, then you are ineligible to receive a gun license under federal law., Sometimes it’s not clear whether you qualify for a gun license in Georgia. Only a qualified attorney can analyze your specific situation and offer accurate advice. Obtain a referral to an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association., For example, you can use your state-issued photo ID, such as a valid driver’s license. If you are a non-citizen, then bring your Resident Alien ID card.You can use other forms of identification if you don’t have a driver’s license with your current address listed on it. For example, you should take at least two of the following: utility bills, lease agreement, voter registration card, property tax statement, or income tax records., You’ll apply at the county courthouse where you live. Find the phone number online or in the phone book and call to check on the fees. You can also find a list of probate courts at this website: http://gaprobate.gov/content/find-your-courts. Click on your county.


The average fee is $75, but each county sets its own fees.Also ask about acceptable methods of payment. Some counties won’t accept bills larger than a $20.
 You have to go to the courthouse yourself so you can have your picture taken for the application.Tell the clerk you want to apply for a firearms license. They will give you an application.
 The court will mail your license to you, but you’ll need to provide a self-addressed, stamped envelope. If you don’t provide one, then you’ll need to stop in and pick up your license when it is ready., After you apply at the courthouse, you’ll need to have your fingerprints taken. In some counties, you’ll have to go to the police department to give fingerprints.The clerk should tell you where to go.
 About five days after you apply, the judge will request a criminal history check. Law enforcement will analyze your criminal history and should make a decision about 30 days later.If you don’t hear anything after 30 days, contact the court. Georgia law allows you to sue if you’ve been unlawfully denied a gun license.When your license arrives, it will be inflexible and shaped like a driver’s license., Whenever you carry your guns, you must have your license on you. You can be fined if a law enforcement officer pulls you over and you don’t have the license with the firearm.
 A gun safety course is not required in order to possess a firearm, but it’s a great idea to take a course anyways. Contact your county sheriff’s office and check if a course is offered. Courses will help you get familiar with a firearm and may include firing sessions at the range., Contact your probate court within 48 hours of discovering you’ve lost your license. You can also get a replacement license if it is damaged.You’ll have to pay a fee for a replacement.
 Georgia has reciprocity with 31 other states. You can legally carry in these states provided your Georgia license is valid. Visit this website to see a list of states: https://georgia.gov/popular-topic/applying-firearms-license.
 Georgia licenses are valid for five years. At least two months before the expiration, you should go to the county court and apply for a renewal.You’ll have to pay a renewal fee. Contact your probate court for more information.


If your license has already expired, you can still get it renewed so long as it has been expired for less than 30 days.