 Any type of string or yarn will work. The string can be many different lengths, but generally three to six feet works best.Multicolored string may make it easier to track your movements while you learn.;
, Make sure the knot is secure and not too big. Some toy makers sell string already in a loop especially for this game. Double-check that the string can slide smoothly across your skin without causing a rope burn.
 Start with your hands in front of you and both thumbs pointing up. Place a section of the string over the side of your thumbs facing your chest. Your hands should be roughly six inches apart with palms facing each other., You may need to bring your palms closer together slightly. Dip your hands slightly forward with your wrist if necessary.


If your string is properly positioned, it should be held diagonally across your palm, looped over the back base of each pinky finger and thumb.
 Keep your hands level with your chest, palms facing each other. The result should be a rectangular loop that isn't sagging. This is called Position 1 or First Position., To do this, start by moving your palms close together so that they nearly touch. Lower your right hand so that your right index finger lines up with the center of your left palm. Move your right index finger under the string so that it loops over your fingernail., Make your palms face each other. Spread your arms back apart to tighten the string. The string doesn't need to be taut. Just make sure it doesn't sag, or the string may tangle.
 Loop the string crossing your right hand over your left index finger. Bring your arms back apart with your palms facing each other. The string should loop over the backs of each of your thumbs, index fingers, and pinky fingers. If there is a loop over a different finger or one missing from these digits, start over., When your fingers are spread, your figure should be vertically, horizontally, and diagonally symmetrical. The string should cross twice between your palms, forming two Xs in the center.


One way to think about the proper shape is a large diamond in the center connected to two triangles by its top and bottom angles. The other two angles are at your index fingers. The bases of the triangles are the parallel string segments between your thumbs and your pinky fingers.
 A string is any straight section. A noose is any loop around your digits. Most string figure guides will use this nomenclature.
 The near thumb string is the straight piece of string closest to your chest, while the far thumb strings are the sections running from your thumb to the first X. The near index finger strings are the sections running from the center of this X to your index fingers, while the far index finger strings start at your index fingers and end at the further X. The near pinky finger strings begin at the further X and end at your pinky fingers. Finally, the far pinky finger string is the section that runs between your right and your left pinky fingers.


Some guides will use "little finger" instead of "pinky finger" and "forefinger" or "pointer finger" instead of "index finger.", There are six nooses, three for each hand. They are the left and right thumb nooses, index finger nooses, and pinky finger nooses. The nooses should sit right on top of the last knuckles of their corresponding digits., Hold your hands open with your palms facing outward. The near string should be short, just the distance between your two hands. The far string should be very long., Bring your hands close together and use your left thumb to hook the string around itself. Return your left hand to its original position. There should now be a section of string extending from under your right index finger over to your left thumb., Mirror Step 2 using your right hand and the dangling left index string. Return your right hand to its original position, palm still down. The string should now make an X between your hands with a short near string across your index fingers and a long far string across your thumbs., Rotate your wrists so that your palms now face each other. A properly-formed Navajo Opening should be much less angular than Opening A. The nooses will be loose and wide. There should be two parallel strings oriented inward, one connected the index fingers and the other connected the thumbs. Underneath these two strings should be an X formed by two strings connecting the index fingers to the thumbs on opposite hands., Your hands should be held at chest level with your index fingers pointing upwards. Make sure that the far string is short, while the near string is very long.This opening is sometimes called the Index Opening.
 Move your hands closer together. Use your right index finger and thumb to pinch the slack into a loop, making a cross within the far string. Hold the loop with the index finger and thumb of each hand so that the loop is pointed upwards with the cross oriented down., Turn your wrists slightly outwards in order to hook your index fingers into the loop. Each of your index fingers should now have two nooses. There should also now be two straight near strings and a set of crossed far strings., A properly-formed Murray Opening should consist of two nooses on each index finger. One noose should rest on the bottom knuckle, while the second noose should cross near the base of your finger nails. It should look like a wide rectangle with an X crossing through its center.

