 Criticism can sound mean, especially when you have poured your heart into an assignment or class. That said, the administration probably cannot help you if your teacher is merely being a harsh critic. You will have to prove that the teacher is specifically bullying you or that their remarks are abusive. Criticism offers you a way to improve where abuse means that the teacher has predetermined your grade without good reason.


Criticism includes remarks like, “You need to proofread your paper,” or, “If you don’t show your work, you will not receive credit.” These may come off as harsh, but they are not abusive.
Abusive comments include threats, insults, or personal attacks. These include comments like, “If you don’t shut up, I’m going to fail you,” or, “You’re so stupid. I can’t expect you to understand how to do this correctly.”

, Write down in a journal every time your teacher mocks, humiliates, or insults you. Make sure to note the date and the cause of this abuse. If you have any evidence of your teacher’s harassment, bring it with you. This includes emails in which they have insulted you, harsh assessments, or misgraded tests. The principal or administrator will review these and decide whether or not they were unfair., If you are frightened or upset when the teacher picks on you, tell your parents. They can tell you if they think the teacher is just doing their job correctly or if they should talk to the teacher about picking on you. Teachers and administration will probably respect your parents more, and they may be more likely to listen to them., If you are confident that your teacher is intentionally bullying you, you should go to the administration to make a complaint.Ask to make an appointment with the principal. You may be referred to a guidance counselor instead.


This is a last resort. If you meet with the principal and they decide that the teacher was right, the teacher may have a grudge against you.
You can also have your parents call and make the appointment. Administration may be more willing to listen to them. Ask one of your parents to come with you to the meeting if possible.
 Make it clear during your meeting that you would like to discuss options for fixing the problem. After presenting any evidence you have, ask the principal if you can switch classes, make the class up in summer school, or drop the class. Be aware that it is very unlikely that your teacher will be punished. Instead, the principal will probably either tell you to resolve your issues yourself or move you to a different class.You can try saying, “I do not think that I will be given a fair grade in this class because I am not given opportunities to improve. I want to know if it is possible for me to be moved to another teacher’s class. I’d even be willing to make it up over summer.”
Instead of complaining that you received bad grades, point out specific instances when the teacher gave you an unfair mark and explain why you think it was undeserved.

If your teacher is abusive, then a complaint can be made to the principal and possibly the school board. You will need thorough documentation of the abuse (a detailed, written record, or even a recording if possible) and you will need your parent's help. Don't try to do this alone.

