 Using passive voice is generally advised against unless you work in a few specific disciplines. Watch for the passive voice as you edit your work.


The subject of a sentence should be the person, place, or thing doing the action. This is called the active voice and you should generally use the active when writing.In the passive voice, some form of the verb "to be" (e.g., is, are, was, were) is used with a past participle (a verb in the past tense). This can be needlessly confusing to read and takes attention away from the action, which should be the primary focus of a sentence.For example, take the sentence "The dog was walked by Holly." This sentence is in the passive voice. To correct it, you would change it to, "Holly walked the dog." This sentence puts focus on the person engaging in the action (Holly) rather than the objected acted upon (the dog)., Nominalization is unnecessarily using the noun form of a word when the verb form would make the sentence more concise. People often accidentally nominalize a sentence in a first draft.To catch unneeded nominalization, look for the word "of" and examine each time you use it in a paper. "Of" is often used in nominalization. For example, "Luke offered an explanation of why Rosemary was late for class."As you can see in the above sentence, instead of using the verb "explain" the noun "explanation" is used. The sentence would be quicker and easier to read if it were rewritten as "Luke explained why Rosemary was late for class.", "There" is an expletive that usually does nothing to clarify the meaning of a sentence. In general, you should remove unnecessary uses of the word "there" while proofreading.


Sentences that begin with "there," "there is," and "there are" would generally read better with these portions removed. For example, "There are many people who believe free speech should be limited in certain ways." Removing the "there" makes the sentence read more smoothly. "Many people believe free speech should be limited in some way.", These constructions are unnecessarily long sentence that begin with "by" and use the word "it" somewhere in the middle. For example, ""By putting the herbs in the pasta sauce first, it allows the flavors to really sink in" could be made more concise by simply saying "Putting the herbs in the pasta sauce first allows the flavors to really sink in."

