 While there is only one breed of Labradors, the gene pool is large and there can be big differences between dogs who are specifically bred for certain purposes.


By attending a conformation show, you will get to meet show-bred Labs and their breeders. These Labs are bred with special attention paid to their physical appearance.
If you would like to meet Labs especially selected for hunting and working ability, visit a hunt test or field trial. These field-bred dogs are selected for traits such as intelligence, ease of training, athletic ability and natural hunting skills.
You can find wonderful labs of all types at agility, obedience, and tracking tests (and many other different types of competitions). Contact The Labrador Retriever Club or the The Labrador Retriever Club of Canada for details and also listings of events where Labs will be showcased. The American Kennel Club (AKC) has listing for breeders and shows on their website in addition to the AKC breed standards., Getting a new puppy should not be done on a whim. This is a long term commitment that has associated costs. Consider the cost of buying a puppy from a breeder, veterinary care including basics such as vaccinations, flea, tick and heartworm prevention as well as spaying/neutering in your planning. Food, grooming, and training costs require budgeting.


Accommodations for vacation and travel as well as fencing and housing need planning.
Are you prepared for medical emergencies? There are many pet health insurance companies that offer affordable plans, but require monthly payments.
Do you want to get into showing your dog? There are costs associated with those activities, too.
 Attend area dog shows, obedience trials, or hunt tests in your area where Labs and their owners gather. Discover which dogs you like and ask to be referred to their breeder.


Visit the AKC website for referrals to Labrador retriever breeders nationwide.
 It is a good idea to visit several local breeders before deciding who you want to buy your puppy from. Do not buy a puppy from the first breeder you visit.


You may want to expand your search outside your own local area in order to find the best breeder and puppy for your needs.
 Find out what they know about the care and breeding of Labrador puppies to measure their level of knowledge.


You should also ask if the breeder provides ongoing support if you need it, and if they will take the dog back if you can no longer keep it.
Buying a puppy from a breeder with all the documentation and parent testing does not guarantee a healthy puppy, unfortunately. However, buying a puppy without responsible breeding practices is highly likely to bring puppies into the world who have health issues that you (and the dog) will be paying for later.
 Get to know their personality a bit before you commit to paying to adopt them. If the breeder does not want you to meet the dog before you commit to buying it, that should be a warning sign that something is amiss.


Try playing with the puppy and see how it reacts to you. Your new puppy should have a good temperament. A well tempered puppy should not be overly aggressive or overly shy.
 Pay the breeder for the puppy and then take your new family member home! Remember to be gentle and calm with your new puppy. They will most likely be a little bit uncertain and scared when leaving the breeders home.


Assure that the breeder gives you all the paperwork they have for your dog.

