


Your friends are all very strict about rules; perhaps you are not allowed to keep a pet, so you hid it from them and your family, because you were afraid they might tell.
One or more of your friends has commented that keeping pets is a waste of time/inhumane/pointless/expensive/etc.. You did not agree and got a pet, but did not want to face criticism.
One or more friends has had problems with pets in the past/dislikes animals/is not a tree hugger, but has some other reason to not want you to own a pet (usually personal and emotional).
You have had bad experiences with pets in the past, and now know you can properly take care of one, but you do not want your friends to criticize or tease you about your past pets.
It was you who once called owning a pet inhumane or pointless, but have come to change your ways and now want a pet of your own, and don't want your friends to call you out on it.;
, Maybe your Vegan friend said that all ownership of animals is cruel and she wouldn't speak to anyone who owned one; maybe you are afraid your very "goody-goody" friend will tell your parents, "for your own good," or maybe you just don't want your building manager to find out. Pinpoint your problem, and then move on.
, The problem is that these people, who do not know you as well as your best friends, will be less understanding.
 Because you are not close, they may not even know if you have a pet or not, and probably don't care that much. Be warned, acquaintances are most likely to jump in on gossip if things to badly., The more you lied, the harder it will be to fix things.
,"), it will be easier to smooth things over. Friends will be far more offended if you lied about things with emotional value then if it was just a "dry" lie.
 Mine is really dirty," things will go much easier for you. If you never specifically said you didn't own a pet, then letting people know is easier.
 If you have lied a lot about your pet, this will be much harder. You should try to make the revealing of your secret pet as much of a deal as the lying was. This means that if you only lied a little about your pet, the revealing should also be a small ordeal. If you lied a lot, the telling should be a bigger deal.


This is only because of how your friends might see you. Think about it: Someone makes up hugely fantastic lies about how much they hate pets, how much they would never ever keep one, nobody can ever go to their house because the carpets are always being cleaned, etc. And then they walk up one day and say, "Hey, I have a pet rat. No big deal." This would seem very odd to you, and make you feel as if you were played, because the person had no problem with lying to you, and has no problem letting you know that he has been lying to you all along.
If you lied a lot, be more emotional with the telling. It is a good idea to be a little embarrassed and ashamed about it.
 This is the same concept as compliment fishing: If you insult yourself first, people are far more likely (especially girls) to rush in and tell you how wrong you are, that you are really just the best person in the world. If you act very angry with yourself, say how sorry you are about keeping it from them, how much you really feel bad about it all, and how you wish you could make it up, your friends are more likely to accept it and move on. Above all, say and do things that will achieve the following effects:


Your friends will feel sorry for you because you are so hard on yourself
They will feel you are punishing yourself enough
They know you feel bad about lying and really do want to make it up
They know how big of a deal this is for you.

A good way to achieve this is saying the following (with variations suitable to the situation):
"I'll make up lying to you - how about I take us out for dinner?"
"I seriously would never lie to you, but I was worried about what you might say."
"I feel really, really bad about keeping *pet name* secret."
"I'll never lie again, really, not about anything ever."
And so on. If you let them blame you first, you have lost the advantage. The most you can do is accept it without argument, which is more likely to make them feel sorry for you.
 If you can draw the issue away from Fluffy and onto the lies, your friends are more likely to forget the argument about the pet itself and focus on you. This may seem like a bad idea, but if you follow the steps above and get your friends to feel sorry for you, you will be far better off.


Remember that even if they stop talking to you, most friends really won't abandon you just because of a pet. Your friends, especially girls, will shun you for a while to make sure you know you hurt them. With enough begging, the argument will quickly end.

