 Before you take to removing the hinge pins, it's good form to make sure you have all the things you'll need with you. Most important are a hammer and a wedge, nail punch, or nail set to knock the pin out, and a screwdriver to further pry it once it's partway out.


Avoid using a regular nail to knock out the hinge pins. It is likely to bend.;
, You're going to be destabilizing your door, so it's really important there's some kind of support to keep it from toppling over while you're in the midst of unpinning it. Sliding books underneath the crack in the door will give the door a surface to sit on while you remove the pins.


If you have another set of hand ready, the second person can serve this purpose by holding the door steady while you tend to the following step.
 Taking a hammer and your nail punch, gently ram the pin upwards. Put the flat end of the nail against the pin, and tap it up with the hammer. Continue to tap it up, gradually increasing the force until the pin is finally lodged upwards. This is better to do with a number of smaller moves than one big force; being too quick and brash may result in the pin getting scratched or damaged. Give it a spray with a lubricant like WD-40 if there's persistent difficulty in getting it to nudge up.
 Once you've got the pin to come unstuck a few centimetres at the top, you can use an old screwdriver to pry it up further. Tapping the hinge with a hammer can loosen it up. If this isn't working, try ramming the pin up with a few more taps from the hammer. For the sake of stability, take off the bottom hinge first, followed by the top. If the door is triple-hinged, take out the middle one first.
Some may recommend using a chisel, but it's best to use a cheap flathead screwdriver for this. There is a risk it will be damaged, so it's best to use one you don't care much about anymore. , Once all of the pieces are removed, it's time to take the door down. Be very careful, as doors can be very heavy. It's highly recommended you get two people to carry it down. If you have to do it on your own, take extra care to keep it from toppling over.

