 You can’t solve the world’s environmental problems on your own, but you can do your part to improve the health of the environment. Little changes and efforts can add up to big changes over time. Some things you can do to help include:Switch to CFL lightbulbs to cut your energy costs and reduce energy usage.
Cut down on your gas emissions, such as by riding your bike to work or getting a gas efficient vehicle.
Reduce the amount of water you use, such as by taking shorter showers.
Participate in local cleanup efforts, such as a local river cleanup or just pick up litter during walks.
 There are thousands of charities worldwide that can always benefit from financial help. Whether it’s a well-known charity like the American Red Cross, or a lesser-known charity like the Native American Heritage Association, your money will go towards helping many people across the nation or the world.


Try a site like Charity Navigator to help you find charities that support causes in which you are interested.There are also lists online of fake charities, as well as the best and worst charities to donate to.Always do your homework to make sure your money is going to a reputable agency.
 Build up your knowledge base so that you can share your wisdom and try to help others. Learn about a variety of topics, and then delve deeper into the ones that grab your interest. The more you know about the world, the more you can affect change.


Look around you for inspiration. For example, if you're part of the LGBTQIA community, you might educate yourself on laws to help with the equal rights push.
Read from multiple sides of an issue. For example, if you're a feminist, don't limit yourself to only feminist blogs. Looking at the opposite side of the argument (e.g. ableism, trans exclusion) will help you strengthen your understanding and be the best you can be.
 Not everyone has access to books and other informative materials. Recycle any books, articles, and videos that have taught you interesting, and insightful information. You can do this through social media or in person.


Try programs like Bookcrossing, in which you share great books instead of putting them away on shelves.