 Algae flourishes when there is too much phosphate and nitrogen in your tank. There are many different sources of these nutrients, so always be very cautious about what you are adding to your tank.If you use tap water to replenish your tank, purify it with a reverse osmosis/deionizing unit to remove any unwanted nutrients. You can purchase units that attach directly to your faucet, providing purified water from your tap. If you choose to use a unit like this, be sure to change the filters as often as the manufacturer recommends.If you purchase a saltwater mix, make sure to read the packaging carefully and only choose products that are nitrogen- and phosphate-free.
Too much food can also be a source of nutrients for algae. To avoid this, make sure to only provide as much food as your fish can eat in a few minutes.Too many fish in your tank can also cause increased levels of phosphate and nitrogen. If this seems to be a problem for you, consider moving some of your fish to another tank.Algae also needs light to grow, so be careful not to leave the aquarium lights on more than necessary. About 10-12 hours per day is plenty., If you have persistent algae problems in your fish tank, and reducing the amount of nutrients has not yet solved the problem, you may need to change some of the water. It is usually a bad idea to get rid of all of the water in your tank and start over. By doing this, you will be killing off all of the beneficial bacteria that your fish need to survive. Instead, replace 10-30% of the old water.You can purchase an aquarium siphon to easily remove the old water from your tank.If you do this once a month, you will soon notice a significant difference in the amount of algae in your tank.
Vacuuming the substrate and cleaning off any decorations you have in your tank may also help. You can purchase special aquarium vacuums that are designed for this purpose.
 If you have a small freshwater tank and you want less maintenance, consider investing in a new tank that cleans itself. There are two different types of self-cleaning tanks available, and both will significantly reduce the amount of time you spend cleaning, so they may be worth the investment.Some self-cleaning tanks use a gentle pump to remove dirty water. All you need to do is turn the pump on and place a cup under the pump to catch the dirty water. Then add clean water to replenish your tank. The pump is not strong enough to bother the fish, so you can leave them in the tank.
Other self-cleaning tanks incorporate small gardens on top to naturally clean the tank. This is done automatically, so there's nothing you need to do.

