 Some people used to believe that totem poles were originally used in religious ceremonies, but the truth is, they're created as a way to preserve and illustrate history. Think of the totem pole you want to make as a sort of timeline, or an account of a certain family or one person's life. What story do you want to tell?


You could tell the story of one person's adventures, or depict your family history by adding a symbol for each member. You could tell the story of a town, a battle, or a relationship. Get creative!
Think of the most important elements of the story. Make a list of each event, personality trait, family member, or other factor you want to include on your totem pole. The more elements you include, the longer your totem pole will be. Aim to have at least 5 story elements on your totem pole.;
, Now that you have a list of the elements you want to include, how do you want to symbolize each one? Traditional totem poles usually have carvings of animals as a way to tell their tales. You could take this classic route or choose symbols that have personal meaning to you.If you want to include animals as part of your totem pole, you can choose animals that are important to you, like your spirit animal, or pick animals that have classically been used by totem pole artists that seem to fit with your story. Here are a few animals that are commonly seen on traditional totem poles:

The thunderbird. This mythical creature has the power to make thunder, lightning and large gusts of wind. You could use it to symbolize a time in your story when chaos reigned.
The bear. This beloved creature comes to others' aid in times of need. Use the bear to symbolize a person who is a good caretaker, or a time when help arrived.
The owl. The wise owl is a symbol of souls that have passed on. The owl could be the past itself, or a person in your life who has passed away.
The raven. This cunning, tricky bird is used to symbolize intelligence.
The wolf. Wolves are symbols of power and loyalty.
The frog. Frogs are said to bring great fortune, so use this symbol to represent a time of wealth and abundance.


You could also make up your own non-animal symbols. People's faces, buildings in a city, a sword or spear, and other symbols can be used to help tell your story.
 Your story needn't be told in chronological order. On totem poles, the most important symbol or figure is at the bottom of the pole, since it's the most visible to people standing on the ground. Take a look at the symbols you're including and arrange them in order of significance, with the most important symbol being at the bottom.
 Traditional totem poles are carved out of red or yellow cedar by hand. If you want to make a totem pole that's close to authentic, you could find a big, long piece of this type of wood and carve your symbols in a row on its face. However, you can make a nice totem pole for yourself or a school project with some simple craft supplies. Here's what you'll need:


One cylindrical container for each symbol on your totem pole. You can use recycled oatmeal canisters, coffee cans, or any other type of container.
Brown craft paper.
Scissors.
A ruler
A pencil.
Tempura or acrylic paints.
Hot glue or craft glue.
 Each canister will be covered with a sheet of craft paper. Measure the height and circumference of one of your canisters, then use your ruler to trace the measurements onto a sheet of craft paper. Cut out the measured piece of paper and wrap it around the canister to make sure it fits. Then cut more sheets of the same size, one for each canister you have.
 Draw one of your symbols on each sheet of craft paper. Use the pencil to create an outline of the animals, people, or other symbols you have chosen to use to represent your story. Keep in mind you'll be painting over the drawings.


Take a look at pictures of authentic totem poles online to get a sense for the style you might want to use. The symbols are usually simple but bold.
Many animals are traditionally pictured in profile. Sometimes only the head of an animal or person is shown, and sometimes the whole body is shown.
 Now take out your paints and determine what colors you want to use to accent your drawings. Rich, bright hues are traditionally used, although sometimes totem poles don't have paint at all. The colors that are most commonly used are black, white, red, yellow, and bright blue. Let the paint dry completely before going further.
 Adding some gold glitter to a drawing of a frog, for example, could help illustrate the wealth and good fortune the creature symbolizes. You could also choose to add touches that have personal meaning to you.


You could glue on beads, shells, small stones, feathers, leaves, and other materials that might help you tell your story.
Pictures, mementos, and other ephemera are also good to add if you're making a totem pole of your family or a historical event.
 One at a time, wrap the paintings around individual canisters, and seal the seam where the edges overlap with a line of hot glue or craft glue. Use your fingers to hold the edges in place for a few moments until the glue sets.


Consider covering the lid of the canister that will go at the top of the totem pole with a circle of craft paper, or decorating it in another way. That way it won't look bare against the rest of the totem pole.
 Use hot glue or craft glue to put a ring of glue on the lid of the bottom canister, then carefully stack the next one on top. Continue putting glue on the top canister's lid and adding a new canister until you run out.
 Leave it in a safe place for several hours or overnight before you handle it again.
 At this traditional ceremony celebrated by Native Americans, a totem pole was erected and blessed as attendants danced and sang. The host of the ceremony gave a gift to all in attendance, knowing that someday the favor would be returned. The pole-raising is followed by a big feast and party.If you want to celebrate the meaning of your totem pole, you can have a ceremony of your own.
 Using the symbols on your totem pole as illustrations, tell the story of the person, family or event for whom you made the totem pole. Describe the meaning behind each symbol, and how it relates to the story you're telling. Keep the totem pole as a reminder of the little piece of history it represents.

