 Go to a supplier and buy bleach powder and peroxide. For a darker brown/brown black, you will need a higher volume peroxide, like a 30vol 9% peroxide. If your hair is dark brown or black, still use 30vol but leave it on until the desired shade is achieved. For a lighter or medium shade of brown, follow the times on the box as lighter hair doesn't withstand the damage caused by bleach. Do not use supermarket bleaching kits. They are generally inexpensive but cause unnecessary damage and can cause brassy tones.;
, Buy a deep conditioner or repair treatment for use afterwards. You are not to condition your hair prior to bleaching as the particles from the conditioner get in the way of the oxidation of the melanin in your hair.


If you don't plan to colour your hair after lightening, buy "Provoke silver shampoo" it will seal the hair and remove unwanted brassiness.
 Bleach will stain (remove the colour from) the majority of clothing and cause the fabric to weaken, so it is important to wear something you don't mind getting wrecked. Be careful if you wear shorts or short sleeves, as bleach can affect your skin if you spill some on it.
 Bleach is rather harsh on skin. You do not want to get it on your hands. Gloves are cheap, so buy some.
 You will need to weigh out your bleach and peroxide to achieve the correct ratio. Kitchen scales are useful. A proper mixing tub and application brush are also essential to achieve the best results. After weighing, mix until smooth then leave for 1 minute so that the mixture can combine correctly.
 Evenly distribute the mixture onto hair. It is easier if you section your hair first. Start by applying to the ENDS first and then apply to the roots and smooth all over. Your roots will bleach faster because they are so close to your scalp and therefore much warmer. Heat speeds up the bleaching process.
 The instructions should outline a correct timing. If not, most bleach takes between 20 - 50 minutes to achieve its highest level of lift.


If in doubt, let the bleach sit on the hair for 15 minutes, then check a very small strand by gently wiping it off with a warm washcloth. If it is not as light as you want it, wipe the bleach back onto it and wait another 15 minutes. Repeat this until the hair appears as light as you desire it.
 Using warm water, gently rinse all residue from the hair. Do not use shampoo, just condition your hair with a product of your choice. Generally, conditioning the hair, drying and then going back and washing in your normal way leaves it very manageable.
 Do not use a lot of heat tools or styling products on hair. This can cause excessive damage and breakage. Let hair air dry, rather than blow drying it for a few days. Deep condition it daily for a few consecutive days. It should begin to regain it's softness and sheen soon if it was in good condition before you bleached.

