 Especially with older pool tables where the frame may be difficult to deconstruct, over the course of your move, you may have caused the configuration of the frame to shift. This could create difficulty when inserting the slate.


Use a level to check that the frame is still properly shaped. You may also want to use a carpenter's square to check the corner angles of your table., Older tables, or tables that have sat in one location for a long time, may have experienced warping, or may have conformed to the natural contours of the home in which it lived. This might mean that you need an additional piece, separate from the parts of your pool table, to balance it and negate any rocking you may notice once the table is moved.


When choosing a piece to balance a rocking pool table, you need to choose a material that won't compress under the weight of it. Scrap steel or a sturdy tile might do the trick., Buildings frequently have a slight pitch to them, and pool tables, to combat these potential angles, will often have adjustable feet. After you've taken care of the frame configuration and any major imbalances, you can move on to leveling the table. Have a friend hold the level atop a flat part of the frame and:


Take the level reading.
If the table isn't level, lift the end that needs adjusting.
Have a friend adjust the leg in the appropriate direction.
Set the pool table down.
Check the level reading again and repeat if necessary.
 Significant damage to the slate of your pool table is likely to require a professional repair or even replacement, but small chips or cracks might be within your ability to mend. For small cracks or chips, mix some Plaster of Paris and apply it to the area, while larger cracks can be patched with automotive body filler.After your patch has hardened, you'll need to sand your patch level.
 There is little you can do to your table if the entire frame has warped to the point that the slate now sits in its mounting on an angle. The slate, on the other hand, can be adjusted. After fitting the slate together and fixing any damage, you can cut thin wedges of wood, called shims, and use these to level your slate., Some older pool tables will use special bolts to connect the rails to the narrow edge of the slate. To remove and attach the rails of an antique pool table, a T-bolt wrench will make the process much easier.