 Locate Microsoft Word on your computer by either clicking the icon on your desktop or searching for “Word” in the search box. Once you have Word open, start a new, black document.

Word might also be located in a Microsoft Office folder.
In some versions of Word, you may have the option to choose “Labels” when you first open the program. If so, choose the label template that matches the size of labels you have.;
, Word has many different toolbars and navigation options. The Mailings button is located in the toolbar that starts with “File.” The button should be located between “References” and “Review.” When you click the button, new options will appear.This is the process for versions of Word that have been created since 2007. If you are working with an older version, the process may be slightly different.
 The first two options that appear when you click on the Mailings button are “Envelopes” and “Labels.” Click on Labels. A box will open that allows you to make various adjustments. You’ll also see a tab in this box for Envelopes., In the “Envelopes and Labels” dialogue box, there are many buttons and settings. The Options button is located near the bottom middle of the box. Click this button to make adjustments for the labels you’ll be using., In the Options box, you will see a small rectangle where you can select the brand of your labels. Click that box. Look at your label package and find the brand name. Find this brand name in the list of vendors and select it.For example, you may have Avery labels that are US Letter size. This is what you’d select in the Label Vendors box.
 After you choose the label brand, you must select the product number that is specific to your pack of labels. The product number should be a five digit code in large numbers on the label package. Find it on the package and then select it from the list on your computer.For example, you might have bought 15163 Shipping Labels. That’s what you’d select in the product number box.
 After entering the Label Vendor and Product Number, double check your selections. Make sure that what you selected matches the pack of labels you’re using. If everything matches, click OK to close the box.

If you want to print an entire sheet of the same name tag, choose this option before you close the box. Look for a check box labeled something like “Print entire sheet of same label.” Type what you want the label to say in the Address box.
 Clicking the New Document button will open a page that looks like your sheet of labels. This allows you to type whatever you want into each separate label box., Once the label template is open on your computer, go through and type each name into a box. Use the available borders and designs to make them more interesting. Add small pictures or icons to enhance the name tags.You have almost unlimited options for how to create the name tags. Make them simple with Times New Roman font and black letters. Or make them silly with rainbow letters and Comic Sans font.
Add job titles, like Senior Executive or Program Director. Include a department name, like Accounting or Human Resources.
If you need to print more than one full sheet of name tags, continue entering names on the second page.
 Open the label package if you haven’t yet, and put one or more sheets of labels in the printer’s feed tray. On your computer, click the print button if it is visible, or “File” on the toolbar and locate Print there.