 Pick a race for your character; it won't affect gameplay, unless you choose something on page 2.;
, In the menu, there's a Fast Travel option. Choose it.


Recommended locations are: Western Ore Camp, Eastern Ore Camp, or Southern Camp.
 Use that to your advantage and customize your character by clicking Customize Character from the menu. If you want to see how they look at any given time, take a quick look with the Torch tool, then lower it.
 Some will not deal damage, even if PVP is turned on. Customize it with Customize Weaponry if desired.


The weapons that do not deal damage in PVP mode are: Bow & Arrow, Dagger, Staff, and the Book found in the Wizard Tower,

, The best place to look is the castle and map spawn point.
 Since the game is a roleplay and PVP game, you will want to start roleplaying as fast as possible. Name your character, and have your character make some friends.
 Once you have some friends, which will probably keep people aiming to kill away, since there's a high risk of dying if a lone person goes up against a group, find a place to hang around. The place where you customized your character and the wizard tower are good options.


If you do use the wizard tower, make use of the potions. Select the alchemy tool, and select Holy Water, found on the shelf, then select the cauldron. Repeat this with Herbs and a Flask. This will give you a healing potion.
 If you find someone's trying to backstab you, Fast Travel to a backup area. Always have one in mind. Any of the camps and the Dwarf Caves are good choices. Don't share this location with any of your friends.
 Mingle with others and expand your group. It will improve how long you can stay alive and your roleplaying experience.
 Naturally, since this is a PVP game, or at least the PVP variation, you're going to need a combat strategy. Make sure you have a weapon that can deal damage.


The weapons most useful in combat are the spear, scythe, and battleaxe.
 While it is very easy to die, don't be entirely afraid to fight. Fights make the roleplay interesting. However, you can't fight too much or you will find yourself constantly dying. Pick a fight with someone, and bring your healing potions.


If you have a weapon that does not deal damage, switch it for the battle, then change back.
 If you die, be a good sport about it. Don't stalk the person who killed you and actively hunt them. If you want to continue using the character that died, just use the flesh wound excuse.


If they killed you for no reason, and continue to do so, then it's fine to give them a taste of their own medicine.

