 Before using the floating method, you'll want to turn down the aquarium lights and possibly the lights in the room. Turning off the aquarium lights can help you fine tune the water temperature, while dimming the room's lights can help reduce the risk of shock if your fish was transported in a dark environment., Much like the drip method, the floating method requires that you let your fish's sealed transportation bag float on the surface of the aquarium for 15 minutes. This helps equalize the temperatures to reduce the risk of shock when you transfer your fish into the tank., You'll want to keep the bag floating on the water's surface, but you need to be able to adjust how much water is in the bag. The easiest way to do this is by creating an air pocket in the lip of the bag as you open the top.Cut the bag open just below the clip or knot, keeping it sealed.
Roll the top edge of the bag's opening down. You don't have to roll it down too far; about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) should suffice.
 Pour off half the bag's water directly down the drain, but be careful that you don't accidentally pour out your fish as well. Do not add any of the transportation bag's water to your aquarium, as it is likely filled with waste products like ammonia and nitrites.It's important that you immediately return the bag to the tank, allowing it to float on the surface of your aquarium's water. However, make sure no bag water escapes into the tank.
 Now that you've reduced the quantity of water in the transportation bag, you can begin adding aquarium water to raise or lower the bag water's temperature as needed.This process will take a while, so be patient and don't rush it or your fish could get shocked by the sudden change in temperature.


Start by adding a half cup of aquarium water to the bag your fish is in.
Wait four minutes, then add another half cup.
Repeat this process until the bag is filled with aquarium water.
 Once the bag has been filled with aquarium water, your fish will have finished adjusting to the temperature of its new environment. Use a net to scoop your fish out of the bag. Then immediately transfer it to the aquarium, since it should be acclimated to the water by this point.Discard the bag and its water when you're finished. Do not allow the transportation bag's water to mix with your aquarium water, as this may alter the pH and salinity of your water.

