;
, This way you'll know where the power-ups are and where the enemies should be.


Shield gun, Primary; charges a melee attack that deals 150 damage. If you manage to get to him. ;) Secondary; A shield that slowly degenerates over time. It doesn't protect your legs.Useless against rockets, mini-gun, flak and shock combo's. Close range, not advised.






S.M.G., Primary, very weak and inaccurate automatic fire. Do not use this. Secondary, Grenades deal a steady 70 damage. Charge them full and use them as ghetto rockets.






Bio-rifle, primary; Little green blobs doing 40 damage when they hit. On the ground they act like mines exploding after 5 seconds. Secondary, Charge up a big blob doing a whopping 250 damage in the case of a direct hit. Hard to aim. Medium close range.






Shock-rifle, arguably the most useful weapon. Primary; a hit-scan doing 40 damage. Secondary; a slow moving bolt doing 45 damage. Combo; Shoot the secondary with the primary shot and BOOM. Long to medium range.






Mini-gun, Primary, powerful machine gun, inaccurate. Secondary, extremely accurate machine gun, at expense of damage. Close to medium range.






Link-gun, Highest DPS weapon, although easily dodged. Primary shoots green bolts. Extremely useful in close combat. Secondary is a constant stream doing 50 damage per sec. Close range.






Rocket launcher. Primary shoots a single rocket, medium range. Secondary charges a 2 to 3 rocket barrage. By keeping the right button pressed and clicking left, you can shoot a 3 rocket spiral. Medium close range.






Flak cannon, Primary, shoots out hot chunks of metal, in a shotgun like fashion. Useful in close combat. Secondary is a grenade/mortar, direct hit does 90-160 damage. Close to medium range.






LG, A sniper with a beacon so everyone knows where you are. Direct hit deals 70 damage, head shot makes for 140. Secondary is the zoom. Long medium range.
,,,,, Just get in and shoot it with a redeemer. It will take away its integrity by 50%!

,, This way you get a wide variety of weapons that can be used for different situations. This can be used for vehicles and power-ups.

