 Fill a pot with water and put it on to boil (if you have a double-boiler, you could use that instead). This way it will have boiled by the time you need it.;
, Grease the pan you will be putting the mixture in. This is a "no-bake cake", so use a glass dish/pan instead of a metal one. Although you don't have to grease the pan now, it is better to do it at the beginning rather than later, as the longer you wait to put your mixture into the pan, the more it will "set" and be harder to scoop into the pan.
 Put the 1/2 package of cookies into a bowl, then crush them using a rolling pin. The cookies should be crushed into a fine powder with no large chunks remaining.
 Measure out 100 grams of butter and put it in a separate bowl. Make sure that this bowl is made of glass so that it won't melt, and make sure it's big enough to fit comfortably inside the pot you're boiling the water in without falling inside (if you have a double-boiler, use that instead).
 Measure 200 grams of milk chocolate, then break up the bar into smaller pieces. Then add the chocolate to the bowl of butter.
, Make sure that it sits comfortably, but doesn't fall in. Stir the treacle, butter, and chocolate until it has melted.
 Remove the treacle, butter, and chocolate bowl from the stove (use an oven mitten as the bowl will be hot), and put it on the counter. Gradually add the crushed cookies to the melted mixture, stirring the melted ingredients as you go.
 Add 1/2 of your package of Maltesers into the mixture, stirring it until they're evenly distributed in the mixture.
 Once everything has been mixed in, scoop this mixture into your pan, spreading it out as evenly as possible. Do this as quickly as you can, because the mixture will begin to "set" if you wait too long, and it will be much harder to scoop into the pan.
 Put the mixture in the fridge for 15-20 minutes or until it is no longer hot.
 Because the hot mixture will have caused the chocolate to melt off of the Maltesers you have already put in the mixture (they will have "gone bald"), use the last half of the Maltesers to garnish the top of your cake, since the mixture has now cooled and the chocolate won't melt off of the Maltesers. This will give your cake more aesthetic appeal.
 Put your cake back in the refrigerator for another hour and a half. Once it has cooled, cut it up and enjoy!

