 Be kind and thoughtful in your interactions with your partner, your friends, and strangers. Make empathy a part of your own life. Avoid gossiping or putting others down.For instance, you shouldn't be overheard saying "The sales rep better give me a refund or I'm going to snap!" This sends the wrong message to your child.
 Show your child that you understand and care about how they feel. Help them build up their emotional vocabulary, so they’ll be better able to identify other people’s feelings, too.For example, say something like, “It sounds like you’re feeling really angry with Max for kicking you. It’s okay to be angry, but it’s not okay to kick him back.”
It is important to help your child learn how to deal with negative emotions because if they do not learn this, then they may act out in negative ways, such as by bullying., Ask your child to put themselves in other people’s shoes. Talk about the feelings of friends, strangers, and even animals. Help your child learn to empathize with a wide variety of others.For instance, say something like, “I wonder why that baby is crying. Maybe he’s hungry. Why do you think he might be crying?”

, Children find it easier to empathize with other people when they have something in common. Point out similarities between your child’s feelings and experiences and those of other people.For example, if your child has a classmate who rarely speaks to anyone, say, “I think Annie is really shy. You know what it’s like to feel shy around new people, don’t you?”

, It is important to teach your child skills to get their needs met through verbal negotiations rather than by using physical force. Set a good example by keeping your cool when you have an argument with someone. Show your child how to talk problems through and compromise. When your child has a conflict with someone, help them brainstorm positive ways to resolve it.For instance, you could say, “It sounds like you’re upset that Luke won’t play trucks with you. Maybe he would want to play if you did something different. Did you ask him what he wants to do?”

