 Embroidering with a sewing machine is a great way to get the look of a professional embroidery job. To use an embroidery sewing machine to monogram your shoes, you will need:A sewing machine with a computerized embroidery setting.
A pair of shoes with a long tongue. Canvas material works best, such as a pair of Converse.
Thread. Choose a strong, smooth thread, such as cotton.You can use any color you want.
A pair of scissors.
A seam ripper.
An embroidery hoop.
Sticky stabilizing backing paper.;
, Sewing machines with computerized embroidery features usually include several different designs to choose from. Look through the designs to choose the type of monogram initials you want to embroider on your shoes. After you have selected a design, follow your machine’s instructions to select your desired initials and set your machine to the recommended tension, stitch type, etc.If your machine does not have an automatic embroidery setting, then you can also try to do freehand monogram initials. However, keep in mind that this will be much more challenging and may not look as neat as the monogram that a computerized embroidery machine will produce. Try asking around to friends and family to see if anyone you know has an embroidery machine that you could borrow for your project.
 The only part of a shoe that you can easily embroider with a sewing machine is the tongue. This is the fabric under the laces on the top center of a pair of sneakers. To monogram the tongue of your shoes, remove the laces and pull the tongue out and away from the shoe.If there is a tag on the backside of the tongue, then you will need to remove it. Use a seam ripper to cut off the tag. You can do this but ripping the seams on the edges of the tongue and then removing the entire back side of the tongue.
 Next, place a piece of sticky stabilizing backing paper into your hoop. Make sure that you place the paper so that the sticky side is up. Then, press the tongue of your shoe onto the center of the sticky stabilizing paper so that it will stay put.If you do not have sticky stabilizing paper, then you can also use regular backing paper and use the hoop to secure the tongue of the shoe as well.However, this may be difficult if the tongue is not very long, so using the sticky paper is ideal.
 When the tongue of your shoe is secured on the sticky paper, you can begin embroidering. Make sure that you follow your machine’s instructions for embroidering and monitor the sewing machine as it completes the monogram design.After the first shoe is finished, raise the needle and pull the tongue away from the paper. Trim any loose threads that you see.
Monogram your other shoe and then replace the laces in both shoes to complete the project.

