 You will need to mix the ingredients thoroughly, so consider using a whisk or a fork to make sure the ingredients are well-incorporated. This method requires more ingredients, but may work better together than they would on their own.Raw honey is best because it is the least processed, meaning it will not behave differently than expected because of anything that might have been done to it or added to it before you bought it.You can usually find raw honey at your local health food store. The necessary ingredients include:


2 cups of distilled vinegar.1 cup of raw honey.1 tablespoon of olive oil.1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon or ground cardamom.There is no difference between the two in terms of end result, so just use whichever you have on hand, or whichever you will be able to keep for different uses.
 You should apply this mixture to damp hair. You can do this either using a comb, to make sure that it completely covers your hair, or with your hands.You don’t necessarily need to shower to get your hair wet, you can also just spritz your hair with a spray bottle filled with water, or you can wet just your hair in the sink.
If you only want to apply it to a section or your hair, separate that section, and apply it with your fingers, with a cotton ball, or by dipping the section directly into the mixture.
 Wrap the plastic wrap around your head so that it is tight enough to stay in place, but not so tight that it will give you a headache.You can also use a plastic bag, which you can tie in place, or use a headband to hold in place.
If you have a shower cap, you can also use that.
A silicon swim cap might also work well.
 This mixture does not require sunlight, but instead, just needs time to work. Therefore, you should leave it on while you sleep.Rinse the mixture out of your hair thoroughly in the morning, using whatever you use to wash your hair.
 As with the lemon juice method, it will take time to reach the desired color. If you want to make your hair lighter, mix it up again. Remember to keep your hair healthy with a good moisturizing shampoo and conditioner.

