 If you are wearing a sweater and jeans, you should dress your baby in a similar manner, but add a light undershirt.


If you put on a coat and hat to go outside, you should do the same thing for your daughter. It can be tempting to over-dress your baby to make sure they are warm enough, but doing so can make them uncomfortable and dangerously hot.;
, Soft fabrics such as fleece and Faux mink or fur are great options for jackets and baby blankets.


For interior layers, look for fabrics that will insulate your baby’s body and not absorb much moisture, such as lycra and silk.
Cotton and linen will not keep your baby as warm as these other materials, as they are very breathable. Save cotton shirts for the summer months.
 Start with a basic layer and add to it as you go outdoors or into colder areas. Your daughter will be fine in a basic layer of a long sleeve onesie, pants, and socks for her first layer.


If you want to put her in a dress or skirt, make sure her legs are covered with tights.
 From the basic layer described in the previous step, you can add things, such as a sweater or light jacket, when you are going outside. Remember to avoid dressing your baby too warmly. In most cases, your child isn’t outside for very long, but she can get uncomfortably hot if left in her outside layers while still inside.
 To be completely effective, car seat straps need to be snug against a baby. If your child can’t fit properly into their car seat, they are wearing too many layers to be inside.


An easy option for small babies in car seats is to cover their entire car seat in bunting or a warm blanket, which can be easily removed once you get inside.
 Get in the habit of constantly checking your baby’s temperature. Due to undeveloped circulatory systems, feeling the hands or feet isn’t a good indication of a baby’s body temperature. Instead, feel their back, stomach, or armpits.


If the area is very hot or the skin is red, your baby may be too hot. If your baby is fussy and inconsolable, it also might be because she is hot.
Your baby may be too cold if they are shivering, or if their armpits or the back of their neck is cold to the touch. Monitoring your baby’s temperature helps keep her comfortable and gives you a good idea of how hot she gets in certain locations and situations.

