 Keep in mind that you do not want to end up arguing, you just want to agree on a situation, and to convince them that being a part of Wattpad is a good idea.;
, Let them read about it; you can find information about Wattpad if you keep scrolling till you reach: About Us.


If they have any problems, they could contact Wattpad to make sure it is quite safe.
 This includes both written and speaking, as well as expanding your vocabulary.
 Although you shouldn't say it as forcefully as this, the general gist is to impress upon them: Would they rather have you be writing a story rather than partying till late? Be polite, now!


Explain to them that your friends have said that Wattpad makes their free time more exciting and that they look forward to writing and joining in with the Wattpad community.
 You could even explain that you feel this would help to raise your self-confidence and competency in schoolwork. And if your story starts gaining in popularity, you'll also learn some online socializing skills in showing gratitude and interacting with other people in a kind and caring way.
 You could throw in a few sweeteners, such as promising to do more chores or finish them faster, or to do things they don't like doing around the house. Promise these in exchange for being able to spend time on Wattpad.


It's also a good idea to explain to them that you will fit Wattpad in around your schoolwork, and not the other way around!

, Be honest in your answers. Do not exaggerate about the site or its benefits. Stick to the facts and how you consider it would benefit you. Your parents will do their own research and checking of facts.
 Don't pressure them; say that you'll ask them again after they've had a few days to think about it. It's a rare person who likes to make a decision on the spot about something important and, if pressured, you may just get a straight out "no". Give them time to get used to the idea and to have a little play around on the site.
 Don't go behind their backs; inevitably they'll find out and that will only disappoint them and shows them that you cannot be trusted. If they realize that you're persistent and will only try to persuade them again at another time, they may be more receptive in a few months time. In the meantime, keep on writing in your notebook or on a digital word processing program, waiting for the day when you can join.

