 Use a yellow concealer for under your eyes. Look for a concealer that is about 2-3 shades lighter than your skin tone depending on the look you're going for. Use patting motions to make sure the concealer isn't too visible, or blend out with a makeup sponge. Blend well so the makeup just looks like your skin.;
, These are the best foundations for an angel, as they are very soft and light, so they don´t clog your pores. Angels are often very pale, so try to achieve pale skin and NOT a tan look, but don't pick a foundation that is several shades lighter than your skin tone. Select one that is one shade lighter. It's best not use any foundation unless you have massive skin blemishes or redness as you want your skin to look as natural as possible.
 A slightly pink blusher works best for most skin tones and grants your cheeks a healthy, sweet glow. A blush is really, really important, as you want to look as lovely, positive, and radiant as an angel.{If you have olive skin, try using a golden blush. If you have dark skin, use a berry blush. If you have fair skin, use a peach blush. Also, you can apply some highlighter one the high points of the cheeks.
 You can apply any light pastel color as you wish; however, gold, silver, light blue, and rose are going to let you look more angelic than other colours.Apply them lightly,then blend well.Harsh and bold colour will look anything but angel like.
 Pencil eyeliner or eyeshadow (applied with a thin brush) is best for this look, as it creates a more feminine and softer approach than liquid one. Black is too heavy, so stick with a dark brown, dark blue or dark purple; staying close to the lashline is going to let your lashes look fuller. Avoid cat-eyes!

, You want your lashes to look long and beautifully curled. Aside from black, you can also use more ethereal colours like purple, blue and green - this will look very angelic, like radiance in your eyes. Brown and black will look the most natural, though. Don't apply mascara on your lower lashes!That will cast shadows under the eyes!

, Any soft lip colour will do it, mostly any light shades of rose and red, as well as nude colours, but if you want you could just use some lip balm, this makes your lips look very soft and angelic.

