 One of the most direct ways to increase your income is to talk to your boss about a pay raise. Though it can be a tricky conversation to have, if you feel you are doing a good job at work and have been putting in long hours, it may be time to ask for a pay bump. Consider how valuable your position at the company or business is, your relationship with your boss, and the skill set you provide for the company. If you have been working at the same company for over a year, have been doing a great job, and have received a good score on your performance reviews, you may have a good case for a raise.Before you ask for a raise, you should do some research on your company's pay policies and make sure you have enough leverage to justify a raise. You should also make a list of your accomplishments, abilities, and outline your work history. This will give you objective information you can use during your conversation with your boss about a raise.;
, If your pay check isn’t quite cutting it, consider increasing your income by doing freelance work outside of your day job. Take odd jobs for family or friends that will add funds to your bank account. Remember that every penny you earn is one more dollar towards your overall income.For example, you may have good driving skills and a clean driving record. You may want to consider taking up a part time driver position to supplement your income, working on weekends to drive new cars to dealerships or the drive clients around through a driver company., Think about skills or abilities that you can channel into a viable side business. This could be a gardening or landscaping side business, or a freelance writing business. Try to maximize your skills and turn them into a unique business. Keep in mind running your own business will require a significant time and money investment, in addition to your current job.Starting your own business can be stressful and difficult to sustain, so you may want to retain your current job while you get your side business off the ground.

