 Start with a broad overview of the topic you’re interested in. Read newspaper and magazine articles, books, and websites. For example, if you’re planning to write a speech about urban agriculture, find resources that broadly define the topic such as the Wikipedia page on urban agriculture.The goal at this stage is to absorb as much information about your topic as possible. Don't worry too much about your actual speech here—just read about the topic as much as you can.
 Once you have a broad overview of the subject of your speech, being to focus in on a particular area that interests you. For example, you might decide to focus your urban agriculture speech on permaculture in an urban environment. Once you’ve selected your narrow focus, read more about that particular topic., The goal of your speech should be to help your audience understand and appreciate the topic you’ve chosen. Start by writing down questions you have as your research your topic. These will likely be the same kinds of questions your audience would have. As your understand of the topic develops, write out answers to the questions.Depending on the topic, you might start with questions like Who? What? Where? When? and Why? For example, with the topic of permaculture in an urban environment, you might ask “Who is engaged in this activity?,” “What is permaculture?,” “Where is permaculture popular in the US?,” “When did permaculture become prominent?,” and “Why is permaculture valuable?” Answering these questions will go a long way towards fleshing out your speech.
 Your thesis statement is the question or statement the motivates your speech. For example, in the context of permaculture, you thesis statement might be “Permaculture is an effective way to live more sustainably in an urban environment.”If you have trouble coming up with a thesis statement, look back to the five W questions you asked and answered. They will help guide you to an interesting and effective thesis statement. For example, if your topic is the role of African American soldiers in the Union Army during the Civil War, you might find that most of the soldiers came from a particular state or area. Your thesis could then focus on why that area provided so many soldiers.
 A good speech consists of an introduction, a body with two-to-four major points, and a conclusion. For your outline, write out a one line description of each part of your speech. For example, you might write that your introduction will consist of a personal anecdote, the body will consist of one point that challenges the audiences assumptions and another point that asks the audience to consider historical examples, and your conclusion will ask your audience to imagine how the world could be different.Your outline doesn’t need to be detailed, but it can be. Use whatever method works best for you. At the very least, write out your one-sentence summaries of each section.
 Using your outline, develop each section of your speech one at a time, beginning with the introduction.The introduction to your speech should engage your audience and establish the importance of the topic.
The body should consist of arguments that back up your thesis statement. For example, if your thesis statement is that dinosaurs had more in common with modern-day birds than lizards, you should use the body of your speech to present scientific and historical evidence to back up this claim.
Your conclusion should restate your thesis statement and contain final thoughts that engage your audience.
 Once you have a draft of your speech, incorporate direct or indirect quotations from your research. If your school follows the National Speech & Debate Association guidelines, you’ll be limited to 150 words of quotes.Don’t feel like you have to incorporate quotes. Only do so if the quotes help flesh out your thesis statement.
 Ask a parent, teacher, or friend to read your speech and provide feedback. Revise your speech, incorporating the feedback you’ve received.