,, It'll get you more "into the mindset" of work, and you'll be ready to roll.
 It'll spark up motivation to continue and work harder.
 Drink water, stretch, go outside, breathe in and out, do something. As soon as those ten minutes are up, continue to work.
 Don't procrastinate. Start now. Now. Now. Now. Emphasize the importance of now. Now or never, so start now.
 Never leave "half-way done" work for another day, unless it's very necessary. If you can do it right now without having to post pone it for later, then do so.
 Or chicken out and go to sleep. Mind you, if you don't have a lot of time you might have to toughen it out and do it before your time runs out. But, if you can sleep on it, then it might be beneficial to you since the following day you'll have a fresher mind. If you have to pull an all-nighter, make sure to keep ice cubes around to put on your face when you feel like dosing off. Also, drink plenty of water, run for 5 minutes or so every hour of work to keep your body stimulated so you won't fall asleep. But as soon as you can, after you complete your work, go to sleep.
 Be a realist. If its complete, its complete. Some of the best things in life aren't pretty. Think of the wall, it might be ugly as can be but if it prevents your home from having leaks and the rain coming on top of your forehead while you sleep, then it must indeed be a beautiful wall!

, I cannot emphasize how important it is to maintain having fun. If the work you must handle isn't fun for you, make it fun. If you don't like working on your Resume that's due 6 AM tomorrow, while you're up 3 hours before trying to prepare it, you really have no choice, so make the best of your situation and make it fun. Ask yourself how many people are doing what you're doing? Probably not many. It's also a good way to learn things about yourself, and you enhance your "toughness" because you stayed awake for work! The more you do it, the easier it'll become. Make a game out of your work. If you have a limited time to complete the said homework, pretend that you must complete five pages within every 20 minutes because if you don't you'll be forced to drink one cup of vinegar. Make it fun.
 If you stick in with it all the way through the end and you worked hard all the way through, without slacking off, you'll be sure to be a great success and most indefinitely have something worthwhile.

