 It might be hard to wash your hair in ice-cold water, but if you want silky, smooth hair, make it as chilly as you can take. Cold water helps the hair shaft lie flat, so when it dries it has a smooth, shiny appearance. Hot water has the opposite effect, creating frizz and drying out your hair.


If you can’t stand the thought of taking a cold shower, take a shower using warm water and wash your hair separately.;
, In order for your hair to stay soft and smooth, it needs the natural conditioning of sebum, the oil that your scalp produces to keep your hair strong. If you wash your hair every day, you rinse away this nourishing oil before it ever gets the chance to soften your hair. Washing your hair every day will eventually make it feel dry and coarse instead of smooth and silky.


Find the washing routine that’s right for you. Some people do it two or three times a week, while others wash every other day if their hair is especially oily.
In between washings, dry shampoo to keep your hair looking fresh.
 Sulfates are found in many cleansers, including dishwashing detergent, laundry detergent, and more. Sulfates are effective and washing away oil and grease, but using this ingredient on your hair can be too harsh and damaging. Look for sulfate-free shampoo that will cleanse your hair without stripping away its protective oils.
 Conditioner helps hair stay smooth and silky by moisturizing it and keeping it tangle-free. Look for a conditioner that will keep your hair smooth without weighing it down. Silicone-free conditioner is best, since silicones build up in your hair and cause it to look dull after awhile.


Leave-in conditioners are great for hair that tends to be dry or coarse. Since you don’t rinse them out, they add an extra layer of protection against dry air and humidity that can cause your hair to frizz up.
 Gently combing your hair instead of brushing it while it’s wet will prevent it from getting broken and damaged. Hair is fragile when it’s wet, and using a wide-toothed comb allows you to detangle it without causing problems. Start near the tips and work your way up to the roots so you don’t pull out any hair.
 This type of brush is made using natural bristles that are similar to the texture of human hair. It’s used to pull sebum from the scalp down to the tips of the hair, so that the entire length of hair gets its nourishing benefits. Brushing your hair using a boar bristle brush is as effective as a deep conditioning treatment in helping your hair feel soft and silky.


However, don’t brush your hair when it’s wet, since this can cause it to break.
Only use a boar bristle brush, or another one designed specifically to distribute your natural oils. Plastic-bristled brushes don’t work the same way, and they can damage your hair.

