 The basic moves are as follows:


Neutral A: Releases three shots from Mega Man's busters. Be careful, because this attack has a limited range.
Forward A: Same as neutral A, only you move while firing.
Up A: A jumping uppercut attack.
Down A: A sliding kick attack that moves you forward a bit.
Dash attack: Mega Man spins forward while doing damage to any opponent he hits.
Neutral aerial: Same as neutral A, where shots are fired while you're falling.
Forward aerial: A slash from a flaming sword.
Back aerial: Mega Man slashes the air behind him.
Up aerial: Produces tornadoes that fly into the air. The tornadoes pull in anyone they touch and pulls them into the air.
Down aerial: Mega Man launches his fist downwards. You can use this move as a meteor smash.;
, The smash attacks are as follows:


Forward smash: A projectile that goes forward; the speed and size of which depends on how long you charge it.
Up smash: A ball of electricity that hits opponents multiple times.
Down smash: Two pillars of fire that throw an opponent upwards.
 The specials are as follows:


Neutral B: A metal blade that you can fire in eight different directions. It hits an opponent twice. Beware, other opponents can grab the blades and use them against you.
Forward B: An explosive that latches onto anything that it touches. This can be transferred to other opponents, including yourself.
Up B: Mega Man uses his robotic dog, Rush, to jump into the air. Other opponents can use Rush to jump into the air as well. If you bounce on Rush twice, the second jump will be higher than the first jump.
Down B: Produces a wall of leaves around you that blocks projectiles. You can launch it by pressing A or B.
 You can use a throw by hitting the L button when close to an opponent, and tilting the control stick in the direction of the throw you want to use.
 You can shield by pressing R. While it's important to be on the offensive, sometimes, you have to be defensive as well. You can tilt the control stick while shielding to roll, and you can press R while in the air to do an air dodge.
 Combos allow you to rack up damage and prevent the opponent from attacking. Use a combination of different attacks to avoid being too predictable.
 When a Smash Ball appears, break it by using attacks against it, and use your Final Smash by pressing B. Mega Man's Final Smash involves him firing a black hole that moves forward, and anyone that gets caught in it is attacked by a massive beam attack from the different forms of Mega Man. The direction the black hole moves depends on the direction you're facing when you unleash your Final Smash.
 For example, you can move the control stick up lightly to do a short hop.
 The most important thing to do if you're looking to get better with Mega Man is to practice. Practice playing in 4-player battles and in 1 vs. 1 matches, both with items on and items off. Each stage has two different forms, its normal form and its Final Destination form. In the Final Destination form, the stage is simply a flat stage with no platforms or obstacles. You can play a stage's Final Destination form by pressing X on the stage selection screen.

