 Before concluding your initial meeting, request a follow up meeting to re-discuss your proposal. Hopefully your boss will want to study and think about what has just been presented.


Ask your boss when would be the best time to meet. Allow him or her to set the meeting based on his or her schedule. Also, ask if the same time and place works well for him or her.
Provide any additional information or news articles for your boss to consider in between meetings. If your boss seems somewhat dubious about the idea, have several additional news articles or information on hand to give to your boss before you leave the meeting.
Leave the door open to questions from your boss in between meetings. Let your boss know that you are available for questions or discussion at any time.
 Have a specific step-by-step plan surrounding how online office browsing could be implemented at your office.


Include very specific instructions how online browsing will be executed. Identify when, where, how and who will be able to browse freely online. Not only should you identify those areas, back up your assertions with why. For example, based on your research, your corporate mission and goals, explain why the accounting department should be able to freely browse the Internet mid-morning and mid-afternoon for 30 minutes at a time and what the consequences of this will likely be.
Consider a trial period if he or she is still on the fence. If you think your boss is still leery or more unlikely to adopt your plan, ask if he or she would consider a trial period of a few weeks or months? Let your boss know that there is nothing to lose and possibly something to gain as a result.
Offer to track and monitor employee productivity levels. Tracking will be key to making your program a success. Consult with your information technology department to inquire about how you could track online time, sites visited and any other statistics. Then talk to operations about tracking productivity levels so you can compare and contrast the impact of online playing on productivity.

