 It should be large enough to add the plants but not so large that its upkeep will be a hassle. The surrounding area should also be considered when assessing where to place the pond.


Locate the pond in a sunny spot. The plants will need sunlight to grow well, and count on ensuring at least five hours of sunshine a day.






Keep the pond away from trees that drop their leaves or flowers in large amounts. These can clog up the pond.





;
, The kinds of plants suitable for both growing in a pond and for eating include:


Rainbow parsley (Oenanthe Javanica 'Pink Flamingo') – This plant is a perennial. It grows 30 centimeter (11.8 in) in height and spreads. It has a carrot and celery taste and is great for salad and soup. It is important to be very sure that you have the right species, as some Oenanthe are poisonous.






Lebanese Stonecress (Aehtionema Cordifolium) – This grows to around 15 centimeter (5.9 in) and needs to be carefully kept under control to prevent it taking over the pond. It has a cucumber taste and is great for salad and soup.






Taro (Colocasia Esculenta) – This is also known as "Elephant Ear". Both the corm and stem can be eaten; it must be cooked to destroy toxins present in its raw state. It's ideal roasted and added to soup or stew.






Water parsnip (Berula Erecta) – This will grow 30 centimeter (11.8 in) to 1 meter (3.3 ft) in height and creeps. It tastes like parsnip or carrot and is good for salad or soup.






Chinese water chestnut (Eleocharis dulcis) – This will grow about 30 centimeter (11.8 in) to 1 meter (3.3 ft) leaves in summer and die back to a corm in winter. Eat the corms raw or in a stir-fry.






Kangkong (Ipomoea aquatica) – This is water spinach. It grows best in the warm weather. Add the leaves and steams to salad or stir-fries.







Watercress (Nasturtium Officianale) – This grows fast and well. It can be added to salad, soup, sandwiches and as a garnish.






Water mint (Mentha aquatica) – This grows to about 1 meter (3.3 ft) in height. Use as you would use for mint.
 Keep the plants in their original pots unless it is suggested that they can be grown direct in the pond. This allows you to move them easily and to control the more rapid growers.


Fill each plastic pot halfway with potting mix. Push the soil down.






Put the plant in.






Infill the remaining gap with more potting mix and gently press down.






Spread a layer of fine gravel over the top of the soil. This will help to keep the pond clean.
 Stop about 10cm (4") from the top. Arrange the plants in the pond as wished.


Use large pebbles to keep plants in place (some might try to float otherwise).






The top growth of the plant should not be submerged; allow it to grow above the waterline.
 Adding paving stones is a good idea, along with some attractive plants.
 You could add fish, whose waste provides a natural fertiliser. If not, choose a suitable water fertiliser that will slowly release.
 If you have kids, the water pond provides a fascinating alternative gardening project that allows them to get their hands wet and get edible food. It's a good garden for kids who don't really like getting their hands dirty in the soil!

