 After all, how will you snipe anyone without a proper sniper rifle?


Sniper Rifle. The most important choice you have to make is which sniper rifle to use. The SR8 is the most popular weapon for sniping in Urban Terror. It is extremely powerful and accurate, but has a very low rate of fire. One shot from the SR8 anywhere on the body or head will kill instantly, even if the opponent is wearing Kevlar. Getting hit in the arms or legs will deal 50% damage. There is also the PSG-1 which is semi-automatic and fires much faster. It does not have the power of the SR8 though. One hit from it on an unarmored torso will deal 97% damage, but if the opponent is wearing Kevlar, that is dropped to 63%. Headshots with this gun are always fatal though, so if you feel that you have the skill to pull off headshots on a frequent basis, it can be quite powerful.
Sidearm/Pistol. Another important consideration is whether you pick the Beretta or Desert Eagle. The Beretta has more rounds and better long range accuracy, but does very low damage. The Desert Eagle is much more powerful, but has half of the ammo capacity. Which one you pick is mostly up to personal preference. Try both out and see which one you like better.;
, Secondary weapons are a fairly controversial subject. Some snipers prefer to skip them in favor of equipping extra gear, while others appreciate the extra firepower. Again, this is a personal choice and one that should be influenced by your personal play style and the situation. Some people will equip a secondary and play almost as if they are using it as their main weapon, only using the SR8 when they see an opportunity at long range. Others will keep it merely as back up in case someone gets too close. How you do or don't use it is up to you. There are currently three secondary weapons available. The MP5, UMP45 and SPAS. The MP5 has as extremely high rate of fire, but is fairly inaccurate and does low damage. It is useful or close range and spamming enemies. The UMP45 is more powerful but fires slower. It is generally more useful at medium to longer ranges. The SPAS is a shotgun which can be very powerful (It can do up to 75% damage to the head, really close up and 50% to the chest. The other bonus is that it does not matter if they were Kevlar or nothing it does the same amount of damage AND if some one gets hit, takes them a long time to bandage giving you time to run or rush.), but has a very specific area of usefulness. You must be extremely close to the target and know what you’re doing with it to be successful. I’d only recommend that experienced players use it, and even then the other two secondaries are generally much better.
 After you pick your guns, you will need to decide what armor to wear. This is largely based on your play style, the situation and what gametype you are playing. Kevlar will drain your stamina at double the normal rate, slowing you down. This is something important to consider. For example, a sniper in a Team Survivor match will probably want Kevlar so that they will survive longer, but one in Capture the Flag may decide not to use it so they can move to capture or defend the flag quicker. A helmet will not slow you down but will use a gear slot. Helmets are generally more important when playing against more skilled players. If you aren’t wearing one and find yourself dying to a lot of headshots, it’s probably time to throw one on.

