 Heat 1 cup (250 ml) of water using a small saucepan or a tea kettle. Allow the water to reach a simmer, but not a full boil.;
, Pour the hot water into a glass bowl. Add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of salt and 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of Borax. Stir to dissolve.You'll use this Borax solution to treat the base wick material. Treating wicks with Borax can make the candles burn brighter and longer. Moreover, it can also reduce the amount of ash and smoke produced by the burning process.
Keep Borax away from children and pets since it can have a toxic effect when ingested or inhaled.
 Take a piece of heavy cotton butcher's twine and submerge it in the Borax solution. Allow the twine to soak for 24 hours.


Make sure that the length of twine used is longer than the height of the container you plan to use for your candle. If you don't know how tall the candle will be, you can soak up to 1 foot (30.5 cm) of twine and trim it down to size later.
Butcher's twine is a great base material for candle wicks, but nearly any thick cotton cord should work well enough. You can use embroidery cotton, torn pieces of cotton cloth, or a clean shoelace with the plastic cap removed.Soaking the twine for 24 hours will produce the best results. You can technically remove the twine after 20 minutes, but the results will not be as ideal.
 Remove the twine from the Borax solution using tweezers. Hang the twine and let it dry for for two or three days.


The twine must be fully dry before you continue.
Use a clothespin or similar clip to hang the treated twine in a warm, dry location. Place aluminum foil beneath the drying twine to catch any excess solution as it drips off.
 Break apart 1/4 to 1/2 cup (60 ml to 125 ml) of candle wax. Melt the wax using a double boiler setup.


If you don't have a double boiler, you can use a clean metal can and a small saucepan.

Heat 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water in the saucepan over your stove, letting it simmer and steam without boiling.
Place the metal can inside the hot water. Wait another minute for the can to heat up before adding the wax.


Melted wax can cause serious burns, so handle it very carefully throughout the rest of the procedure.
 Carefully dunk the dry, Borax-treated twine in the melted wax. Coat as much of the twine as possible.


Technically, you can use Borax-treated twine as it is without adding a wax coating. The wax makes the wick stiffer and easier to handle, however, and may also make it easier for the flame to catch on the end of the wick.
 Hang the twine as before and let it dry long enough for the wax to harden. This should only take several minutes.


As before, place a sheet of aluminum foil beneath the hanging twine to catch any excess wax dripping off.
 Dip and dry the twine once or twice more to build up a thick coating of wax.


Ideally, the twine should feel stiff while still retaining some flexibility.
If you don't have enough wax to dip the string again, you can lay the string on a sheet of aluminum foil and carefully pour the remaining wax on top. Let the wick dry on the foil instead of hanging it again.
 Once the fully-coated twine is dry, it's finished and ready to insert into a candle.

