 When calculating the value of your noncash charitable deduction, the IRS requires that you group similar items together and calculate their value as a group rather than as individual donations. The IRS defines similar items as items of property that fall within the same general category, such as: coin collections, paintings, books, clothing, jewelry, non-publicly traded stock, land, or buildings.


If after grouping your similar items for donation, the total value of the group exceeds $5,000 you must follow the IRS’s special rules for documenting the value of donations worth more than $5,000., When seeking a charitable deduction for a single item or group of items valuing more than $5,000 but less than $500,000, the IRS requires that you obtain a written appraisal by a qualified appraiser.


A qualified appraiser is someone who has earned an appraisal designation from a recognized professional appraiser organization and has demonstrated competency in appraising the type of items for which you are seeking an appraisal or has met certain education and experience requirements.
A qualified appraiser prepares and is paid for his or her appraisals.
A qualified appraiser must demonstrate through a declaration in the appraisal that he or she is experienced in valuing the type of items for which you are seeking the appraisal.
The appraiser cannot have been prohibited from practicing before the IRS for the three years prior to the date on the appraisal.
The appraisal must include the method of valuation, such as the income approach or the market data approach, and the specific basis for the valuation, such as specific comparable sales transactions.
You must obtain a separate appraisal for each item or group of items valued at more than $5,000.You can locate a qualified appraiser at: http://www.appraisers.org/find-an-appraiser.
 Once you have your items appraised, you must complete section B of IRS Form 8283 and attach the form to your tax return. This form provides space for you to identify the items and value for charitable donations worth $500 or more. Section B is specifically for items worth more than $5,000. The form requests that you provide the following information:


A description of the type of property that you donated and its physical condition.
The appraised fair market value for each item worth more than $5,000 or group of similar items.
The date and manner that the property was acquired by the donor.
The donor’s cost in acquiring the item.
The donor’s signature.
The appraiser’s signature and declaration regarding his or her qualifications.
An acknowledgement completed by the donee organization that states that the item was in fact donated.
If the items in your group of similar items were donated to separate charities, you must complete a separate Form 8283 for each charitable organization.You can download form 8283 at: https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f8283.pdf.