 Some herbs have been used to regulate periods for hundreds of years. Try them in tea and in liquid and pill form to shorten or lighten your period.



Chasteberry. This herb acts by controlling elevated levels of prolactin, a hormone released by the pituitary gland to trigger ovulation or menstruation. Take a 20 mg dose one to three times a day. It's available in liquid, capsule and tablet form.

Raspberry tea.Try drinking one to three cups of red raspberry tea a day to combat heavy menstrual bleeding and relieve painful menstrual cramps.

Maca root. Your period cycle can change due to a hormonal imbalance. The Maca root regulate hormones produced by the pituitary and hypothalamus that, in turn, regulate the function of the ovaries. It's available as a powder or in capsules.

Yarrow. Drink an herbal tincture of yarrow a week before your period. The herb acts as hemostatic, that is, it reduces bleeding by contracting tissues or blood vessels.

To make a yarrow tincture, thoroughly wash clean, white yarrow flower heads and put them in a strainer to let the water drain off completely. Lightly pack the yarrow in a clean glass jar, leaving an inch or so of room at the top. Fill the jar with plain vodka, cap it tightly and store in a cool, dark cupboard. Shake once or twice daily. The tincture will be ready in six weeks, at which point you can strain out the yarrow. , A regular exercise program can be beneficial in achieving a shorter and lighter menstruation. Exercise can strengthen the pelvic muscles and improve irregular menstruation. Exercise can also help to regulate menstrual cycles by reducing the amount of fat surrounding the ovaries and other internal organs. , Some women who have taken to reusable menstrual products have reported shorter, lighter periods. These products include washable cloth pads, sea sponges and menstrual cups (which are inserted internally to catch menstrual blood). , There are mixed reports as to whether having sex or masturbating during your period will reduce the duration of your period, but it will certainly make you feel better. Sexual activity while you are menstruating can help ease PMS. Women say that orgasms can ease their cramps and the orgasmic contractions of the uterus offer a soothing internal massage. Not only that, but natural painkillers and mood enhancers (endorphins) are released during orgasm, helping to soothe cramps, headaches, mild depression and irritability. , Drinking plenty of water is always important in maintaining good health and that includes maintaining a regular monthly cycle. Drinking water may or may not shorten your period, but it could make it more comfortable. Dehydration will cause the body to create a hormone known as vasopressin that is known to cause cramps during menstruation.
 Teens and women close to menopause have low or changing progesterone levels that may cause heavy menstrual bleeding and cycles that change in length. This will correct itself with time. 