 Curly hair is dryer than regular hair, and because of this it's more prone to damage. It's a good idea to baby your hair slightly during the shampooing process if you have curly hair. Purchase shampoos made for damaged hair, which include milder ingredients that are less taxing on hair.You can probably get by using a drugstore or department store brand of shampoo. The ingredients used in salon style products in comparison to generic varieties are fairly similar.
If you can't find a shampoo for dry or damaged hair, some stores sell shampoos for curly hair specifically. The formula in these shampoos are similar to the formula in most products sold for damaged hair.;
, If you have curly hair, you should not shampoo every day. Shampooing can dry out hair and cause it to look frizzier.Shampoo your hair no more than twice a week.
When you do shampoo, you can expect some tangles afterwords. Curly hair is very prone to tangles. Brush it gently to avoid damaging your hair.
 Co-washing simply means conditioning your hair in the shower but not adding shampoo. This can be particularly beneficial to curly hair, as it needs moisture replenished more often than regular hair.Read product labels before choosing a conditioner. Products that contain silicone-based ingredients, which are ingredients that end in "-one", should be avoided. Such products will be very harsh on your hair.
After conditioning your hair, see how it feels. If you hair feels spongy or mushy, you may be over-doing it. You usually only need a quarter-sized drop of conditioner.If you have dermatitis, co-washing may make your condition worse. Talk to a dermatologist before you begin co-washing.
 Deep conditioning treatments are important to replenish moisture in curly hair that has dried out. If your hair starts to feel frizzy and dry, do a deep conditioning treatment and see if it helps.Apply a conditioner to your hair before getting into the shower. Place a shower cap over your head, covering your hair completely. Shower with the cap in place. The heat and steam from the shower helps lock in the conditioner's moisture.
When you're done, rinse out the conditioner and brush as usual.
 Curly hair may not take well to being dried with a towel. A towel can irritate your hair, causing frizz. Instead, use a light t-shirt to gently dab your hair dry.Ideally, you should go for a t-shirt made out of a lighter material.
 Place a diffuser over your hair dryer before blow drying your hair. This lessens your hair's exposure to heat, and allows you to style your hair as you blow dry.You should always apply a heat protectant before blow drying your hair.
Flip your hair over your head. Start diffusing at the roots, and stop at the midway point between your hair and your roots. This should give your hair some volume for the day.
Use a lower setting on your blow dryer. Limit blow drying to twice a week to avoid drying out your hair. Curly hair should normally dry naturally.
 Something like a paddle brush is not appropriate for curly hair. Regular brushing can cause split ends and frizz. If you have tangles, get them out with a wide-tooth comb and your fingers.Never start brushing at your roots. This can cause strands of hair to break. Start the detangling process at the end of your hair and work your way up.
The wide-tooth comb should be able to comb out some tangles. You may have to use your fingers at the same time as the comb to work out more difficult tangles.
 As curly hair is prone to being drier than average hair, you should never flat iron at a high heat. Excessive use of heat treatments like a flat iron can cause your curls to grow limp.Never set a flat iron higher than 400 degrees. If your flat iron only comes with a high and low setting, use the low setting.
Do not flat iron too often. If your curls seem to be becoming limp, or your hair becomes very frizzy, you may want to avoid heat treatments for a bit.
 Product can help style curly hair, and it can also keep it from becoming too dry. Stop by a local salon or department store and stock up on products that meet your needs.If your hair is becoming coarse, go for a silicone serum. Apply the serum to hair before brushing or styling it. If your hair is getting thin and fair, a silicone spray can work. Spritz only a small amount of your hair, as a little goes a long way.
To keep your style intact, you have a few options. If you do not want your hair to look too stiff, go for styling lotions and gels labeled "lightweight." If your hair tends to be somewhat uncontrollable, you may need a stronger product. Sculpting-gels and extra strong creams can help.
 Anti-frizz serum can help your hair look smoother, and may help eliminate frizz after showering or blow drying your hair. However, a little bit goes a long way. You only need a dime-sized portion of frizz serum for it to be effective. Make sure to smooth the serum evenly throughout your hair., If you have curly hair, there is no strict number of days or weeks recommended between haircuts. You simply need to keep an eye on your hair. When it starts to flatten out at the crown, you should go in for a haircut.Do not style your hair before going to a salon. You want your stylist to cut your hair based on its natural curls.
 You want to know exactly how your hair will look after a cut. Curly hair looks a lot different when it's wet than when it's dry, so ask your stylist for a dry cut. This will assure that you know your hairstyle before leaving the salon., The good thing about curly hair is that it tends to retain color more. You will not need root touch-ups as often as people with straight hair.For roots, you only need touch-ups every 6 to 10 weeks.
For highlights, you will need a touch-up every 10 to 14 weeks.

