 It is a good idea to talk this subject over with a pre-teen, so that they are prepared when they hit adolescence. However, you can also wait until you notice the signs of puberty and see your teen struggling with them. At that point, start casually mentioning the importance of hygiene.You might say, “I’ve noticed that you don’t have enough wash cloths to clean your face daily. Would you like me to buy some for you?”
Be sure to have a direct conversation with your pre-teen as well. Talk with them about the importance of things like showering daily, wearing clean clothes, using deodorant, washing their hair, and brushing their teeth.;
, You want to pick a time where your teen will pay attention to the conversation, such as during a car ride. Look for a time with few distractions and avoid the period immediately before and after school. During this time, ask them to put away their cell phone. Keep the discussion brief as well so that they don’t get bored or start tuning you out. You should also know the times at which your teen will be the most receptive to your advice. For example, if they are not a morning person, then it is probably a good idea to wait until that evening.


You could say, “When you are finished with your homework, let’s sit and talk for a bit.”

, Pursue this subject when you are alone and one-on-one, not in public or around their friends. If you embarrass them by discussing hygiene in front of other people, your teen will be less likely to confide in you in the future., Before you start to give advice, spend some time on the internet looking at reputable medical websites, such as the Mayo Clinic, to see what they recommend for teen hygiene. This will ensure that you are accurate and won’t contradict anything the teen might have heard already from teachers.Your teen’s pediatrician can be a source of really useful information in this respect. Ask them for advice regarding the best way to approach the topic and see if they would recommend any products in particular. You might say, “Is there a particular face wash that you would recommend to combat teen acne?”

