 Begin by brushing the hair and then parting it in the middle. Make sure the part goes from the hairline all the way to the nape. Pull the two sections of hair over your shoulders, as if you are about to tie your hair into pigtails.


The part in your hair does not have to be a severe straight line. You can have a messy, uneven part for a chic bohemian style. A zig-zag part can add a bit of funk to your style.;
, Choose a side to begin with. Take a 2-inch triangular section of hair from the hairline to the crown. Separate this section from the rest of the hair with your fingers.Divide this section into three strands. Make the foundation braid by starting a standard braid. Take the right strand and cross over the middle strand. Then cross the left strand over the middle.


You may want to secure the other, loose side with a hair band. This will help keep it from accidentally getting combined with the side you are braiding.
This foundation braid will be on the side of the head. Since you are making French braid pigtails, you should be braiding down each side of your head. The braids will sit just between the ears and the part.
 Add a small section of loose hair to the right strand. Cross the right strand over the middle strand while pulling the middle strand to the right. Add a small section of loose hair to the left strand. Cross the left strand over the middle strand while pulling the middle strand to the left.









Keep your hands close to the head so the braid will remain tight.Make sure to add an even amount of hair each time you add hair to the strands. This will keep the braids neat and uniform, instead of uneven.
 As you move down the side of the head, continue french braiding the hair. You will pull hair from around the hairline in the front, and from along the part in the back. Each time you need a new layer, separate the hair you are adding in a horizontal line.








When you run out of hair to add to the braid, continue braiding in a traditional braid.
Make sure to keep the braid tight as you braid. This can be achieved by pulling the sections away from each other., When you reach the desired length of your braid, tie it with hair ties. You can add hair clips, ribbon, or other accessories.
 On the other side of the head, repeat steps 2-5 on the hair. The braids should look identical. Make sure to stop them at the same place and try to use matching hair ties on each side.









If you would like an alternate style for French braid pigtails, instead of braiding all the way to the ends of your hair, stop at the nape of your neck. Secure the French braid with a hair tie. The hair hanging over your shoulders will be loose, so you can straighten or curl these strands.Another alternate style for two French braid pigtails is a bun. After finishing one of the French braids, pin the tail of the braid into a bun at the back of your head by wrapping the tail around. Secure with bobby pins. Repeat with the other side, pinning the other braid on top of the bun. Use as many bobby pins as necessary to hold the bun in place.