 Medium to large levels are excellent for building infection maps on - maps such as Foundry and Sandbox are intended for Forge usage, while others such as Avalanche, High Ground, Standoff and Valhalla are perfectly sized for infection matches. However, if you want a cramped, close-quarters infection game, then maps such as Blackout, Guardian and Orbital might be for you.;
, You can do this by pressing the START button while in Forge and toggling the game mode to infection. This will allow you to access infection-based objects to build.
 Do you intend to have invincible zombies who move slowly? Or vulnerable zombies who move quickly? Will they be invisible or have rockets? Depending which combination of infection game types you intend to use on your map, the way you build it should reflect this, so decide early on.
 For infection games, you will probably want to remove all objects from the level and begin building your own map. However, if you're strapped for time, or if you like a particular part of the existing map, you might consider simply adding to the default map. Maps with all the scenery removed can be downloaded from other users or online.
 Be clear about where people will go, spawn, get weapons, hide and the general layout of the map early on. Start building the main buildings or areas of the map first to get the general feeling for the level. Consider drawing it out on a piece of paper first so you don't forget where things are supposed to go.
 There should be areas where the zombies find it hard to get to so that the humans may defend it, and vice versa with areas only infected can jump to in order to attack the human team. Use walls and other scenery pieces to increase the height of areas only zombie should reach, and use tubing or walls to cage them in tunnels or rooms.
 Especially with infection games where both sides are moving at high speeds to reach hiding spots or defendable positions, you need to make sure that there are no places where people can get stuck and not get out. Avoid making people have to double jump or grenade jump to access areas, as this can make gameplay annoying for newer players. It really does pay to spend that little bit extra making sure that everything is lined up perfectly.
 Add some high levels to allow for defense, or some areas where it's tight to make for a scary gaming experience. Adding teleporters in your level can add some interesting scenarios, as well as adding other features such as man cannons and shield doors.
 Unless it's a vulnerable and hard-to-defend area, avoid placing too many weapons in one place as this will make it near impossible for the zombies to win. Try spreading weapons out evenly, placing less powerful or harder to use weapons in well defended positions, and place the most powerful weaponry in exposed places so players must take risks for greater rewards. Gun turrets are always a favourite for infection games.
 Nothing is more boring than having a map where players can defend themselves against the infected indefinitely. Make sure that players have to leave well-fortified areas to get better weapons for reload. Make sure there are at least two ways into every area, typically one which is harder to navigate, but more rewarding. In the end, your map should make your players take greater risks for greater rewards.
 Make sure that both zombies and humans have starting and respawn points (humans are considered the "defenders", while zombies are the "attackers"). Change a spawn point's side by accessing its' properties and changing it to either an "attackers" or "defenders" spawn points, although you can make it neutral if you wish. You want to place zombies in areas where they can easily rush out to attack human defenses.
 Add some fusion coils and barrels, or any other piece of scenery which can spruce up the empty areas. Adding these can add that extra professional touch to your map.
 More than any other type of map, infection maps need to be play tested a lot to make sure that it is fair to both sides playing. Try it out with a lot of different variations of infection games and with lots of people, carefully noting down which areas need improving and which work well. If players are drawn to one area too much, but never to another, consider putting something worthwhile in that area to attract players. Listen to what your friends say to make your map better.

