 This is a key rule when meeting new people. You may be obsessed with reporting the coolest fact you read on the news or you may want to wow your new acquaintance with your extensive knowledge of Italian cuisine, but if you want to have a positive social interaction, you should focus on showing interest in the other person's life instead of talking on and on about yourself. Here are some ways to show interest without coming on too strong at the beginning of a conversation:


If the person is reading a book, ask him how he likes it.
If the person is wearing a sweater with a college's name on it and you know something about the school, ask if the person went there and talk about what he thinks of it.
You can ask the person where he or she is headed if you bump into each other, and that can strike up a conversation about that person's interests.
Ask the person about his or her plans for the weekend.
 When you should interest in a person, you shouldn't just ask any question that comes to your mind or the person will think you're being random or even rude. Ask questions that can lead to a long answer and show that you're putting in some effort in getting to know the person. Don't ask a question that can be answered with a simple "yes" or "no" unless you have an immediate follow-up. Here are some ways to pose a thoughtful question:


"Nice tennis racket. How long have you been playing?"
"Mary always throws the best parties. How do you know her?"
"I love Catcher in the Rye. Are you reading that for fun, or for school? What do you think of it?"
"What did you think of Mr. Peterson's test? I couldn't believe how hard it was."

, To get to know new people, you have to master the art of small talk. Small talk may sound silly, but it's exactly what gets you to know a person and to be able to have a more meaningful discussion as the conversation progresses. Making small talk just means being able to keep up the flow of a conversation, to learn to build from one topic to the next, and to read social cues to see what the person really want to talk about. Here are some things to keep in mind as you try to make small talk:


Make the person comfortable. Put the person at ease by smiling, not leaning in too close, and giving him all of your attention.
Reveal something small about yourself. Say that you love watching hockey, that you grew up in Brooklyn, or that your favorite subject is history -- just give the other person something small to work with.
Be a good listener. If the person mentions that he has a sister in passing, you can circle back to it if the subject of siblings come up; then, you can say, "You mentioned you had a sister. Are you close in age?" and the person will be impressed that you remembered.
Engage the person. Make sure that you're asking questions and keeping the conversation moving back and forth without dominating the conversation or letting the person do all the talking.
 As you and the other person get to know each other, you can start to talk about more personal topics. At first, though, it's better to steer clear, or you'll risk making the other person uncomfortable. One of the reason people feel awkward is because they bring up a subject that clearly makes the other person uncomfortable but they don't know why. Here are some topics to avoid when you're talking to a person for the first time:


Serious breakups
The death of a loved one
Sexual experience
Health problems you may be having
Deep personal struggles
Embarrassing moments

, Oversharing is related to getting too personal. You may be the kind of awkward person who sees that the other person has nothing to say, and then compensates by talking nonstop, wondering, "How the heck did I end up talking about my grandmother's bronchitis?" Though you may think that talking about anything that comes to your mind will make the conversation keep going, it's actually better to pause and redirect the conversation in a more comfortable way. Here are some other things you should avoid mentioning to a new person unless you want to risk oversharing:


Your deepest longings
Your deep-seated issues with your parents
Your unsatisfying childhood
Your feelings of sadness, loneliness, alienation, or any other deeply negative emotion
The weird rash on your arm
That time you got so drunk that you threw up

, You should get a sense of what the new person is like before you try out your raunchiest jokes or start harshly criticizing a past president. Remember that every person is different, and that not everybody shares your perspective on politics, religion, or even sports. Remember that you and the new person may be in a similar social circle, but that this doesn't mean that the person has the same perspective on all the people around you. Here are some topics to avoid so you don't offend a new person:


Any lewd jokes
Harsh criticism of the current or past president
Comments on the undoubtable/impossible existence of God
Criticism of a person you both know
Criticism of all the fans of an "inferior" sports team that the person might like
Inside jokes that you share with other people
Any general comments that would make the person think, "I guess I have to get to know this person for that weird comment to make sense..."

