 Cardio requires that you keep your heart up for a certain amount of time. For this reason, it is best to time your exercise within sets of 30 to 60 seconds. Rest for 30 seconds between each set and exercise.

When you first begin, you might carry on these intervals and rest breaks until you have done ten minutes of exercise. As time goes on, work your way up to exercising for twenty or thirty minutes at a time.
 This workout is basically walking in place. However, you bring your knees up much higher than you normally would, until your thigh is about perpendicular to your body or a bit higher. As you bring one knee up, swing the opposite arm up, too. Alternate between knees for between 30 and 60 seconds. Go at a fast, steady rhythm., When doing a burpee, start in a standing position. Using your knees to prepare yourself (bend down), jump up into the air, swinging your arms as you go. As you land, bend your knees down, and move to the ground. Get in a plank position, with your palms on the ground, then do a pushup. As you come out of the pushup, propel yourself back to standing and start over again. Trying doing burpees for a solid minute straight., In a standing position, place your legs and feet together. Now, jump back and forth from side to side, going as fast as you can. Try to land gently by bending your knees. Keep your chest out. Go back and forth for about a minute., Stand up straight with your legs shoulder-width apart. Step back with one leg. As you step back, swing your arms forward so that they're out straight in front of you. Switch to the other leg. You aren't actually moving backwards, just alternating legs and swinging your arms forward.Aim to do between 15 and 24 tap backs within thirty to sixty seconds., Stand with your feet at shoulder-width. Your arms should be straight out in front of you. Bend your knees to lower yourself to the floor. Your thighs should end up like you're sitting in a chair, and your back should stay straight. Your knees should stay above your ankle, not go over the front of your feet.Try to do 15 to 24 squats over the period of 30 to 60 seconds for one set. If you can't do that many, just do what you can within that time.
Work your way up to doing two or three sets. Once you are able to do that, you can start adding weight, either by using dumbbells or by holding something heavy, such as a jug of water.
 Begin in a plank or pushup position. Your hands should be flat on the ground at shoulder width, and you should be supporting yourself on the balls of your feet with your body straight. Kick your left leg out under you towards your right hand, extending your right hand as you do. Touch your foot, and return your leg and arm back to the starting position. Do the same with the other leg and arm.Alternate legs for up to a minute., Start in a plank or pushup position. Your palms should be flat to the floor, and you should have the balls of your feet supporting you. Your body should be mostly straight. From this position, kick your feet up into the air behind you. You're trying to lightly kick yourself in the butt, but just get as far as you can. Land back on the balls of your feet, making sure to straighten your legs back out.Start with 30 seconds of this exercise and then work your way up to a full minute.
 To do a mountain climber, get down on the ground like you're going to do a pushup. Your palms should be on the ground, shoulder-width apart. Your body should be up in the air but straight. The balls of your feet and toes should be on the ground, supporting your weight.Bring one knee up towards your chest. It should be under your body, and you should look like a runner about to take off on a race.
Move that knee back down and bring up the other knee.
Alternate legs for between ten and sixty seconds.
 Once you find some exercises you like, try moving back and forth in sets. If you're just starting out, try 6 sets of various exercises. If you're a bit more advance, do 8 sets. If you've been working out for a while, you can do 10 sets instead. Alternating between different exercises will help you work up a sweat, as well as work on different muscle groups.