 While this may seem like a given, the right top is absolutely essential when showing cleavage. You can't show something that's covered up. While a turtleneck sweater may make your bust look fantastic, it will hide your cleavage. Make sure what you're wearing is cut for visible cleavage. Some classic examples are:


V-neck sweaters, t-shirts, and tank tops.
Button-up blouses.
Criss cross tops.
Dresses with plunging necklines.
Blazers without undershirts.Mesh tops.;
, This is a trick you can use to instantly go from modest to sexy and back again. If you're wearing a button-up blouse, simply unbutton the top few buttons. You can create a plunging neckline by leaving many undone or show just a classy hint of cleavage by buttoning a little higher. This versatility will let you wear the same thing to the office and to a party without needing to stop at home to change., When you're showing off your assets, you're likely to want some attention drawn their way. A good way to draw the eye towards your cleavage is to wear a top with not only a low neckline but also an interesting design.If your blouse is plain or a solid color, wear an eye-grabbing pin or brooch near your cleavage.
 This can come from within the outfit itself if it has built-in boning. Otherwise, you will need to find the right strapless bra for the job. Find one with enough support to keep your cleavage looking great while keeping everything in place.


Keep in mind that a strapless bra can push your breasts up too far. Make sure your cleavage looks natural.
Before heading out for a night on the town, try jumping in front of a mirror while wearing your outfit. If you find your breasts jiggling too much, your top sliding off, or your bra peaking out, reevaluate your outfit. You don't want anything to pop out unexpectedly on the dance floor.
For formal events, such as a wedding, consider being fitted for a bodice. A bodice will both keep your cleavage in place and make you look a little trimmer., Every type of job and work environment will have its own rules when it comes to cleavage. Many offices are fine with a hint of cleavage, while others are more strict. Some professions may even be fine with a plunging neckline.


If you aren't sure what your work's dress code is, try asking your supervisor or checking the employee handbook.
When you're starting a new job, try to remember how people dressed during your interview.
When in doubt, it's best to err on the side of caution and keep the cleavage to a minimum.

