 Before you decide how to treat your nails, you’ll want to take a closer look to determine in what ways they were damaged. Examine the nails shapes to see if they are distorted. Look at the coloring of the nails, as a green or yellow shade could indicate infection. Feel the surface of the nails to see if you can detect any surface bumps or ridges.Once you make a detailed note of your nails’ appearance, then it will make it easier to track improvement and healing over time.
If your nails have a green or yellow coloring, you may have a nail fungus. Talk to your doctor about possible treatments.
Small, white patches on your nail may be from a keratin build-up or they may signal a nutritional deficiency of a vitamin or mineral, like zinc or magnesium. Your doctor can diagnose whether it is a deficiency or not by doing a full-blood count.;
, If your nail is split open or cut, then wash the area carefully under water with soap. Sanitize it with an alcohol wipe. Apply a bit of antibiotic cream or gel to the nail bed. If the cut is large, cover it with a band aid. If the injury is minor, let it air out and keep it clean., If your nails are damaged due to a blunt injury, it is probably a good idea to talk with your general physician. They can take an x-ray and assess whether or not the damage extends down to the bone. Or, if your nails simply refused to heal after three weeks or more of extra care, then see your doctor to rule out an underlying condition, such as kidney disease.There are many illnesses which an effect the health of your nails. Kidney disease, for example, overloads your nails with nitrogen waste products, causing damage., If you have been diagnosed with a fungal infection, take steps to make sure that it does not spread. Fungal infections can spread from your fingernails to your toenails, your eyes, and to other people.

Wear gloves to prevent contaminating others.
Avoid cooking or serving food to other people during this time.
Keep your hands clean, and treat any broken skin around the nail.
Apply anti-fungal cream as directed by your doctor.
 If you’ve cut deep into the nail bed and the bleeding won’t stop or if a large part of the nail has separated from the skin, then consider getting medical attention sooner rather than later. A doctor can treat the immediate injury, while making it less likely that you will get a secondary infection.Sometimes a nail injury is actually a sign that the finger has been fractured. Unless the finger is visibly damaged, an x-ray or MRI will be ordered.

