 Just because they are getting attention from other people doesn’t mean they are reciprocating the advances.


Jealousy in small amounts is normal and demonstrates that you care about your partner.If your partner does choose someone else, take comfort in the fact that they are not the one for you. The right one for you, after all, is the one who stays committed to you. For that reason, again, there is no reason to be jealous.
 Politely go up to your partner and greet them. Ask them to introduce you to their “friend.” Your partner should reply something like, “He/She was just leaving.” At this point, hopefully, the would-be suitor realizes that your partner has a boyfriend and will cease their flirtation.


Depending on your partner's personality, they may be willing and able to shake off these people off themselves. If so, let them handle it, while keeping an eye on the situation in case the person refuses to listen to your partner.
 If your partner feels ogled or is getting unwanted attention, they will rightly feel very uncomfortable. Not only is it rude and invasive, but it can make your partner feel unsafe.


Tell your partner when you notice this happening and reassure them that you're aware of it and are prepared to say something if needed.
Stay alert for guys or girls who make pests of themselves. Call them out on their leering if needed, politely and firmly. For instance, tell them, “Leave her alone. She doesn’t deserve your leering.”
However, be careful to realize that if your partner is attractive, it's only natural for others to look, so learn to spot the difference between this curious and appreciative gazing and menacing leering.Don't go overboard if someone just throws an appreciative glance at your partner once and then goes on their way.
 Pay close attention to what your partner is and isn't okay with, and ask if need be. If someone is crossing your partner's boundaries, you are the backup. You can add weight to their words with a frown, glare, or a verbal reminder that "She said no."


You may need to do this with creeps, but also sometimes people you trust. For example, if a friend keeps pestering your partner to talk about something she doesn't want to, you can give a small frown and say "She said she doesn't want to talk about it. Let it drop."
Pay close attention to your partner's boundaries with you, too. If your partner says no to something, or they don't seem comfortable, listen to their wishes. No one should do things which your partner is uncomfortable with, including you.