 If you are trying to take a pill and just can't seem to get it to go down, try using a piece of bread. Pull off a small piece of bread and chew it until you are ready to swallow. Before you swallow, take your pill and stick it in the mass of bread in your mouth. Once you close you mouth, swallow the food with the pill inside. The pill should go down smoothly.You can also use pieces of a bagel, a cracker, or a cookie as well. The texture is similar enough to help the pill go down once the food is chewed.
You can also take a drink of water afterward to help it go down easier.
Some medications need to be taken on an empty stomach. Check the bottle of your medication to see if you need to take your medicine on an empty stomach.;
, To help you swallow a pill, you can stick it inside a gummy bear. Take the gummy bear and cut a small pocket in the stomach of the bear. Slip the pill inside. Eat the gummy bear, but don't chew it; chewing some medication will change the duration and timing onset of the medication. Just try to swallow it, then once it's in your throat quickly drink your water.This may be difficult if you can't swallow the gummy bear. It may take practice.
This method is especially helpful for children. Helping mask the pill taking act with a gummy bear will help ease her into taking her medication.
 Pills can be taken with honey or peanut butter because they ease the passage of the pill down your throat. Get a spoon full of either food. Place the pill in the middle of dollop of food you have on the spoon. Make sure to push it into the food. Next, swallow the spoonful of honey or peanut butter with the pill inside. Wash down with water.You should drink water before and after this method. The honey and peanut butter are relatively thick and can feel slow going down. Hydrating your throat beforehand and after will help get the food down quicker and without choking.
 If you can't take your pill with bread, try taking it in a soft food such as applesauce, yogurt, ice cream, pudding, or gelatin. This is a common method used in hospitals for patients who have difficulty in swallowing. Make a small dish of the food. Drop the pill into the dish. Eat a little bit of the food before you take the bite with the pill in it. Then take the bite with the pill in it. It should go down easily with the food when you swallow.Make sure you don't chew in the pill.
 One of the main reasons people find it difficult to swallow pills is because their throats reject the intrusion of the pill and tense up. In order to overcome this, you can practice swallowing small candies to familiarize your throat with swallowing something whole without the risk of choking or injury. Take a small candy such as a sprinkle, a mini M&M, or a Nerd. Put them in your mouth like a pill and swallow it with a drink of water. Repeat until you feel comfortable with this size.


Next, you move up to a slightly larger sized candy such as a Skittle, regular M&M, Jelly Belly jelly bean, or Tic Tac. Repeat the same procedure with this size until you feel comfortable.Practice every day for about 10 minutes until you're swallowing a piece of candy that's the same size and shape of the pill you need to take.
This can help children work up to taking medication. Just make sure you explain that taking medication is serious and that pills should not be thought of as candy.
 Try swallowing mandarin orange segments whole. After you get used to that, put your pill into an orange segment and swallow it whole. The slimy texture of the mandarin orange will ease the passage of the pill and make it easy to swallow.Drink water afterwards to ensure it goes down as easily as possible.

