 Ask for assistance from a dealer if necessary. When purchasing a handgun, you should take several factors into account, including:


Decide on the intended use for the handgun. A range gun—or a gun primarily used for recreation at the gun range—is different than a concealed carry gun, or personal protection gun, which in turn might be different than a home defense gun.Virtually any handgun can be a range gun, no matter how large or impractical.
Concealed carry guns should be smaller and lighter. Polymer frame guns and small steel frame guns are ideal. But keep in mind that the smaller and lighter the gun, the greater the recoil.Handguns for home defense can be larger than carry guns, because the user doesn’t have to worry about being weighed down throughout the day.Just don’t get anything so large you have to worry about overshooting—passing through wall—and hurting an innocent bystander.;
, For most people, guns are expensive purchases. You’ll want to make sure that you like the way your gun feels and shoots before you commit to it.


Some sporting goods stores and gun dealers have shooting ranges where you can “test drive” a gun you’re looking at.
 Save yourself some potential embarrassment and familiarize yourself with the reasons you wouldn't pass a background check. You will be required to submit to one before you can complete your purchase.


Felons, illegal aliens, persons who admit to being addicted to drugs, servicemen who have received a dishonorable discharge, persons who have renounced their citizenship, persons under restraining orders, persons convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence, those adjudicated mentally ill, and fugitives are all prohibited from purchasing a handgun., Before you can buy a handgun, you’ll have to submit to a background check. The only thing that you’ll need for the background check is a Wisconsin driver’s license or ID.Out of state licenses are not acceptable.


The background check is conducted by the Wisconsin Department of Justice (DOJ), acting as a middleman for the FBI. Typically, a background check will only take minutes, but it can take as long as five business days. An extra $13 charge is added to the purchase of the firearm for conducting the background check.
Wisconsin limits gun sales to those who are 18 years of age or older. While there was at one time a 48 hour waiting period, this was repealed in 2015.

