 Cats can develop ORS after going through an ovariohysterectomy (OHE) to remove their ovaries. This occurs when not all of the ovarian tissue is taken out as planned. After an OHE surgery, or any other surgical procedure involving a female cat’s reproductive organs, closely monitor them during the recovery period to see if they exhibit any behavioral symptoms associated with going into heat, such as loud vocalizations., Place your hands underneath your cat and locate their nipples. Gently feel around these areas to see if you notice any bulging skin or unusually firm growths. This could be a sign that your cat’s glands are enlarging, a sign of breeding that could indicate ORS., Watch for posturing actions in which your cat positions her body to attract males for breeding. This includes holding her tail up and to the side or making treading motions with her back legs. Your cat may also start to roll or crouch in unusual ways.Increased vocalizations are another sign of breeding preparations, which may point towards ORS. So, if your cat is yowling at all hours of the night, then you may want to talk with your vet.
 Cats in the midst of breeding season, and those suffering from ORS, may begin to act violently by scratching or biting caretakers. They might also display minor aggressive behaviors, such as marking or clawing furniture. The main point here is to watch for unusual changes in your cat’s actions and personality., The presence of remnant ovarian tissue can cause some cats to slow down their eating habits, resulting in sudden weight loss. If your cat is recovering from a surgery and you’ve noticed a change in their weight, then talk with your vet about how to move forward.Be aware that the weight loss and accompanying poor nutrition can also cause your cat to lose some of their fur.
 It is possible for your cat to take months to show any signs of ORS after OHE surgery. For that reason, patience and vigilance is key when diagnosing ORS. In particular, cats who develop tumors in association with OHE procedures can take up to ten years before being seen for additional treatment.It takes an average of 17 months for a cat with a problematic OHE procedures to show signs of ORS.

