 Georgia courts presume that the interests of a child are best served by having the child in the custody of its parents. However, a court will award custody to a third party. If you are a grandparent, great-grandparent, aunt, uncle, great aunt, great uncle, sibling, or adoptive parent, you can file for custody as a third party. If you are not related to the child in one of those ways, you cannot get custody unless the child's parents have already given up or lost parental control because of abuse or neglect.Download the packet, which includes all of the necessary forms and instructions, at http://www.southernjudicialcircuit.com/selfhelp/familylaw/compforcust3rdparty.pdf. The packet includes:


Complaint for Change of Custody
Plaintiff's Affidavit
Election of Minor Child
Custody Agreement
Motion for Custody Investigation
Order for Custody Investigation
Certificate of Service
Acknowledgment of Service and Summons
Defendant's Acknowledgment of Service- Affidavit of Waiver of Venue and Personal Jurisdiction
Notice of Custody Determination
Rule NISI
Domestic Relations Financial Affidavit of Plaintiff
Final Judgment and Decree- Modification of Custody
Income Deduction Order

, You do not need to fill out all of the forms in the packet. Some of the forms are for you (the plaintiff) to complete, while others are for the other parents (the mother, father, or defendants). The orders are for a judge to complete and sign. Review the signature portions of each form, which should indicate who is supposed to complete and sign the form.


You will need to fill in detailed information about yourself, the parents, and the child, as well as information about your finances.The court will consider your financial situation in determining whether or not you are capable of providing for the child.
 For each form that has a space at the bottom for the signature of a notary public, you will need to sign it in the presence of a notary public. The notary will also sign, verifying that you signed the document in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory online at http://www.notarypublicdirectory.com.
You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Before anything is filed, have your forms reviewed by a courthouse facilitator. Your county may have a courthouse facilitator on staff who can help you find the right forms and review them for you before you file them.. Courthouse facilitators do not represent clients or give legal advice, but they can still answer questions and provide document review.
 Make copies of your forms and deliver them to the court clerk. The clerk will mark the original and the copies as "filed" and retain the originals. The clerk will then contact you at a later time to give you a hearing date. The filing fee for a civil action is approximately $216.00, but may vary by county.If you cannot afford the fee, ask the court clerk how you can file an application for a fee waiver.
 You will need to have copies of your forms delivered by someone over 18 and not involved in the case. You can also hire a professional process server or an officer of the sheriff's office to serve the forms for you. Have that person complete and sign the "Certificate of Service" form, which is included in the custody packet.Then file the form with the court.
 At the hearing, the judge will ask you questions about the documents you filed. The parents will have a chance to argue that they should remain the custodians of the child, and that it is not in the child's best interests for you to have custody of the child.

