 One reason he may balk at the thought of hair removal is the effort he’d have to put in. It can be a time-consuming commitment, and it can certainly create a big mess. If he has particularly thick or coarse hair, the process can be a bit painful as well. By going to a professional, he can get a perfectly smooth chest without having to worry about purchasing the proper supplies or cleaning up afterwards.


A professional knows how to shave the chest to avoid razor burn and/or irritation. Between the technique and professional grade shaving cream and lotion, your man will be thrilled with the result.
 If he’s worried about being emasculated by getting his chest shaved, find a no-frills, masculine place to take him. Show him the place you’re suggesting, and find reviews from other men if you can. Many men will be too shy to visit the hair and nail salon for a chest shaving. Finding a place he feels comfortable can make all the difference.
 Some men assume they’ll have to shave every day, but remind him that waxing and laser treatments are great options as well.To make things easy for him, you can even tell him the pros and cons of the different possibilities, such as cost, pain, and upkeep. Not only will he have the information right at his fingertips, this will also show him how much you’d like him to seriously consider hair removal.


Talk about the methods you know of that reduce the pain, such as numbing creams, steaming, Advil, and even drinking whiskey.
Remind him that having it removed professionally means less pain overall.
 Spell out your preferences, but remember that he is the one who needs to make the choice about this. If he isn't convinced by what you've suggested and wants to keep his hairy chest, then it's acceptance time. He is aware of your preference, but badgering him will only cause a fight.Just let your reasons filter through over time— eventually, he may agree but on his own terms, in his own time and only when it seems like he's reached the decision. Ultimately, remember that there is more to a relationship than body hair.


Your man may prefer a certain hairstyle or look on you, but you wouldn’t want to hear about it day in and day out. Put yourself in his shoes, and remind yourself that it’s his body, his choice.

