 When you are raising a cat it is important to show them love and affection every day. You can do this by holding it in your lap and petting it for a little while every day. You can do this by playing with it and giving it uninterrupted attention for at least a little while every day. Whatever you do, make sure that your cat knows it is loved and that it is an important member of your family.


Many cats only want attention once in awhile, and they will usually ask for it when they want it. If your cat is like this, make sure to give it some petting and attention when the cat asks for it. These requests may not always come when you want them to, but just try to remember that your cat deserves a bit of uninterrupted attention every day.
 In order to raise a happy and well adjusted cat, you should begin socializing it when it is very young. Introduce your cat to a wide variety of people beginning when it is a small kitten, so that it knows that this is a normal part of life. Exposing it to a wide variety of people, and keeping those interactions positive, will make it more likely that the cat is friendly and interested in new people and animals when it is an adult, instead of being scared or aggressive towards new people.Socialization can even include exposing your cat to a wide variety of noises and situations. For instance, if you expose a small kitten to the sound and activity of a vacuum cleaner early on in its life, it is less likely to be fearful of it when it is an adult.
 All cats need some mental stimulation every day. This is especially true when cats are kittens and their minds are developing. This can be provided, in part, by giving it stimulating toys to play with while it is alone. These toys could include motorized cat toys that it can chase around, but it can also include simpler toys, such as toy mice or balls with bells in them.To find out what type of toys your cat likes, you may need to bring home a variety. Once you give all the toys to the cat, pay attention to your cat as it plays and see which toys it prefers.
Just like humans, cats can get bored with toys that they have played with for a long time. Provide new and exciting toys on a regular basis, so that your cat continues to get lots of mind-stimulating play time.
 In addition to giving your cat toys for it to play with on its own, you should spend quality time playing with your cat every day. When raising a cat, it is important to spend quality interactive time with it in order to develop its mind and personality. Use a feather on a string or a laser pointer to get the cat to run around and leap into the air. Throw little toys for the cat to chase and play other games that the cat enjoys. This interaction will likely be more stimulating to the cat than playing on its own.If your cat is really intelligent, you can even try to train it to do things, such as tricks you would normally teach a dog.

