 Some companies offer background checks for as little as $20. Be wary of these services, however, as you want to be sure that the company will provide you with complete and accurate information.


Consider using FindOutTheTruth.com. This reputable private company was started by two private detectives in Florida and has been running background checks for users for almost 10 years. It is among the top rated background check services online, and offers background checks conducted by an actual private investigator. You can visit the FindOutTheTruth.com website for assistance.For other private companies that handle background checks, click here.
 Some states offer criminal background checks to the general public for a small fee, usually $20 to $30, through their Bureau of Investigation or Criminal Apprehension divisions. Visit your state government’s website and run a search for background checks in your state to see if this is an option. You also can contact your state’s Department of Public Safety to determine if any of your state’s government offices offer background check services.
 Remember that not all sex offenders are registered. Furthermore, some sex offenders may no longer be required to register. Federal law enforcement agencies estimate that there are approximately 100,000 unregistered sex offenders in the United States. Some things you can do to help determine if someone is an unregistered sex offender or sexual predator include:Run a basic online search. Running a search on persons’ name on your favorite search engine can provide you with a wealth of information, including current and previous addresses, as well as news and arrest reports. This is an especially helpful technique if the individual has an unusual or unique name.
Check the U.S. Marshals Service website. The U.S. Marshal Service is in charge of apprehending unregistered sex offenders. This office provides news updates, as well as a most wanted sex offender list, on its website. Visit the U.S. Marshals Service website for help.Search court records. Many counties allow users to search through public court records, which include both civil and criminal records. You can generally conduct a search in person or online through the County Clerk’s website or private or governmental services, such as Doxpop.com, Judici.com, or Courtreference.com. Look online or in your telephone book for your local clerk’s office. Their website may have information about how to search court records in your county and/or state, or you can call and ask about their available search options. You may also wish to contact an attorney and request that he or she conduct a search for you. Many attorneys subscribe to paid services that allow them to view records to which the general public does not have access.
 If you are unable to turn up any useful information on your own or through online sources, you may wish to hire a private investigator. Many private agencies offer investigative services and may have access to resources or databases that the general public cannot access.
 While it is perfectly legal to possess and pass on public information to others, federal and state laws limit how you can use this information to find another person eligible for housing, employment, and credit. So long as it is public information used only for your personal knowledge, however, you will not violate any laws.

