 Be realistic about your strengths and limitations. Develop strategies that emphasize your assets while preparing for attacks against your weaknesses. This will help you feel in control and confident as you prepare for the contest.Working with a coach or trainer is a great way to get a better understanding of your skills. They bring extra expertise that can boost your skills and confidence.
 The surest way to feel confident going into a competition is to have honed your talents through practice. In the days or weeks before a competition, practice your skill regularly and work diligently to improve it. This will help you feel prepared and confident going into an event. Avoid over exerting yourself and make sure that you get plenty of rest. Overexertion can leave you feeling fatigued and sap your confidence. Give yourself plenty of rest before your competition.
 Before your competition, find a practice that will help you focus and control your emotions during the contest. Finding and utilizing a strategy that works for you will help you feel more confident going into your activity and convey to your opponent that you are in control.Try listening to music that helps you get pumped up but also helps you focus.
Breathing exercises can help calm your nerves before a contest.
Meditation can also help you rein in your anxieties and focus your mind.
 Before you begin a competition, understand what factors may make it hard for you to concentrate. Will your family be attending? What are the negative and positive consequences of the contest? Understanding and planning for how to deal with these distractions will help you clear your mind and remove doubt that can undermine your confidence. , Develop an understanding of your opponent’s strategies and style. Study how you competed with this person in previous contests or how they competed with someone else. Knowing your opponent will help you feel better prepared and, therefore, more confident before your contest.What methods has your opponent used in previous contests?
Is there a particular facet of the competition that they have mastered?
How does their style compare to yours?
Are there any weaknesses that you can exploit?

, Depending on the type of competition, you may find yourself in an unfamiliar location. Before competing, understand what the facilities are like and how they will influence your performance. Understanding how factors, such as the crowd or the weather, might affect your strategy, and planning accordingly, will help you feel prepared and confident when you compete. Playing an opponent in their home facility is particularly difficult. Utilize your focusing strategies to block out external factors.
 Maintaining your daily habits is essential to staying focused for a competition. This helps you stay comfortable and limits stress. Feeling comfortable and relaxed is crucial to staying confident going into a competition.Try developing a daily schedule if you cannot stick with your daily routines.

