 When you have a bad back, its important to take extra care to warm up your back before exercise. The cat cow exercise is a great yoga pose to help loosen up those back muscles without causing pain or injury.To start this pose, get down on all fours - hands and knees. Use a yoga mat so that your hands and knees can be comfortable.
Place your hands flat on the ground so that they're shoulder width apart. Your knees should track inline with your hips.
Using your pelvis and stomach muscles, arch your back up towards the ceiling. Keep your eyes facing forward. Hold this for a few seconds.
Slowly release this position and tilt your pelvis forward so that your back bends inwards towards the floor. Pull your shoulder blades in towards each other. Hold this for a few seconds.
Move smoothly and fluidly between cat and cow pose for about 5 minutes. You can extend this time if you feel like your back needs additional time to warm up.;
, After your warm-up, it's time to work your back a little more seriously. Downward dog is a great pose that helps strength the lower back muscles which are essential for keeping your spine and upper back supported.From cat cow pose when you're on hands and knees, move your hands out in front of your shoulders just a touch.
Press your body back and lift your knees off the floor and straighten your legs. Your body should form an upside down "V" shape at this point.
Press your tailbone up towards the ceiling. Also press your shoulders down away from your ears. Try to pull your heels down towards the floor to help stretch out your lower back.
Hold downward dog for a few deep breathes. Hold this as long as you can and as long as you feel like you need to.
 Upward dog is a yoga pose that frequently comes in sequence after downward dog. The slight arch of this position gently requires your back muscles to engage without putting a lot of stress on your back.Lie down on on the floor with the front of your body floor down. Place your hands on your yoga mat near your shoulders.
Press your upper body up off the floor so that your eyes are facing forward and your shoulders and stomach are off the floor.
The lower part of your back should be arched. Pull your shoulder blades together to help stabilize your body in this position.
Hold upward dog for a few deep breathes or as long as you can or feel comfortable.
 Child's pose in yoga is generally used to relax and cool down for a bit if needed. It's also a great pose because its a gentle forward bend which can stretch out your lower back muscles and increase the space of your lower back.Start child's pose by getting on all fours on your yoga mat. Slowly sit your buttocks down so it rests on your heels. Part your knees so that your chest can rest closer to the floor.
Allow your head to fall gently to the floor and rest your forehead on the mat. You can choose to keep your arms extended in front of you or drape them next next your torso. Whichever is more comfortable.
Childs pose is one that you can choose to hold as long as you want. Hang out in this pose as long as it feels good but at least for a few deep breathes.
 Towards the end of your yoga practice, add in legs up the wall pose. This helps open your lower back and allow any tightness in your lower back to be released.Pull the end of your yoga mat so it's flush with a sturdy wall. Also grab a folded blanket or very firm pillow for this pose.
Lay down on your yoga mat with your legs towards the wall. Scoot your body towards the wall so that your buttocks is touching the wall.
Swing your legs up the wall carefully. Your legs should be straight and your feet should be pointing up towards the ceilings.
Place the folded blanket or firm pillow underneath your lower back. Adjust as needed so this position is comfortable.
Let your arms fall out to the side during this pose. Relax your body and allow your lower back muscles to release any tension. Stay in this pose as long as you'd like, but stay here for at least 5 minutes.
 Your back is a very tricky area to exercise and strengthen. If not done carefully, you can injury yourself more. So before you begin a yoga routine, make sure to get clearance from your doctor.


If you have a bad back, talk to your doctor about what types of exercises can help relieve pain, tightness and help you strengthen those essential muscles.
Tell your doctor that you're planning on incorporating yoga into your exercise routine. Ask if there are any specific type of poses that you should avoid or poses you should focus on doing.
Ask your doctor: What poses should you avoid? How long can you do yoga for? Do you need to modify certain poses? Are there yoga classes specifically designed for back problems?

, In addition to talking to your doctor, it might be beneficial to talk to your yoga instructor. This will help make sure that you stick to appropriate poses and that you're doing them correctly.


Get to your yoga class al little early. That way, you can spend a few minutes chatting with the instructor about your back problems without taking time away from the class or other students.
Tell the instructor that you have a bad back, pain or tightness. Explain to them you're hoping to use yoga to help relieve these issues and slowly begin to strengthen your back.
Ask the instructor: Are there poses you should avoid? Does she recommend modifying some of the poses in the routine? Could she help guide you during certain poses?
If you feel comfortable, consider asking the instructor to provide hands on guidance and help you ease into poses correctly.
 Whether you use a block, bolster, blanket or strap, there are many yoga props that can help assist you in your practice. These props don't necessarily make poses easier, but make them more comfortable for you.If you're taking a yoga class, ask the instructor when you can use props or how you can position them to make poses a little more comfortable for your lower back.
If you're doing yoga and stretches at home, slowly adjust your props until you feel completely relaxed and comfortable.
 Fitness and health professionals know that rest days are essential to any fitness routine. However, they are exceptionally important when you have an injury or are dealing with chronic pain.


Many people know to include rest days because they're essential for the growth in muscle size and strength.However, rest is even more essential for recovery and repair. Whether or not you have an injury, rest days allow your back muscles to have the necessary time off they need to relax and recover.
Even with easier, lower impact exercises like yoga, it's still important to include at least 1-2 rest days each week. Place your rest days in-between days of work or strengthening exercises.
 Regardless of what type of pain or where your pain is, it's important to know your limits. Following these tips will keep you safe and prevent further injury in the future.A variety of both stretching, strengthening and aerobic exercises can prevent back pain and injury in the long-term.
While you're exercising, if you feel any pain, you should consider stopping your exercise and taking the rest of the day off.
If you feel pain after you exercise, stop exercising immediately. This is especially true for pain that doesn't go away or is getting worse.
Note that a little soreness or initially tightness when you begin exercise is normal. Be more aware of acute pain, sharp pain or stabbing pain.
 Similar to yoga, it's also important to find aerobic activities that are safe for your back and won't cause pain. Stick to these guidelines to stay safe:


Choose lower impact aerobic activities. These are less jarring to your back. There is no pounding or stress on your lower back.Try using the elliptical, walking or water aerobics.
Workout for 30 minutes. Instead of doing a long workout, do a shorter workout. A shorter worker will be easier on your back overall.
Stay consistent with any aerobic activity. The more consistent you are, the better your back will feel overtime. Try to include 3-4 days of low impact aerobic activity each week.
 In addition to yoga, you can include other strengthening exercises for your back. This will help round out your workout.


In general, its recommended to 1-2 days of strength or resistance training each week.
In addition to yoga, try lifting weights, doing body weight exercises or trying pilates. These can all help you strengthen your back.
Like your yoga poses, you may find that modified exercises can help prevent back pain and injury.

