 Split ends are damaged strands of hair that quickly lose moisture. This damage can move all the way up your hair if not routinely cut. Have a professional hairdresser trim the ends of your hair, making sure to remove the entire damaged portion.


Trim your split ends every few months, or whenever they become noticeable.;
, Conditioner returns essential oils to your hair, keeping it healthy, happy, and soft.
 Hot air from blow drying will dry out your hair and create split ends. Instead, pat your hair dry with a towel, then let your hair air dry. If you must use a blower, turn off the heat.
 Just like any other part of your body, your hair needs water to stay soft and healthy. Drink at least four or five glasses of water a day.


When you exercise, drink an extra 8-10 ounces (240–300 mL) of water for every hour of activity.
 Certain supplements, such as Omega-3 oil, fish egg phospholipids, vitamin E, and biotin improve the shine and growth of your hair. Purchase them from a local health food store and take them on a daily basis.
 Warm the oil in the microwave in a small container, just enough to make the oil spreadable. Lightly dampen your hair with water. Smooth the oil with your hands from the middle of the hair shaft (near your ears) down to the ends. Leave the oil in your hair for at least one hour, or overnight if possible.


Wash out the coconut oil with your normal routine of shampoo and conditioner.
You may oil the roots of your hair as well, but you may require multiple washes to remove the oil afterward.
 These oils are well-known home remedies for dry hair, found at your local supermarket. Simply massage the oil into your hair from the roots to the tips and leave it in for two or three hours.


Put your hair in a shower cap to prevent the oil from dripping.
Wash out the oil with shampoo and conditioner.
 In a small bowl, whip together one ripe avocado, 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil, and 2 tbsp (30 mL) honey with a whisk or hand mixer. Apply the mixture to your hair from roots to tips. Leave it on for at least two hours, once a month., Regular use of hairdryers, flat irons, and curlers can severely damage the hair if used on a regular basis. Heat will dry out your hair, leaving it rough, dull, and damaged.
 Unfortunately, hair dyes will damage your hair and keep it from staying soft. Most hair dye pre-treatments contain ammonia, which weakens hair strands and damages follicles. Repeated dying can make your hair dry, dull and lifeless.
 Try going for a darker shade of blonde, leaving more time between bleaching sessions. Bleach dries out your hair, and it can take months for it to recover.
 Try using an alcohol-free gel or mousse to scrunch your hair, as opposed to straightening or curling. Do not use barrettes or anything with a hinge, as this will likely damage the hair. Bobby pins lightly sprayed with hair spray are a great alternative to keep hair in place.
 When you wash your hair too often, you are stripping your hair of its natural oils. When you do wash your hair, always use conditioner afterwards to return essential oils.
 You hair is weak when it is still wet, so avoid brushing it for 20–30 minutes after washing.

