 Keeping your emotions bottled up can make your condition worse, rather than making them simply go away. Because of this, it is important to talk to someone about what you are going through. Talking to someone else can also help you to see your emotions from an objective standpoint.Take the time to talk to:


Your spouse. It is important to let your partner know what you are going through so that he/she can help you to the best of their ability.
A family member who has gone through childbirth.
A friend who you feel comfortable talking to and know you won’t be judged by.
A therapist. If you feel like talking to family or friends hasn’t brought you the comfort you need, set up an appointment with a therapist. If you don’t know what therapist to go to, ask your doctor for a recommendation.
 Keeping an emotion journal can help you to see that your emotions are fleeting, rather than permanent. When you begin to feel anxiety, sadness, anger, or some other emotion, write down the emotion and the details that go along with it. By doing this, you will be able to keep track of what triggers your anxiety or depression, and will help you to think about how you would like to handle these emotions in the future.In particular, write down:


Write down what emotion you were feeling.
Rate the intensity of your emotion from 0% to 100%.
Write down what caused the emotion.
Keep track of your response to the emotion.
Consider what response you would like to have in the future.
 Sometimes being around women who are experiencing the same things as you can be an eye opening experience that can give you insights into your own condition. As support groups, women who have had, or presently have, postpartum depression and anxiety can share what they are going through with women that have experienced the same thing.


Talk to your doctor about support groups in your area.
 Taking some ‘me’ time to focus on activities that you enjoy can provide a much needed break from your negative thoughts or feelings. Doing something relaxing outside of your home and take the time to think about your emotions, your life, and your health. Consider the things you are grateful for.Do activities that will leave you feeling accomplished, like going on a hike or planting some flowers. Keep this accomplishment in your thoughts if you begin to feel depressed or anxious again later.
 Keeping yourself from your baby, partner, friends, and family may seem like all you want to do, but you must overcome these feelings. Isolating yourself will only make your condition worse, while also deteriorating your physical health. Instead some quality time one-on-one with your baby, your partner, and close friends or family.


Taking the time to really engage with someone else can help you to start feeling more like yourself.
 While your depression and anxiety might make you feel like you are not the best mother, you have to overcome these thoughts. Remind yourself that you created a beautiful baby whom you love and want to give the world to.


Leave sticky notes on your bathroom mirror or near your bed where you will be reminded that you are a great mother.
Take moments where you could think negatively, like if you have to go to your baby because he has woken up in the middle of the night, and instead think, “I am a great mom to be here holding my baby at 2 a.m., singing him a lullaby”.

