 If your cat is eliminating outside the box, he may not like something about his litter box situation. Whether it's the wrong kind of litter, the wrong depth of litter, an unclean litter box, or even a poorly placed litter box, your cat may be trying to send you a message.If your cat doesn't like traditional clay litter, try a clumping litter. If he doesn't like scented litter, try unscented litter. With a little trial and error, you'll be able to figure out your cat's preferences.Be sure your cat's litter box is in a quiet, low-traffic area. If there's a lot of noise, like in a laundry room, or a lot of traffic coming through, like your home's living room, your cat may become reluctant to use the litter box. Choose a place that's quiet and relatively undisturbed, but not so undisturbed that your cat has to make a long journey through the house to get there., Use an enzyme-based cleaning product to treat any household furniture or carpeting that your cat has eliminated on. This will break down any residual odor on the furniture, ensuring that your cat won't come to see it as an acceptable place to relieve himself.If your cat leaves solid waste on the floor or on any furniture, use a paper towel to move the feces to his litter box, rather than throwing it in the trash. This will help remind him to use the litter box next time., If your cat isn't using the litter box, it's important to check around the house to look for out-of-box elimination. If he isn't urinating anywhere, it's a sign that he may have a urinary tract infection, bladder/kidney stones, or a partially- or fully-blocked urethra. If you believe your cat is not eliminating, or if he is eliminating with blood in his urine or stool, take him to a veterinary emergency clinic immediately.This is another reason why it's a good idea to scoop the box on a daily basis. Scooping your cat's waste allows you to monitor his health, as you'll see signs of digestive or urinary problems right away and be able to act fast.