 If you are planning to use the vanilla bean in a batter for a cake or for a batch of cookies, you will need to open the vanilla bean pod and remove the seeds. You will then add the seeds to the batter to infuse it with a natural vanilla flavor.To split the pod, lay the vanilla bean pod on top of a clean, dry cutting board. Turn the hooked end of the vanilla bean to the top of the board. Hold the top of the vanilla bean with your non-dominant hand and a sharp paring knife with your dominant hand.
Split the pod with a long, vertical stroke through the middle of the bean. Cut only into the center of the pod, not through it completely. You want access to the tiny, dense seeds in the middle. Go slowly. If the knife slips in your hand against the bean, realign your knife with your previous cut and continue cutting the bean.;
, Peel the two sides of the vanilla bean outward with the side of the blade. Don’t use the sharp end, since you don’t want to cut the vanilla bean further.Use the side of the knife or a small spoon to dig out the seeds. Dig the seeds out of the pod by running the spoon or the knife down the inside of one side of the pod.
You should open the vanilla bean right before you plan to use them in cooking or baking. Keep in mind one vanilla bean is equal to three teaspoons vanilla extract. If you only need half that amount, you would only cut halfway down the bean, exposing only half of the seeds.
A table of conversions for vanilla bean can be found online., If you have a recipe for a cake, cookies, or a pie that require vanilla extract, you can use the vanilla seeds instead. Add the vanilla when you cream the butter in the recipe as this will ensure the seeds are well incorporated into the batter.


You can also ensure the seeds are evenly distributed in your batter by taking a small amount of the batter and using a spoon or your hands to smush the seeds into the batter. Then, fold the batter with the seeds into the rest of the batter.A list of cakes, cookies, and pies that use vanilla bean can be found online., You can also rub the vanilla seeds into white sugar, infusing the sugar with vanilla. Rubbing the vanilla into the sugar will release the aroma of the vanilla and infuse the sugar with a natural vanilla taste. The sugar can then be used when sugar is required in a recipe.Use the vanilla infused sugar in cookies like vanilla bean sables or vanilla shortbread.
 Rather than spend a lot of money on vanilla extract at the store, make your own by saving the split vanilla pods and using them to make vanilla extract at home. This is a time based process, so if you know you are going to need vanilla extract for baking you make the extract at least one to two months ahead of time.Place three to four split vanilla pods lengthwise in a clean, glass container. Add a pint of high quality vodka, rum, or bourbon to the container and seal the container. Let the container sit in a cool, dark place for one month if you are using rum and three to four months if you are using vodka. Shake the jar periodically to move around the flavors in the container. The richness of the extract will depend on how long you let the pods soak in the alcohol.
Use Grade B vanilla beans to make vanilla extract. You can use Grade A beans as well but they will be more expensive.