 When you are awake, during the day, write your nightmares down in a journal. Keeping a good record of the details, themes, images, and dialogues of your nightmares will help you examine them and possibly find any causes in your waking life.


Get as much detail as you can when you write your nightmares down.
Look for any relation to your waking life. For instance, having nightmares about someone yelling at you or hurting you might be related to a hostile work environment.
Writing down feelings, even if you cannot remember why you felt that way in the dream. Knowing that in your dreams you are feeling lost is important.
 Tell anyone you trust about your nightmares. The support of your friends and family can also help bring comfort to you and reduce the likelihood of nightmares occurring.Talking with others about your nightmares can help you recall details and come to better examine your dreams for any links to your waking life.
Only speak to people you trust and feel safe describing your nightmares with.
 Nightmares can be caused by a number of activities and removing or altering these behaviors can put an end to the nightmares. Examine your daily actions and look for anything that might be causing your nightmares, which may include:Extreme stress in your life. Any source of stress in your life can carry over into your dream life and cause nightmares. Look at your daily routine and see if any part of it is overly stressful. Try to improve that situation, making it less stressful, and see if your nightmares are reduced.
A traumatic event or PTSD. If you have experienced a traumatic event in the past, this may be responsible for your nightmares. Generally, nightmares stemming from trauma will have elements of that trauma within them and are often repetitive.
Stopping or starting a new medication. Talk with your doctor to learn more about any prescriptions you may have been given, or ordered to end, to learn if they might cause nightmares as a side-effect.
Abusing alcohol or drugs. Alcohol and drugs can interrupt sleep mechanisms and patterns, resulting in nightmares. Examine your consumption of substances such as these and their possible relation to your nightmares. Speak with your doctor for help ending substance abuse.
 If nightmares persist more than once a week or are preventing you from getting good sleep, call your doctor and schedule an appointment. Prepare yourself by expecting the following questions and procedures during your visit.When and how often do your nightmares occur?
How well are you sleeping? Do you often awake suddenly and have difficulty returning to sleep?
Does the nightmare cause intense fear and anxiety?
Have you recently been ill or under a great deal of stress?
Which medications are you currently taking? Do you use any drugs or alcohol? How often and how much? Do you use any alternative medicines or therapies?
You may be given a physical and a neurological/psychological examination.
 This may not be the best approach for people with severe trauma, such as PTSD without professional guidance. But for many, examining dreams through expressive art can help you examine, understand it, and express it enough to let it go. This includes:

Expressive art: Painting, sketching, sculpture
Music: Composing, music
Performing art: movies, dance, theater
Creative writing: poems, short story, novel, blog.

