 To get proper treatment for your anxiety disorder or OCD, you need to get a proper diagnosis for both conditions. Anxiety disorders and OCD are serious mental illnesses that should be treated by a doctor or a therapist.If you work too much and you also suffer from anxiety or OCD, then your symptoms may be even more pronounced. However, with proper treatment, you can alleviate your symptoms and live a healthier life.Your doctor may suggest medication to treat the anxiety and OCD symptoms.
Psychotherapy is also a common treatment for anxiety disorders. Your doctor will probably refer you to a psychiatrist or therapist who can provide therapy to address your anxiety disorder, OCD, and addiction-like behaviors.
To find a therapist, start by asking your doctor for a referral. You can also search online for therapists in your area who specialize in your disorder. When you search online, you can also read reviews and patient experiences with the therapist.
 One effective treatment for anxiety and OCD is cognitive behavioral therapy. CBT is a type of psychotherapy that focuses on changing negative thought patterns into healthier ones. This can also help change your attitude about work, along with helping you cope with obsessive and anxious thoughts and compulsions.You may have unhealthy or untrue beliefs about work. A therapist can help you work through these beliefs and modify them into healthier, more productive beliefs.
For example, if you believe you will lose your job if you don’t work all the time, your therapist can use CBT to help you change that thought to something like, “I can work hard for this many hours each week and keep my job.”

, Family therapy may be needed if working too much and having anxiety has negatively affected your family relationships. During family relationships, a therapist can help you learn how to interact with your family and make them a priority in your life.Your therapist can also help you figure out activities that you and your family can do together. These activities can strengthen your relationship and help you alter your attention away from work and onto leisure activity and relationships.
You and your family can use therapy to learn how to communicate with each other. You may also be able to be truthful about ways your behavior has hurt each other. For example, your partner may say, "I feel hurt that we never take any vacations because you are always working." You might say, "I am frustrated because you get angry when I check my work e-mail in the evenings."

