 Start by removing any old nail polish and cleaning your nails. Next, trim and file your nails into a shape that you like. Finish off by pushing back your cuticles and applying a little cuticle oil.
 When you are done with your nails, simply wipe the petroleum jelly away, along with any mistakes. You can also use white school glue instead, but be sure to let the glue dry first.
 This is a must, even if you plan on using light-colored nail polish. The base coat will not only protect your nails against potential staining, but also help the manicure last longer.
 Choose a neutral color, such as brown, beige, or tan. This way, your background won't be competing with the glitter or the leaves. Alternatively, you can also use white, black, ivory, or cream., For best results, choose glitter nail polish with finger grains, rather than chunky ones. Warm colors, such as gold or copper, would work best for this method.
 Start by tapping the glitter onto the top fourth of each nail, then the top third, and finally the top half. This will create a gradient or ombre effect, with the glitter being thickest on the tips of your nails, and fading towards the middle., This will help smooth down the glitter layer, and make painting the leaves in the next step a lot easier.
 Choose fall colors, such as red, orange, or yellow. For now, just paint 1 or 2 short, straight lines on each nail. These lines will eventually become your leaves.Don't let the lines go past the glitter area. You can have some of the lines touch the edge of your nails, however.
Try different angles for the lines. This will give your leaves more movement.
Clean your brush with nail polish remover and blot it dry on a paper towel before dipping it into a new color.
 Using the same brush and colors as before, paint the rest of the leaves. Use short, angled strokes radiating from the straight lines you painted earlier. By now, your leaves should start looking a little like maple or oak leaves.Remember to clean your brush before dipping it into a new color!

, At this point, you can draw some veins using a darker shade of the same color. You can also add splotches of another color to each leaf. Try to use the same fall colors as before, however. For example, you could add orange splotches to a yellow leaf, or red splotches to an orange leaf., Let your nails dry, then apply another layer of top coat, if needed.
 If you added any petroleum jelly to your cuticle area, now is the time to wipe it away. If you used white school glue instead, simply peel it away. Finally, use a thin brush or Q-tip dipped in nail polish remover to clean up the cuticle area and to wipe away any stray glitter.

