 One of the easiest ways is with your hands, although it’s not always the most ideal, especially if you are working with a very large piece of mirror. If the mirror is small enough for you to hold, firmly grasp it in both hands and place one thumb on each side of the first score line. Press down with both thumbs simultaneously, taking care to do so with equal pressure.Quickly make a snapping motion with your wrists and the mirror should break crisply along the score line.
Always wear protective gloves when you’re breaking glass. The score lines render the glass unstable and sometimes it can shatter in ways you aren’t expecting.
 Use your hands to press down on the unscored side, applying pressure along the score line. The glass should cleanly snap. You can also place the mirror on the edge of a flat surface, making sure to line up the score line with the edge. Use your hand to press down on the side of the glass that is hanging over the edge until you see the glass snap crisply., If you feel uncomfortable breaking the mirror with your hands, or if the piece of glass is too large to do it that way, use running pliers. Place them so the bottom jaw touches the score on your mirror. The top jaw should touch the mirror about 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) on either side of the score line. Squeeze the pliers, which will cause them to separate, and the pressure will widen the score line. This widening will cause the score to crack along the rest of your line in a very controlled breaking pattern.If you’re breaking a long score line, you might want to apply the pliers gently at one end, until you hear a very faint clicking sound. Then turn the mirror around and do the same thing on the other end of the line. This will cleanly complete the break at the edges.
 For scores that have multiple curves, turn the mirror upside down on a springy surface, such as a piece of foam or cardboard. If the curve isn't very dramatic, press down on the score line with your thumb, which will cause the break. However, running pliers are the best to use on curves and semi-circles. If you're cutting mirror with lots of curves, invest in running pliers and the breaking process will go much more smoothly.
 If you’re placing your mirror in a frame so that the raw edges won’t be visible, this is probably unnecessary (although you can still do it if you like). Sand down the edges with sandpaper, then apply mirror edge sealant or some other hermetic coating to the edges. You can find these materials at any hardware store. You can also use clear fingernail polish and get similar results.