 You can prevent the spread of mumps by recognizing the symptoms. The most common symptoms are headache, fever, muscle aches, fatigue, and loss of appetite followed by the onset of parotitis. Parotitis is tender and swollen salivary glands under the ears on either one or both sides.These swollen glands typically appear 16 to 18 days after exposure to mumps.
 Once an infection is detected, experts recommend that patients be isolated for five days after the onset of parotitis.Infected persons should avoid going to workplaces, schools, sporting events and practices, and all public places and gatherings for five days after symptoms start.Infected persons should minimize close contact with people who live with them, babies, and people with weak immune systems.
 You can also prevent mumps by washing your hands regularly with soap and water. You should wash your hands before and after preparing your food, before eating, while caring for someone who is sick, before and after treating a wound, after using the bathroom, after changing diapers, after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose, after touching or feeding an animal, and after touching garbage.Teach your children how to wash their hands properly, as well.
 Make sure to always cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough. You can cover your mouth with a tissue, or if you do not have a tissue, sneeze into your elbow or upper sleeve (not your hand). Make sure to wash your hands after sneezing and coughing.
 Avoid getting mumps by using your own cups and eating utensils. Always make sure your cups and eating utensils are cleaned before and after you use them. Clean them with soap and hot water.
 Surfaces that are touched regularly need to be cleaned frequently, as well. These surfaces include doorknobs and handles, toys, keyboards, tables, countertops, and remote controls. Clean these items with common household cleaners like antibacterial wipes, 409, or soap and water. These surfaces should be cleaned at least once a week.
 If you suspect mumps, contact your primary care doctor or a health center, preferably by telephone, for advice. The ill person may need to be seen at a clinic or medical office to get a proper diagnosis. Calling first for advice will help medical staff minimize the risk of exposing other patients to mumps. Some offices may ask a patient suspected of having mumps to be met at a side door, rather than sit in a waiting room.

