 There are many different ways to give your husband the positive pregnancy test and surprise him. From taking a picture to switching out the test for other items, your husband may not be expecting what he receives.


Take a picture of the test and upload it to your computer. Set it as the background image.
Tell your husband that you have not been feeling well all day. When he is somewhat distracted, tell him you are going to take your temperature. Come back and tell him you need help reading the thermometer and place the positive pregnancy test in his hand.
Ask your husband to sign a birthday card for a friend. Hand him the positive pregnancy test instead of a pen.;
, Give your husband a special gift to mark the occasion of telling him your news. A personalized present may heighten the surprise and anticipation as you tell him—especially if he’s not expecting it—and may also give you a special memento of the day.Make a custom t-shirt with cute, short message. You can make the t-shirt for anyone: for your husband, a tee with the word “dad” would work. You could also get a shirt with “bun in the oven” or a shirt for one of your other children, if you have them, that says “big brother” or “big sister.”You could purchase keepsakes such as a silver cup or silver teething ring. You can write a special message in a card that says “in a few months, we can engrave this with the newest member of our family’s name.”
Consider something that your husband loves and incorporate that into a gift. For example, if your husband loves hiking, buy a small pair of hiking boots and backpack and say “for your new hiking partner.”
Purchase a small ceramic piggy bank and write “Baby’s College Fund” on it.
You could hide the gift in his dresser, closet, or gym bag so that he finds out in the course of day when he likely least expects it., Either cook a special meal or go out to your favorite restaurant. Use this occasion to put a surprise in your husband’s meal or tell him at a key moment you’re together.


You can cook your husband’s favorite foods or a “baby specific” specific meal of foods like baby corn, baby carrots, or even baby food.You can go out to your favorite restaurant to make the occasion more special or memorable.You can incorporate different ways to tell your husband. For example, you could buy a plastic baby at a party supply store and put it in the food or ask the restaurant to put it in whatever dish he orders.
You could get a bottle of wine and have a special label placed on it telling your husband he’s going to be a dad.Likewise, you can make a label for something you are cooking together at home.If your husband suggests wine or beer over dinner, say you can’t have it and explain why. You can use a cute phrase like “our baby doesn’t like the taste of wine (or beer) just yet.”
Tell him with a dessert. Bake or buy a cake with the message such as “congrats, you’re going to be a dad!”

, Purchase a beautiful card or some nice paper and compose a letter or note from your baby to your husband. It doesn’t need to be long or elaborate, just fun, warm, and to the point.


You don’t necessarily need to buy a baby card. A plain card can help heighten the surprise.
Send the card in the mail so that your husband doesn’t have an idea what’s in the card. You may want to consider having someone else write it so he doesn’t recognize your handwriting.
Write something like “Dear Christopher, I can’t wait to meet you in eight months and I know mom is looking forward to enjoying new adventures with both of us.” Sign the card “your baby.”

, If you have a pet or other children, let them break the happy news to your husband. This may catch him off guard and make him even more surprised or may also make another funny memory.If you have a dog or cat, you could place a small placard around their neck to announce the news.You could also find some type of toy that your dog or cat can present to your husband that will clue him in to the new arrival.Have one of your other children tell your husband. It can be a very simple message such as “mom says she’s having another baby” or another phrase that plays on your child’s personality., You can buy some type of signage to tell your husband the news. You can go big and bold via a billboard, or get something small like a “baby on board sign” for your car.


Make sure the sign is commensurate with your husband’s personality. For example, if you’ve been trying to get pregnant for a while and your husband is outgoing, you could put a billboard up on his daily commute so that he’ll see it when he least suspects it.
If your husband is shy or you don’t want to broadcast your news to the world just yet, you can get a discreet “baby on board” sign for your car. Either place it in the car or nonchalantly around your house so he finds it.
Write the good news on a tiny piece of paper that can fit into a fortune cookie. Order Chinese food and replace the message in the fortune cookie with yours. Make that sure that he reads his fortune and gets the surprise! You may even be able to purchase fortune cookies specifically with the surprise that your husband is going to be a dad. Many companies offer this kind of product.
 Borrow baby paraphernalia from a friend or pick some up at a local store. Scatter the items all over the house while your husband is at work. When he comes home, let him figure out what’s going on or allow him to ask you before sharing the great news.


You could get toys and stage a “playroom” scene in your living room. Try bottles or baby food jars in your kitchen for a similar effect.
 Buy a few inexpensive items that hint at your pregnancy and place these around your house. Hide yourself and leave a note for him to point you to your hiding place so that you can deliver your good news.


Scatter the items around the house for your husband to find with clues at each stage. Hopefully, he’ll figure out your message before he finds you!

, Take a trip to a local store with your husband and offer to drive. When you arrive at the parking lot, pull into an expectant mothers parking spot.

