 Start by asking your veterinarian about the most appropriate laboratory to obtain the test you want. Two of the bigger companies that offer DNA testing are Wisdom Panel and DNA My Dog. Consider asking your veterinarian which laboratories are the most reputable and whether there are significant differences in price. Ask them:


“What is the best laboratory to test my dog’s DNA?”
“How many laboratories offer these tests in our region?”
“What are the cost differences between the competing laboratories?”
“Are there any major differences in customer service between the laboratories?”;
, DNA tests can vary in cost depending on what you're testing for and where you're having the test done. If you are shopping around, consider both the price of the actual DNA test and any additional costs involved in transporting the DNA sample and following up with a veterinarian at the lab. If the price difference between laboratories is small, you should also consider whether or not it is worth spending a little more and whether there are any associated differences in expertise or service., If you are a dog owner or a breeder, you may want to determine the parentage of your dog, and you may also want to figure out the ancestry of your dog. Ask your veterinarian to order the particular type of test that you'd like. Alternately, visit a laboratory in person or online to order the test directly from a laboratory that specializes in dog DNA.


For a DNA parentage test, a lab will charge a fee per sample so you will be paying more or less depending on how many samples you need tested. You will need to have access to your dog, as well as the mother and father dogs that you want tested for parentage. The test will tell you whether there is a match between your dog and the possible mother and father dogs.
You can also order a DNA parentage test for an entire litter of dogs. If you are managing a lot of dogs, this will give you confidence that all of the puppies belong to the same parents.Laboratories sometimes offer a DNA test to determine if there is any wolf or coyote DNA in your dog. This is often a separate test.
 Ask your veterinarian to help you order a DNA profile for your dog. Getting a DNA profile of your dog is a highly secure way of identifying your dog in the event of loss or illness. If your dog is ever lost, the profile will be invaluable as a way of ensuring any dog you find is actually your dog. In the event of illness, your dog’s DNA profile will also be crucial for determining that the correct sample is being used to test your dog for particular diseases. You can order DNA profiles from a variety of laboratories, which your veterinarian will know.


In addition to the DNA profile, it is worthwhile microchipping your dog. Although your dog’s DNA profile is the most fool proof way of identifying your dog in the event of loss, the microchip will be the faster method. Ask your veterinarian to insert a microchip between your dog’s collarbones.Once you have figured out your dog’s DNA profile, you should get it stored at the laboratory and at your veterinary office. If your dog gets sick or lost, the DNA profile will be very useful., You can collect the sample yourself using the DNA test kit. The swab will come in a collection tube. Using the swab included in your DNA test, take a swab from inside your dog’s cheek. Rub it on the inside of your dog’s cheek and underneath their tongue for sixty seconds. Take it out and put it in the collection tube., You can collect the sample yourself but it will help to have your veterinarian direct the process. You will need to use a swab to collect DNA samples from the puppy, mother and father. If the puppy has been feeding from the mother, you will need to separate them for a few minutes before taking the swab to avoid sending milk to the lab. You should collect one sample at a time and write the names of the dogs on the sample tubes., If you feel unsure about how to collect a sample of your dog’s DNA, you could ask your veterinarian. Tell them you want to collect your dog’s DNA for a laboratory test to determine parentage, ancestry or DNA profile.


If you ordered a test, you should bring the entire test kit to the veterinarian so they will have all of the details.
 Using the address given to you by the company, mail your DNA sample back to the laboratory. Once the company receives your dog’s DNA sample, it will probably take them a few weeks to analyze it. Phone them to find out the processing time for your sample.You can also get your veterinarian to send the sample to the laboratory.
 Review the details of the parentage profile summary including with relation to DNA markers, matches, and inclusion or exclusion of possible parents. Figure out whether the test has positively identified specific parents as a DNA match and whether any dogs have been excluded as possible parents.


If you are testing for multiple fathers, you will probably find a complete DNA match for only one father. This will ensure you know the correct father or sire of the dog.If neither parent is a match, you will have to do another DNA test.
 Look at the results of your dog’s DNA test analysis. Depending on the DNA test you ordered, these results may include information on the specific breeds in your dog’s ancestry, as well as information on types of breeds and fitness levels.Reflect on the relationship between the laboratory analysis and what you thought your dog’s ancestry might be. Consider whether you are surprised or whether the results confirmed your suspicions with regards to the specific breeds in your dog’s ancestry.
 To further understand your dog’s DNA test results, it can help to phone the laboratory and talk to one of the veterinarians. They may be able to give you some further insight into the results of your dog’s DNA test, especially if there is anything surprising about the results. You can also bring the results to your vet to see if they can clarify any questions or provide further explanation.