 Dogs that have frostbite will has discolored skin. This discoloration makes the skin appear pale, gray, or bluish instead of their skin normal color.This can be very hard to see, so you may need to look under their fur at different patches of skin.
 Frostbite is not easy to see on your pet. You may not notice they have frostbite unless you really check out their body. If you want to monitor your dog for frostbite, keep an eye on the extremities of the body.This includes the ears, lips, tail, face, feet, and scrotum.
 Another way you can tell if your beloved pet has frostbite is by touching it. Dog’s skin should be warm. Skin that is frostbitten will feel brittle or cold when touched.
 When the frostbitten skin starts to warm up, it can become red and swollen. This area may be painful for your dog.The skin may develop skin blisters or ulcers if it's second degree frostbite.
 If the skin that was frostbitten died, the dead tissue may start peeling off over a few weeks. This may be accompanied by cracking and extremely dry patches of skin., If your dog gets really bad frostbite, the skin will start turning dark. It may turn black after a few days. This is evidence of third degree frostbite.There may be a clear line between damaged and healthy tissue on the skin.
These areas may have pus from a bacterial infection.
 The signs of frostbite may not appear immediately. Your pet may be suffering from frostbite for a few days before they even begin to show symptoms. After being outside with your dog in extreme cold conditions, or if they came into contact with ice or snow, watch them carefully for any symptoms of frostbite., Some dogs are more susceptible to frostbite than others. Knowing whether or not your dog is at a high risk can help you take extra precautions to protect them from frostbite. Small, short-haired dogs have a higher risk than other dogs.Dogs that are wet in cold weather can easily get frostbite.
Dogs that are sensitive to cold weather due to age or an illness may be more likely to get frostbite.
Dogs who spend long periods of time outside without adequate warm, dry shelter can easily develop frostbite.

