 If the stain is still damp, blot with paper towels or tissue. Use a blotting, up-and-down lifting motion to soak up the coffee. Do not rub the paper towel from side to side because this may spread the stain. Use white paper towels because towels with patterns could leak dye onto the fabric and create even worse stains.Blotting immediately helps remove any excess liquid and some of the chemicals that cause coffee to stain.
Blotting will also make your clothes receptive to the other steps.;
, Place the stain under running water for 3 to 5 minutes. Cold tap water is the best temperature. Gently rub the stain every minute to help remove the stain. You may need to do this 2 or 3 times.Rinse the back of the cloth where the stain is located. Do not rinse the top surface of the stain directly yet because rinsing the stained surface may cause the stain to spread.
 If the stain is still there after you have rinsed with cold water, rub a small amount of liquid laundry detergent on the stain. Make sure the area is still moist before you rub it in. Let the detergent sit for 5 minutes, and then rub it gently again. Now rinse with cold water.


Spread the detergent on both surfaces of the coffee-stained material, front and back.
 If laundry detergent alone does not work, mix powdered laundry detergent and equal parts white vinegar and cold water in a small bowl to make a paste. The paste should be the same consistency as toothpaste. Make enough to cover both sides of the stain, front and back.Test a small part of the fabric that cannot be seen with the paste to make sure the paste won't discolor the fabric.
Let the paste sit for 5 minutes and then use a nail brush or toothbrush to rub both sides of the stain in a circular motion. Rinse the stain with cold water when you are finished.
 If the stain still has not come out, use a stain stick. Apply the stain stick and allow it to sit for 5 to 10 minutes. Then wash the clothing according to the instructions on the tag. Make sure the stain is gone before you place your clothing in the dryer.If the stain is still there, do not place the item in the dryer. The heat from the dryer will set your stain. Either wash your garment again or take it to the dry cleaner for a professional cleaning.
Choose a laundry detergent that is formulated to remove stains.

