 Most newer homes are designed to include some kind of coat closet beneath the main staircase. If your home is lacking this feature, it may be just what you need to reduce clutter and maximize your storage potential. These types of closets don’t even have to be very big—with just a few square feet, you’ll have more than enough room to stow a card table, backup toiletries or some unwieldy cleaning supplies.Use extra closet space to supplement your wardrobe or keep accessories like shoes, hats, belts and ties organized.
If you like to cook, closets near the kitchen can function as storerooms for dry ingredients and utensils., Make the most of a deep recess or the area under a flight of floating stairs by moving in a desk and a few other compact pieces for a basic home office setup. This will give you an out-of-the-way place to pay bills, read over work-related documents or do homework. Don’t forget to include a lamp, desktop organizer and a charging station for your laptop or phone.Lay out a futon and some pillows to create a cozy reading nook.Hang a memo board, calendar or set of filing trays on the walls of an alcove.
 You can usually extend a given room by three to four feet by opening up the area below a staircase. That’s enough territory to set up a drafting table or put in a mini bar. By using every available inch of the room, you’ll be able to free up useful storage space elsewhere.Transform a few extra feet of floor space into a pet area, complete with beds, toys and food and water dishes.
A vanity mirror and narrow countertop can serve as a quaint powder room., Even if you can’t cram in a whole lot, you can still reinvent a small space to enhance the look of your home. A single shelf and some under-glow lights are enough to elegantly highlight that prized painting you bought at auction that’s been sitting around in a closet collecting dust. You and your guests will be able to stop and appreciate a moment of beauty each time you change levels.The gallery feel makes a sophisticated touch for contemporary homes, especially those that are leased as rentals.
Display your cherished awards, trophies and medals in a glass-front display case.
 For people living in studio apartments or townhouses where square footage comes at a premium, designating the empty spot under the stairs as the new coffee bar or laundry facility is just good sense. It could also make a great place for a second refrigerator, exercise bike or even the TV, if your staircase is situated in the center of the living room.If you work from home, you could set up your printer, copier and scanner.
Make sure you have access to the necessary outlets before moving cumbersome appliances into place.

