 While this may seem like a not so creative option, you can have many variations to spice it up. Theme parties are great both for parties where you'll be drinking and parties where you won't. You can even pair them with other options, like a '20s theme with a murder mystery, or a pun theme where you play Cards Against Humanity.


One theme idea is invent your superhero or villain. Come up with a costume and a backstory. This is a great mingling idea, because you can then spend a lot of the time asking people about their costumes.
Another theme idea is the pun party, where everyone dresses up as a pun. For example, you could be a wallflower and dress up as a flower against a wall (or a flower made of of bits of a wall).
You could also do the seven deadly sins as a theme and have each room in your house correspond to one of the themes. Everyone can dress up as a version of one of the sins, like carrying a mirror as Vanity.
 This is great fun because everyone can come dressed in their pajamas. Put on a movie, or pull out all those games you played in elementary school (like MASH, or Truth or Dare).


You could also have everyone help you build an awesome pillow fort and have everyone sleep in it that night.
 This is where all you have at the party are desserts and everyone has to bring their favorite dessert. You won't have to worry about alcohol or dinner, or anything like that. The desserts can even have themes (dessert from around the globe, etc.).


Some delicious dessert ideas are banana splits, hot fudge sundaes, different cakes and pies, a whole slew of ice cream (you could even make your own).
You can also have a baking party that turns into this. Have a bunch of friends over and make lots of different delicious desserts.
 These are lots of fun and you can make them as fancy or as simple as you need. Likewise, you can add another theme to this. For example, it could be a fancy dress tea party, or everyone has to dress up as a character from a novel, etc.


You could even go the Alice in Wonderland route have a mad tea party. Have everyone come dressed as characters from the book or movie, or just really crazily and have giant teacups and a dormouse (probably a stuffed animal is best).

