 Some formal societies and other trustworthy agencies sell "Lord of the Manor" titles instead of novelty titles. Instead of purchasing a small plot of land, you'll purchase an entire estate attached to a specific title.Unlike novelty titles, purchasing an actual title as "Lord of the Manor" can offer some benefits, including fishing and mining rights. These titles are also slightly more prestigious than novelty titles, but the practice of buying titles is still looked down upon by most actual aristocrats.
There are multiple organizations and societies selling these titles, so it might be beneficial to shop around. If you want to play it safe, though, your best option is to check for available titles with The Manorial Society, one of the leading auctioneers of authentic British titles.
Legitimate titles usually start at approximately £5,000 ($7,641), but depending on the prestige of the title itself, you could end up paying up to six figures. One of the largest title sales in recent history cost £171,000 ($261,268).
 Before purchasing any title, it's a good idea to use a solicitor to validate the specific title you're interested in purchasing.


There are plenty of scams, especially if you choose to purchase this type of title from an unverified source. Moreover, title law can be complex, and it's easy to get scammed into a situation where you'll end up purchasing less than you intend. If you're not an expert in United Kingdom property law, legal counsel is strongly advised.
 If everything is legitimate and legal, you can purchase the title at the specified cost. You'll need to fill out some formal paperwork and pay the fee to the seller in the method they specify.


Since Lord of the Manor titles are more complex than novelty titles, you should expect to spend considerable time filling out much more paperwork. Among other documents, make sure that you register the estate with the United Kingdom Land Registry department.
 Once you've made the purchase and have your title deed in hand, you can formally use your new title on your accounts and other legal documents.


Note the proper form. When you're only a Lord of the Manor, you're not supposed to use the title "Lord" in front of your name. Instead, use it as a suffix (e.g. "John Doe, Lord of the Manor of X," rather than "Lord John Doe").
These titles do not grant you membership into the House of Lords, but many of them can be passed down to future generations. As Lord of the Manor, you own a specific piece of property, and that property can be willed or transferred to others just as any other property could be.

