 Before approaching and initiating a friendship opportunity with a coworker, be sure to take note of the overall office culture. Each company has it’s own culture with varying atmospheres, attitudes, beliefs, values, morals, and other attributes. How are all of these shared between the team members and how do they communicate between one another? Observing this will help you identify the most acceptable way to mingle with coworkers.


Be extra careful with how you interact with coworkers of a different status; appropriate conversation may be more restricted in this circumstance.;
, The first step to making a friend anywhere is to say “hello.” It would be quite challenging to befriend someone you’ve never actually spoken to. Whether you’re interested in one friend in particular or the group as a whole, start by greeting your coworkers with a warm smile each day.You might simply say, “Morning!” when you enter the office. Or, address one coworker specifically, like “Good morning, Rosa! How was your commute?”

, Typically, the aura you give off at work lets your coworkers know whether you are open to socializing. If you enter the office without speaking, go straight to your cubicle and remain there for the rest of the day, you’ll have trouble connecting with your coworkers.Instead, try some tips to show them you’re open and willing to connect. If you have an office, leave your door open unless it’s necessary to close it. Eat lunch in the common room rather than sitting at your cubicle or going outside alone.
 When engaged in conversation with a coworker, focus on making them feel like they are the most important person in the room. If you do this, they will be encouraged to chat with you in the future.


For instance, don’t glance down at your watch or turn your body towards the exit. Make eye contact, use open body language (i.e. unfolded arms and legs), and actively listen.
 Here’s a secret: people love to talk about themselves. You’ll likely win over your coworkers more easily if you act interested in them. Take advantage of natural breaks in your workday to get to know your coworkers better.


Use open ended-questions that get the conversation flowing. These might sound like “I heard you mention hockey. What got you interested in the sport?” or “You sure look content this Monday, Donna! How’d you spend your weekend?”, If you are cordial at work, others will likely gravitate to you. This doesn’t mean dismissing your work responsibilities for the sake of making friends. It means not being so caught up in getting ahead that you shut out opportunities to connect.For instance, your coworker knocks on your door and invite you to after-work drinks. Without glancing away from your computer, you say, “I don’t have time. I’ve got to meet this deadline.” Responding this way may come off as rude and unapproachable—your coworker may not extend an invitation in the future.
Even if you can’t join in, you might make eye contact, offer an encouraging smile, and say, “Oh, thanks for the invite, Sam. Sadly, I’m struggling to meet a deadline. But once I get this project complete, I’d love to take you up on that offer.”

