 There is some evidence that soft and soothing sounds or music played quietly in the background can help you to get to sleep and ease you towards more peaceful dreams. Be sure that anything you play is quiet and calming, such as the sound of gentle ocean waves.If you find soft music helps you get to sleep more peacefully, you can set your music player to go off after around half an hour.Noises and sounds can disrupt your sleep too. Wear ear plugs if you are disturbed at night by sound., There is some evidence to suggest that the position you sleep in can have an impact on how you sleep and the kind of dreams you have. The most important thing is to be relaxed and comfortable, but try to be aware of the position you fall asleep and wake up in. You can try to alter this and see if it helps you have nice dreams and avoid nightmares.


Sleeping on your right side is associated with more pleasant and relaxing dreams.
Sleeping on your left side is thought to be connected with strange dreams and nightmares.
Sleeping on your stomach may promote more erotic dreams., Research has shown that there is a link between depression and frequently disturbed sleep and nightmares. Nightmares may be closely connected to how we fell about ourselves and our lives. One way to try to address them is to think more about your life and try to improve your mental and physical health.


A negative attitude towards yourself may increase your susceptibility to nightmares.Try to think more positively about yourself, especially just before you go to bed.Relaxation techniques, such as meditation and deep breathing may help.
 Nightmares are often thought to reflect stressful and fearful experiences in life. An emotionally difficult event, or a trauma of any kind, may return in a dream. If you have a recurring nightmare that you think is related to something you have experienced, you need to take steps to address the traumatic event in order to work through it.


You can talk to a therapist about the event to try and understand it more clearly.
If you have a recurring nightmare, spend some time trying to write a new and positive or neutral ending for the dream.
Each night before you go to bed try to re-imagine and visualise the dream in your head with this new positive ending., Occasionally everybody has difficulty sleeping and experiences nightmares that disrupt their sleep. If you often have difficulty sleeping, and it is having an impact on your life and what you can do during the day, you should make an appointment to talk to your doctor.The same applies for frequent disturbing nightmares. Talk to your doctor if:


You or your child have nightmares that recur often and persist over time.
The nightmares regularly disrupt sleep or cause a fear of going to sleep.
They cause daytime behaviour problems.