 Prevention is always the best course of action for any ailment and, of course, avoiding sunburns in the first place is the best way to keep your skin healthy.Avoid exposing yourself to direct sun for long periods of time. Try to stay in areas that provide shade, such as under a balcony overhang, umbrella, or tree.
 The American Academy of Dermatology recommends that you use at least SPF 30 or higher of broad spectrum sunscreen that covers UVA and UVB rays. Both of these types of UV radiation can cause cancer. Many doctors will recommend these guidelines to their patients. Note that babies have particularly delicate skin, and need to have sunscreen applied all over their body (only after they are six months old). You can buy both baby and child-friendly sunscreens.It is important to apply sunscreen 30 minutes before going outside, not immediately prior. Make sure to reapply your sunscreen regularly. Generally, a good rule of thumb is to reapply 30 milliliters (1  fl oz) all over the body every three hours, or after any activity that involves the skin getting very wet (i.e. after getting out of a pool).Don't be fooled by cold weather. UV rays can still pass through clouds, and snow reflects 80% of them.
Be extra careful if you live close to the equator, or somewhere high in altitude. UV rays are much stronger in those areas due to ozone depletion.
 Not only does water affect the effectiveness of topical sunscreens, but wet skin in general is more susceptible to UV damage than dry skin. Use waterproof sunscreen when going to the beach or pool, or when exercising heavily outside.If swimming or sweating heavily, you should apply sunscreen more frequently than usual.
 Wear hats, visors, sunglasses, and anything else you can think of to shield your skin from the sun's rays. You can even purchase UV-block clothing., Try to stay out of the sun during the hours of 10a.m. to 4p.m., when sun is highest in the sky. This is when the sunlight is most direct, and the UV rays are therefore more damaging.If you can't avoid the sun entirely, seek share whenever possible.
 Drinking water is important for replenishing fluids, as well as combating dehydration, another serious and common consequence of extended sun exposure.Be sure to stay hydrated and drink water regularly when you are outdoors in heavy heat and sunlight exposure.
Do not drink water only when you are thirsty, but give your body the nutrients and resources it needs to keep you healthy prior to issues arising.

