 The beauty of an open house is that it’s a great way to entertain without having to stress about all the details that come with a cocktail party or formal dinner. Just pick a block of time on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon or evening, like from 2 to 6 p.m. or from 4 to 8. When you invite your guests, you’ll note that it’s an open house, so they can come and go as they please with no expectation to stay the entire time.Open houses are a great choice if you’re not thrilled at the prospect of having dozens of people crammed into your home all at once!
The casual schedule is also perfect for families with kids. They don’t require parents to book a sitter, they’re typically a kid-friendly form of entertainment, and families can get back home before it gets too late.;
, When you’ve chosen a date and time, send out paper invitations or use social media to invite your guests. Make sure to note on the invitation what the party is by including something like “Join us for a holiday open house.”If you’re not sure that your guests will know right away what you mean by “open house,” you can include a line such as “Pop in as you please!” to let them know the plan.
 No need to go overboard on the holiday decor, but put a little effort into whatever decorations and music are appropriate for your tastes.If you have a fireplace, light a fire.
Decorate a tree and make sure it's lit during your party if you celebrate Christmas. Think about hanging garlands or lights around staircase railings, door archways, the fireplace mantle, and other areas.
Go with seasonal candles, like apples and cinnamon, to set the holiday mood. Simmering potpourri or a warm apple cider will also add a festive fragrance.
Choose seasonal music, or play holiday movies on the TV. Set movies on low volume or mute for a little background ambience.
Consider getting a few poinsettias to put around the house. Or, get a couple bouquets of any flowers to place in vases around the house. Flowers are a quick and effective way to dress your home up for any occasion.
 You could hire a neighborhood teen to come to the party and play with the kids so the adults can mingle. Since holiday open houses are typically understood as kid-friendly, consider setting up a kid’s activity area in a side corner. Offer toys, games, or some quick and easy activity to keep them busy.Try to set up the kid zone away from the buffet, ornaments, little porcelain villages, candles, vases, and other holiday breakables.
Think about including a simple, low-mess holiday craft, like coloring books or origami ornaments. Stay away anything messy or that might require close supervision, like glue.
If you don’t want kids at your open house, be sure to make a note in the invitation to avoid confusion. Consider including a line like, "A holiday gathering for grown-ups" or simply, "No children, please." You could also mention a specific age like, "Please, no guests under age 16," or if you know good babysitters then write, "We'd be happy to recommend sitters!"

, Write down ingredients you’ll need for food and beverages, flowers, kids’ activity items, decorations, candles, and anything else you’ll need to buy. Make lists of all the tasks you’ll need to accomplish, from ironing linens to cleaning the bathrooms. Decide where you’ll put coats, where the buffet will be, and where drinks will be served.