 If you gather knowledge as information you will not receive the understanding. Without learning and collecting of information, understanding easily comes. For direct experience wisdom and understanding are paths not information gathering. When you are trying to tell something from the past with effort you probably talk from collected information, and if you talk effortlessly this is usually wisdom talking. Stop trying to impress someone with your knowledge, wake up them from your understanding and insight.


For recognition “reality” as another high quality dream few deep insights will give you unbreakable sense. It isn’t important to read about this insight it is important to sense them. Understanding will lead you to that.;
, Thoughts and emotions are not you there are happening in your presence and you can be the witness of them. Thoughts come in many different shapes with constant try to influence and you have the possibility to be a witness of this thought influence and not under it. Emotions are based on thoughts and also can be witnessed by you. Emotions can come in any form and you always have the possibility to be aware of them. There are many ideas and concepts consist of thoughts with constant influence but you can be witness in these situations also. You can be aware of all phenomena and you can be free of all influence. You can easily be what you already are. You already have the power to overcome all phenomena and sensation of this world, of this dream.


Overcoming thoughts are usually a few year's process. It is good to understand the suggestive power of thoughts and if you don’t react with thinkers thought this illusive power will disappear. The thought process is possible only if you have thought the reaction to the suggestive initial thought. When you don’t react with attention and thinking thought process is stopped.
For the realization that emotions are believes projection understanding is what you need. When you realize that emotions are not your emotions, and if you don’t think about them, emotions will vanish. When you conquer fear all other emotions will be conquered very soon. The only way is not to react in fear and to continue to work whatever you work. Emotions like thoughts have only suggestive power, and if you don’t give attention on it, they lose power.
 This is just a dream, just a game. When you invest too much in a dream you surely think it is important. In reality it is nothing, nothing important, because all will be soon over. In your childhood days games were for playing only and you don’t take winning or losing too seriously. If you win it is ok, if you lose it is ok too, and when the game is boring you change it. When you bodily and psychologically grow up life become important to you as you think that all is too real. Everything is same, only adult games are different than child games. Everyone who what to play must know the rules, but like when you are a child you can choose a game or make your own.


When you are beyond worldly games you are beyond “dream reality” also. If you give attention to dream he will grow, and when you don’t put your interest and attention in dream he will lose power over you.
Sometimes you think that something is, but this is assumption and in reality nothing is. There is nothing to really worry about, there is nothing important. If you do your best, if you do what you can this is good. Almost all our assumption is false and there is nothing to worry about. Life is very simple, only thought complicate it. When you overcome the thought everything is simple and easy, nothing is too serious.
 Attention is one of very important tools you have and you can master using of this tool. First of all you are not attention; you are only user of attention. You can be witness of attention moving and when you are witnessing all your power come back to you. You need to reclaim your power over attention and also to be a witness of this process. In temporary consciousness you are reclaiming power over attention, and in larger consciousness this is just a witnessed phenomenon.


When you sense attention moving stay in a witnessing position and don’t add your interest to this phenomenon. When you sense any process in consciousness like harmony or disturbance don’t react with attention on them, just let it happen. Put all of your attention in your present state, in your feeling that you exist.
You can sense body, you can sense that you are and stay with it. If your attention is distracted don’t worry about it, there is something deeper in you aware of that phenomena. All distraction is witnessed things, you can only keep your attention on I am feeling. When attention is on your natural sense of being, deep understandings come.
 Put your attention on the present sense of existence. Just feel that you are alive and try to be aware of that state. In beginning stay in this I am feeling for 5-10.minutes and after few days try to do it a few times in a day. Always keep your attention on this natural feeling and whatever you sense not to give it attention. If you for example sense a thought do not think about it just let it pass. If you sense strong emotion don’t give it power with your attention and soon all emotion will pass. Stay only as I am. You can sense consciousness also; you can sense consciousness of other known or unknown people but do not interpret it.


Whatever comes to you can be overpowered, if you stay as I am only and don’t give attention. All phenomena of this and all other worlds can be overpowered by this.
 Whatever you witnessed is not you. Maybe you forget what you are but you can slowly or quickly witness what you are not. When you witness thoughts or thought concepts you are not what is witnessed. When you witness something in the world or all worlds at once you are not a world. In the position of witness world is witnessed, the dream is witnessed.


The power of question can help you after this realization. Ask yourself who am I, Who is a witness or who can witness the witness? Do not rush to accept the answers given by mind, you can be witness of these answers like you witnessed your thoughts. When thought has conquered the world loose power over you the dream is just a dream and dreamer can’t be found.
When you see the “I” thought do not give it any attention and after a while this most potent thought will lose all power over you. Remember dream can exist only with dreamer, but without a dreamer's dream will vanish.
 When you try to wake up from a dream, there are you in this process. There is a doer with goal and when you don’t try to do anything everything easily comes. This is natural process like you wake up from ordinary dream; there is a time of dream and a time to wake up. If don’t take it too seriously and don’t give attention on trying anything, process will spontaneously happen.


Process of wake up will happen and you will not be in it. Awareness and part of awareness will be one. If you disappear and fear appears you, don’t give too much attention on this phenomenon. Act without acting and do without doing, think without thinking and continue without a sense of continuing.

