 If you are considering moving your pet overseas, your first stop is to visit your vet. One of the most important factors of this decision is whether or not your pet is physically healthy enough to make the move. Air travel can be hard on pets, so you should make sure he does not have any underlying health problems.Your vet will want to perform blood tests and vaccinations on your pet. He may also need a microchip.
Ask your vet to help you learn about the medical requirements for moving a pet abroad. He is your best resource for any health related questions.
If your pet is older, he may also need certain tests to determine the health of his heart and blood pressure.;
, Quarantine means that when you arrive in your new country, your pet might be required to stay under medical observation. Quarantine lengths are determined by the health and safety laws of each individual country. When you are planning a move, one of the first things to do is to look into the quarantine requirements of your new home.The countries of the world have been divided into rabies-free countries, rabies-controlled countries, and high-rabies countries.
Whether or not your pet needs to be quarantined depends on what type of country you are moving from and what type of country you are moving to.
For example, if you are moving from a rabies-free country to many other countries, you will be able to enter without quarantine and with minimal paperwork.
There are several websites that you can use to determine the quarantine restrictions in each country. Most governments have websites dedicated to telling you the rules for taking your pet in and out of that country.An organization called the International Pet and Animal Transportation Association (IPATA) offers multiple resources for checking the resources for multiple locations. This organization also provides information about paperwork.
 In addition to quarantine rules, you need to learn about what types of vaccines your pet needs and what paperwork he requires. Each country has different restrictions on domestic animals entering the country. If you are moving to a country in the European Union, you will need an EU Health Certificate.In the EU, you also need records of your pet's rabies vaccination, microchip certificate, and a letter from your vet.
Contact the department of health in whatever country you are moving to. They can tell you precisely what paperwork you will need.
Many people choose to use a pet relocation service. These businesses will look into all of the requirements, and arrange the paperwork and travel logistics for your pet.
 It is important to make sure that your pet can emotionally handle traveling and a big move. If your pet suffers from anxiety, a long flight might harm him psychologically. Most vets discourage the use of sedatives, so it is best to figure out if your pet will naturally be able to stay calm during a flight.Talk to your vet about your pet's emotional health.
You should also think about ways to make the travel bearable for your pet. Look for flights that have the shortest flying times and the least amount of layovers.
 Organizing an overseas move is a challenge. It is important to realize that just like yourself, your pet requires a lot of organization before moving. You cannot just decide on the spur of the moment to move your pet. Typically, moving a pet overseas requires months of planning.Depending on which country you move to, there may be a certain time frame for vaccinations. For example, sometimes your pet may need his vaccinations 3-6 months before arriving in the new country.
Once you have researched the requirements, meet with your vet to discuss a potential timeline.
When you are deciding whether or not to move your pet, take into account that he may not be able to move with you as soon as you are ready.
 Airlines have different policies regarding pet travel. Start contacting airlines to ask about the specific qualifications for traveling with your type of pet. For example, some airlines may allow your cat to be stowed under your seat in a carrier. Others will require him to travel in the cargo area.Ask the airline whether they practice pet-safety policies. These policies include always keeping animals in a climate controlled area, making sure that pets are the first ones off the plane and the last ones on, and a promise to never leave animals sitting on the tarmac.
If you decide to travel with your pet, purchase the travel crate well in advance. Give your pet a chance to get used to being in the carrier.
 When you have decided to move, you need to investigate your new home from your pet's perspective. Research local vets and contact one of them to ask about his practice. Also, consider what type of home you will have. Does it have enough room for your pet to be comfortable?If you have a dog, consider whether your new home is dog friendly. Will you have a yard? Or is there a dog park nearby where your dog can play?
Ask your current vet to help you find a new vet.
 Giving up a pet can be emotionally difficult. After all, pets are part of your family. Spend some time thinking carefully about how you will feel if you leave your pet behind. Will guilt be a factor? Could it lead to sadness or depression?You should also spend time thinking about what is best for your pet. If you move him and he doesn't handle the move well, that can be emotionally draining, too.
Ask for advice. If you have friends or family who have had to make this difficult decision, reach out to them and ask if they can offer insight.
 Moving a pet can be very expensive. You will need to pay for extra vet visits, and it can be costly to obtain all of the required tests and vaccines. It is also very pricey to travel with a pet. You will likely need to pay for a separate airline ticket for him.If you use a pet relocation service, that can make the process easier. However, that is an additional expense that you will need to consider.
You should also take into account that you will most likely need to purchase a new travel crate for your pet. Depending on his size, this can be expensive.
 When you are planning an overseas move, you will likely run into several unexpected expenses. Try to make a thorough financial plan. Factor in all of the expenses involved in relocating your pet.If you are in the military, there are many ways that you can save on the cost of moving a pet.
Many airlines will offer you a discounted rate. There are also charitable organizations that can help defray the costs.
 Thinking about the logistics of moving a pet can be very overwhelming. If you think it over and are not sure whether your pet can handle the move, you might want to consider other options. When you are making a big decision like this, it is important to weigh all of your options.First of all, think about the length of your move. Are you only planning to be gone for a year or so? Then maybe it would be best to leave your pet behind.
Consider your vet's advice. If he seems to have reservations about your pet's ability to successfully move overseas, it might be in the best interests of his health to find him a new home.
 The ideal solution would probably be for a friend or family member to take your pet. You would feel better knowing he was in a caring home, and you would likely be able to remain in contact with your pet. Carefully explain your situation, and answer any questions about your pet.Make it clear that you don't need an answer immediately. Give your friend or family member time to consider your request.
If your immediate friends and family cannot help, reach out to your extended social network. Make posts on social media describing your pet and your situation. Ask your friends to post, too.
 There are many types of animal rescue organizations. Some are breed specific, while some help all types of animals. Contact your local shelter and ask if they have re-homing programs.You can also ask your vet's office if they know of anyone who would take your pet. They might know an animal lover looking for a new companion.
The most important thing is to make sure that you are placing your pet in a caring, safe home. Do not ever just release your pet into the wild.

