 These are the two basic categories of insurance available. Term insurance is good for a specific period of time, whereas whole life insurance is good for your entire life if you the pay the premiums. Term insurance is typically inexpensive, and whole life insurance is pricey.  This is because term insurance is pure mortality risk, administrative costs, and commissions while whole life is mortality risk, an investment portion, administration, and commissions. The difference is the investment piece on the latter. This means that whole life insurance policies set aside a portion of the premium you pay each month to be invested and grow in value.

 Term life insurance is basic and inexpensive.  It is good for a specific amount of time.  For example, your term life insurance may cover your for 10, 20 or 30 years. If you die during the term of your insurance, your beneficiaries get your death benefit.  If you die after the term has expired, your beneficiaries get nothing.Whole life policies are also known as cash-value policies.  They are good until you stop paying premiums.  They do not expire after a certain number of years.  Also, they have an investment component attached.  This means that part of the premium is invested by the insurance company and earns interest.  Three types of whole life insurance are whole life, universal life and variable life.Life insurance policies should provide you with enough to provide financial support to your family in the event of your death.  While having a cash value policy that grows over time sounds attractive, this option can be expensive. If you would be struggling to pay the premiums on such a policy, then term insurance might be the best option for you.  

However, if you can afford the premiums and you have maxed out your contributions on your pre-tax retirement accounts, a cash-value life insurance policy might be a good choice for you.  Since the cash value builds up tax free, it provides you with another opportunity to build your retirement nest egg.,  You can choose from two different types of term life insurance.  The first is the annual renewable term.  With this type, you can purchase one year of coverage at a time.  You have the option to renew each year.  The other option is level premium term. This means you lock into a specific multi-year period, such as 10, 20 or 30 years.With annual renewable term insurance, the premium is likely to increase each year.

 With level premium term, you are guaranteed the same premium for the life of the term.
  They are whole life, universal life and variable life.  These policies use different kinds of investment tools to grow cash value. The rate of return, which grows cash value, depends on the risk involved in the investments. Policies with higher-risk investments do not guarantee an amount for the cash value of your policy (though the death benefit is always guaranteed).

 Whole life insurance pays a guaranteed amount to your beneficiaries upon your death.  Part of your premium is invested by the insurance company to grow the cash value of your benefit.  The fund grows tax-deferred each year that you keep the policy.Universal life insurance combines a life insurance policy with a money-market investment.  This type of investment is riskier.  Therefore, policyholders can expect a higher rate of return.With variable life insurance, the insurance policy is tied to a stock or bond mutual fund investment.  The cash value account is invested in several sub-accounts.  The investment grows or shrinks along with the performance of the mutual fund accounts in the market. Beneficiaries enjoy favorable tax treatments.Universal and variable life insurance may offer higher returns than whole life insurance, but they do not offer the guarantee that comes with whole life insurance. There is a risk that the rate of return will not be as high as expected.

These choices differ primarily in their fixed and variable rates of interest depending upon the investment vehicle chosen. In each case, the policyholder pays a premium in excess of the actual mortality risk of the insured.


