 Figure out how your dog is getting out of your yard, sit by a window and watch him while he is outside. Try not to let him see you or he may not reveal his escape route. As you watch, pay attention to where your dog goes and what he does. This should give you clues about his preferred method of escape.Common methods of escape include:


Jumping over the fence.
Climbing the fence.
Digging and going under the fence.
Slipping through a weak spot in the fence.
Undoing the latch on the fence gate.;
, If the fence is too low or there is an object the dog can climb on, he may be able to jump over the fence. In this case, try raising the height of the entire fence. Make sure that you also remove anything that he can use to climb over the fence, such as lawn chairs and tables.
 Some dogs will climb a fence to get out of a yard. If your dog is climbing the fence, then making the fence higher might not solve the problem. You may also need to create and internal overhang to stop your dog from going over when he gets to the top. These overhangs are similar to the ones you see in zoo enclosures., Some dogs will dig away the soft dirt at the bottom of a fence and escape that way.If your dog is digging his way out, then there are several things that you can do to stop him from escaping from the yard. Some thing you can try include:Laying chain link fence over the ground at the base of the fence.
Setting large heavy rocks or bricks along the base of the fence.
Extending the fence downwards with chicken wire that is buried under the ground. If you use this method, make sure to turn under any sharp edges so your dog cannot cut or harm himself as he digs.
 Make sure that the gate is shut and latched before you let your dog out into the yard. Remind all of your household members to do the same. If the latch is weak and your dog can push it open with ease, then consider installing a new latch.


Some dogs know how to undo the latch on a gate and can let themselves out when they please. If your dog is using this method of escape, then you can add a padlock to the gate or put something on the other side of it to prevent her from opening it.
 To ensure that your yard is secure, check it often and look for weaknesses such as rotten wooden slats or gaps in the wire mesh.


Check for loose boards as well by pressing on the fence as you walk the perimeter. If you notice any weaknesses, then repair these right away.

