 It's considered pretty gauche to scrape out the inside, so eat some of the rind, too. Would you pick up a sandwich, take out the meat, and put the bread back down? Didn't think so. If the rind doesn't appeal to you, simply cut it at an angle to maximize the amount of "inside" you get.


You've had the rind before and it tasted nasty, you say? Well, you probably just had bad brie (yep, there is such a thing). A good rind should crumble a little and taste a little bitter, but not be too distracting from the gooey, Brie-y goodness. If you haven't tried it, go for it! It's totally edible.
By slice, we mean like a very, very small pie slice. Not like a slice of bacon.;
, Brie is so good. If you can resist just shoving the entire wheel in your face, it's practically even better when combined with the power of other delicious things. Try it with:


Apples or pears
Fig jam or tart cherry compote or honey
French bread
Almonds or candied walnuts
White crackers

Of course, you can eat it however you like! We'll cover brie in recipes in the third section -- it doesn't just have to be eaten as a finger food.
 Brie goes great with champagne, but also well with certain wines and beers. Wines with more acidity go better with this cheese, while beers with more heartiness about them (like a good stout) will complement the flavor.Soft cheeses like brie tend to pair very well with dry Riesling, Marsanne, or Viognier wines. A lighter red wine (like Pinot Noir) works well too for it's the delicate yet rich flavour that contrasts nicely with the mellowness of brie.
Not looking to drink it with alcohol? No problem. Apple cider and similar juices also go well. The lighter and fresher the better.
 Brie generally only keeps for a couple of weeks.Here's a few things to keep in mind when looking at your wheel:


Underripe brie will be hard to the touch. The outside should be firm, but the inside will be slightly springy.

Note: Brie stops aging when it's sliced. If you already have a slice, it will not ripen any further.Overripe brie will be soft and runny.
Brie can bruise like an apple if mishandled. Brown spots may appear and it could develop an ammonia-like taste.If you already cut into it, it can be refrigerated for a couple of days. Beyond that it should be thrown out. The only way it won't be eaten is if you've forgotten about it!

