 Hard boil the eggs, then allow them to cool to room temperature before removing the shells.Place the eggs in a small saucepan and cover with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of cold water.
Set the saucepan on your stove over medium-high heat. Bring the water to a boil, then immediately remove the saucepan from the heat. Cover it with its lid and let the eggs sit in the hot water for 15 minutes.
Submerge the eggs in ice water for 2 to 5 minutes. Once cool, peel off the shells.
 Use a sharp kitchen knife to dice the hard boiled eggs, crab meat, and onion.


Dice the egg white and yolks together.
If using actual crab meat instead of imitation crab, flake the crab into small chunks.
Note that the onion should be diced into very fine pieces.
 Place all four ingredients in a medium mixing bowl. Gently toss them together with a fork until evenly mixed.


Make sure that the corn is fully drained before adding it to the mixture. If any of the canned juice remains, it could make the resulting crab salad too runny.
 Add these two ingredients to the crab-vegetable mixture, then stir until evenly coated.Consider mixing the mayonnaise and horseradish sauce in a separate bowl before adding it to the crab mixture. Doing so is not strictly necessary, but it may make it easier for you to distribute both ingredients evenly throughout the crab salad.
 Sprinkle the crab salad with salt and pepper, then adjust these seasonings to taste.


The 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) salt and 1/8 tsp (0.6 ml) black pepper listed in the recipe are estimates. You can add more or less as desired, or even omit the salt and pepper completely.
 Add the peas to the rest of the ingredients and gently fold them into the salad.


Adding the peas last can help prevent them from breaking apart as you mix the ingredients.
As with the canned corn, make sure that you completely drain the can of peas before adding them to the crab salad.
 Place the crab salad in your refrigerator for at least 60 minutes. Serve cold.


Store extra crab salad in a sealed glass or plastic container. Refrigerate it for up to three or four days.
