 A good way to stay zeroed on the ball is to watch the tip of the ball all the way from the quarterback's hand to yours, especially as you practice. This increases the eye part of hand eye coordination. Every time you take your eyes off the ball you increase your chances of dropping it or the other team getting it. If you aren't focused on the ball when it hits you in the hands, catching it becomes pure luck.






;
, This makes sure that if the ball isn't thrown directly at your hands, you have more chance of catching it. Extend your arms right before the ball reaches you. Never leave your hands flat.
 You want to cup your hand so there is a slight space between them, so one cupped hand circles the right side of the ball, whilst the other one encompasses the left.









If the ball is below the waist, your palms should still face out, but put your pinkies together. If you are running and the ball is thrown high, similarly try to put your pinkies together.
 Keep your eyes on the ball the whole time. You should feel a slight pressure and you might even let out a small 'oomph' depending on how well your counterpart throws the ball. This is the hand part of hand eye coordination. If you try to run before you've caught the ball, chances are you'll drop it.









If the pass is below the waist, let the ball slide through the inside of your palms about halfway and then clamp down on it.
 After you have clamped down on the ball, tuck it under your arm on the opposite side of any defenders. If you want, you can also clutch the football with both hands right near your belly button if you don't need the other hand to keep your balance or stiff-arm a defender.
 Make sure that you see in your mind catching the pass. Under no circumstances think "I'm not going to catch this football" or "I hope the defender doesn't tackle me." Think positively and visualize a successful catch from start to finish.
, In a game, when success is on the line, you should be trying to catch the ball two-handed every single time. Sometimes, however, you won't be able to — maybe the cornerback's arm will be grabbing yours, or maybe the ball will be overthrown. Whatever the situation, think two hands first, one hand second.
 If you can, take your dominant hand, open your palm completely, and begin to follow the movement of the ball with your hand. With just enough hand-eye-coordination, you can begin to do with just by looking at the ball, not looking at your hand at all.
 Right before the ball flies into your hand, move your hand back slightly. This will cushion the impact. By doing this, you're effectively making the ball travel slower as it hits your hand because your hand is traveling backwards as well.


Think about it: If you don't move your hand back at impact, the ball is going to bounce off your hand like a tennis ball off of a brick wall. If you do move your hand back, the ball will nestle into your hand like a head onto a pillow. Or at least that's the hope!

, Catching the ball only with your palm will make the tucking much harder when you're trying to control the catch. If you catch the ball with both your strong fingers and your palm, it'll be much easier to hold onto the ball as you bring it away from your body towards it.
 Try to use your body as a stabilizer by quickly tucking the ball against it.


Practice makes perfect, especially with one-handed catches. Be sure to practice one-handed catches with a friend by throwing each other the ball. Start off slow and gradually throw the ball faster. It'll be easier to catch slower passes than quicker ones. Once you've mastered the soft-toss, practice with quicker throws. Enjoy!

