 The best way to learn more is to attend wine tastings with friends at local wine shops, bars, or even art galleries. The advantage of going to a wine tasting is that you can try several kinds of wines without committing to buying a bottle you may not enjoy.Some wine tastings have small refreshments for cleansing your palate in between wines as well as buckets for spitting out wine so you don’t accidentally drink the equivalent of a whole bottle.
Don’t take advantage of your host. The goal is to taste new wines, not get drunk.
 Wine tours are popular throughout the world and they’re a great way to learn about the process of making wine and all of the details that go into a simple glass.


Come prepared to walk the grounds of the vineyard and remember to stay hydrated.
Look into the fees and prices. Sometimes if you buy a bottle during the tour, some of the costs may be waived.
Go with a group. It can be more fun and may be cheaper as well.
 Oftentimes a review or the wine bottle label will recommend different cheeses or meats to consume with the wine you’re drinking. Eating and cooking is simply balancing the aspects of fats, acids, salt, and sweet tastes.Wine pairings are a great excuse to make a meal centered around a certain red wine and steak and inviting your friends over to try it.Some wines are best paired with foods from the same region. For example, a wine from Northern Italy may pair best with a goat cheese from a farm in the upper regions of Italy.
Pairings are helpful because you may not like wine for its acidity, but if you know that eating a sweet fruit with it helps to balance the flavors, you may enjoy it more.
 You don’t have to learn all of the lingo that wine experts use, but pay attention to how they talk about a wine’s aromas and tastes. Just by listening you might gain a deeper appreciation for a certain variety or grape or production method.


Your friends and family are also good gauges. If you share similar tastes, ask them for a recommendation and why they prefer a particular type.
At the very least, learn to pronounce the names of the various types of wines.
 Wine is appropriate for all sorts of events and places and different wines suit different settings and even seasons of the year. You may find that you prefer to drink wine instead of a beer at sporting events or enjoy wine with dessert only.


A sparkly or sweet wine may be best for a celebration and a dark red might better suit an evening at home with a good book.
Some people agree that chilled wines are best for warm summer days and warm, mulled wines are best for long nights in the winter.
 Your taste buds change all the time and you may find that a wine you couldn’t stand before is now your favorite. There are so many different options for wine that you almost can’t exhaust your options. So be patient and keep exploring.

