 In most urban and suburban areas, unused and uncared-for spaces abound. You can find them along sidewalks, on the sides of overpasses or freeway on-ramps, between buildings, on road medians and more. Plant near a water source if lack of water is a problem. You don't need a lot of land.


Can't find a planting site? Make one. Attaching containers to posts and railings can add a lush or colorful touch to an otherwise lifeless spot.;
, It will almost certainly need some preparation before getting started. Will you need to remove weeds, trash or other forms of waste? Is the soil rocky, clay-like or more earthy?

, This is a critical step; your choice of plants has a huge effect on the likelihood of success or failure of your garden. Here are few suggestions:


Select hardy plants that can thrive with intermittent care. You probably won't be able to easily water, weed and fertilize your garden in the same way that you could if you were gardening around your home. Choose plants that can withstand variations in watering and other care schedules. Xeriscaping goes hand-in-hand with guerrilla gardening.
Choose plants that naturally grow in your area. Native plants are an ecologically sound choice, in that they won't tend to overcrowd other parts of the habitat. They will also be well-suited to the amount of sun and rain, temperature swings and other climatic factors.
Be aware of conditions the plot of land that you will be growing on. For example, is it heavily shaded or does it get a lot of morning or afternoon sun? Be sure to choose plants that are a good for your light, moisture and soil conditions.
Choose inexpensive plants. Save the pricey plants for gardens in protected areas. A Guerrilla garden is subject to vandals, animals and more. Choose plants that you can easily afford to replace.
Select impactful plants, ones that will be green and bright and will make a difference for as much of the year as possible. Also consider plants that create habitats for butterflies, birds, and other native species.
 Determine when you will work, who will assist you, and what you need (plants, tools, water, fertilizer, etc.). Arrange a concrete day and time to do the work.
 Some of the things you will need:


Plants - Acquire a sufficient number of the plants you have chosen to cover your plot. You can buy plants from stores, or for a less expensive but more time-consuming alternative, start seeds at home. Transfer them to the garden site when they are well-established so that they have a better chance of survival.
Tools - Make sure you have the tools you need for the job: rakes, hoes, shovels, gloves, wheelbarrows, etc.
Water - Bring in some water to help your plants get started. Unused gasoline/petrol containers seal tightly, pack well and are easily transported.Fertilizer - You may want to add some fertilizer when planting your garden; be sure not to use any chemicals you would not want to get in the local water system.
Trash bags - You will probably need to remove trash and weeds and other waste from the site.
Transportation - Unless your garden is very close to your home, you need to be sure you have a vehicle or other means of getting everything to and from the site.
Signs - Letting people know what is planted there may make them more conscious of the site and less likely to trample on it (or allow their dogs to use it as a bathroom).



Clear the land of weeds, trash and other undesirable things.

Prepare the soil for planting. Dig/aerate as needed.
Plant/water your plants.
Clean the area thoroughly before leaving. Don't leave trash, weeds or anything that reflects poorly upon you or other guerrilla gardeners.
 Planting the garden is only one small part of the job. It is your responsibility to water, weed and otherwise maintain your garden (though there is nothing wrong with encouraging others to help).
 Feel free to leave small signs or plaques in your garden encouraging others in the community to water and help care for it.