 There are many browsers available, so how do you find the best one? Basically, it comes down to the varying features your phone browser can offer and how they will make your life easier. Let's look at an example of the Dolphin browser, which is free, to give you an idea of the features you can expect from a browser.;
, Dolphin is one of the most respected mobile browsers, because it has such a respected and trusted developer. The mobile web browser comes packed with all sorts of features designed to make your life easier and more fun. It is basically like having a little electronic friend, who gets to know you, anticipates your needs and learns from your behavior. It all sounds a bit high-tech, but that is basically what the Dolphin browser has to offer you. It is available for Android, iPhone and iPad, and it will really make your browsing experience a more pleasurable one.
 One of the greatest things about a mobile browser is that you can actually speak to it. Through Dolphin Sonar, you just tell your mobile exactly what you want to find and it will search for you. No more messing about with the tiny keyboards in other words. Through voice commands, this phone browser is able to search, navigate and share for you. It also offers gesture commands, meaning that it recognizes certain movements for certain commands. Drawing a heart, for example, could open a dating website.
 Dolphin is also one of the best mobile browsers around because it offers so many add-ons. With over 50 to choose from, you just know that you will find the right add-on for your use, making the browsing experience even better and more pleasurable. It also offers multi-touch zoom, meaning you can zoom in and out on your favorite pictures by just pinching or sliding on the image.
 Dolphin offers even more than that, making it so much more than just a mobile web browser. It allows tabbed browsing as well, which is very user friendly. It has a useful sidebar that allows you to access all of your favorite features easily and quickly. It has speed dial, a smart address bar and a bookmarks folder. Last but not least, the User Agent makes it possible to jump between web and mobile viewing of webpages.

