 Preheat a charcoal, gas, or electric grill for medium heat.

To preheat a charcoal grill, arrange an even layer of coals in the bottom fo the grill, coat them with lighter fluid, and light them with fire. Allow the coals to turn white and ashy, then cover the grill with its lid for about 10 minutes.
To preheat a gas or electric grill, turn the heat up as high as it will go and close the lid. Watch the temperature gauge closely. Once the temperature reaches the mid-range, open the grill and turn the temperature dial down to a medium setting.
 Cut off 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) from the woody stem end of each white asparagus spear, then use a vegetable peeler to remove the tough skin from the entire length of the spear.

When peeling the asparagus, hold the spear flat against your work surface and peel from top to bottom, starting roughly 1-1/2 inches (3.75 cm) from the tip. Do not peel the asparagus upright since doing so may cause more delicate spears to break.
 Tear off four lengths of aluminum foil, making each one about 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 cm) long.

Consider using parchment-lined foil, when available, to avoid directly exposing the asparagus to the aluminum.
When using standard aluminum foil, some mild discoloration may occur. The taste and quality of the white asparagus should remain good, however.
 Evenly divide the asparagus among the four sheets of foil. Drizzle each portion with a little olive oil and a little balsamic vinegar.

Use a fork to carefully toss the asparagus spears in the oil and vinegar to coat them evenly.
When finished, rearrange the spears so that they form an even, single layer on the foil.
 Wrap up the sides of each foil rectangle around the asparagus, forming packets.

Fold the lengthwise ends over the asparagus first, then bring together the width ends. Fold the width ends together, overlapping them two or three times, to prevent the packet from coming undone.
 Place the foil packets on your preheated stove and grill them for 5 to 10 minutes.

When using thin to moderate sized asparagus, 5 minutes should be enough. For thicker spears, however, you may need to cook the asparagus for the full 10 minutes.
 Remove the packets from the grill using tongs. Allow the asparagus to rest for a minute or so, then carefully open the packets and serve the finished white asparagus while it's still warm.

Ideally, the asparagus should be tender enough to pierce with a fork. If it's still too tough, consider returning the opened packets to the grill for another 1 or 2 minutes.

