 According to traditional Chinese medicine, the common cold can fall under several designations, but the most common type experienced is the wind cold. The goal of treatment for wind cold is to shorten the duration of the disease and to provide immediate relief from the symptoms.


Some signs of a cold caused by wind cold are: cold intolerance, mild fever, absence of sweat, chest tightness or congestion, and runny nose with clear mucus.;
, Ginger tea is thought to help expel the ‘evil’, or pathogens that cause cold. The ginger is also said to promote a healthy appetite which is needed for speedy recovery.


Prepare ginger tea by shredding about 15 grams of fresh ginger.
Put the ginger in a pot of 200 milliliters of boiling water, and then add brown sugar to taste.
This tea should be served warm twice a day.
After taking the ginger tea, you should go to bed and make it a point to cover your body in warm blankets to ensure perspiration.
 Expellin extract is thought to rid the body of wind cold. It also serves to relieve headaches caused by the invasion of exogenous wind, the type of headache that is experienced during rhinitis and sinusitis. This remedy is usually used to treat the early stages of common cold caused by wind cold.


This extract contains Japanese honeysuckle, burdock, forsythia, isatis, and lophantherum.
These ingredients are thought to expel heat and clear toxins.
 Ginseng and menthol extract is used to expel or eradicate pathogens coming from the wind. This can also help alleviate the stress of cold and damp conditions due to the imbalance of qi.
 Blue dragon extract is used to repel harmful fluid from an external cold. It is used to treat fever and the chills through sweating, which can help expel diffused phlegm. The use of this concoction can expel or eradicate exogenous pathogen patterns by allowing the body to release cold through sweating.
 Treatment of this type is centered on the release of the pathogen through sweating, so other sweat-inducing herbs can be beneficial. Chinese medicine experts recommend cinnamon decoction, and cnidium and tea formula, as well as the minor blue dragon decoction to treat colds caused by wind cold.


It can also help to consume foods rich in onion, garlic, ginger and coriander, all of which can better expel the pathogen causing your cold.

