 Who currently reads the newsletter? Are there other people who should be reading it? A newsletter intended for all employees, but currently read only by management needs a new format and content. Newsletters already reaching their target audience may only need some minor adjustments.;
, Every newsletter has a purpose, although sometimes it's been forgotten over the years. Is the newsletter to share news of the organization's activities? Promote company morale and loyalty? Inspire volunteer activity? Solicit funds or donations?

, Does the current layout encourage recipients to read it? Are the font styles and sizes easy to read? Are the headings and illustrations attractive? If there is an index, is it easy to use? If there is no index, would it help to add one?

, Is this something you would choose to read? Is it informative? Inspiring? Are the contents newsworthy or are they reiterations of things everyone knows already? Even if you write the newsletter, try to take an objective look at the contents.
 Once you've identified the purpose, audience and possible weaknesses, think about how you can best correct the problems and convey the information you need to share. Consider the some changes, including:


Fresh voices Get more members of the organization involved in writing elements of the newsletter. New writers bring a new style and outlook to what may have become a one or two person project, and can inject a fresh perspective to the issues presented.






First person accounts Whether it's the story of a family helped by the organization, or an employee's experience in the company, first person accounts break up the dry tone common to so many newsletters.






Stories from related or auxiliary organizations Many companies and non-profits work with partners in the community or in another location. Include information and stories about those organizations to place your company in a larger perspective, and let employees/members see where you fit within the industry.






Humorous stories When presented in good taste, humorous stories from within the company can make newsletters more enjoyable to read. Be sure to avoid sexual or ethnic stories, or anything that mocks a specific member or employee.






Improve visual appeal Make the newsletter attractive to look at at. Clear, readable, modern fonts, appropriate photos and illustrations, and an easy-to-follow layout all make newsletters more attractive to readers.






Include a calendar If your organizations has events on a variety of dates, include a calendar within the newsletter. It's often hard to keep track of up-coming events if readers have to find the stories in the newsletter. A calendar readers can post above a desk or on the fridge can keep people on track and events well attended.






Contests and challenges Including trivia challenges, photo contests or story requests in your newsletter gets readers actively involved in the newsletter. Whether you offer prizes, or simply print the winner's names or winning submissions, people will check back to see the results.






Consider an e-mail version Many people post their events to a Google or Yahoo calendar. An e-mail version of the newsletter allows them to add those dates and other information directly to their computer calendars.






Include related news articles If a current news story relates to your company or organization, share it with your readers. Be sure to include the proper credit for the source of the story.






Ask for reader input The people who read your newsletter are your best source for information about what they like and do not like. Ask them for suggestions and ideas. Find out what they find useful and what they find annoying.







