 This shaving cream is made from natural oils that blend to create a smooth, nourishing shaving cream. Your razor will glide easily across your skin if you use this rich formula. You'll need the following ingredients:2/3 cup shea or cocoa butter
2/3 cup coconut oil
1/2 cup olive oil
10 drops essential oil of your choice
2 tablespoons baking soda
Jar with a lid;
, Both shea butter and coconut oil are solid at room temperature, so it's necessary to melt them in order to blend them properly. Measure out 2/3 cup shea butter and 2/3 cup coconut oil. Place the ingredients in a small saucepan. Melt them over low heat, stirring occasionally until they liquify, then remove the pan from heat.


If you're using coconut butter in place of shea butter, melt it with the coconut oil.
Don't let the ingredients come to a boil; use just enough heat to help them liquify. Boiling the oils will change their texture.
 Use a spoon or whisk to incorporate the olive oil with the melted shea butter and coconut oil.
 Certain essential oils are good for the skin in addition to having fresh scent. Customize your shaving cream to create the perfect scent for you. You can combine essential oils to give the cream even more depth. For strongly scented essential oil, use up to 20 drops.


Lavender, rose, grapefruit, fir, ginger, vetiver, and peppermint essential oils all make wonderful additions to shaving cream.
If you're sensitive to strong smells, add just five drops of oil or leave it out altogether.
 Pour it into a mixing bowl and cover it with plastic wrap. Place the bowl in the refrigerator for an hour or two, until the mixture is thoroughly chilled. The oils will slightly solidify, and the mixture should look pale yellow and waxy at this stage.
 Remove the bowl from the refrigerator, take off the plastic wrap and pour in two tablespoons of baking soda. Using an electric mixer or a hand whisk, beat the mixture until it becomes light, fluffy and creamy.
 A glass mason jar makes a great container for homemade shaving cream. You can use any container you'd like, as long as it has a lid. When you're ready to use it, just slather on a scoop of shaving cream wherever you need it.


Store leftover cream in a dark cabinet out of direct sunlight and heat.
Homemade shaving cream will keep for a month or two. If you want to preserve it for longer, try mixing in the contents of one vitamin E capsule; this acts as a natural preservative.

