 Locate Google Calendar on your homescreen and app drawer. Tap to launch.


If you don’t have Google Calendar on your device, you can download it from Google Play.
 By default the view upon opening the app is the Schedule view. It will lists all your schedules on the screen. Swiping down will scroll the list to events in the past days. Swipe up to view upcoming events.


If you want to change the event view, tap the three-dot icon at the top right, and select from “Schedule” (current view), “Day,” “3 Day,” and “Week.”

, Tap the month at the top to view the calendar of that particular month. Swipe left or right to change the month, and tap on the day to view events for that particular day.
 If there’s nothing planned for that day, a “Nothing planned. Tap to create” message will appear at the top. Tap this to begin creating an event.


If an event is already listed, tap the plus (+) icon in the red circle at the bottom right.
 In the New Event window, tap the first field at the top. The on-screen keyboard will pop up. Enter the event’s name and tap “Done” on the keyboard.
 If the event is an all-day occasion, tap the toggle button next to “All-day” to turn the option from OFF to ON.


If the event is only for a certain period of time, tap the times below the toggle switch to set the starting and ending time. Tap “Done” to set the time.
If the event is more than one day, you can tap the dates below “All-day” to set the starting and ending dates of the event. Tap “Done” to set the dates.
 If the event is a recurring one, for example a birthday, you can tap “More” to extend the menu, and then tap “Does not repeat” to open a pop-up list. Here you can select from “Every day,” “Every week,” “Every month,” and “Every year.”

, To be reminded of the event, tap “30 minutes before” next to the bell icon. You can opt to set the alarm to “At the time of event,” “30 minutes before” (default), or “Custom,” where you can set your own specific time for the alarm to go off.


If you don’t want to be notified, select “No notification” at the top of the list.
 To add an event description or to add other reminders, tap “Add note.” The on-screen keyboard will appear. Just enter your note into the text field.
 Once you’re done setting the details for the event, tap “Save” at the top right corner of the screen. You will be taken back to the main screen listing your schedules. The newly saved event will be at the top.
 If ever you need to remove an event from your schedule, go to the date where the event is saved and tap the event from the events list.


Tap the pencil icon near the event name and tap “Delete” at the bottom.
Confirm your decision by tapping “OK.”

, For a quick look on the event you have scheduled for the week, add the Google Calendar widget to your home screen. With this, you won’t have to open the app anymore; you can view the week’s events at a glance.


Go to your home screen, and long-press a blank area to open the “Add to home screen” menu.
Select “Widgets” and then “Google Calendar.” The widget (2x3 in size) will be placed on the home screen.
You can adjust the size by long-pressing the widget until a white border appears around the widget. Drag the border to the size you want. To relocate the widget, tap and hold it, and drag it to another location.
Tapping on an event on the widget will open the app directly to the details of that event.

