 Use scissors to cut the miniature tree skirt cleanly in half.


You'll only need one half the the skirt. You can discard the remaining half or use it for another project.
 Use hot glue to attach one tree skirt half to the bottom of the sweater. The straight (cut) edge should face and the rounded edge should hang toward the bottom.


If the cut edge of the skirt looks like it might fray, fold it under and hide it beneath the body of the skirt. Hold the fold in place with glue.
The bottom of the skirt should hang to the very bottom of the sweater, if not a little beyond it.
 Glue one end of the garland to the top of the tree skirt, 2 inches (5 cm) in from the side. Lay the garland straight across until you're within 2 inches (5 cm) from the opposite side.


The bottom layer of garland needs to overlap the top edge of the tree skirt. You'll use the garland to create the “tree,” and this bottom layer should look like the bottom of the tree sitting on top of its tree skirt.
 Zigzag the garland up the sweater, creating horizontally stacked layers. Make each layer slightly shorter in length than the one below it, creating the basic shape of a Christmas tree.


You may need to make some adjustments to the positioning of your garland, so don't start gluing it immediately. Wait until after you've arranged it over the front of the sweater. Then, once you are satisfied with the height and width of the tree, use hot glue to secure the placement of the garland.
 Wind the strand of miniature lights into the garland, spacing the lights apart as evenly as possible. Safety pin the strand to the sweater in 2-inch to 4-inch (5-cm to 10-cm) intervals to hold the lights in place.


Try to hide the wire in between the garland and the sweater so that only the lights themselves are visible.
Make sure that the battery pack hangs down at bottom of the sweater. Ideally, you should be able to hide this pack in your pants pocket when you wear the sweater.
 Arrange the ornaments over the garland tree as desired. Hold each one in place using a dab of hot glue.


Try to space the ornaments apart as though you were decorating an actual Christmas tree.
You may need to turn the lights on while arranging the ornaments to avoid accidentally crowding them out.
 Use scissors to cut a basic star shape out of yellow craft felt.


You may need to trace the shape of the star onto the felt using pencil before cutting it out. If so, make sure that the pencil-marked side faces down when you attach the star.
 Attach the felt star to the top point of the tree with a small amount of hot glue.


Alternatively, you can skip the felt star and pin a star-shaped brooch above the top of the tree, instead. Gluing a star-shaped plastic ornament to the top of the tree would also work.
 At this point, the sweater should be complete and ready to show off at your next "Ugly Christmas Sweater" themed party.

