 You may stop paying as much attention to your appearance as when you were younger. Making sure that you look as nice as you can is an important part of being approachable at any age.You don't have to look like a movie star, but now that you are dating again, you should be mindful of your appearance.


Dress appropriately. While you don’t want to dress like a teenager, you also don’t want to wear clothes that are dated or unfashionable. Wear clothes that flatter your body and that make you feel good about yourself.Have good hygiene. You don’t necessarily need to have all of your original teeth or a full head of hair to look great, but you do have to take care of your hygiene. Freshen your breath, get a haircut, keep your nails neat, etc.
Try to spice it up a little. You don’t need to buy a new wardrobe; just try adding a little something extra to your everyday look.Brush your hair a different way, splash on at little fragrance, or add a hat to your outfit.;
, Regardless of age, both men and women like confidence when meeting someone new. Feeling good about yourself will also make you more comfortable and more approachable. So remind yourself that no matter what age you are, you have many great characteristics that would make someone want to date you.


Give yourself a little mental pep talk and remind yourself of all your great qualities. For example, tell yourself, “I’m mature, witty, intelligent, and I can still hit a homerun.”
Take a deep breath, hold your head up, put your shoulders back, and smile. Physically appearing confident can make you feel more confident.
It’s okay to take the time you need to build up your confidence, then start finding people to date when you feel more comfortable.
 If you don’t have a good attitude about dating, then you may feel rejected and give up too soon. If you don’t think positively about life, your negative attitude might run potential dates away.Keep in mind that, although dating after 50 is different from when you were younger, you still have to take rejections with a grain a salt and believe that your next date is coming.
Think about all the good things in your life and enjoy the small things that make you smile (like a great cup of coffee or your garden in bloom).
Remember the positive things about dating, even if you don't make a love connection, like meeting new people, experiencing new things, and the funny dating stories you can tell your friends.
 You won’t have success in getting a date if you seem surly, grouchy or just generally don’t seem nice.It will be much easier for potential dates to approach you if you seem friendly. People will also be more receptive to you asking them out if you seem like a friendly, amiable person.


You don’t have to go out of your way to greet every single person that crosses your path.
Try keeping a pleasant look on your face with a slight smile.
Smile and speak to people when they greet you. You can even initiate a spontaneous, “How are you?”
If you’ve been on your own in a while, your social skills might seem a bit rusty. Practice in the mirror first, even if it feels a bit strange, and this can help you feel better about acting friendly.
If you don’t feel like acting friendly, you could have a larger issue other than developing social skills. If you’re finding that you’re truly having difficulty with the concept of dating, but you really want to try, finding a therapist to work out your feelings can be really helpful. Your therapist can also help you develop a plan, and also develop skills for situations like trust, commitment, and developing healthy relationships.

