 Weather you like to read or not, Magazines and/or newspapers are the perfect way to keep up on all the TV Shows, but make sure it contains information about TV programmes, your best bet would be to get a Magazine that focuses on TV only that way you will get all the information easier.


If it is Soap Operas you are interested in, perhaps you missed a week or was on Holiday, Magazines will cover all the big Soap Operas wherever you are, an example of two big Soap Operas in the UK are Coronation Street and EastEnders, Magazines usually get information about upcoming story lines etc. So that can keep you updated on what's going on.
Check what channel the TV Show you want to watch is on. Most channels, the main ones such as ITV and BBC (In the UK) have catch-up services, these are named ITV Player and BBC iPlayer respectively. These are a fantastic way to catch-up on what you might have missed.;
, The internet is the perfect way to get Updates on TV Shows and to be kept updated. There is many websites which can offer this to you.


YouTube. Many channels on YouTube will do reviews and keep people updated on upcoming shows, movies and games. This can be a great way to see what new shows are coming out that you might potentially be interested in.
TV Show Websites. You could check the actual TV Show website. Most TV Shows should have a unique website that will keep the viewers updated on what is happening and will provide Backstage stuff and Teasers for future episodes.
Check the TV Guide. If you search TV Guide in your web browser there is various websites that offer a Schedule of when the TV Shows will air etc. It would be suggested that you write down possibly when the shows are on so you don't forget.
 Some news programmes, especially Early morning programmes such as Daybreak and Breakfast in the UK. Will possibly offer small segments dedicated to TV and will cover the 'main' shows that are happening recently. Perhaps they will coverage the show you want updates on.

