 Consider how you would respond, if someone were attempting to persuade you to reject your salvation in Christ. It's not just difficult to "high pressure sale" anyone about new understandings, especially faith-based ones, probably useless. If a friend is casually interested in talking with you on matters of faith in God and religion, then do it gradually, taking occasions for mutually convenient opportunities to discuss your firm faith and their inquiries in a personable way. Never lecture your views to an unwilling participant, or you'll give your friend the impression that you are rude and your technique is unacceptable. This is avoidable.


Many atheists may not consider their personal disbelief system to be a negotiable part of who they are. They are more concerned with their behavior, with being a reasonable person, than what "faith" or system of belief that action stems from.
Always speak from a place of good news and love, not judging. Rather than trying to convert someone to your religious beliefs by winning an argument, Christians believe it's more important to show friendship unconditionally. It's that simple kind of personal, loving regard that can appeal to others. We may think of "souls", but they want to admire and be admired/loved like friends and nice family.
Realize that a large percentage of atheists used to believe in God, but was hurt somehow in their faith (at church, by another religious person, church goer, such as a Christian, etc.) and have converted to atheism. This is not true for another large percentage of atheists, of course.;
, The middle of a debate or argument probably isn't a time to have gracious persuasion in matters of Christian faith. Likewise, the workplace, the busy dinner table, or large group is not the right place to discuss your good news or offer of a different life with a nonbeliever. If the topic comes up, set aside another time to discuss some important matters ("oh, interesting stuff, a sort of discussion over coffee or such, about what you and I think about today's issues... ways of seeing success and progress in whatever we do... No. Not selling. Not buying or investing money, no. Let's have a talk and some good discussion, okay? No, not a debate.") in depth and in semi-private (over a home kitchen table, at a sit-down sandwich deli, in a park or coffee shop, or such).


Never blind-side a nonbeliever friend with your views and attempt to override their disclaimers (don't ignore protestations: "I wasn't ready for this..., not now; hey, what's the idea?"). If it comes up, it comes up. But, don't rush into an inconvenient conversation, or it'll come across as confrontational and unfriendly (a trap).
 Any time you're discussing matters of faith, it's important to have a genuine conversation, not just a list of sins or accusations, argument, or a too preachy/shock-jock approach. If you hope to convince anyone of your point of view, you have to first be ready to calmly take a genuine interest in that person's hopes and point of view about God and Jesus Christ. If you find yourself pushing to talk much more than patiently listening, this is probably not the genuine concern for the person's conversion or not acceptable as friendly concern; so why bother. This can't be a lobbing of rhetorical thought-bombs into enemy territory. This is a conversation with someone you care about enough to discuss your reason for believing.


Be open and honest at all times. You could end up doing irreparable damage to your friendship, if you let intense emotions simmer underneath the surface to direct the conversation. It should always be civil, positive and cordial. Never cut the friend off, accuse him or her of lying, being prejudiced or saying malicious things to make a point. An idea can be edgy, if it's dispassionate and worth talking about. Discriminating tastes in food and in life's issues, for some good stuff, means you have an angle (a stand), a point of view.
 The best way to get someone interested in Christianity is to present faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God in your personal, fulfilling life, following Jesus. Show the Christian life as fulfilling, exciting, attractive to others and they'll be more interested, curious to learn more about the way you live your life as a Christian.


You're not just arguing facts. You're discussing faith based on the truth about God's son. That's the best you can do. The way to do this isn't by trying to badger or prod someone to convert, or by engaging them in a "tic-for-tat" of competitive debate about the virtues of Jesus (but you need to be ready to answer how your faith in Him is not about arguing the "fallacies" or bad/good points of the world's religions or various past or present civilizations and their deities). It is vital daily life in Christ.
 Explain how your faith in Christ has helped you to live a better life and discuss what Jesus Christ means to you. It may also be useful to tell your friend about people you've met at church and the community that you've built there. Keep the conversation focused on the tools that following God's son gives you.Why do you feel you're better off for being a Christian, in getting through your day-to-day life? In general, it's best to avoid discussing the concept of eternal punishment for non-Christians with an atheist, which will turn into a debate. If someone feels like you're trying to "save" them, it can seem condescending and frustrating for your friend.
 When you have a discussion, it is best to speak the same language. This means that you will have to back up and use secular reasoning and vocabulary to establish your theological ideas. It might be helpful to discuss Christianity in terms of morality, practical tools for living, and other more secular

, A discussion between a believer and a non-believer doesn't need to be a debate about science, or creationism, or an intricate dissection of the creation of the world as discussed in Genesis. Discuss faith in terms of your church, writings of Early church and personal experience of it. What does it mean to you, to be a Christian? That's got nothing to do with dinosaur bones and the age of the earth. Avoid these subjects.


Many Christians have very different relationships with the Bible, and you may be quite knowledgeable about Bible study and the history of the document. Conversely, many Christians emphasize a personal relationship with Christ as the fundamental aspect of their being blessed in Christ.
An atheist may want to hear definitive evidence, not a discussion of your life in Christ, but a discussion of Christianity isn't a debate between "science", "intelligent design" and "creationism." Treating this like a debate of science will get you nowhere with a nonbeliever. All you can do is represent Jesus Christ as the one you follow.
 Has your friend always been a nonbeliever? Has something happened to cause this person pain in life, or feel that religious leaders are hypocritical? Or does your friend simply choose to base a belief system on scientific empirical evidence? Whatever the reason is, you need to get to the core of your friend's beliefs and try to understand them.


Do not assume to know the answer to this question. Not all atheists are "angry" at God, or are lapsed believers, or are depressed about their lack of belief. Listen when you ask questions and try to understand their key disbelief.
 Your friend may be curious about your beliefs, especially if they weren't raised as a Christian. And if this person feels comfortable with you, this will lead to questioning and challenging you. The less defensive you are, the more reasonable you seem. Be comfortable in your faith in God and remain calm. If you're having fun, the other person will, too.


If your friend constantly wants to discuss Biblical fallacies, or "Can God make a mountain God can't move?" types of questions, don't engage in debate. All you need to say is "That's not possible to know, and I'm comfortable with that. It doesn't make me any less of a believer."

, If you're going to talk a big game about how great your life as a Christian is, you've got to prove it with your actions. Demonstrate love with your own life.The Bible tells us not to try and entice people with words but to demonstrate the Spirit and power. If they are sick or have pain offer to pray for them and they can be miraculously healed Some atheists are atheists because of their often-justified perception that Christians are hypocritical. But you know they're not all that way. Prove it.
 The best way to introduce atheists to your religion is by treating it like you would any social function. Emphasize the fellowship and the camaraderie, and invite them to a non-service function, like a dinner or a cookout.


If you invite an atheist to a religious function, tell them that it is a religious function. Don't try to trick someone into attending by pretending that it is not. Do this every so often and introduce your friend to other people who attend your church. Make him or her comfortable with the individuals who make up the church and religion.
 See if this person develops any interest in attending your place of worship. You may extend an invitation to attend church with you, but it would be best if your friend comes along due to their own curiosity, feeling comfortable and in control. Don't push too hard. The more your friend has to come to you, the more invested they'll be in the result.
 Show the practicality of Christianity through your own successes and friendships with Christians. If your friend truly sees that being a part of a church is like gaining dozens of new family members who demonstrate love and admiration toward others, then your friend will know where to turn in hard times..


Know when to call it quits. When talking about deeply-held beliefs, people can often get emotional or even angry. If possible, try to talk to them when they seem fairly open and when you are both in a good mood. Some atheists prefer written debates over oral ones. Try that if one or both of you always become overemotional., Ending a contentious conversation by saying "I will pray for you" can be seen as rude. Christians believe that it is up to God, ultimately, to convince people to follow. Don't use public prayer as a pious demonstration. If God is going to answer your prayer and convert the atheist, then he would do so whether the atheist hears it or not.

