 Change can be good, like getting married, having a child, or getting a promotion at work. It can also be not so good; just ask anyone who has lost a job or is in the middle of a divorce proceeding. Keep in mind that change of any kind can be stressful as you get adjusted to your new life experience.Take a minute to think about and jot down all of the changes that you may have experienced in the last six months that may be causing stress.
 When the way that you are living your life contradicts with what you believe and value, this can cause you to experience a significant amount of stress.For example, if you highly value ambition and competitiveness but feel stuck in a boring dead-end job, you will likely experience stress because your values aren't lined up with your life right now. When your beliefs and value systems are mismatched to your actual life experience, stress and unhappiness can occur.Here are some questions to ask yourself to determine if any mismatch is contributing to your stress levels: .What values do you find very important? Kindness? Honesty? Success? Family time?
Does your behavior conflict with these values? For instance, let’s say that you value family time. Do you find yourself spending enough time with your family or are you prevented from doing so by other things?
Do your job, relationships, friendships, or other areas of your life conflict with these values? For instance, let’s consider the same example above. Is your job preventing you from spending time with your family?

, Where you live, work, and spend most of your time can be a significant factor regarding your stress level. If you are surrounded by crime, overcrowding, noise, pollution, litter, or other unpleasant elements in your surroundings, then it can result in increased stress levels.Consider how much your environment is contributing to your stress.
 Personal problems and social factors can have a huge influence on your level of stress. Here are some dynamics to consider when you are trying to evaluate how these aspects are affecting your level of stress:


Finances: Do you have enough money to cover your basic needs such as housing, food, clothing, and transportation?
Family: Are their issues with your spouse or children or are you a caregiver to an elderly family member?
Health: How is your health and the health of your loved ones?

, Lack of sleep affects many areas of your life, which of course can increase your stress levels.Log how many hours you are sleeping each night. Although the amount of sleep that is needed varies per person, if you are an adult getting less than 6-8 hours of sleep per night, then other areas of your life are likely being impacted. As a result, your stress levels may be higher than they would otherwise be. Here are some of the areas that lack of sleep may impact:Thinking and learning slows down
Accidents increase
Health challenges, including elevated risk of diabetes and increased risk of death
Increased depression and forgetfulness
Lower libido
Premature aging and weight gain
Impaired judgment

, Make a list of things that you can do to improve your overall life experience. After all, the goal of a self-analysis is to do use reflection to promote growth.

