 Never bully or intimidate someone over their sexual orientation or beliefs. If you make harsh statements or ridicule people, those considering and those in favor of the redefinition of marriage may not listen to your defense of traditional marriage.;
, Do you actually support traditional marriage, or do you just say you do? There is a difference. If you don't firmly support traditional marriage, you would be hypocritical to defend it. But, if you do firmly believe in it, ask yourself, "Why?" Your own reasons why you support traditional marriage can be your strongest argument.
 Don't interrupt them. If you don't listen to them, they have no reason to listen to you.
 If you are mumbling, the other person won't be able to understand you. Your arguments can be based on:



Your personal beliefs - Ask yourself why you support traditional marriage. Then, simply restate the answer you tell yourself in your head to the other person. After the initial statement, go into why you have come to that conclusion.

Your knowledge - Use your brain. Back up arguments with hard evidence when possible. This will be hard to do though, since the even the most well-established facts themselves are so often disputed and even changed.

If you are talking to a non-Christian, quoting the Bible or religious figures is unlikely to work. You can mention the Bible, but don't go reading long passages to them unless they express an interest.
If you do read from the Bible, steer clear of Romans 1:18-32. If you don't know this passage, it is one of the most famous passages condemning homosexual acts, and lots of people are offended by it because it says that anyone who commits homosexual acts must also be arrogant, heartless, and other extremely negative traits. If you start quoting this, people are likely to call you homophobic and stop listening to you, so use this passage only with great caution, if at all.



The purpose of marriage in society - Explain the important role that marriage plays in the world. While not all marriages result in families, families most of the time result from a marriage (be it by birth, surrogate birth, adoption or otherwise). A marriage binds the parents together, which is the ideal condition for raising children. Marriage is important because raising strong kids in strong families is important.

Drawing the line - So, now the big question is who has the right to marry whom. "Should anybody be allowed to marry anybody and raise a family?" Anybody, meaning any two adults.

State that, "Many arrangements exist, so it would be unfair to leave one out, if attraction between couples is the question." Many people think some of these groups should not be allowed to marry including the person with which one is arguing. One could try to use this to their advantage, if done carefully.
If they answer "yes" and believe that all these groups should be allowed to be married, you are in for a tough time.
So, if they answer "no" to the question, "Should all of these groups be allowed to marry?" begin narrowing down the list. To narrow it, one has to figure out which group they think is helping society the most.


"Child Birth and Family" One should be prepared to research laws and regulations should one choose this argument. In most cases, a heterosexual couple can produce healthy children on their own. The parenting argument is also a tough point to win, so one should also be prepared to respond with as little possible discrimination. This includes responding to adoption and surrogate points.
"What about polygamy?" One should choose their points appropriately when arguing against Polygamy. Polygamists can produce healthy children just like monogamist, heterosexual couples. However, the one spouse has to split their time between all the different spouses in polygamy. One should consider whether there are advantages or disadvantages to one's argument.
 Both of you will still have the opportunity to explore an opposing viewpoint and reach outside your comfort zone. These are things that can help a person grow and understand their own beliefs more fully. In any case, you will both probably think about it on your own anyway.

