 You can download Steam from steampowered.com.;
, This button is green and is located at the top of the Steam page.
 This will download the EXE installer program.
 You will need to accept the license agreement and confirm that you are 13 or older.


By default, Steam is installed to C:\Program File\Steam. You can change this during installation if you'd like. You can also set games to install to a different directory, which is useful if you want to store your games on a different partition. See Step # for more details.
 After installing Steam, you'll be prompted to start it. Steam will need to update the first time that it runs, which may take a few minutes.
 If you already have an account, you can use it to log in. If you don't have an account, you can create one for free.


Follow the prompts to create an account. You'll need to pick a username and password, as well as enter a valid email address. You'll need to confirm this email address after creating your account by following the verification link you are sent. If your desired username is already taken, you'll be shown several alternates or you can try creating a new one.
If you already have an account, you'll likely be prompted by SteamGuard to verify your identity. This is to help prevent unauthorized access to your account.
 When you first launch Steam, you'll be taken to the Store page. You can switch to the other sections by clicking the tabs along the top of the window. Hover over the tabs to select from the various subpages.
 By default, games will be installed to the same directory that Steam was installed in. You can change this if you would prefer to store your games somewhere else, such as on a second hard drive.


Click the "Steam" menu and select "Settings".
Select the "Downloads" tab in the Settings menu and then click "Steam Library Folders".
Click "Add Library Folder" and then select a folder you want to be able to install games to.
 In the list of games on the left, uninstalled games will be grayed-out, while installed games will be white. Selecting a game will open the game's information page, allowing you to see achievements, DLC, news updates, and more.
 You can use the drop-down menu in the installation window to select which folder you want to install the game to. You'll also be given the option to create desktop and Start menu shortcuts directly to the game.


Depending on the size of the game and your internet connection, the download and install process could take anywhere from a few minutes to a few days.
You can monitor your current downloads by hovering over the Library tab and selecting "Downloads".

