 It is never too early to start practicing them. By establishing the basic commands, your puppy can build a foundation for learning to play games and get along with other people and dogs. Actions such as sit, down, stay, & come can be extremely useful when you need to get your puppy's attention. Teaching them these things also helps to establish roles in the relationship.



Teach your dog to come.

Teach your dog to sit.

Teach your dog to lie down.
After mastering basic commands, such as these, you can start practicing other tricks such as shake, rollover, and speak.
 When trying to let your puppy know that it is behaving appropriately or responding to a given command well, try using a reward method to get your message across to it. Reward your puppy with small treats that are given to them immediately following a good behavior or response to a command. Another form of reward is a gentle pat on the head or rub behind the ear while you say "Good boy" or "Good girl".


This attention and positive reinforcement lets your puppy know that when it behaves this way or responds to a command in this way, it will receive a reward.
Be firm in your commands and strict with your treat disbursement. Don't just give the puppy treats at random times of the day or it won't learn that it has to work for its treats.
Choose healthy treats that are specially formulated for puppies. Don't give it leftover dinner scraps that it may not be able to digest easily.
 Disciplining your puppy can be a tricky way of letting them know good from bad behavior. When using a discipline method to train your puppy, you need to discipline it each time it behaves badly, which can be hard to follow through with if you are not watching your puppy all of the time.


Although it may not be the best way to train and teach your puppy good behavior, some discipline methods include a light mist from a spray bottle, a quick and sudden noise like a hand clap, or a firm "No". Each of these methods should get the attention of your puppy and distract them from the bad or unwanted behavior they were displaying.