 Take out a piece of paper and spend some time writing down why you have hatred towards your ex. This could be because of the things he or she did to you, or the decisions you made while with your ex. Try to be as detailed as possible and do not be afraid to really be honest about your feelings and emotions.

It may help to do this over a period of time, adding to it every day until you feel you have rid yourself of every instance of anger or pain you associate with your ex. You may want to detail any infidelity, any moments where your ex made you feel like a lesser person or abused you in anyway.;
, Once you feel you have written down every possible bad moment or feeling of hatred towards your ex, read it over at least twice. Use the document as evidence of your past relationship and how bad you felt during the relationship. When you are done reading it, tear it up or destroy it. This will symbolize you are willing to admit your hatred for your ex and you are choosing to destroy that hatred or be rid of it.

If you are seeing a therapist or other professional counselor as you work through your issues with your ex partner, you may want to bring the document to your session and tear it up in front of your therapist. Having a trusted witness to the destruction of the document can help to motivate you to feel you can let go of your hatred.
 Remember that hate is not a very production emotion and can often be debilitating to yourself and to those around you. Think about how you can replace your feelings of hatred with excitement about the future or motivation for the next phase of your life, without your ex. Once you commit yourself to letting go of your hatred for your ex, you can move on to other less detrimental emotions like pity, dislike, and even acceptance.

You may be afraid to let go of your hatred because in some way it keeps you connected to your ex. Anger can act as a form of negative attachment, as opposed to love or happiness, which are positive attachments. Rather than let your hatred keep you emotionally tied to your ex, release your hatred so you can finally leave your ex behind. By letting go of your anger and hatred, you do not need to forgive or forget your ex’s hurtful behavior, but you can be freed of emotions that will only make you feel worse and more alone.
 Though it may be tempting to share your anger with your ex in the form of a long, hate filled email, a text message, or angry voicemails, avoid contacting him or her in any way. Creating distance between you and your ex will help you to process your emotions and not get sucked back into the negative feelings you associate with your ex.


If you need to exchange personal items post break up, enlist the help of a friend or relative so you do not have to see your ex face to face. Give yourself time away from your ex so you can move forward with your life, free of any reminders of past anger and hatred.
 Often, anger and hatred are emotions that can distract you from your needs. Take the time to re focus on yourself by pampering or treating yourself. This could be a long bath, a walk in your favorite area, or working on a hobby or craft. Practicing self care will show you have compassion for yourself and give you the opportunity to focus your energies on your needs, rather than the needs of your ex.
 To motivate yourself to focus on the future, rather than the past, create a list of short term and long term goals for the year. Think about skills you have wanted to learn or get better at, but were not able to get to due to your relationship with your ex or dealing with your hatred after breaking up with your ex.


These could be short term goals like take a cooking class or long term goals like run every morning or do yoga at least three times a week. Focus on realistic goals that you feel you can meet and push yourself to achieve these goals. You’ll get a boost of self confidence and feel good knowing your energy and personal time is not being spent on your ex-partner.
 When you are dealing with break up feelings, it can help to lean on your family and close friends as your support system. Often, family and friends will encourage you to let get of your hatred of your ex and focus on your goals for the future.


They can also offer guidance and support in a constant and accessible way. Don’t be afraid to ask for their help or advice if you are struggling with your feelings of anger and hatred. Leaning on family and friends during a hard time can make all the difference and give you the confidence you need to finally let go of negative feelings.

