 Popsicles are a great summer treat, but the ones you buy at the store are often full of sugar and lacking in real fruit. Start by slicing one cup of fresh strawberries. Puree most the strawberries, then place the puree in a bowl with the juice squeezed from two lemons. Add two cups of warm water and three tablespoons of sugar. Mix the combination well, then pour it into molds, adding the few remaining strawberry slices into the molds to add some whole fruit to the popsicle. If you don’t have molds, try using paper cups with popsicle sticks placed inside them.Place the popsicles in the freezer until they are frozen solid, then serve.
You can add other kinds of fruit per your liking to give your popsicles variety.
 Mangos are a great source of vitamins A, C, B6 and fiber.Broiling them for a few minutes can make them taste very sweet, so you will want to temper that sweetness with a few squeezes of lime or pineapple juice after you cook them. Place some mango slices on a baking sheet and broil them for eight to ten minutes, or until the mango begins to brown in spots.After you remove the mango from the oven, sprinkle fresh lime or pineapple juice over the slices.
You can cut your mango into fun shapes to make this snack more fun for kids.
 Watermelon granita is a slushy-like treat that is great served after dinner or as a summertime snack when you need to cool off. Puree four half inch, seedless watermelon cubes with a half cup of sugar and two tablespoons of lime juice. Pour that mixture into a 9 by 13 inch dish and place in the freezer. Stir the watermelon mixture every 30 minutes until it becomes slushy-like.It will take approximately two and a half hours before your granita is frozen enough to serve.
Pour the granita slushy into wine or cocktail glasses and serve with a spoon or straw.
 Greek yogurt is a great source of protein and calcium and adding a few ingredients can turn it into a healthy and sweet snack. Combine six tablespoons of fat-free Greek yogurt with one and a half teaspoons of honey, then add one skinned and sliced orange and four fresh mint leaves.You may want to place the orange slices on a plate, then pouring the yogurt, honey and mint mixture over them.
This produces only one serving, so you will need to double the recipe to share with a friend.

