 This rainbow loom fishtail can consist of all of the colors in the rainbow or a few colors. Choose the colors you would like to go in your fishtail. You can create a pattern by alternating different colors, or you can do a section of one color and then a section of another color. Making a fishtail with a loom will also require a hook, like a crochet hook.


You can use your fingers instead of a hook if you don't have a hook on hand. However, a hook will be easier because it can better grab the rubber bands and you don't risk popping them on your fingers.
For the rubber bands, you'll need to use the ones specific for rainbow loom. You may be able to find them at your local craft store or online. You should also be able to find your loom online at a loom store.;
, Face your loom so that the two pegs you will be working with are at the bottom right corner of your loom. Your loom should be facing so that it is long horizontally and short vertically and the arrow on the loom should point to the left. Take your rubber band and twist it into an eight. Then place one side of the eight on the first peg, and stretch the other side over to place on the second peg.Once you have placed your rubber band, slide it down onto the pegs so that you have more room to add other rubber bands.
On a loom the pegs will alternate between short and tall. You will be using two tall pegs, which will have a very short peg in between them. You never use the short pegs -- they are just there to create space between the pegs you do use.
If you want a thicker bracelet, each time you are supposed to place one rubber band, place two instead. You'll be repeating the same steps, but working with double the amount of rubber bands., Taking your next color, or your next rubber band, place it over the first two rubber bands. Then, take your next color or rubber band and place it on top of the previous rubber band you just added, making sure you stretch the rubber bands from the right peg to the left peg.At this point you should have three rubber bands on your first two pegs. The first one should be a figure eight, but the second and third should just be regularly shaped, with no criss cross in the middle.
 Taking your hook, grab hold of the right side of the bottom rubber band. Pull it up and over the top two rubber bands and then up and over the peg. It should then create a loop over your top two rubber bands. Repeat on the left peg, taking the rubber band and pulling it up and over the top two rubber bands and up and over the peg.At this point, you should have two loops around your pegs with the first rubber band you placed now creating two loops around the middle of the remaining rubber bands, holding them together.
Once you have done this, push the rubber bands down the loop so that you have more space to work.
 Take your next color or rubber band and place it on your looms, wrapping it around the two pegs you are working with. As you are working with your loom you should always have three rubber bands on the loom., Like you did in the previous step, you will use your crochet hook to bring the very bottom rubber band over the top rubber bands. Grab the bottom band around the right peg and bring it up and over the top two bands and then up and over the peg. Repeat on the left side.After this step you may need to tug on your rubber bands a little bit so that they are evenly stretched over each other. Then, push your rubber bands down and continue working.
 You will continue making fishtails by adding one rubber band above the extra two. You will then take the hook and move the very bottom rubber band over the top two. Then, you will add another rubber band and continue to repeat these steps until you have your desired fishtail length.Don't forget to push the rubber bands down after you've added them so that you have extra room to work. If you allow the rubber bands to reach the top of your loom you may risk them popping off, which can mess up your chain. Also, don't forget to pull your fishtail every so often to readjust the rubber bands.
At first, your fishtail won't look like anything but after you've added six or so chains you'll begin to see what your finished work will look like.
If you are making a bracelet, make sure it is big enough to fit around your wrist. However, since it is a stretchy bracelet, you don't want it too big that it won't stay on your wrist. When you think it is the right size, take your wrist and wrap your fishtail around it. If you have overlapping chain, you've added too many rubber bands. The rubber bands should barely meet each other -- when you have this length you can finish off your bracelet.
 Grab your fishtail in the middle, making sure the rubber bands don't come apart. Then, gently slide it off your loom, holding it with a tight grip. Once you have taken it off you should still have the two rubber bands creating two sets of loops. Your fingers should be on top of the rubber bands in the middle of the fishtail., Looking at your fishtail you should see what was previously explained -- you should see your chain and at the end of the chain you'll have the two rubber bands you just removed from the pegs. Holding tight to the middle rubber bands, gently slide the two rubber bands out of the middle rubber bands. You can slide them to the left or the right. When you remove them you should just have your looped rubber band that was holding them together., Use a plastic C clip and hook it to the end rubber bands you are holding. Take the lower part of the C and stick it through the first rubber band loop, and then the second. Then attach it to the other side by sliding the rubber bands on the opposite end of your fishtail over the top hook of the C.If your bracelet doesn't fit at this point, you can always go back and add more rubber bands or remove some of the rubber bands from the bracelet until it is your desired size.

