 Development jobs require specific skills. Jot down the skills you will need to work in development and think of examples of how you demonstrate those skills.Interpersonal communication skills are important to a development job. Write down any experience you have there. Things like teamwork and sales experience help here.
The job may also want you to demonstrate certain computer skills, so be sure to write down any skills you have in regards to technology. Jot down all the software you can use efficiently.
Organization and presenting are also important, so experiences you have from things like conferences or readings can be a good thing to include in your cover letter.;
, Have you worked a development job before? Or taken on a development internship? If so, make a list of all your experiences. They should all be mentioned in your cover letter right away.If you don't have any development jobs, think about other business-related experience you have. For example, did you ever do administrative work for a business? If so, mention that here.
 General skills can also help you land a job. Think about your past work experience. For each job, jot down a list of general skills it gave you.For example, maybe you were a social media intern in college. You probably have experience working on a deadline, writing and editing, and developing strong written communication skills.
 Employers want to hire passionate candidates. Read over the job description and consider why you would be passionate. Think about the company and what it does. Why do you want to work there?For example, say you're applying for a development job at a non-profit animal rights group. Think about why animal rights matter to you. A brief note about your personal life, such as volunteering at an animal shelter all through college, can help showcase your passion.
 Refer to the job description as you write your letter. Pull some language from the job description itself. You will figure out what kind of words and language are appropriate for the company and likely to get you noticed.For example, the posting may say they want someone who is "able to work on strict deadlines."
While writing, include a sentence like, "Given I had to get copy to clients in a timely fashion, I learned to work with strict deadlines at my internship."

, Make sure you open your cover letter in a manner that gets attention. Beginning with something generic ("I saw your posting on LinkedIn") can result in you getting overlooked. Remember, employers see hundreds of cover letters each day. Find a way to make yours stand out from the crowd.Figure out something unique about yourself that would make you a great candidate for the position. For example, maybe you have unique past work experience that is specific to the company's goals. Start with that instead of stating, "I'm writing to apply for..."
For example, say you're applying for a development job for a local theater. You completed an internship at a local theater earlier in the year. Begin with something like, "As a passionate lover of theater, I completed a six month internship at a local theater last March."

, Your first paragraph should mention the basics. It should say your reasons for writing, the position you're applying for, and why you're interested. It can also help to mention where you saw the job posting.For example, after your opening line write something like, "I saw your posting about a Development Assistance for the Sheridan Theater on Craig's List."
From there, say something like, "I am looking to get more professional experience in the arts and would be happy to fill the position."

, You should list your skills in the body of the cover letter. You can write out a list of your skills using commas or include a brief listing of skills using bullet points. Start with saying something like, "I have many of the necessary skills to thrive in a development position." From there, list your general skill set.Refer to your notes. Look at your past jobs and the skills you have gained there.
In addition to listing your skills, talk about the jobs that led to these skills. For example, "My experience working in sales throughout college helped me develop excellent interpersonal communication skills."

, Refer to the job description as you write. Pull specifics from the description to demonstrate your experience in these areas. This can show you would be a good match. For example, if the job wants someone who can use Photoshop, mention past jobs where Photoshop was required.Remember to pull language from the description itself. For example, if they say they want someone who "has excellent written and verbal communication skills," work these words in somewhere.
For example, "As a result of my work in customer service, where I talked to consumers via e-mails and phone calls, my written and verbal communication skills are excellent."

, The closing paragraph should express appreciation for the reader's time, let them know how to contact you, and emphasize your interest in the position. It does not need to more than a few sentences in length.For example, start with, "Thank you so much for taking the time to review my cover letter."
Then, say something like, "If you wish to reach me for an interview, you can call me at..."
End with something like, "I look forward to discussing this position with you further."

, After you write a rough draft, set it aside for an hour or so. Return to it later and reread the cover letter. Look for areas where you can improve. Where can you show more specifics? Are you making your passion apparent enough? Is your opening line memorable? Ask yourself these questions and make notes for a revision. Then, write a second cover letter.If possible, have a friend read over your cover letter and give you notes.
 Asking for feedback can help you figure out where you need to improve on your letter. Have a friend or family member read over the letter and let you know its strengths and weaknesses. It's a good idea to choose someone who works in development. They will be able to let you know whether the letter is working or not.
 Make use of the spellcheck function on your computer to catch any obvious errors. Do a quick spelling/grammar check after writing your letter. Remember that spellcheck is unlikely to catch every error, so be careful to read over the letter after running a basic spelling/grammar check.
 When rereading your own work, you're likely to see what you've written in your head rather than what's on the page. It can help to set the letter aside for a few minutes. This will give you the space necessary to catch typos. Try setting the letter aside for about an hour and then proofreading., If you're writing a letter on a computer screen, printing it out can help you catch typos. If you have a printer, print out the letter and read it through carefully before submitting it.If you can't print out the letter, do other things to change its appearance. Change the font temporarily or email the letter to yourself and read it from your e-mail.
 You can also read the letter aloud. This will make you focus on each individual word, so you'll better catch things like missing words or misspellings. Make sure to read slowly, focusing in on one word at a time as you read.