 A benthic Barrier is a sheet that lays on the bottom of the lake preventing sun from reaching the lake bottom so it kills lake weeds it targets. This is a non chemical reusable product that is safe for fish.

Some vegetative growth is necessary for the health of the lake. If you use a benthic barrier, leave some area uncovered to allow for natural vegetative growth.
Don't cover fish spawning or bird nesting areas.
 You can easily cut up lake weeds from the roots, collect the cut weeds, and remove them from your lake or pond. They can be cut with a sickle or pulled up by hand, then removed from the water with rakes or hoes. Most lake weeds are perennials, meaning they will continue to sprout throughout the season due to underwater roots. You must remove them from their underlying roots in order to be properly control them. , Depending on the size of your lake or pond, and the weeds you are trying to remove, you may need an underwater or motor-driven device. Controlling lake weeds by hand can be labor intensive and difficult, as these weeds usually grow back quickly. Motor-driven underwater removal devices can help cut lake weeds loose under water, like water lilies and water milfoil. There are also aquatic weed harvesters that collect weeds for removal. Motor-driven devices often leave cut-up weed fragments in the water. New weeds may grow from these pieces so be careful when removing weeds this way. For surface algae in smaller bodies of water, water pumps can circulate the top layer of water to prevent algal scum from settling. Mechanical control of lake weeds can be likened to mowing a lawn. These devices will trim the weeds, but it is a temporary solution. , If the weed problem is severe, and weeds cover over 25% of the lake surface, consider dredging and deepening the lake. This will remove existing weeds and the bottom layer of sediment, as well as any underlying nutrients that cause weed proliferation. Dredging and deepening will reveal a layer of nutrient-poor soil, limit the amount of sunlight weeds are exposed to, and make it more difficult for weeds to take root. 