 When you start any level of Farm Heroes Saga, before you hit the Play button, a box will appear where you will be asked if you want to buy any boosters. Tap/click the shovel icon and tap/click “Yes” to purchase 3 Shovels for 250 Magic Beans.


If you buy Shovels before a level begins, it only costs 250 Magic Beans. Purchasing it during a level, however, will cost 9 gold bars.
Magic Shovel boosters have a regeneration time of 6 hours, so if you don’t want to use beans to purchase them, wait for the time for it to regenerate.;
, Once you start playing a level, you will see that the Magic Shovel at the top right of the screen with a 3 next to it, meaning you can use it at most 3 times.
 This will activate the shovel.
 If you find a cropsie is in the way of making a good match, and especially if you’re running out of moves, click/tap on the cropsie to use the activated Shovel and remove it from the board.
 Matching 3 whole eggs will cause them to crack and hatch. Matching three hatched eggs will create a chick. If you want to crack, tap on it after activating the Shovel.
 Some levels will have cropsies encased in ice. You can use an activated Shovel to break the ice and free the cropsie, egg, or flower underneath.
 If you want to bloom flowers, just use an activated Shovel on them. Since it requires three matches next to a flower to bloom it, you will also need 3 Magic Shovels to make one flower bloom.
 The Magic Shovel can also be utilized on a grass seed. As grass can only be produced by matching a seed with water, it’s very useful for growing grass if you’re having difficulty filling your buckets. Just tap/click on a grass seed with an activated Shovel to grow it.
 Like flowers, you will need to make 3 matches next to buckets to fill them with water. If you want to fill water buckets right away, use all three of your Magic Shovels to fill them.
 In some of the levels, a rabbit will frequently pop up and steal your carrots, thus making it difficult for you to reach your goal. Use an activated Shovel to hit the rabbit on the head. This will paralyze the rabbit for two turns, stopping it from stealing your crops.

