 That must happen before you can expect other people to accept you.;
, Write down the following topics, each on a separate page: Physical Features “I” Like About Myself, Skills and Talents I Possess, Activities I Enjoy, Compliments I Have Received, My Short-term & Long-term Goals. If you think of other topics later, you should add them. On each of the above mentioned pages, write down any good memories, ideas or events that you remember with its corresponding pages. It does not matter if, for instance, the compliment is a small one. Write it down! Don’t worry if you do not have a lot of entries at first. You will, over time, begin to accumulate more entries for your pages as you continue to observe the positive moments in your life. This step is very important to complete because you will need this information later.
 Keep track of how you felt and what activity you engaged in to relieve the stress. After a month's worth of entries, review your entries and make a list of your repetitive coping mechanisms. Do you see pattern? Is this pattern helping you get closer to your goal? If not, how are you going to change it? Put the answers to these questions in your journal as well.
 You will need someone who knows your family, who can influence your family’s way of thinking and can keep your confidence until the subject is released to the family with permission. This person should also believe that overweight people are fabulous people too. This person will become your contact person.
 Explain your family situation stating the facts (no complaining) to your contact person. Tell him/her what has been happening, how often it is happening, where it happens (with the family or out in public), and who does not accept you for who you are as a person. After explaining the current situation, describe all the positive attributes that you possess to your contact person that your family members are missing because the focus is on your weight and not on you. This is where the journaling will help you (Step 3).
, (Self-affirmations are things that you like about yourself or things that other people like about you that you repeat to yourself to keep your mind focused on your goal.) An example of an affirmation is, “I have a great smile! Look yourself in the eyes when you do the self-affirmations and believe in them. Also, find quotations that help you to feel better and use them in your self-affirmations. Memorize your self-affirmations so you can mentally repeat them in your head when you are around your family. This is called creating a positive mental tape.
 How do you want things to change? You will have to be specific and write them down in your journal.
 If it looks like you take care of yourself (i.e., smile, stand up straight; give yourself a flattering, new hairstyle, etc.) and your personal belongings, it shows the world that you love yourself.
 That way you will have a substantial amount of material to work with to improve your chances for success.
 It should be a formal event. No one should be eating, watching TV or performing any other activity when you approach them on this subject. It should be a time when you should be able to get everyone together. However, if that is not the case, schedule small family group meetings with at least two or three family members at each meeting. Make sure that your contact person will be able to attend the meeting(s) as well. He/she will become your support person.
 When you start the meeting, thank your family members for coming to the meeting and tell them that you love them very much. But, there is something serious that has been bothering you and you need their help. Then explain, remember no complaining, to them what has been going on with a few examples. Next, explain that you have positive attributes and list some of them. Finally, tell them your desired solutions. What can they do to help you improve yourself?

