 It's important to lead a healthy lifestyle to keep the skin on your face and body free from blemishes and glowing beautifully. There are a number of daily habits you can adopt to improve your skin and your overall well being.


Sleep eight hours a day. Beauty sleep is no joke. During rest, the body heals and rejuvenates itself. Without adequate sleep, your skin cells are unable to repair, and over time, this can result in skin with a dull appearance.Eat fruits and veggies. Not only are these foods good for your health, they also contain vitamins and minerals essential to keeping skin healthy. Choose foods high in vitamins A, C, and E as they help to protect skin and heal damage. Cut out foods with a lot of sugar, grease, and/or oil as they can cause blemishes or give you oily skin. Limit sodium intact as it can cause puffiness and swelling.Be sure to drink water. Water flushes toxins out of the body, hydrates from the inside out, and improves skin’s elasticity.Avoid stressful situations. Relaxation is proven to promote improved whole body health and skin clarity. Going to a spa is a great way to relax and receive great skin treatments all at the same time. Smiling and laughing have been proven to clear skin, and research suggests this is due to the stress relieving effects of laughter., One of the most enviable aspects of celebrity skin is a fresh, healthy glow. Making a homemade mask is a great way to get those results without breaking the bank. Best of all, many masks can be made by using ingredients you already have!


Mix together ½ cup of mashed papaya, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 egg white.
Apply the mixture to your face. Leave on for approximately 10 minutes.
Rinse to find your dull skin looking healthy and bright!, Celebrities spend thousands of dollars on collagen therapy, Botox, and other treatments to reduce the appearance of wrinkles. Many of these professional therapies are now affordable, but you can also achieve similar results by creating your own facial mask that harnesses the power of resveratrol, an antioxidant found in large amounts in red wine.


Combine a ¼ cup of red wine, ¼ cup of kaolin clay available at health food stores, 2 tablespoons of grapeseed oil, and one tablespoon of oat flour.
Apply the mask for ten minutes, and gently wipe away., This super food is high in antioxidants and polyphenols that are good for overall health as well as making skin look great. One of their most important uses is as an astringent to shrink pores. You can use acai berry powder or slush combined with sugar and olive oil to create a pore minimizing, exfoliating facial.Combine 2/3 cup of sugar, 2 teaspoons acai powder or slush, 10 whole berries of any kind, and 1 tablespoon of olive oil.
Blend to achieve a thick, coarse consistency.
Apply to the face for five minutes.
Gently clean away with warm water.
 You can create a simple foaming cleanser using beer that will smooth your complexion leaving you with a healthy glow.


Combine ½ a cup of beer, 1 egg white, and 2 teaspoons of lime juice.
The B vitamins and yeast in beer mixed with the egg white foams creating a hydrating cleanser that removes dead skin.
The vitamin C boost from the lime juice leaves skin looking smooth, bright, and healthy.