 Some types of pine trees used for landscaping include white pine, jack pine and Scotch pine. Ask the seller about growing environments if you live in a different climate or at a different elevation than the location where the seedling was grown.;
, Bare-root pine seedlings must be planted during the late fall and winter, when pine trees are dormant.Container-grown seedlings can be planted at any time, although the hottest summer months will require additional shade and water to prevent dehydration and sun damage.


Most seedlings can be kept for several weeks between 35º and 38º F (1.7 – 3.3ºC), but you should check with the seller in case the species you bought has different requirements., Keep the roots damp until you are ready to plant, but refrain from soaking them in water, which could kill them. If the roots form a dense ball, or circle the sides the of the container, carefully rearrange the main root branches so they are more spread out.Some seedlings are sold with a small amount of soil mixture packed around the roots. Try to keep as much of this on the roots as possible while rearranging.
 Each pine tree should have plenty of open space, with no small plants around its base and no root systems of other trees nearby. Choose a location where the tree will receive direct sunlight during the cooler parts of the day.


If you cannot plant a pine tree somewhere with shade on its west side, instructions are included below for creating a sun shade.
A mix of sand and loam is best for pine trees, but you should only need to mix in suitable organic mulch such as sphagnum if the soil is a hard clay consistency.Choose an area with well-draining soil. A 1 foot (30 cm) deep hole filled with water should drain easily within 12 hours. If it does not, you may need to install drainage.
 Do not plant trees when conditions are windy, dry, or above 85ºF (30ºC). The soil should not have standing water or ice on the day you plant, but should not be parched either., The top layer of soil is the highest quality, so fill the bottom few inches (about 10 cm) with topsoil after you dig your hole. Be sure to dig the hole large enough that the roots still fit after you've added the topsoil.Warning: Contact your utility company to discover the location of underground lines before digging any large holes.
Try to plant the tree to the same level it was planted in the nursery. If you're unsure, it is better to plant the tree too high than too low.
 Although burlap and other biodegradable material can be left on the plant, carefully removing it gives the seedling a better opportunity for growth.
 Fill the hole again after planting, periodically patting down loose soil with your shovel handle, not with your feet.Fill the hole until it is level with the surrounding soil, or slightly lower if the climate is especially dry, so water can run into the roots.


Have an assistant hold the tree upright while you fill the hole if necessary.
 Staking pine tree seedlings is only necessary in areas of unusually high wind. If you think the pine tree is in danger of blowing over, use one or two stakes attached by ties or straps, and leave enough room for the tree to sway.Do not loop wire directly over the tree.
 You may need to provide a sunscreen for your small pine tree by using a tarp or sheet of painted plywood. Planting where there is shade from another tree or a building is also a practical choice. The shade should be on the west side of the tree, which is where the sun is located during the hottest parts of the day.

