 Make sure to take your Cymric to the veterinarian at least once a year for a routine check up. Your veterinarian will also be able to advise you about its specific nutritional, grooming, and health needs.Make sure your cat is up-to-date with routine vaccinations and shots.;
, Because of the Cymric’s long, double coat, you will need to brush it often. Use a wire-slicker brush to comb its hair. Additionally, use a comb that has both wide and narrow teeth to brush its undercoat.Make sure to brush its whole body, including its abdomen, legs, and neck.
During the shedding seasons (spring and fall months), brush it more often, for example, every other day.
 Do this while brushing your cat. Run your hands over your cat's fur and feel for bumps, lumps, and swelling. Also look for skin discoloration. Other signs and symptoms of skin problems are:Constant licking, chewing, or scratching of the skin, especially around the neck and head.
Scabs, rashes, or scaly patches on the paws and face.
Redness or inflammation.
Dry, flakey irritated skin.
Hair loss, bald patches, or hairballs.
The presence of blood or pus.
 Check its ears once a week for debris, wax, or an infection. Check the outer part of the ear for bald spots, and make sure the inner surface is light pink and clean. Check its inner ear by gently folding back the ear to look into the ear canal. A healthy inner ear will have minimal ear wax, a healthy pink color, and have no debris or odor.Always wipe away dirt and debris gently. Never stick an object into your cat's ears to clean them.
Reward your cat with a treat and praise for letting you check its ears.
If you notice blood, swelling, a large amount of wax, or smell an odor, then take your cat to the vet. It may have an ear infection.
 Do this by gently pushing back its lips while it is facing you. Healthy teeth look intact (not broken or loose) and clean, i.e., free of brownish tartar. Healthy gums look firm and pink (not white or red), and should have no signs of swelling. Take your cat to the vet immediately if you see:A dark red line running along the gum, or red and swollen gums.
Ulcers on your cat's gums or tongue.
Loose teeth and/or having difficulty chewing food.
Excessive drooling or pawing at the mouth.
Chew toys and treats are a great way to keep your cat's teeth and gums healthy.
Only use specially formulated cat toothpastes to brush your cat's teeth. Never use human toothpaste.
 Check its litter box daily to make sure it is clean and fresh. You may need to check it twice, once in the morning and once in the evening. Remove all waste from the litter box and re-fill it with fresh, clean litter.Try to wash the litter box at least once every 10 to 15 days. Dump out the contents and clean it with mild soap and hot water. Do not use cleaning products that contain scents (especially lemon), deodorants, and ammonia.

