 They need to play no part, it's best to be around people you enjoy being with as this will help you feel at ease.;
, Clothes, hair, aftershave, teeth - nothing over the top, dress appropriately, comfortable a must! 4 sprays of aftershave - behind each ear and on each shoulder. Nothing extreme, no bright colors, relaxed approach (unless you are heading somewhere which requires this).
 People go to these places knowing there are going to be other people there. They are prepared to TALK.
 You are not trying to pull tonight, you are still in training. With a pub as a scenario, don't hang outside the toilets waiting for your prey! Instead - go solo at the bar (this may sound scary, but this way no pressure, your friends can sometimes be off putting). When ordering drinks, look around casually, if you make eye contact with someone - SMILE but then turn away, remember these are skill building techniques. Spot someone of interest next to you - say hi, if you are given a positive response then follow with "having a good evening?" again, if their reaction is positive then "Okay cool, catch you later".
 This will happen naturally, we as humans are designed for conversation, it's a natural occurrence regardless of our physical appearance.
, Now all you have to do is simply add to the conversation: (Ex. "so, are you going to a bar or club after here?" or "Let me get this drink for you")

, The thing you have to remember at this stage is, if its not going too well then there is a compatibility issue, when you find the right person, you WILL click.


, The answer is variable - you need to strike a balance between " I'm not a stalker & hard to get" Basically not to soon and not too late. My recommendation is as follows:

, DO NOT ask for a date right now

,, If you are a guy asking a girl, remember this can be delicate - I would recommend the initial meeting place to be the same venue as when you first met - the reason for this is it's a familiar place to your date and will help to make them feel at ease.
 Pre date nerves - don't worry, they will feel exactly the same!

, Remember you have one the hard part, this is now easy, you have clicked already, you have spoken, now you use this time to get to know each other. Make sure you show interest in your date, combine talking about yourself to asking questions about them and it should work both ways.
 That's down to you and your date how quickly you'd like to progress things. Just go with the flow, the combination of two people is a natural occurrence and the first kiss is included, you will both know when the time is right.

