 You do not need to purchase a special deck of cards for this particular illusion. Do not worry if your deck isn’t complete, but do make sure it contains all four suits (spades, hearts, diamonds and clubs) of at least three card types (i.e. 5, 6, 7 or Jack, Queen, King, etc,).;
, To make the illusion convincing, you should use three sequential cards (for example, Jack, Queen, King). Pull out all four suits for each of the chosen cards. If you are using the above example, you will have the following:


Jack ♥ Jack ♦ Jack ♠ Jack ♣
Queen ♥ Queen ♦ Queen ♠ Queen ♣
King ♥ King ♦ King ♠ King ♣

, Both sets should follow the sequence (i.e. Jack, Queen, King) and should contain both a red and black suit. Using the above example, your sets could look like this, but do not have to follow this exact order:


Set 1: Jack ♦ (red), Jack ♠ (black); Queen ♥(red); Queen ♠ (black); King ♣ (black); King ♦ (red)
Set 2: Jack ♥ (red); Jack ♣ (black); Queen ♦ (red); Queen ♣ (black); King ♠ (black); King ♥ (red)

, It does not matter which card you choose. Hide that card out of sight. You will not need to use it again during the illusion.
 Shuffle Set 1 and place the six cards in front of you. You can either leave the cards stacked facedown or can spread them out. These will be the six cards that your audience initially sees.
 Be sure to shuffle the five remaining cards first. You will need to place this set in a location that will be easily reachable during the illusion, but hidden out of sight. You may want to wear long sleeves or wear pants with pockets.
, Encourage the person to touch the cards and to flip them over to ensure they are real.


You are trying to create a sense of security, so reassure them by smiling and saying, "Go ahead and inspect the cards. Take as long as you need!"

, Be sure to preface it by saying, "Choose any card, but don't point to it, touch it or indicate to me in any way, which card you have chosen."


To make them feel more secure, you may even volunteer to close your eyes while they look over and choose a card.
Encourage them to whisper their choice to a friend.
 Once they have indicated that a choice has been made, pick up the cards and neatly stack them in a facedown pile.
 You may want to say, "Ok, focus on the card you chose. Are you concentrating really hard?" Have them nod in response. Then say, "I'm going to read your mind to learn which card you chose, so keep concentrating."


While they are concentrating, you should also act as if you are thinking really hard, trying to read their mind.
 The most difficult part of this illusion, is to create a distraction. You may not realize it, but brains have two kinds of attention. One type pertains to your focus, while the other reacts to surprises. Magicians trick you by occupying both forms of your attention. Left with no others, you're completely and hopelessly distracted from their sleights-of-hand.One suggestion for creating a distraction is to be seated behind a table, wearing a long sleeved shirt. Dramatically throw both of your hands on to the table, covering the visible set of cards. In the process of putting your hands on the table, you should shimmy the hidden set of cards out of your sleeve, on to the table and beneath your hand.
You can then quickly sweep the initially visible set of cards, onto your lap, leaving the second set of cards (originally hidden in your sleeve) on the table.
 Create a bit of fanfare by slowly turning over each card, one at a time, leaving each face up. You may want to say, "Ok, let's take a look at the cards and see if your card is still there."

, You'll want to confirm, "So, do you see your card or has it disappeared?" Like magic, they'll be able to agree that the card they have chosen, has in fact disappeared!

