 You should ask your adoptive parents in what state you were adopted. You should also ask for the name of the adoption agency that they worked with. Your ability to access adoption records will depend on the state that the adoption took place.


If you are a birth mother who is searching for a child, then you should go through your paperwork and locate what adoption agency you went through.;
, In many states, it is much easier to access non-identifying information than it is to access identifying information. Identifying information includes things like current or past names, addresses, and employment information. Getting identifying information is critical if you want to find your birth parents. Non-identifying information is helpful if you are curious about your race or ethnicity, or want medical information about your birth parents. Non-identifying information includes:Date and place of the adopted person’s birth
Age of the birth parents and general physical description such as eye and hair color
Race, ethnicity, religion, and medical history of the birth parents
Medical description of the child’s birth and of time in the hospital following birth
Education level of the birth parents at the time of adoption
The reason for the adoption
Existence of other children born to the birth parents

, To find out how to access adoption records, you will need to find the relevant state laws for the state in which the adoption occurred. You can find the laws by searching for “adoption” and then your state.


The Child Welfare Information Gateway has also created a summary of state laws, which is available at their website. These summaries are current as of 2013. Because states frequently update their laws, you should still perform a web search to make sure you have the most up-to-date statute.
Find the laws for the state in which the adoption occurred. Each state’s summary should tell you how to get non-identifying information as well as how to get identifying information.
 Each state places restrictions on who can access the different types of information about an adoption. These restrictions may be different depending upon whether you are asking for identifying or non-identifying information. Typically, access to non-identifying information is less restricted than identifying information. In Michigan, for example, access is limited in the following manner:Access to non-identifying information: typically, this information will be available to the adult adopted person, the adoptive parents, birth parents and siblings.
Access to identifying information: generally, access to this information is available to adult adopted person, the birth parents, and an adult genetic sibling.
Your state’s statute will clarify who can access information. Read the statute to see if you qualify.
 Many states have set up a process for biological families and adopted children to find each other. The most common processes are “mutual consent” registries and confidential intermediary programs. With a mutual consent registry, the child or family members may file affidavits indicating whether they consent or refuse to allow information to be released.Accordingly, if you are a child who submits a request to the registry, the office that maintains the registry searches for an affidavit from the birth mother granting consent to release her personal information. If she has filed that consent already, then her contact information will be released to you. If neither a consent nor refusal is on file, then some states simply choose not fill the request. Alternately, other states may contact the birth mother to check if she is willing to consent to or refuse the release of her identifying information.
With a confidential intermediary program, an intermediary is granted access to adoption records so that he or she can search for birth family members and ask for their consent for contact.If the birth family consents, then the contact information is released to the party seeking it.
 If your state has a registry, then you should register for it. You likely will have to contact your state’s Department of Human Services and ask about how to go about registering.


In Arkansas, for example, you will need to complete an Affidavit/Registration form, attend a one-hour counseling session, and pay a $20.00 fee. The Affidavit is available on the state’s Department of Human Services website.
An easy way to find your state’s mutual consent registry (if it has one) is by typing your state and “mutual consent registry” or “consent registry” into your favorite search engine.
 Some states require that parties seeking access to adoption records undergo mandatory counseling. The purpose of the counseling is to inform you of the possible consequences of seeking out information or contacting a birth family.States requiring counseling include Arkansas, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Texas., If you cannot access your adoption records, then you might want to meet with an attorney to consider petitioning a court to release your records. An experienced family law attorney can help you put together a compelling case. To find a qualified family lawyer, visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program.


Some states may also require that you get a court order before a third-party intermediary will be appointed., You would start a lawsuit by filing a petition in court. In the petition, you must state why there is a compelling reason to disclose information about the adoption and why this reason outweighs maintaining confidentiality.Some states will have printed “fill in the blank forms” for you to use. In Texas, you can use an “Application for Access to Termination and Adoption Records,” which is available from the Texas Law Help website. You must fill out the form and sign in front of a notary before filing it with the court clerk.Keep a copy of any application or petition for your records., In some states, you may immediately be called in to see a judge.In other states, the agency may be afforded an opportunity to respond to your petition.


Be sure to arrive at the hearing early. Do not bring in any food or drinks and have your cell phone turned off.
You should also dress appropriately. Try to wear your “Sunday best” and make sure that all clothing is in good condition. If you have to come directly from work, be sure to mention that fact to the judge., At the hearing, you or your attorney should argue why you want or need the information. For example, you may need access to medical records or help establishing a genetic link to a disease. You must demonstrate your need by clear and convincing evidence.The judge may have questions for you. You should answer all questions honestly and respectfully, admitting if you don’t know something.Address the Judge as “Your Honor.”
If you are seeking release of adoption records for medical reasons, then be sure to go to court with the contact information of any doctor who has been treating you for a condition.
 If you are granted access to either your birth certificate or other adoption records, then you should have the judge’s order certified. You can seek a certified order from the clerk’s office.You may need the certified order to give to a third-party intermediary if the judge refuses to release the records directly to you.