 Maintain good grooming habits and keep yourself presentable at all times. One of the hardest parts of going through a divorce is handling the feeling that you are not worthy of love and care. Keeping yourself looking good will remind you that you are worth it. Don't allow yourself to forget the importance of bathing, getting dressed appropriately and using cosmetics, hair products and perfume or cologne.;
, While it is okay to indulge in comfort food occasionally, it should not be allowed to become the norm. Otherwise, you will have a new problem to deal with in addition to coping with your divorce, such as extra pounds or poor health. Even if you do not feel like eating, continue to eat nutritiously and if you feel like overeating, remember that this is not the time to add to your sense of strain. Maintain good eating practices. If you normally exercise continue to do so. If you do not normally exercise, start by taking a 15 to 30 minute walk or other form of exercise at least three times a week. Exercising will help you to feel better and can increase your sense of well being.
 If you are sleeping in the bed you both used to use, change the sheets and bedding by purchasing something new. Look at it as an opportunity to decorate with things you like. If you feel like you need something to sleep with, try a body pillow which will make the bed seem less lonely. Try aromatherapy and soothing sounds to establish a new routine.
 Try not to spend an excessive amount of time alone.
 Use this to allow your feelings to be processed without overwhelming your support system.
 Remember that time really does heal all wounds and give yourself the time to heal.
 Laughter really does help make you feel better.
 Try to allow your attorneys to handle whatever you can and if things get too heated, step away. Nothing good will come of seeking revenge or acting outrage.
 There is a reason why the relationship did not work out so rediscover who you are and try things that your spouse disliked but brings you joy. Marriage is only a blessing when both individuals are happy together. Be your own advocate and friend.
 Maintain an appropriate social and professional schedule.

