 Most mines are hidden, but if you know what to look for you'll have a better chance of avoiding them. Don't let your guard down, even for a moment, if you are in a mined area. Constantly be on the lookout for the following signs:


Trip wires. These aren't usually clearly visible, so you've got to look closely at the ground. Wires are usually thin enough to be almost impossible to see.

Signs of road repair. This includes paved areas, new fill, road patches, ditches, and so on. This could be a sign that mines were installed nearby.

Signs or markers on trees, stakes, or posts. The forces that place the mines may mark the minefields to protect their own soldiers.

Dead animals. Cattle and other animals frequently detonate mines.

Damaged vehicles. Abandoned cars, trucks or other vehicles may have detonated a mine, and more could be close by.

Suspicious objects in trees and bushes. Not all mines are buried, and not all UXO land on the ground.

Disturbances in previous tire tracks or tracks that stop inexplicably.

Wires leading away from the side of the road. They may be firing wires that are partially buried.

Odd features in the ground or patterns that are not present in nature. Plant growth may wilt or change color, rain may wash away some of the cover, the cover may sink or crack around the edges, or the material covering the mines may look like mounds of dirt.

Civilians staying away from certain places or out of certain buildings. Locals often know where mines or unexploded ordnance (UXO) are located. Question civilians to determine the exact locations.
;
, The moment you realize you may be in danger, freeze. Do not take another step. Take some time to assess your situation and formulate an escape plan. Your movements from now on need to be slow, careful and considered.
 As soon as you think you are in danger, make sure everyone knows so they can stop moving before someone detonates an explosive. Yell, "freeze!" and tell them to not to move their feet. If you're the leader in this situation, you'll have to coach them on how to leave the field safely; make sure everyone's on the same page, because one wrong move could get everyone killed.
 Many mines are booby-trapped. You think you're picking up a helmet, radio, or military artifact, and lo and behold, there's a mine inside. Even toys and food are used as bait. If you didn't drop it, don't pick it up.

