 Before submitting your paperwork, make sure you, as the adult petitioner, fulfill all the requirements to request a minor's name change. The adult petitioner typically must be one of the minor's biological parents. If both biological parents are deceased or have terminated parental rights, then the minor's "next friend" (person legally entitled to submit the petition on the minor's behalf) may be permitted to prepare the petition. Check with the clerk of your county district court to ensure that is permissible.
The adult petitioner must file the petition with the district court in the county in which he/she and the minor child reside.
The adult petitioner and minor child must have lived in the county of petition for at least the past six weeks, and must intend to live there for the foreseeable future.
The adult petitioner must be over 18 years of age at the time of the petition.
The minor child must be 17 years of age or younger at the time of the petition.
The petitioner must have proper and reasonable cause for the name change.
The petitioner must not be seeking a name change to avoid debt, defraud creditors, or other nefarious reasons.
Both biological parents should join the petition if possible. If one of the biological parents refuses to join or cannot be located, the applicant must serve that parent with notice of the application, and the court will order a hearing if the non-joining parent objects. The court may waive the hearing if the applicant provides evidence that alerting the non-joining parent could seriously threaten harm to the minor or petitioner if he/she found out about the proposed name change.
Check with the clerk of your county district court to determine whether a guardian ad litem or consent will be required.
 The petition (whether you obtain one through an online resource or create one yourself) seeks information such as the minor’s current full name (birth name), proposed full name, parental information, address, and a certification that the petitioner does not seek the name change for fraudulent purposes. Do not sign the form.
 Bring your completed, unsigned petition to a notary public. You will sign the petition in front of the notary, who will attest to your signature. You may need to pay a small fee for the notary's service. Notaries can commonly be found in the following places:


Banks
Post offices, UPS Store, etc.
Law offices

, Take two copies of the petition, Family Court Cover Sheet (if required by your county), Notice of Petition (if required by your county), Parent’s Consent (if required by your county), Child’s Consent (if required by your county, and usually only when the minor is 14 or older), Request for Summary Disposition and Declaration in Support (if required by your county), Proof of Service on Other Parent (if required by your county), and an Order, the required fees, a self-addressed stamped envelope, and supporting documentation to your district court. Check any instruction forms that go with the paperwork to make sure you've completed everything to the best of your ability. Make at least two copies of your paperwork, and save a copy for your records. The clerk of court will tell you if you need to provide additional information to complete your paperwork.
 Nevada law requires that a petitioner seeking a name change for a minor must publish a notice in a local newspaper of general circulation immediately after filing the paperwork with the court. The notice must be published at least once a week for three consecutive weeks.


Some counties may permit you to file a Request to Waive Publication, which allows you to bypass the publication requirement if it is in the best interest of the child. If you are concerned for the safety of the minor child (or yourself) by publishing the proposed name change, ask your court clerk about this option.
 The newspaper will provide an affidavit to you, and you must file the affidavit, attached to a copy of the published notice, with the district court.
 If no one objects to the proposed name change within eleven days after the last publication, you may ask the court to review the petition via a Request for Summary Disposition or a ‘Prove-Up’ hearing. If someone objects to the proposed name change within eleven days, then the court will schedule a hearing.
 Most of the time, courts will grant name changes "on the papers," which means without requiring an in-person hearing, especially if both biological parents agree to the change. But if the court receives an objection to the name change, or if the court suspects the name change is being sought for an improper purpose, the court may order a hearing, which you will have to attend. If the court orders a hearing, consider consulting with an attorney to make sure you are prepared.

