 Be casual about it. If you feel comfortable being low-key about it, just take out your phone and start texting, then casually ask, "Hey, , what's your number?" It helps to have a specific reason for asking: arranging a study group, for instance, or to coordinate for a party. If the person happily gives you their number, it doesn't necessarily mean that he/she likes you in a more-than-platonic way – but it does indicate that he/she is comfortable enough with you to open up a new means of communication.


Do not ask someone else for your crush's phone number. If you're going to do this, be straightforward and ask in person.
Take notice when this person asks for your number, or gives you his/her number without you having to ask. These forward moves might mean that he/she likes you. Take this as an invitation to text the person.
 Add this person as a friend on Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram, or another social network. Message them over text, if you have their number. Start with something simple: ask about the homework, if you need a non-forward opener, or just say, "Hey! How are you doing?" Bear in mind that this will feel much more natural for both of you if you already talk to this person a lot in person.
 If you are reasonably sure that this person likes you, ask him/her out on a one-on-one date. Invite the person to a movie, to a concert, or just for a walk to the park. Be calm and confident, and try to act natural.


Make sure that you have a specific day, event, or plan in mind when you ask. Avoid vaguely asking someone "out." All "going out" really means is that you and another person are going a lot of places together, and making a bunch of specific plans.
If the person turns you down, try to keep it in perspective. There are many fish in the sea, as the saying goes, and it is not always worth your time to persistently woo someone who simply doesn't like you. Consider whether the person might have declined your invitation for some other reason: perhaps he/she is not allowed to date, or didn't believe that you were being genuine.

