 You quickly find that most processed foods have added sugars and by getting any sort of packaged foods it's almost impossible to avoid. Making an investment in your health takes time, and you need to be willing to take it out of your day by loading up on groceries and cooking. This really is the only way to control what's going into your body. Even salad dressing has sugar!;
, Unlike all other nutritional facts, sugar does not come with a daily value % on food labels. It's also given in grams which can be difficult to visualize. 4.2g equals 1 teaspoon, and it's easier to think of it in terms of the spoons you're eating. Men should have only 9 teaspoons, or 37.5 g per day (which is one small coffee!) while woman should have 6 teaspoons, or 25 g per day.
 You should have about 3 servings of vegetables, 2 of fruit, and 1-2 of carbohydrates and meat per day. Fueling your body with the right kinds of food can help you feel truly energized and help your body realize when it's full so that you're not tempted to overeat or go for desert.
 Because sugar is addictive the cravings will hit. Having a friend, support group, or diary along with you for the ride can help you mark your achievements and stay committed. Take note of your attitude changes the longer you go without sugar- overtime you should feel more alert, and happier, giving you more reason to beware of your sugar intake.


Along these lines take time to review your improvement and focus on your good points. Getting bogged down in your one cheat day rather than seeing an overall healthier diet can stop you before you even started. Stay positive! Taking on another hobby, like running or hooking, while doing the detox can help take your mind of sugar.
 The most difficult part of kicking sugar is that it's all around us. When friends offer us a homemade cookie, or a processed meal, it can feel horrible to say no. Try to clear out your spaces so that you're surrounded by as little sugar as possible but beyond that, get used to standing firm. A detox of sugar is something to be proud of and provides an invaluable investment for your health

, Make sure that sodas, crackers and the like are gone from your refrigerator, and replace them with something you can munch. Frozen grapes, lettuce, bananas, tomatoes, and most fruit and berries can provide a healthy and delicious option. One wonderful aspect of the detox is that your taste becomes more sensitive, and your body begins to know what it wants to be healthy, and so sugary substances start to taste gross while vegetables taste twice as good.

