 This should be the main staple of your conure’s diet – accounting for approximately 60-70% of its food intake. This food will create the base of a nutritious diet for your conure.Be sure to purchase a pellet food that is labelled “organic” or “all natural” so that you can avoid exposing your conure to any harmful additives.
You should be able to find a high-quality bird pellet food at any pet store in your area.
Consider purchasing a pellet food that contains a variety of colors to keep your bird interested.;
, Adding fruits and vegetables to your conure’s diet is a great way to enrich the bird’s nutrient intake and provide a bit of variety. This group should account for approximately 20% of your bird’s diet. Be sure to cut the produce into small, easily edible bites before putting it into your bird’s food dish.Some good examples of produce your conure will like include mangoes, kiwis, apples, blueberries, spinach, pumpkins, and zucchinis.
Make sure to wash the fruits and vegetables thoroughly before feeding them to your conure. This will protect your bird from ingesting harmful pesticides.
You may also want to consider purchasing organic fruits and vegetables.
 These food groups are a great way to add a bit of variety and extra nutrition to your conure’s diet, though they should be given sparingly and constitute the smallest category of your bird’s diet. You can incorporate seed mixes with the pellet food that you feed the bird most of the time, but nuts and grains should be provided in small amounts.You can give your bird healthy, non-sugary grains like barley, cooked brown rice, or crackers.
Consider adding low-salt, unshelled nuts. Peanut shells can be toxic to conures.
 Give you conure two feeding dishes – one for the pellet/seed foods and one for the supplementary foods like fruits, vegetables, and nuts. This will make it easier for you to clean the containers and replace the fresher foods more frequently.Make sure the food dishes are attached to the side of the bird cage so that the conure cannot knock over its food on accident.
Typically, you should give your conure three tablespoons of pellet food each day, supplemented with a smaller portion of fruits, vegetables, seeds, grains, and nuts. Follow your vet’s feeding instructions.
 You should include one dedicated drinking dish inside your conure’s cage. Check it every day to make sure that the dish is full of water and not contaminated with some other element – like old food or excrement.Consider keeping the water dish away from the food dishes so that the bird doesn’t accidentally drop some of the food into the water while it is eating.
 Check the bird’s cage every day to see if there is any leftover food that needs to be disposed of. The pellets and seeds can remain in the cage for several days, but any fresh fruits or vegetables will need to be monitored for spoilage. Remove the food dishes once per week and clean them thoroughly to get rid of any food remnants that might rot.Make sure you check your bird’s food dishes every day to prevent exposure to rotten foods.
 There are some food items that are toxic to conures. Some of these items include peanut shells, avocados, onions, chocolate, and cocoa. Do not give these items to your conure under any circumstances.You should also avoid feeding your conure anything containing caffeine or alcohol, as these can be highly toxic to birds.
 While some human foods are perfectly acceptable to feed your conure, others can be quite unhealthy for your bird. This is especially true for foods that are high in sugar, fat, and salt content. Conures cannot break down these elements very easily, so they are difficult to digest.Avoid feeding your conure sugary cereals or grains, processed foods of any kind, or food items containing meat.
 If you are unsure about what to feed your conure, make an appointment with your veterinarian so that they can answer any questions you might have. This is the safest option for your bird.You should also be able to ask questions of knowledgeable pet store employees or avian specialists.

