 Make a list of present and future aspirations whether it be just scribbling something on a scrap piece of paper. This, in itself, is a step-by-step process that you personally want to accomplish. Remember that there is no limit to your dreams, they can be infinitive: never believe that your goal is impossible. There is no deadline (you can do within your own time).;
, Or better yet, talk to a qualified psychologist. There is logic in accomplishing this, by allowing yourself to release all anxieties brimming underneath the surface (however painful) you are making a significant leap in the right direction of gainful a better impression of yourself from your own perspective. This, in itself is a gradual process. Psychologists are not there to judge but to help you think things through.
 Allow yourself (, not always, but) to help yourself e.g. a bubble bath will do wonders... listen to your favourite music. In this way, you are allowing yourself (however short) a moment to give yourself some importance that you perhaps wouldn't usually. Hygiene is important for you both mentally and emotionally as you're more likely to feel rejuvenated and content in brushing your teeth, washing your face etc.
 This is one of the biggest and overall visible sign of gaining a greater likeness for yourself e.g. a new hair cut, colouring, removing braces, ear piercing etc. From this you are admitting to starting a new chapter in your life and representing yourself as someone you want to be.
 Make a plan beforehand of what you want to put as your status and profile. If uncertain, don't feel pressured. Better yet, write down your interests, hobbies, likes/dislikes that you would like to publicise for all your friends to see. This is welcoming to other people (no matter if you don't have much of a relationship with them at the moment), to realise there is more to you than meets the eye (both friendship/romantic wise).
 It can vary really, doesn't have to be specific, something more over the lines of: Youth Theatre, Cricket, Choir, Hobbies, A sport... anything at all: take your pick! You'll probably start to make the obvious between point 5 & 6 as they both are associated in making social interaction with other people and in the same way showing yourself off as talented and sharing enthusiasm for that particular club or linked interest. This is a method of keeping yourself content: physically, emotionally and mentally especially if, like I was, you tend to over think and back out of things too soon before you've realised what's out there.
 Do something you wouldn't ordinarily do, sounds scary but it isn't really once you get the idea. Basically do something out of spontaneity! We all know that change is scary but at the same thing it is important to note that it can also be a healthy method towards self-confidence. A good example would be e.g get dressed up and go out with friends... remember work at this gradually and build up. Even take photos as memories as post them on your Facebook wall tagging your friends at the same time, you'll make them feel special too if you include them positively.


Spontaneity can also mean doing things by yourself. You don't necessarily need friends with you and sometimes, if you're a beginner especially at building self-esteem, it can be the beauty of it! Enjoy yourself. Perhaps randomly, buy yourself a dress that you've imagined yourself wearing. A new dress can do wonders to make yourself feel young and girly or slightly older and more sophisticated. Don't be afraid if you don't have a potential event to wear it to. If you have a few close friends, you'll think of something.

