 They're out there almost everywhere you look: scams that promise easy money with very little effort. The problem is, with them being so widespread, why aren't more people rolling in free money? The painful truth is that it's extremely, extremely hard to get rich, and it's extremely likely that giving your hard-earned money to one of these schemes is a lot like flushing it down the drain. If it's too good to be true, it probably is.
 The Roth IRA is a special savings account that lets you bypass taxes provided that you keep your money in it for a certain time (usually after you're 59½ years old). You don't have to keep all your retirement savings in your Roth IRA, but it's a good idea to make tax free dollars for when you're older than 60. There are several big advantages of Roth IRAs:


You choose an investment plan for your money. Your money gets invested in a portfolio instead of just sitting there, meaning that it can grow much larger than if you put it in regular old savings and get a measly 1% interest rate.
Compound interest. Roth IRAs generate interest on your interest, which is called compound interest in the industry. You need to let your money sit for a while in a Roth IRA, but once you do, your money will start generating huge amounts of interest, which only then get bigger.
 Investing your money in a CD is a good way to put money to use that you know you won't lose to be missing for a while. When you put your money in a 1-year term CD, you can't withdraw it for a year (because the bank lends it out). After that period, you get your money back, plus interest. The longer the term of the CD (you could give some of your money away for 20 years), the higher the interest rate.



Note: This is a way to beat inflation, and shouldn't be a large part of an investment strategy. Inflation happens when the government prints more currency, and the value of the total currency goes down. Do this if you're worried about inflation, not as a way to get rich.
 Everyone knows that when you buy a car it loses much of its value as soon as you drive it off the lot. Assets like these are called depreciating assets. Make as few of these purchases as possible. Instead, buy things that increase in value over time. Examples of appreciating assets include:


Houses (usually, although the housing crisis of 2008 proved that wrong)
Stocks (usually, adjusted for inflation, the stock market has steadily climbed since 1900.)
Small business (usually, but not always)

, The beauty of the global economy is that you can work with people across the globe in real time, in an engagement that is hopefully mutually beneficial for both parties. If you are self-employed, definitely consider outsourcing some of the work to cheaper markets. If your job is very clerical, consider outsourcing parts of it so that you can find time investing your energy into other profitable pursuits.
 It doesn't have to be a 401K, but you should set yourself up to receive funds even while you're not working. You could start a blog with advertisements on each page, or write articles for a revenue sharing site. Whatever you decide needs to generate income on its own; that way when you stop working, you can still pay your bills. Other automatic income sources include:


Affiliate marketing programs
Drop-shipping retail store
Many more

, A certain amount of debt is fine to have, as long as you have a plan to pay it off and you're using it for something that's valuable. But too much debt can get you into a vicious cycle.


Bad debt looks like this:
Heavy debt on your credit card for purchases that have long since lost their value. You're only paying the minimum payments and your interest rate is at a whopping 20%, before tax.


Good debt looks like this:
A mortgage on a nice home that's less than what you would pay to rent the home. The down payment on your home was over 20%, and the home is in a neighborhood that's gradually increasing over time.
 Sure, a financial advisor will cost you some money, especially if they're a good one. But a good financial planner will also make you a ton of money; they understand the stock market, how to diversify accounts to spread out risk, and have financial savvy to see when the headwinds are changing. A good financial planner is someone who always has your back and who always forgives your mistakes while offering you the best financial advice in the world.
 A 401(k) policy is where your company funnels a small portion of your paycheck into a separate, tax-deferred savings account. The maximum current yearly contribution to 401(k) is $18,000.The great part of about 401(k)s is that your out-of-pocket contributions may be matched by your employer, depending on their policy. This means that whatever amount you decide to put into your 401(k), you employer will put in the same amount. If your employer does match contributions, definitely take advantage of that policy. It's the closest thing to free money you may ever get.
 Now that you know how much time you have until your youthful retirement age, plan what you need to do to get there. Don't be afraid if you need to make drastic adjustments. It will all be worth it once you're laying on a hammock enjoying your fruity beverage.

