 In most cases, site models do not get paid by websites/blogs for their images. This is because the majority of site model photos are considered to be “candid” – which means they aren’t high resolution/professional quality and mostly taken by the site models themselves.Most site models simply enjoy taking photos and are happy to provide them at no cost to websites/blogs for the social/online exposure.
Candid photos are not considered to be copyrighted artwork, so anyone can save and use these photos.
 If you are interested in becoming a professional model, you can use site modelling to get your start in the business. There are online communities and agencies that allow site models to upload their images to be viewed by industry professionals. Modelling agencies, casting directors and photographers sometimes look for new talent through these platforms.


These community websites usually make money by charging you a monthly membership fee in order to upload your photos and participate.Some of them will also require that you pay them a 10% finder’s fee if you are discovered for a contract job through their site.
Be very careful – not all of these agencies are legitimate. There have been reports of sexual assault and even models going missing after showing up to photoshoots set up through them., Unfortunately, the modelling industry is flooded with scams that strive to get money from you without offering any legitimate services. If an agency asks you to pay an upfront fee before they will provide a service, they are not legitimate. Another red flag is if a company requires you to use a specific photographer of their choosing.If you are solicited through an email or Facebook, you are probably being taken advantage of.Never respond if you are asked to send suggestive photos of yourself.


If you are urged to take an opportunity immediately because it’s temporary, it’s usually a scam.
If a deposit is required, which the company claims is refundable, and they only accept cash or money orders – this is a scam.
Do your research and never give a company your personal information until you confirm their legitimacy.
 Never arrange to meet about potential modelling work by yourself or with someone you’ve never actually met. If you are contacted for a shoot and you feel uncomfortable going to it alone, request to bring someone with you. If the photographer refuses, you may want to reconsider the offer. Anyone under the age of 18 needs to bring a guardian with them to contract jobs. If you are denied that, you should be very concerned.If you show up to a shoot and are asked by the photographer to remove your clothing without being told about the nudity initially, leave immediately.
If you feel you’ve been taken advantage of in some way, contact The Model Alliance or go to www.modelalliance.org for more information.