 The best way to get a well-rounded pectoral workout is to use a variety of techniques. Changing the types and tools of your pec workout on a regular basis can also prevent you from plateauing in your strength training or becoming bored with your workout.









You can generally only do 2-4 exercises in the same muscle group each day. Try a different set each time you work out your pecs to get a full workout.Your pectorals are not one muscle, they are a set of interrelated muscles. Certain exercises will focus more on one section than another, so a variety helps you build the whole muscle group., Free weights allow you to tailor your workout to a variety of locations and physical needs. The range of motion and the added stress to your stabilizer muscles (compared to weight machines) will be essential to build strong pecs.









Free weights are those not attached to a cable or machine -- so dumbbells and barbells.
 Weight machines offer a variety of convenient chest workouts that can be quickly altered to add or reduce resistance. Physical trainers can give advice on additional pec workouts that involve overhead pulls, hanging dips, and alterations of other common chest exercises. Because you're locked into one range of motion (the one the machine track moves on) weight machines are good for focused, intense workouts.









Try not to only use weight machines. Free-weights are important for letting your muscles move naturally, preventing injury., Resistance bands offer convenient, affordable alternatives to free weights or weight machines. They are portable and can be used for virtually any chest routine desired. They are sold in a variety of resistance levels for a beneficial chest workout at any skill level.








Frequently, resistance bands are "too easy" for some people. To get around this, focus on doing low-weight, high-rep sets, trying to hit 25-30 reps with each exercise, and do 3 sets., Body weight can be used to help build and tone chest muscles with push-ups and pull-ups. Using your body weight eliminates some of the joint and muscle stress brought on by added weights and is a great way to get big anywhere:










Push-ups: With your toes and both palms on the floor, shoulder length apart, straighten your spine. Lower yourself to the floor, then slowly push yourself back up until your arms are extended. The wider your hands are spread the more the exercise works your pecs.
'Dips: Sit in the air off a ledge with your feet on the floor, both hands behind you, and your butt off the ground. Your body will form a little chair, with your arms extended behind you. Keeping your elbows parallel with your legs, lower your butt towards the ground, dipping down, then push back up until your arms are extended.
 Strong pectoral muscles require a variety of different challenges and the ability to function well in a variety of situations. To give your pecs the best workout, perform a variety of other exercises that will force your pectoral muscles to grow along with the arm, shoulders, and back muscles. Play sports that require upper-body strength and coordination. Opt for activities that involve considerable upper body motions like throwing, pushing, or pulling.









Rowing
Rugby
Football
Baseball/Softball
Swimming
Rock Climbing
Volleyball.