 If the methods above haven't worked for you, don't worry yet — some sources on the internet recommend a variety of alternate remedies. Though these aren't necessarily guaranteed to work as well as the methods above, they're unlikely to hurt. For starters, try squeezing the juice from a lemon over your item to soak the scorch mark. Drop the item into a container of hot water and let it sit for about 15-30 minutes. Remove and dry as normal.


To be safe, don't try this trick with non-bleach-safe fabrics like silk, wool, and so on. Though lemon juice is very mild compared to bleach, some sources report that it can cause minor damage to these types of fabrics., Another trick for removing scorch marks from your clothes is to soak a sponge or rag in white vinegar and rub the scorch mark with it. Let the now-soaked item sit for about 10 to 15 minutes before rinsing with cool water. Dry as normal.


Only use white vinegar — never red wine vinegar, apple cider vinegar, or other types, as these can cause new stains which can be hard to remove themselves.
 If you've just accidentally given your fabric a scorch mark, some sources recommend letting the item soak in ice-cold water before doing anything else.Keep the water cold as the item soaks either by adding ice or moving the container to a freezer. For best results, let the item soak for at least an hour.


If you do move your item into a freezer, don't forget about it — though freezing clothing or fabric won't usually damage the item, it will halt the cleaning process.
 Heavy scorch marks may not be removable with any sort of normal cleaning methods. However, in some cases, you may still be able to lessen the visible damage from a scorch mark by using a gentle abrasive like an emery pad to scrape dark burnt material away. This is not guaranteed to work, and if you rub too harshly, it's even possible to wear a new hole in the fabric. However, compared to the possibility of needing to throw the garment out, many may find this risk worth it.


For this tactic, you don't necessarily need to use an emery pad — any mild abrasive (like sandpaper, for instance) can work well.

