 Raise your monitor so that the top third of your screen is at eye-level. Measure the distance from your monitor to your eyes to ensure it is 18 to 24 inches (45.7 to 61.0 cm) away from your face. You may need to prop your computer up on some books, use a taller or shorter desk, or adjust the height of your chair. Use a tape measure to determine how far your face is from your computer screen, and adjust where you place your chair accordingly. , Try to keep your shoulder bag or purse to a small size and minimal weight. If you do have a lot to carry, use a backpack rather than something with only one strap, and get a backpack that’s designed for even weight distribution.Avoid carrying bags on the same shoulder all the time, because this will lead to improper alignment. Switch shoulders regularly.
 If you work at a desk or work in front of a computer, get up and move around frequently to decrease the pressure on your neck and back. A brief pause to walk around every half hour can be beneficial. Try to take 30 seconds or a minute to do neck stretches every 2 hours. The same goes for sitting on the couch and watching television., If you often wake up with a sore neck, you probably have poor sleep posture. Supportive neck pillows allow your head to fall into the middle of the pillow, supporting your neck with a firm, curved section at the bottom of the pillow.
 While walking, keep your shoulders back and aligned. Squeeze your core muscles (your abdominal muscles) to keep your body straighter. Bend your knees a little bit to take some pressure off of your hips. Invest in shoes with good arch support – it’s amazing how much this can help your posture., Keep your chin parallel to the floor when you’re walking, and walk with a heel-to-toe motion. Don’t stare at your feet or arch your back; keep your butt and belly lined up with the rest of your body., Using a posture brace has been shown to help improve posture by forcing your shoulders back and keep your head aligned with your vertebrae. Using a posture brace daily can not only help maintain a proper posture but in fact improve your shoulder positioning.

