 To open the Firefox browser on your computer, click on its icon, which should be on your desktop, Start menu, or taskbar.;
, Just look for the icon with three short horizontal lines arranged one on top of the other found at the top-right corner of the browser. Click on the icon to display a drop-down menu.
 On that drop-down menu, click on the submenu “Options.” A window will then pop up where you will see tabs, one of which is marked “Tabs.” Click on this as well, and this will change the settings under “Tabs.”

, The first on the list of Tab settings is “Open new windows in a new tab instead,” with a check box to its left. Check the box if you prefer this option to be applied the next time you browse.


Selecting this option is especially useful when you’re busy and you want the multiple open windows to be organized into several tabs in just one main window.
 The second option is “Warn me when closing multiple tabs,” which is designed so that you never lose tabs not meant to be closed yet in the first place.


Turn the feature on by clicking on its tick box so that Firefox will issue a warning to prevent the loss of important information.
 You can check the box adjacent to “Warn me when opening multiple tabs might slow down Firefox” if you want a gentle reminder not to open too many tabs at once.


Too many tabs will significantly slow your Internet down to a pace.
 Check the box for “Don’t load tabs until selected” if you want Firefox not to open new tabs until you specifically select them.


This action can speed up your browser especially if you already have a lot of tabs open.
 Mark “When I open a link in a new tab, switch to it immediately” with a check if you want Firefox to directly bring you to the new tab where the link you just clicked on has opened.


This option is quite useful so you do not have to go through all the tabs to locate the latest one.
 Check the tick box adjacent to “Show tab previews in the Windows taskbar” if you want to be able to preview a tab without having to actually maximize it.
 Click on the “OK” button at the bottom of the pop-up box to save your changes.

