 Before you begin, make sure your feet are secured to the foot plate. To do so, use the straps provided on the machine.Pull the straps across the top of your foot. Secure them until they're tight to the point your feet do not slide around on the foot plate.;
, The starting position for rowing is known as "the catch." To get into the catch, bend your knees until your body is near the handle at the front of the machine. Grab the handle securely with both hands. Make sure your back is straight.Hinge forward at the hips so the torso is tilted in a forward leaning position over your legs. Keep your back as straight as you can.
Make sure to grab the handle firmly. You do not want it to slide out of your hands while you are rowing.
 When using a rowing machine, you're moving one body part at a time — start with the legs.When you push off the foot plate, you will be using your quads and glutes to extend your legs.









Do not make the mistake of using your full-body all at once during this exercise. Rowing properly means you are progressing from using your legs, then your core, then your arms in succession — not all at once in a single full-body move.
The muscles used for a rowing machine should be 60% legs, 20% core, and 20% arms/shoulders.
Keep your arms and torso in the original position.
 Once your legs are straightened out, use your core and hamstrings to lean back to a roughly 45 degree angle, keeping your spine straight.


Your core muscles keep the pelvis and upper torso locked together — this will stabilize your back, preventing movement along the spine which could lead to injury.
 Once your legs are straight and your back is tilted, you can practice including the arm movements. Your core will remain engaged, holding your torso at a 45 degree angle as you pull the handle toward your chest.









Bend your elbows in order to pull the handle towards your chest.
Pull the handle inward until it touches just below your chest.
This move will cause your latissimus dorsi to contract to stabilize the shoulder, the deltoids and triceps contract to pull the elbow back and the handle towards the sternum.
 You will now begin to return to starting position, following the reverse sequence of movement — arms, core, legs. Extend your arms from your chest, then tilt your torso forward out of the 45 degree angle.








Extend your arms first and then hinge your torso forward at the hips.
 Keep bending your knees until you're back in the original position. You should have your knees bent and your body close to the front of the machine, with your hands firmly grasped around the handle. You can now do the movement again.








Keep in mind that the movement is not a two count movement — one count out, one count in. Rowing properly is a three count movement, with one power-driven count as you extend your body out with the stroke. Returning to the catch should take two counts, which gives you time to recover for your next pull., If you work out at a gym, the rowing machine may be set to a very high or low setting when you're starting out. Make sure to check the settings before you begin rowing. If you've never rowed before, you do not want to start out on a very high setting.The higher the gear, the heavier the machine will feel as you move your body back and forth.
For beginners, a setting between three and five is recommended.
 Many people use the rowing machine to work their arms; however, you're better off using something like free weights if you're just looking for an arm workout. Remember, the rowing machine engages your legs, core, and arms. Use all these muscle groups when rowing instead of just using your arms.Concentrate mostly on your legs when moving your body back and forth on the rowing machine. Again, about 60% of your body's movement should come from your legs.
Only about 20% of your body's movement comes from your arms. The other 20% should come from your core.
 Remember that there is a specific order that you should move your body on a rowing machine. You start with your legs, then move onto your core and hamstrings, and finish with your arms and back. Make sure to row in order instead of moving your legs, arms, and core at the same time., If you hunch while rowing, you'll end up with a sore back later. Be aware of your posture through the entire rowing process. Make sure to keep your back as straight as possible during every step of the rowing movement.