 If you consistently do not answer unwanted telemarketing calls, you will probably find that the number of calls you receive will decrease over time. Take advantage of your phone's caller ID features and do not answer calls from unknown numbers, especially from toll-free numbers., If you are getting repeated calls from the same numbers, you may be able to block all future calls from those numbers. The exact method of doing this will depend upon the services offered by your telephone provider and the specific settings available on your phone. Call your telephone provider for specific details and instructions.Some providers may charge a fee for blocking numbers, so be sure to ask about this before agreeing to the service.
If your wireless provider or mobile phone does not offer a service that allows you to block numbers, you may be able to download a mobile app to do so.
Unfortunately it is becoming more and more common for companies to use fraudulent practices to deceive caller ID. Their number may show up differently each time they call, which can make blocking the caller nearly impossible.
Some telephone providers also offer the option to automatically block calls that come from numbers which are not recognized by caller ID or show up as "Private." If you are receiving a large volume of unwanted calls from blocked numbers, ask your provider about this service., There are now a wide variety of technological solutions to unwanted telemarketing calls, especially robocalls. You can find electronic devices that attach to your landline phone, as well as mobile apps that you can download on your cell phone. All of these products work slightly differently, but they all aim to significantly reduce the number of automated telemarketing calls you receive.Some of the mobile apps are completely free.
Be sure to read online reviews before deciding on the call blocking service that is right for you.
 If you are getting telemarketing calls that violate any laws, you can file a complaint online with either the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).Telemarketers are not allowed to call you after you have been registered on the Do Not Call list for 31 days, unless they fall into one of the previously mentioned exempt categories.
All telemarketers must remove you from their calling lists upon request.
All telemarketers must provide you with the name and contact information of the company they represent.
Telemarketers are not permitted to call you between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Telemarketers are in no way permitted to present fraudulent or misleading information about the products or services they are selling. Telephone fraud complaints are handled by the FTC.