 Launch your favorite web browser, such as Safari or Chrome, by tapping on its icon. In iOS, Safari is a blue and white, square icon, containing a compass, and is located in the bottom dock of your screen.


If you don't see an icon for your browser in Android, tap on the Apps menu at the bottom center of your device, locate your browser and tap on it.
You cannot use the AOL mobile app to cancel your account; you must access AOL with your Web browser.
 Type "bill.aol.com" in the bar at the top of your browser window.
 Enter your username and password in the appropriate spaces in the white box on the right side of your screen.


If you no longer remember your password, tap the blue "Forgot password?" hyperlink just below and to the right of the space where you were to enter your password. Follow the guided steps to recover your password.
 Tap the blue "Sign In" button beneath the password box.
 After signing in, you will be prompted to select a security question from a drop-down menu on the right side of your screen. Tap the drop-down and scroll to the question you wish to answer.
 Enter the correct answer in the provided space, beneath the question you selected. Then, tap the blue "Continue" button located below your answer.
 "Manage My Subscriptions is located in the top left of the window, in black text, just below the main, gray "My Account" bar. A drop-down menu will appear.
 Tap "Manage My Subscriptions," which should be the first selection in the drop-down menu.
 In the new window, on the right side of the screen, you will see information related to your account, such as whether it's free or paid, when the billing date is, and who owns the account. At the bottom right of the screen, below the account information is an orange "Cancel" link. Tap "Cancel."

, After tapping on cancel, you'll be taken to a screen with a long list of the benefits you will lose by canceling your subscription. Scroll all the way to the bottom of the window by swiping your finger upward on the screen of your mobile device.
 Tap the drop-down menu beneath the prompt asking you to select a reason for canceling your AOL subscription. The prompt and drop-down are located at the bottom left of the screen, just above the orange "Cancel AOL" button.
 On the drop-down menu, select and tap the reason closest to the one for your cancellation.
 Tap the orange "Cancel AOL" button at the bottom right of the screen, located just beneath your reason for canceling. You will see the message, "We are sorry to lose you as an AOL user."

