 Confidence demonstrates independence, self-assurance, and a healthy amount of pride. Being assertive, secure, and having a positive self-image are attractive traits because they demonstrate that you don’t need anybody but yourself, which makes time you spend with someone else special and deliberate. Body language is the easiest way to show your self-confidence.


Practice good posture. Sit up straight, don’t slouch or hunch, and hold you head up high.
Keep your eyes up and resist the urge to look down at your feet all the time. Making eye contact shows that you’re open, fearless, and willing to interact.
Avoid fidgeting: it’s a sign of nervousness.;
, Stay calm, act naturally, and don’t try too hard! Avoid forcing conversations and trying to impress others, and don’t be afraid to say “no” or speak your mind. People will be attracted to you because of who you are and what makes you special, not because of who you pretend to be. This applies to how you present yourself as well—through things like clothing and style choices—so just be yourself, and don’t worry about what other people think about you.


Wear outfits that make you feel classy and sensual. Be selective about the skin you show, and only wear what you’re comfortable in.
Avoid excessive makeup. A little bit goes a long way, and most people prefer the natural look anyway.
Remember your natural pheromones are the most attractive smell to compatible partners, even if they don’t consciously pick up on this. That being said, light perfumes are best if you want to wear anything. Try something citrus scented, because citrus smells pleasant, sweet, and fresh.
 They say it takes two to tango, so once you’ve found somebody you want to flirt with, now it’s time to make that person notice you. Getting someone’s attention is easy: all you have to do is make eye contact. But once you’ve done that, look down and smile. It’s called being coy. It’s also an invitation for someone to come over and talk to you.


Add a splash of a vibrant color, like red, to your outfit.
Avoid making the first move. Once you’ve made eye contact a few times and flashed a couple smiles, just wait for that magic to work (and besides, that really was the first move!)
Exude happiness: smile, laugh, and have a great time. Anyone who sees you will want to join in on the fun as well.
Create movement with your body, hands, gestures, or even clothes. Our eyes are attracted to movement, and this is sure to get you noticed., When you’re getting to know somebody, it’s important to show your playful side. Keep the conversation light, be open to new things, and show that you know how to have a good time. Joke around, be lively, and show off your sense of humor.


Avoid serious topics.
Dance together (or own your own) if that’s your thing.
At a party, you can use games to host a friendly competition, or to build a bond by working together. Games also provide a distraction that can help take the pressure off and give you a chance to chat.
 But don’t put all your cards on the table at once. Getting to know someone is a process, and the longer you draw it out, the more stimulating it will be. Show your interest without being too overt; it’s ok to flirt and be suggestive, but be subtle about it.


Don’t immediately come right out and say how you feel, but say something nice. Rather than “I like you” on the first night, try “I like your smile” instead.
Be receptive: smile, make eye contact, and listen.
Body language is the best way to show interest. Face the other person directly, don’t cross your arm, and use facial expressions to show you’re paying attention.
 While we may think that most of our communication is done verbally, in truth body language makes up the lion’s share of human interactions. Body language is actually the first step when it comes to courtship, because it tells a prospective partner if you are receptive and interested. It can also be used as a signal to your love interest that you are expecting an introduction pronto, or that you want to take things further.


Keep your arms open, not crossed. Crossed arms silently say “do not approach.”
Flip or twirl your hair to draw attention to yourself and demonstrate that you’re open to flirtation.
Sit up straight and tilt your head to one side. Lightly stroke your throat or face.Move in closer if you’ve already been approached to demonstrate that the advances are welcome. Lean in when talking, and orient your body so that you are facing each other.
Lick your lips and keep your mouth slightly open. This is a sign of desire.
 The eyes, or so they say, are the windows to the soul, so imagine how much you can communicate just by using them. Facial expressions can also say a great deal about how you’re feeling, often unintentionally.


Lock eyes for a few seconds and then look away if you haven’t been approached yet. Do this about three times, but be sure to smile. This says advances are welcome.Continued eye contact after you’ve been approached means you are still interested.
Look excited and animated. Wide eyes indicate passion and a smile means you are warm and welcoming.
Raise your eyebrows and lower your eyelids, Marilyn Monroe style, to imitate the look of pleasure.Nod your head to show attentiveness.
 Mirroring is the imitation of the body language, speech, and vocal intonations of someone you feel connected to. Although it’s usually a subconscious reflex, the process can be used intentionally to create a bond with someone and build a rapport.


Pick up your drink a few seconds after your companion does, and take at drink following a similar timeframe.
Time your bites if you are out to dinner together so that you are eating in sync.
Change the tone and pitch of your voice to match the passion, excitement, or other emotions your partner expresses.
Avoid mirroring angry or aggressive body language or postures, as this can be interpreted—on a subconscious level—as a threat.
 When attraction is mutual, flirting is a fun and enjoyable behavior that lets two people entertain the idea of being together and feel each other out to test compatibility.This doesn’t mean throwing yourself at someone, but instead giving subtle hints that suggest you feel some chemistry. And the best thing about flirting is that you can do it anywhere!


Flirting is all about letting the other person know you’re interested, so you can flirt with your body, words, gestures, expressions, and even tone of voice.Engage in frequent but light physical contact. This includes a soft but quick touch on the arm or leg as you talk, gently brushing hands, or even touching feet. Establish an intimate space by sitting close and giving the conversation your undivided attention.
Compliment, flatter, and smile. This is welcoming behavior and means you like what’s happening.
At a party or social setting where there are plenty of other possible suitors, try “you know, I’m going to talk to you because you are the cutest one here.”
To get the ball rolling in a shopping setting, ask for help reaching something or request advice about brands. Say, “someone as attractive as you must have a favorite ”
At a restaurant or bar, sit down and request a drink recommendation.
At the gym, try, “I can’t believe how you just crushed that workout! Kudos.”
In any situation, there’s always the classic, “has anyone ever told you that you and could be twins?”

, Playing hard to get is a good way to gauge just how involved someone is (the harder you make it, the more interested the other person is), but remember that this tactic really only works if the person was interested in the first place.After first meeting a new love interest, there’s a fine line between encouraging future advances (being easy to get) and keeping the person interested (playing hard to get), and balance between the two is important. Otherwise, your aloof behavior might scare people off.


Being hard to get isn’t about manipulation, but mystery: it’s all about keeping someone guessing, wondering, and unable to perfectly pin you down. Avoid revealing too much about yourself early on in the relationship.
Make the person aware of your attraction, but stick to your own boundaries while you get to know each other. Don’t feel like you have to be intimate on the first few dates.
Keep your curfew. No matter how great of a time you’re having, don’t stay out all night with your new flame.
Engage in a brief public display of affection if you feel like your suitor might be feeling discouraged.Don’t be afraid to drop hints that you have other suitors who are trying to win your affections.
 You don’t eat the same thing for dinner every night because that would be boring. So why stick to the same patterns and behaviors all the time? By keeping yourself and others guessing what you’ll do or say next, you make life intriguing and fascinating. This doesn’t mean being unreliable or untrustworthy, but rather not being afraid to let loose, relinquish control, and go with the flow now and then. It’s also part and parcel with playing hard to get, because you’ll keep your new partner wondering if you’re fully available. Spontaneity keeps life interesting for everyone involved and helps prevent unexciting routines from forming.


Be curious and open to new things. Break out of old ways of thinking. Try things you think you hate, like new hobbies or foods.
Say “yes”! Go for it next time a friend invites you on a wild adventure. Say “sure” when the near-stranger you met at last week’s party asks you out. Better yet, pick up the phone and initiate a date yourself.
Turn off the TV. Get out into the world and do something, and stop wasting time watching other people live their lives.
Change up regular activities and routines. Experiment with new jogging routes; eat at a new restaurant; have something different for breakfast.
Be fearless. Do things that scare you, and approach all new experiences and situations with bravery and an open mind. Never stop surprising yourself and you are sure to continue surprising others.

