 If this is your first time riding a coaster, or if your first few times terrified you, seek out the smaller coasters. Either look at the park website ahead of time to see what they offer, look at the park map to find out the sizes, and don’t be afraid to ask someone who works at the park which roller coaster would be best for a beginner.For young riders, amusement parks often have kid-oriented coasters that give you thrill but are designed especially with kids in mind. Even if riding the child coasters isn’t an option, most parks have a range of coaster sizes so you can find one that fits you.;
, You can get a good idea of what the ride will be like by looking at the coaster’s structure, watching a couple trains go through the circuit, and watching and listening to the riders.


If the track has multiple big drops, loops, corkscrews, or other features that scare you, maybe pass on that particular coaster for now. Try to find one that seems like the right intensity for you.
If you are with friends, ask if they have ridden specific coasters and can tell you about them.
You can also ask people coming off of the ride what the experience was like for them.
 At the entrance to many roller coasters is a model of the seat featured on the ride. Before going on the coaster for the first time, try out the test seat to make sure you will be comfortable with the seat itself and the straps, pull down bars, and harnesses the seat has.If you aren’t comfortable in the test seat, you will most likely not be comfortable once the ride is fully in motion.
 Once you have decided to ride a specific roller coaster, you have to pick what part of the train you want to sit in. Each portion of the train will experience the ride a little bit differently, and even if the coaster itself is a good fit, certain parts of the train may not be right for you. For first time or inexperienced riders, the middle is the best spot to sit in because it offers the mildest ride.


Sitting in the front gives you a view of exactly where you are headed, which may seem comforting in theory but can actually be scary for first time riders.
The back of the train experiences the highest speed going down hills and tends to have the roughest ride around curves., Once you have completed the ride, your body will most likely need some time to adjust to the change of being back on solid, stable ground. To finish your ride well, take a moment to appreciate the calm of walking slowly again.You can also purposefully take some slow breaths to calm your heart down if it is still racing from the ride.
Another way to calm down is to talk to a friend about what the experience was like.

