 If you want to travel but stay in your own living room, rent or buy a movie that takes place in a foreign country.


Go to Afghanistan by watching The Kite Runner, or Africa by watching Out of Africa. Travel to Italy watching My House in Umbria or Roman Holiday. Go to China watching The Painted Veil or Ireland with Michael Collins.
Watch movies that have subtitles. Hearing the native language while you watch will help you really feel like you are in another country.;
, Whether you prefer fiction with foreign settings or nonfiction travel essays, books and stories can give you a glimpse of daily life in another country.


Check out the World Travel section of your local bookstore, or search for books on travel when you shop online at sites such as Amazon or Barnes and Noble.
Look for books about travel or works of fiction that take place in foreign countries at your local library.
 Travel TV is very popular, and if you have an extensive cable package you probably have access to the Travel Channel.


Enjoy programs all day and night that talk about other countries, cultures, traditions, food and events.
Watch your local Public Broadcasting Station (PBS) if you do not have cable. There are often programs from travel expert Rick Steves and others in the PBS daily lineup.
 You can find newsletters, websites and blogs from people living in almost every country on the planet online.


Check out site such as the Matador Network (www.matadornetwork.com), where people post blogs, pictures, videos and information about their experiences living and traveling in different parts of the world.
Visit social networking sites. You can find groups on Facebook and Twitter, as well as boards on newer sites such as Pinterest. Look for the World Cultures Pinterest board as well as the Global & Diverse Kids board if you want your little ones to travel with you.



Join a free music streaming service such as Pandora or Spotify and tune in to world music stations.
Download music from different countries, or borrow CDs from your local library. Check YouTube for world music videos.
Learn an instrument. Every country has traditional instruments for song and dance customs. Learn the Spanish guitar or the Didgeridoo, a traditional Australian instrument.

