 Your franchise agreement may include a clause requiring any disputes to be handled using alternative dispute resolution (ADR) such as arbitration or mediation.If you didn't draft the franchise agreement, look for an ADR clause towards the end of the document, with the other provisions that relate to the resolution of disputes under the agreement.
There are three basic types of ADR your agreement may specify: binding arbitration, non-binding arbitration, or mediation.
The procedure for binding and non-binding arbitration are similar to a court hearing, only somewhat less formal. Either form of arbitration involves presenting both sides of the case to an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators, who make a decision as to how to resolve the dispute just as a judge would.
The only difference between the two is that a decision made through binding arbitration typically precludes a lawsuit, while a non-binding arbitration decision may be ignored if the parties don't agree to it.
Mediation is a voluntary process, and less formal than arbitration. A neutral third party facilitates the discussion between you and the other party with an eye to arriving at a mutually agreeable compromise.
With mediation, you have a lot more freedom to find a solution, and can even agree to something that could never be ordered by an arbitrator or a court.
 In many cases, an ADR clause in an agreement requires notice to the other party that you intend to proceed under that clause. Even if your clause doesn't require specific notice, or there is no ADR clause in your agreement, it's still a good idea to let the other party know you want to handle the alleged violations through an ADR provider.If notice isn't required by your agreement, try to give the other party at least one week's notice that you intend to use ADR. Let them know what method you want to pursue and provide some options for acceptable ADR providers.
As with any other letters you've sent related to the franchise agreement violations, make a copy of your signed letter before you send it and mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
Keep in mind that since mediation is a voluntary process, you cannot proceed with mediation unless the other party consents to it.
 If your franchise agreement doesn't identify a specific group or service that you must use for ADR, it's up to you and the other party to choose which provider you want to use.Many cities have community mediation programs that may be your most cost-effective option.
You also can find ADR providers approved by your state bar association or court system by searching on your state or local bar association's website, or contacting the clerk of the local county court.
Keep in mind that your choice typically must be approved by the other party before you can schedule an appointment.
 Although the way you'll present your side of the story and the strategies you use may differ depending on whether you're using mediation or arbitration, they way you'll prepare is essentially the same.When you schedule your appointment, your ADR provider typically will give you forms to fill out and information about the process and the types of documents or other evidence you should bring with you to your appointment.
At a minimum, you must have a copy of the franchise agreement, as well as any documents you have that prove the other party is violating that agreement.
Arbitration is similar to a court trial, and often uses similar rules of evidence and procedure. You may want to consider hiring an attorney to represent you at arbitration if you feel uncomfortable with the proceeding – especially if you're submitting to binding arbitration.
While the rules that govern mediation are considerably looser, contact the mediation provider if you have questions regarding your ability to bring any particular documents or witnesses with you.
 Make sure you arrive at the location at least a half hour early so you have time to find the room or rooms where your ADR session will be held and get yourself settled before proceedings commence.A mediation session typically begins with all the parties together in one room. The mediator will conduct introductions and explain the procedure before moving you to separate rooms. The majority of the negotiations will take place like this, with the mediator going back and forth between you.
Arbitration, on the other hand, proceeds much like a trial. Your hearing may even be held in a courtroom, or a room set up much like a courtroom.
Each side will have the opportunity to present its arguments, including introducing evidence or calling witnesses, and then the arbitrator or panel of arbitrators makes a decision based on everything they've heard.
If you fail to reach a resolution through mediation, the mediator will declare an impasse and you are free to pursue other options such as a lawsuit.
Arbitration decisions, on the other hand, typically are binding. If you had non-binding arbitration, either party has the power to reject the decision, at which point you may submit to additional arbitration or proceed to court.

