 The best time to throw a party in school is just after an exam or the end of term. This way, you won't get in as much trouble for just randomly throwing a party. If you do get in trouble, it will be much easier to explain why you had a party than if you simply felt like throwing one. If everybody got good results, the teachers will be more understanding about your need to have some fun. If you're at work, throwing a party for somebody's birthday always works. Christmas, New Years Day and right after somebody gets promoted are also good times to throw parties.;
, If your school is OK with it, you can rent out or borrow one of their halls. The sports hall, assembly hall or canteen usually work best as they are very spacious and shouldn't be too expensive to rent. If your school is still unsure about the party taking place there, offer to raise money by selling ticking and drinks and give them a small percentage of it (20%, for example). If you're not in school, you may need to rent out an external hall. If money's not on your side though, somebody's house works well, depending on how many people are going to be at your party.
 While you might personally like hard rock music, it's rather difficult to dance to for a prolonged amount of time. Instead, go for some pop music, dub step, techno, house and general clubbing music. Make sure the music is interesting, easy to dance to and recognisable by your peers. Is everybody singing that new pop song? Download it. Did your friend tell you that he likes a certain song? Download it. If the music is boring, people will leave. If people like the music, they're more likely to stay, even if everything else goes wrong. Make sure to have the music ready on a CD beforehand.
 The amount of people you're going to invite depends on the size of the venue and how many people you actually want at your party. If you're cool with people bringing their friends, a lot of people will show up. If you don't want that, you won't have as many people at your party. It's not always a bad thing to have less people at the party as it's easier to control and keep everything running smoothly. On your invitations you must include;


Where the party is.
When the party is (Date and time).
Dress code (If there is one).
Ticket prices.
If people can bring their mates along. Make it clear if the friends also have to pay ticket prices or not and the limit on how many people can be brought along.
Any other information.
 It is always a good idea to start the party when everybody has finally shown up. That being said, don't wait too long and try to start the party as close to the time that you gave out. Nobody wants to wait too long and some people will probably leave if the music still hasn't started after an hour because a few people still aren't there. When the music does get started, you won't get too many opportunities to speak to your guests all at once so right before the music starts, get everybody's attention, say your thanks and announce that music will now begin. Take five minute breaks every half an hour or so. That way, people can relax and not risk missing their favourite songs.
 Don't spend all the time headbanging and admiring your own playlist, make sure your guests are happy. If you've run out of drinks, go buy some more. If there's a shy girl in the corner, invite her to dance. If somebody's fallen over, don't laugh, just pick them up. If they're badly hurt, offer to help them or call an ambulance. When you keep everybody happy during the party, nobody will be able to walk out and say that your party was a failure. Also, when people see that you're so considerate, they will look up to you and you will probably become very popular among your peers. If you do see somebody that is having a rubbish time, ask them how you can help them and give them a refund if they ask for one.

