 This is a common logical fallacy so be careful.
 In order to have a good discussion, you must be informed. Learn more about your beliefs. A lot of times, our belief system can be influenced by our surroundings and become innate; however, that natural feeling towards a belief system does not always insure we will be properly informed. Moreover, politics is a huge subject that can change and present new information daily., A discussion can turn in to an argument quickly, and the best way to avoid that is by listening like a good parent or student. Listening to someone does not mean you are submitting to their beliefs. Also, when you reply, speak kindly and intelligently. We enjoy a lot of political analysts who use sharp and sarcastic delivery in both monologues and dialogues. However, all that is done for entertainment. In the real world, sarcasm is not received well by all and is taken offensively by a lot people., Your friend doesn't hold communist beliefs just to anger you. If you start feeling angry during a conversation with your friend, ask yourself where the anger is coming from. It might not actually have its source in your friend's beliefs. Distinguishing your vulnerability before hand can help you avoid certain specific topics. If ever you feel the discussion may have triggered you, be kind enough to ask to change the subject.
 Having a discussion with your friend is meant to open up friendship and share ideas. If you enter discussions with hopes of manipulating the conversation and influencing your friend's beliefs, then nothing well will come out of it. Ignore any thoughts of changing how your friend views the world. Even if you are passionate about the subject, that doesn't give you the right to impose upon your friend., A successful dialogue happens when individuals create new ideas together. The creation and problem solving can only happen with good listening. When your friend is discussing a point, don't interrupt. Give the person time, and don't counter argue by repeatedly stating but but but; using that word immediately negates what was just said, like it didn't even matter. If you wish to get along, you should treat each others ideas as though they do matter., If discussions lead to arguments all the time, then something must be changed, and someone must be wrong. If the discussions lead to an argument that you keep bring up over and over again, chances are you can be wrong for trying to manipulate the discussion. Try to refrain from confusing facts for opinions. Facts should speak for themselves--whether you like believing them or not. Opinions are arguable, so when you feel the discussion is getting very opinion heavy, refrain from being stubborn on a certain point. Admitting you're wrong is fine around friends. If you feel admitting you are wrong is some kind of defeat or concession to your friends beliefs, then reevaluate why you have discussions with your friend.