 Just as "cheese" is the basic word in English, "Käse" is the German word. To pronounce it:

Start by saying kay
Now say zeh (or in some regional variants, it might sound more like "seh")
Put the two together Kay-zeh.
Repeat a few times to liaise the sounds together.;
, To ask for some cheese, say: Ich möchte Käse ("Ick merck-teh kay-zeh"). You can add any of the specific types of cheese to this phrase by replacing the word Käse with one of the specialty cheeses listed in the next section., German cheese has a proud heritage and there are very many distinctive German types of cheese. By learning the word, you'll also be learning about each kind of cheese enjoyed in Germany, including where it comes from (its heritage), how it is made and what sort of cheese it is. Here are some of the German cheese types you might like to learn to say so that you can ask for them when shopping and eating out:

Allgäuder Bergkäse - This is made in Allgäu and is made from cow's milk that hasn't been pasteurized. It is a smooth cheese. It is pronounced something like: "Arl-gow-der Bear-g-kay-zeh.
Butterkäse - This literally means "butter cheese". It's made from cow's milk. It is pronounced something like: "Booter-kay-zeh".
Cambozola - This is a type of blue brie. It is pronounced something like: "Calm-bow-zola".
Edelpilzkäse - A blue vein cheese made form cow's milk. It is pronounced something like: "Ay-dell-piltz-kay-zeh".
Handkäse - A sour milk cheese from Frankfurt am Main and surround region. It is shaped by hand, hence "hand cheese". It is pronounced something like: "Haand-kay-zeh".
Harzer - Another sour milk cheese made from low fat curd cheese. It is pronounced something like: "Hartz-err".
Limburger - A cheese originally made by Belgian monks. It is pronounced something like: "Limb-burger".
Milbenkäse - This cheese is made from quark activated by mites. It is pronounced something like: "Mill-ben-kay-zeh".
Quark - This is a fresh cheese with a mild flavor, usually sold in a small tub. It is pronounced something like: "Qu-v-ark".
Rauchkäse - This is a smoked cheese variety. It is pronounced something like: "Row-k-kay-zeh".
Romadur - A popular German cheese with a strong taste. It is pronounced something like: "Rom-a-dewr".
Tilsit - A semi-hard, light yellow cheese. It is pronounced something like: "Till-ssit".
Weisslacker - A strong, salted cheese. It is pronounced something like "Vice-lucker".
 You do not say "Käse" if you're in Germany. Instead, aim the camera and say "Bitte recht freundlich" ("bitter-wrecked-freu-ndlick" - think of Freud when trying to pronounce freund). Other less formal ways of saying this include:

Spaghetti
Käsekuchen ("kay-zeh-coo-cken") - this means "cheesecake"
Wo ist das Vögelchen ("vo isst duss vogel-cken") - this means "Where is the birdie?"
Lächeln! ("luck-elln") - Smile!

