 One of the easiest ways to prevent the infection of skin is to practice good hand hygiene such as washing your hands frequently. Alternatively, you can use hand sanitizer when soap and water aren't available.


Wash your hands frequently. After wetting hands and applying soap, rub hands together for at least 20 seconds (or the time it takes to sing "Happy Birthday" twice). Be sure to rinse thoroughly with warm water. Dry hands using a paper towel or air dryer.
Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer when soap and water aren't accessible. After applying the sanitizer, rub hands together until they are dry. Be sure to to apply product to all surfaces of the hand including in between fingers.
In some public places, such as hospitals and nursing homes, there is often a sanitary station where you can keep your hands clean. These are usually foam-based sanitizers which sometimes have moisturizer in them, too. Utilize these stations when you can.;
, Although washing hands often helps reduce skin infections, it can also lead to dry skin. Dry skin may result in cracks in the skin, which can allow bacteria to enter the cut. Use a moisturizing lotion often to prevent cracks and peeling of the skin.


Avoid lotions that have a long list of ingredients including many perfumes and fragrances. Plain moisturizers such as petroleum jelly work best.
As a rule of thumb, creamy moisturizers tend to have more preservatives so grease-based moisturizes tend to be more effective.
 Some germs can survive on surfaces anywhere from hours to days.By avoiding skin-to-skin contact with surfaces like locker room floors and doorknobs, you can decrease your chance of coming into contact with infectious germs.


Clean or use a barrier (like gloves or napkins) when touching overly-exposed surfaces. Items like restroom doors, restaurants menus, and cell phones are full of bacteria.Avoiding direct contact with such items can reduce the spread of germs.
Sanitize surface areas often by using household disinfectants or wipes such as Lysol.
 Even though people are taught from a young age that "sharing is caring," sharing personal hygiene items or items that come into contact with bodily fluids can often lead to the transmission of germs.


Personal hygiene products always contain germs. Avoid sharing items like make-up, hair brushes, towels, and deodorant. Never share toothbrushes or razors.
Sharing drinks and eating utensils easily spreads saliva which is a common host of germs.
 The most common fungal skin infection is athlete's foot, the most common bacterial skin infection is staph, and the most common viral skin infections include herpes simplex (cold sores) and rashes accompanied by viral infections. Knowing the differences between the various types of infections can help you to know the causes of each and how to avoid them.


Fungal infections come from airborne organisms and typically start off in the lungs or skin. Athlete's foot, yeast infections, and ringworms are examples of common fungal infections. Athlete's foot is contagious and can be spread through contaminated floors, towels, and clothing.
Bacteria is not always bad; in fact, bacteria is naturally found in the human body and less than 1% has the ability to make people sick. It is the "bad" strains of bacteria (such as Streptococcus or Staphylococcus) which causes skin infections like Cellulitis, Erysipelas and Impetigo.However, skin infections can also spread to your joints, bones, or blood. Additionally, you should be careful if anyone you know has MRSA, which is a resistant bacterial infection.
Viral infections are caused by organisms that are small containers with genetic material within.They invade healthy cells, reproduce, and eventually kill the cell to make you sick. Common skin infections caused by viruses include chickenpox, cold sores, measles, and rubella. There are currently no vaccinations for cold sores, so be aware if you come across this infection.
 Those who are constantly around warm and moist conditions (such as athletes) are more susceptible to infections. Also, people with weakened immune systems (such as those with diabetes, cancer, or HIV) are more likely to have a skin infection.


Many athletes report infection because bacteria tends to thrive in warm and moist areas. Avoid infection by washing frequently, sanitizing shared spaces and equipment, and laundering uniforms after each use. For example, athlete's foot typically occurs as a result of your sweaty feet being confined in tight-fitting shoes.
Those who have conditions which lower the strength of their immune system are more susceptible to infection because their body cannot produce enough of an immune response to the bacteria and viruses to fight infection. Follow the same tips to prevent infection but also take additional precautions such as wearing shoes, keeping raw foods away from prepared foods, and avoiding pet waste.
 Fungal infections usually take the form of "athletes foot" because fungus tends to shed spores and the most common place for this to occur is in shoes.Keeping your feet and shoes clean and dry, and avoiding going barefoot can assist in reducing infections.


Keep your feet as cool and dry as possible. Change socks often, and wear shoes that breathe easily like leather as opposed to plastic.
Avoid walking barefoot, especially on shared public surfaces such as at the gym or the pool. Instead, wear slippers or place towels on the floor.
Practice good toe hygiene, such as clipping toenails straight across and avoiding ingrown toenails. Avoid sharing clippers and other manicuring products.
 When skin is damaged, bacteria can cause infection through untreated cuts and scrapes. Quickly clean and dress damaged skin to avoid infection. Also, use sunblock and lotion as often as possible to avoid damaging skin.


Wash lacerations with soap and rinse thoroughly with water to clean the area. Use tweezers to remove any foreign debris like dirt. Be sure to not apply too much pressure to avoid pushing germs into the cut.
Apply an antiseptic or antibiotic ointment to the abrasion and the surrounding area of skin. This may destroy any bacteria and prevent skin infections from developing.
Cover an open sore or cut with a bandage to keep it clean and dry and to prevent bacteria or fungus from entering the open wound. Change the bandage as needed if it becomes dirty or wet.
Skin is more susceptible to bacterial infections when damaged by sunburn, inflammation, or scratching so taking the necessary precautions to prevent skin damage can assist in decreasing your chances of bacterial skin infection.
Make sure that you're always up to date on your tetanus shots.
 The immune system is a network of cells, tissues, and organs that work together to protect the body.When your immune system is weakened, your body is more susceptible to all infections, especially viral infections. By getting the proper amount of rest and nutrients you can avoid viral infections.


Ensure the proper mix of nutrients. If you don't get enough vitamins and minerals through diet, take a multivitamin that is high in nutrients like vitamin C and D.
Get your rest. Though it sounds simple, resting allows your body and immune system to revamp and recharge, being better capable to fight viral infections. Try to get between 7 and 9 hours of sleep every night.
 It is important to know what type of infection may be present because various infections are treated in different manners. Fungal infections can be treated with over-the-counter creams, bacterial infections usually require prescription antibiotics, and viral infections typically can't be cured with medication.
 Fungal infections are typically treated with OTC topical creams such as Lotrimin or Lamisil, or by oral medications if the infection is severe or affects hair-bearing areas.
 Bacterial infections are usually treated by antibiotic medications that can be prescribed by a medical professional such as a doctor or dentist.


The feared complication of bacterial infections of the skin is MRSA, a resistant bacterial species. If you contract a MRSA skin infection, you will need to be admitted to the hospital and given IV antibiotics.
 It is difficult to treat viral infections because they live inside the cells of your body. They don't react to medicines. There are only a few viral infection medications on the market today. The best course of action is to prevent these infections with immunizations (for example, getting a flu shot ahead of time).
 Different skin conditions require different forms of treatment. While some can be treated with over-the-counter drugs, others require prescription medication. Always visit your doctor to discuss treatment options for areas which seem to be infected.


Visit a doctor when you experience warmth, redness, pain, or swelling of skin. This can be a sign of cellulitis, which occurs when the infection begins to spread and inflame the lymphatic ducts.Left untreated, it can infect the bloodstream.
Visit a doctor if your infection develops into pus-filled blisters.
See a doctor if fever accompanies your irritated skin.

