 There are many counselors in Australia who provide free financial counseling. You should find a counselor and schedule a meeting. Your counselor can describe bankruptcy alternatives in more detail.


Call the National Debt Hotline at 1 800 007 007. They are open Monday through Friday, 9:30 am to 4:30 pm.You can also perform an online search here: https://www.moneysmart.gov.au/managing-your-money/managing-debts/financial-counselling/find-a-financial-counsellor.
 Avoiding bankruptcy might require nothing more than coming up with a budget and cutting unnecessary expenses. Your financial counselor can help negotiate repayments with your lenders.Your creditors might be willing to suspend payments for a few months or temporarily lower your interest rate.If you think your creditors are being unreasonable, you can participate in free mediation with either the Credit and Investments Ombudsman or the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ask your creditor which service they belong to.Informal arrangements are voluntary, which means your creditors don’t have to enter them. You also have legally binding options, such as a debt agreement or personal insolvency agreement.
 With consolidation, you take out one loan to cover your debts. The loan should have a lower interest rate than your current loans, thus lowering your monthly payments. This might be an attractive alternative to bankruptcy.


There are many debt consolidation companies in Australia. Avoid working with one that isn’t licensed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). You should search ASIC’s professional Register to check whether a provider is licensed.Avoid taking out more debt with consolidation.Because your monthly payment goes down, you might be tempted to take out even more money. You shouldn’t. Instead, use the extra money to pay off your debts quickly.
 If you can’t pay debts as they fall due, you can propose a debt agreement. You work with a debt agreement administrator to draft the proposal and then submit it to the Australian Financial Security Authority.Visit the AFSA website to see if you qualify. Your income and debt levels must be below a certain amount.


Your creditors vote whether to accept the debt agreement. So long as a majority of creditors accepts the agreement, all creditors are legally bound to it.
These debt agreements do not release you from secured and other kinds of debts.
The payment period lasts for a certain number of years (typically three to five). Once you complete the payment agreement, any outstanding debt is forgiven., These are like debt agreements, but there is no limit on income or total debt owed. If you have a lot of assets or a high debt load, you might choose a personal insolvency agreement.Your creditors must vote whether to accept or reject the proposed agreement.


One key difference between a Part X and a Part IX agreement is what happens to your assets. In a Part X PIA, the trustee who oversees your personal insolvency agreement may sell your assets and distribute proceeds to your creditors.You should talk with a financial creditor about what assets you might lose.
Like a debt agreement, a PIA is recorded on your credit report.

