 You won’t see Emma with a lot of bling. Either she doesn’t wear jewelry at all or she chooses simple, understated pieces.


One of her favorite looks is to wear silver hoop earrings. She likes silver and understated jewelry, although occasionally you will see her with statement earrings to match a gown.
She’s been known to throw on a vintage hat as an accessory now and then. You might see her at the airport wearing a floppy black hat.
 Emma enjoys patterns. She doesn’t show too much cleavage. She’s classy and traditional.


You will often see Emma wearing polka dots or small floral patterns. She might also wear smaller checks or larger flowers. She is not a person who only wears monochrome.
Emma also prefers to wear shirts with collars, including underneath sweaters or blazers. She tends to favor square necklines that don’t show much cleavage. She has a look that some people think seems French.
 Emma’s style is somewhat old-school. She would fit in well in the 1940s. Her look is not too edgy modern, and it’s not too frilly, either.


Think about wearing polka dots, button up shirts with cool collars, a tuxedo jacket, a drop waist dress. She’s tried all kinds of looks, including on the red carpet. Her looks never show too much skin, are never too tight, and never have too much sparkle.Emma plays with color. Think of her wearing a vintage dress in lemon yellow. Or a deep burgundy jacket. You will sometimes see her in black, but she is a person who switches up her preferred colors.
 Part of Emma’s appeal is that she seems like a normal person. She once snuck into a sci-fi movie fest because she didn’t want to be recognized.Emma’s funny. So if you want to be like her, you need to not take yourself too seriously and be able to make people laugh. She’s a romantic, often caught up in a relationship.
She is open about her normalcy. She has admitted that she used to get stress acne and is insecure. She loves animals, and she has a retriever she rescued from an animal shelter.
 Emma is not too thin, but she’s also in great shape. She is not the kind of person who looks too muscular, though, but she is healthy.


She enjoys smoothies that she makes herself. Sometimes she uses Vitamix. A typical concoction involves bananas, frozen berries, coconut water, and Vitamix. For hydration, she is also said to drink at least 7 glasses of lemonade a day.
Emma has been known to get her exercise outside, favoring rock climbing and walking, but she also does Pilates.She avoids fad diets.