 Find new friends that like to act like themselves, too. Also, try not to undersell yourself either, presenting a false personality.;
, Hegemony causes you to act differently from your friends to your family. Act as if you were at home, as home is where you feel comfortable the most and can act natural.
 Everybody deserves respect, including you. If you find yourself out of the ordinary, stop and think about the feelings of others and how your feelings would be affected by your actions from another person's perspective.
 Think of a person who acts like he is perfect and then think of what is wrong with him. There is always a 'wrong' with them. Another thing, don't act like you're not so perfect because you can lose lots of friends that way too.
 Take control of your life. If someone is controlling your actions, take back that control by telling a responsible adult or ignoring that person.

Bossy people are different to bullies. If you feel threatened or experience aggressive behaviour, tell someone immediately.
 You are the first person to notice your mistakes and imperfections. Be aware of your attitude and behaviour toward others and either change for the betterment of yourself or for the respect of others.

Note that accepting yourself is not the same as becoming someone you want to be. Accepting yourself means to understand who you are in a variety of situations, aware of the way you react, respond and feel.
 Recording your thoughts and memorable moments will help maintain a healthy connection between your mental and spiritual awareness. Use this to make improvements to your mind, body and soul.
 What are your goals, dreams and aspirations? Answering these questions will help your mind prepare for long-term achievements and make the most out of your developing maturity.
 Expressing yourself is a great way to appreciate yourself. Sharing your talents, opinions and goals can keep you on track to succeeding those goals. You may even make some long-lasting relationships with people who share the same interests and inspirations as you do.
 walk tall! This withholds a rush of confidence and will improve your body language as well by sending positive signals.
 Your heart will never fail you! Worrying yourself about what others do and say, you will never learn to be yourself.
 be happy with yourself!

