


Sex: Its most basic meaning is our biology: male, female, intersex, etc. It is a term created for scientific purposes which is why we are asked to label ourselves on medical records. It is assigned at birth based off genitals. Many people who study gender and sexuality question the purpose of this as well.






Gender: It was created as a way to identify how society wants someone of a certain sex to behave. For example, the concept that "pink is for girls/blue is for boys" is nothing more than a social construct we have been told to believe very strongly in.;
, Frequently used gender terms have become so common that we forget their actual meanings: "girl" means a prepubescent female, whereas "woman" means an adult female, yet society frequently refers to anyone fitting the description of a female to be a "girl" no matter the age (infantilization).
 Ask yourself how your daily routine, and behavior would change if you were not given a gender or sex. If you are not transgender, ask yourself how you would feel if you were.


Beware of the belief that females are emotional and males are logical. It is a fallacy. Gender does not only impact one sex. Convincing one sex that they must act a certain way is damaging, yet the majority of people still follow gendered behavior to prevent punishment. We are so used to "doing gender" that we have forgotten that we are acting.
 When a male's masculinity is questioned they are often accused of being homosexual. This is believed even though in ancient times the love between two males was more meaningful than that of a heterosexual couple. At the same time, a female who can care for herself is frequently criticized for it, and sometimes labeled a lesbian because society cannot accept a female who does not need a male.


Ask yourself, on a daily basis, if what you are saying or thinking of someone is factual or if it is socially constructed gender. It helps to ask how you would feel if you were that person -- no matter your sex.
 Since pronouns like "he" and "she" are frequently used, try to use non-gendered pronouns such as "they", especially in situations when you don't know a person's pronoun. Also, stop assuming people's pronouns. As pronouns are closely connected to gender identity, there's no way to find out someone's pronoun except for asking. Make it a habit, it sometimes helps to rework your mind.
 Think about your own gender, and sexuality. No matter what they are you are being policed by society to act a certain way, and it is wrong -- society can make it right. It takes time to fully comprehend the line between sex and gender. While females often admit the countless times in a day that their performance is belittled by their gender, males experience it as well, but are taught to fight back to re-prove their masculinity.
 Tell others about the difference between sex and gender to see if they can start to change their outlook as well.
 While gender is often a tool of oppression, it can also be a helpful way for trans people to express themselves without their genitals costing them their lives. Since a transgender -- not "transgendered" -- person was assigned a sex that does not fit the gender they connect with, they can focus on the socially accepted appearance of gender; unfortunately, when they "do gender" it is not merely for their own comfort, but also as a survival tool.

