 These are beautiful little hearts that double as small baskets. You can hang these from the tree and add small treats inside as gifts., These should be two different colors to weave a nice pattern for your heart. Traditional colors are white and red although you can use any combination you prefer. Choose paper that is a medium weight.

Too thick of paper will make it difficult to complete the weaving.
Too thin of paper will not hold up as a basket., If you are using standard letter size or A4 paper then you can fold them in half “hamburger style” or width-wise. Then cut a straight line from the center of the folded edge to the center of the non-folded edge on both sheets. You will use one rectangle of each color.

The size of the papers can be varied according to your preferences, because it will change the size of your finished heart.
Keep the two pieces folded in half.
 The top piece will be vertical while the bottom is horizontal. Their left edges should meet evenly so that the sideways piece is sticking out to the right. Draw a thin line in pencil on the sideways piece along the edge of the vertical piece., Make sure the two pieces are facing the same way. You will want the piece with the pencil line on top so that you can see it., Draw multiple straight lines along the paper up to the original line. This will divide the paper into strips partway along its length. Cut along these lines through both of the folded pieces of paper.

Make sure your strips are at least ½ inch (1.25 cm) wide or else they may break easily. The size and number of your strips does not matter, it is all personal preference. Keep in mind, however, that the size and number of strips will change the difficulty of weaving. For kids, try to create only three strips to begin with.
 While both folded papers are still on top of one another, cut the end without the strips in a curve. These curves will create the two upper curved parts of the heart. These edges should now look like half an oval., Turn one piece of paper so that it is horizontal while the other paper remains vertical. The rounded edge on the vertical piece should be towards the top while the rounded edge on the horizontal piece should be facing right.

The two creased edges should form a 90-degree angle in the bottom left-hand corner.
 Weaving this heart is different than normal weaving because you will be weaving the strips “through” and “around” rather than “under” and “over.”

Take the top strip on the horizontal paper and weave it through the first strip on the vertical paper. “Through” here means in between the two layers of that strip.
Now take that same top strip and put it around the second strip on the vertical piece of paper. “Around” here means that the two layers will go above and below the second strip on the vertical piece of paper. Alternatively, you can rather think of it that the second strip on the vertical paper is going in between the two layers of the top strip on the horizontal paper.
Continue taking the top strip of the horizontal piece of paper through and around the strips on the vertical folded paper. This top strip should now be woven through all the other strips.
Take the first strip (on the right side) from the vertical piece of paper and continue weaving it through and around the remaining horizontal strips. Since the first vertical strip is already around the first horizontal strip, you will next take it through the second horizontal strip and continue until the end.
Continue with all the strips weaving them through and around the others until all the rows and columns are woven., Now that all the rows of strips are woven through the others, you should have a completed woven heart. Open up the basket by inserting a finger between the two layers of paper. You can fill this basket with whatever treats or other small items you choose., Cut a long piece of matching paper to the length that you wish your handle to be. Use tape or staples to attach the handle to either side of the inside of the heart.Alternatively, you can poke a hole in the top center of the heart and string a ribbon or twine through it. Tie a knot in the two ends of the ribbon and you will have a nice handle or string from which to hang the heart.
If you poke holes you can also add small grommets to make the heart look more polished, although this is not necessary.

