 Although increased feelings of congestion are typical in the first few weeks after you stop smoking, be aware that any smoking habit increases your risk of “smoker’s lung”, a catch-all term for chronic bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which are associated with a reduction of airflow due to lung damage. Both conditions are associated with coughing and feelings of breathlessness.Individuals with smoker's lung experience a combination of symptoms similar to having chronic bronchitis and emphysema. These include chronic coughing, breathlessness, and mucus in your lungs.Although treatment for these two conditions may be minor, it’s important to talk to your doctor after quitting smoking about your likelihood of contracting either of these conditions.
Your doctor may recommend a chest X-ray or a CT scan to exclude other possibilities.
A lung function test or a blood test may also be necessary to determine other contributors to your condition.
 You should also wear a mask when you are working with strong fumes like paint or household cleaners with strong fumes.If possible, stay indoors on high air pollution days.
Stay away from wood stoves and kerosene heaters, which also can emit irritating fumes or smoke.
If cold air aggravates your cough, wear a face mask before you go outside, particularly during the winter., It’s important to keep your lungs and cardiovascular system in good working order. Your body already begins the repair process as soon as you quit smoking. The more you exercise, particularly after you quit smoking, the more you will help your lungs gain back the capacity they lost while you were smoking.A study examining the effects of quitting smoking found some physical improvements after just a week. Eleven young men who smoked about a pack a day for three and a half years were subjected to several tests while on a stationary bike before quitting, and then a week later. The study showed considerably increase in oxygen concentration in the lungs and an extension of exercise time.
 Having a humidifier or vaporizer in your bedroom while you sleep can help you keep hydrated at night and will also help to loosen mucus. Keep the filter clean and the humidifier will minimize the amount of congestion-causing dust in the air.Keep the vaporizer and humidifier clean. Every two to three days, clean the filter using a mixture of bleach and water (two tablespoons of bleach per one quart of water). Run the machine until dry (approximately 40 minutes) in a well-ventilated area, away from your bedroom.