 See How to choose edible flowers for ideas of what to choose; you could choose a mixture of flowers or just one type, such as rose petals. Wash the flowers and pat dry.






For silk flowers, choose ones that have non-toxic dyes. If you can't ascertain this, don't use them unless the bowl is going to be used for non-food purposes (such as for holding cans of drink).






For citrus rounds, choose suitably sized oranges, limes, lemons, etc. and cut into perfect round sections. Cut enough to go around the bowl.
 Place the flowers across the top of the water so that it's completely covered. If using citrus rounds, see next step.
 The water should shift up the side gap, which will be about 1 inch (2.5cm) in thickness. The flowers will be caught both underneath and along the sides of the bowl as well; add more flowers to the gap, pushing them in with the wooden skewer. It can be as packed with flowers as you like, or left more sparse.


If you're using citrus rounds, this is the time to slip them into the gap at equal intervals around the gap. Use the wooden skewer to align the citrus rounds.






Large globs of poster tack can be rolled up and stuck between each bowl edge to maintain an exact distance. You'll need to mold the tack over the rims to keep it in place.
 Put freezer tape across the bowls to hold them in place. Alternatively, use crepe bandage––tie two lengths of crepe bandage around the outside bowl and tie tightly at the top of the bowls. The second bandage should be placed at a right angle to the first bandage for best results.
, Or, simply reposition the flowers or citrus rounds if they've slipped in directions that aren't so aesthetically pleasing.


If adding more flowers or rounds to already frozen edges, wet them a little for added stickiness.
 It's recommended that you check a few more times to reposition flowers or rounds as needed. Then, leave to freeze overnight.
 Take off the tape and scoop out the ice cubes. Leave on a towel for a few minutes. It might come loose on its own. If not, fill the smaller bowl with lukewarm water and gently ease it out.
 If it hasn't already loosened while sitting on the towels, dip it into a basin with a little lukewarm water. Twist the ice bowl to loosen it and gently pull it out.
 Return to the freezer until needed. If you're keeping it in the freezer, wrap it in kitchen foil first to prevent sticking to the freezer or other frozen items.
 There are several things you can do with the ice bowl, such as:


Arrange a fruit salad or single fruit such as hulled strawberries.
Fill with a garden salad full of edible flowers.
Add ice cubes and stick ice confectionery on sticks into the ice cubes.
Add ice cubes and a few small cans of drinks.
Use a container for dips.
Arrange cooked seafood, such as prawns, shrimps, etc. that need to be kept cool.
Use for a cold soup such as a gazpacho.
And saving the best till last–– fill with ice cream!

