 If you want to adopt a Munchkin from a breeder, make sure to look for a reputable breeder. Reputable breeders will perform health certifications that screen for any genetic health problems. They also will raise kittens at home and in social settings, and never isolate them.Check cat breed websites, such as The Fanciers Breeder Referral List and The International Cat Association. They will list reputable Munchkin breeders you can peruse.
If you visit breeder websites, watch for any suspicious claims or behavior. Red flags may include kittens that are immediately available, one breeder having multiple litters, the breeder asking to pay online with a credit card, and the promise of your choice of any kitten.
 Instead of going through a breeder for your cat, consider adopting a Munchkin cat. Try rescue organizations, such as Rescue Me! and The Purebred Cat Rescue. Munchkin cats may be harder to find to adopt, but you may want to try that before going to a breeder.


Try pet adoption websites. Petfinder.com and Adopt-a-Pet.com let you search by breed and feature Munchkin cats. You can check in your area, or try to adopt from somewhere nearby. You can also check your local shelter.
Talk to your local vet or Humane Society about helping you find a Munchkin to adopt.
 Finding a Munchkin cat may take time. If you are interested in getting a cat from a breeder, be aware that reputable breeders wait until the kittens are old enough to leave the litter before you can adopt. Remember that you may contact a breeder who has a future litter and have to wait for the kittens to be born and become old enough for adoption.Make sure to search all avenues, including adoption or rescue, before deciding on whether you are going to adopt an adult cat or get a kitten from a breeder.
 Like all cat breeds, Munchkins are susceptible to certain health problems. While many Munchkins are relatively healthy, this breed is more likely to have spinal problems than other breeds. These conditions include:

Lordosis, a deformity in the spine behind the shoulders that can constrict the heart and lungs in the chest cavity.
Pectus excavatum, which is a deformity of the breast bone that can also put pressure on the heart and lungs.Joint disease, such as osteoarthritis.