 You may not have had a successful time in school if you have ADHD. Many people with ADHD have a difficult time sitting still for extended periods of time, remembering to bring your books, meeting deadlines, or remaining quiet in class.Some people may have experienced a noticeable shift in middle school when classes are no longer taught by one teacher. There is increased responsibility on the student to manage his own success. Many individuals with ADHD may have started noticing symptoms around this time., Adults with ADHD might have problems with job performance due to problems with time management, handling project details, showing up late to work, not paying attention in meetings, or missing deadlines.Think about your last job review and the comments you get from your supervisor. Have you been passed over for promotions or raises?


Count up how many jobs you’ve had. Some adults with ADHD have an inconsistent job history, having been fired from jobs for poor performance. Because these individuals are impulsive, they may also change jobs impulsively.Take a look at your job history to identify inconsistencies. Why did you change jobs?
Take a look at your work area. Your work area may be disorganized and messy.
Some adults with ADHD perform very well at work, especially because of the tendency to hyperfocus on work.
 Individuals with ADHD often have a difficult time in romantic relationships, with partners calling them “irresponsible,” “unreliable” or “insensitive.” While there can be many other reasons why your relationships succeed or fail, one reason might be attributed to possible ADHD symptoms.


You might have a difficult romantic past and not have ADHD.
Ask a relationship expert (for example, a psychologist or marriage counselor) for advice and perspective before using your romantic past as evidence of ADHD.
 If you have ADHD, you might get nagged a lot because you have trouble staying focused on a task, getting easily distracted.Your spouse might ask you to do the dishes repeatedly, for example.


You might feel nagged often and not have ADHD.
Try behavioral modification on your end before seriously considering if you have ADHD.

