 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile device. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see “161.” Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. It will be good if you can easily make some special candies to help clear out lots of jellies. Do you see good moves to quickly get those? There are some candies locked by licorice as well. See if there are moves that can easily release them so that you can have more space and movement on the board.
 If you don’t like your board, go ahead and exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy., Some of the candies near the center of the board are locked by licorice. These licorice cannot be moved, so it will be hard to move candies around. Match the candies inside the licorice with the ones outside to break them out. Getting some licorice out of the way can free up some movement space for your candies, enabling you to make special candies.
 Look for moves that will give you Striped candies. Horizontally and vertically Striped candies can be a lot of use in clearing up the jellies and the chocolate. These can come in handy when you’re trying to clear jellies near the corners and the chocolate wheels.
 These can be harder to make, but it’s not impossible. Using the Wrapped candies as bombs can really make the jellies and chocolate go away faster.
 If you can, put a Striped candy and a Wrapped candy together. The best place to have this combo is in the middle part of the board, where all the jellies are.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. It’s always useful to have this special candy. It’s extra special if you can combine it with a Striped candy to do more damage so that you can clear out more jellies and chocolate faster.
 Once you’ve cleared up some licorice, you can focus your matches at the bottom of the board. There’s a good chance that you can get some cascading matches if you do., As early as your second move, the chocolate wheels will spread chocolate. You will get chocolate over the jellies you need to clear, adding another step towards their removal. Identify where the chocolate is spreading.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over.
 You don’t need to clear out all chocolate to complete the level. However, there will be jellies under some chocolate that you may have missed, especially near the chocolate wheels. Make sure you take them out as well.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before making a move.