 The side arm in your inventory, pistols can be equipped with a second pistol to make dual pistols. Pistols have infinite ammo and have 15 bullets per magazine; when you dual wield pistols, you have 30 bullets per magazine. You will use pistols if you are knocked down by the zombie hordes.


Always pick up the second to dual-wield when you find it. More bullets to fire. Crouching increases accuracy, to the point where the pistol becomes effective at considerable range.
Using the pistol where possible allows you to save your precious primary ammunition for when you really need it.;
, There are 2 types of shotguns. The first is a basic pump action 12-gauge. It holds 8 shells total, and has to be pumped after every shot. The second shotgun is a 20-gauge Riot Shotgun with 10 shell loading capacity. It automatically loads another shell into the chamber after firing, and is very quickly ready to fire again. Excellent for close range combat, especially in swarm situations.
 The Uzi has a 50 clip load with a fast rate of fire, it is good for swarm situations but you can easily be knocked down when out of ammo. The M16 is faster and stronger and should always be found if you prefer automatics. Dully noted though, both these weapons consume ammo very quickly, so make your shots count.
 These are similar to the Heavy's minigun in TF2, the minigun can take down swarms of zombies in rapid succession when used. Keep your firing rate broken up though; continuous fire will overheat the turret, and then you are open for attack and are likely to be killed quickly by the Horde.
 This weapon, with 15 slot clip, can kill normal zombies in one hit to the head. The rifle has a zoom-in feature and preforms superbly in long range combat. With this weapon you also have the ability to shoot through more than one zombie in a successive line.


For example, if there are three zombies standing in a row, one shot with the rifle will kill them all.
Also, you are able to shoot and kill zombies through doors, some walls and other items that are blocking the zombies from direct fire from another weapon.
Its downfall is close range combat- this weapon does not perform as well in close range combat as some others do and during close combat with infected the scope feature of the rifle is rendered useless.
 The first is the Molotov cocktail. This grenade can leave a wall of fire that will kill zombies surprisingly fast, but not immediately (flaming infected may still run at you until death), excellent in swarm situations. Aim well though; if you throw it too close to home, you and teammates around you will be incapacitated or damaged heavily.
 Apart from the mini-gun, the pipe bomb is probably the best device in the game. Once thrown, almost every infected in ear shot will swarm the pipe bomb. In any given scenario, pipe bombs can be used to clear an area completely of infected before entering it.


But be aware; when engaging a witch, do not throw it directly at her. This will result in simply pissing the witch off and then she will charge toward you and away from the bomb about to detonate, thus having no effect at all, except for a wasted pipe bomb and a witch beating you.
 All items and weapons can be used to bash the infected. Bashing knocks infected back, giving you time to aim or reload, or buying you time if swamped by the Horde.


It can be used to knock a hunter off a pinned ally chest, and bashing an ally who is caught by a smoker's tongue will free them.
It can also be used to get the attention of a Tank attacking a friend.
Melee attack should also be used to push a Boomer back when it is attacking so that the survivors are not slimed when the Boomer is killed.
 The Infected are normally found walking and are quite weak most of the time, but in huge numbers the Infected are the most deadly foe in the entire game. They are provoked by physical combat, gunfire, use of flashlight, and appearing in their line of sight. When informed of your presence, they will be fast and agile but still can be taken down easily.


The Infected can swarm in massive numbers, even 100 at a time, which encourages you and your buddies (be they AI or human) to stick together. In these situations, the Infected can be difficult to cope with as they usually will come from 2 or 3 different directions. There are a number of different ways to stop the infected, but the best are pipe bombs, Molotovs and fortifying a position and holding the Infected back.
A large horde will sometimes be preceded by dramatic music and the distant sound of screaming.
 These are a special type of Infected. Boomers can vomit on the survivors, attracting swarms of Infected. When Boomers are killed, they explode, forming a cloud of pus and bile, thus also attracting swarms of the Infected.


The best way to deal with them is to shove them away then when they are at a safe distance and kill them.
They are surprisingly fast at random moments, and will quickly barge into rooms, vomit on a survivor, and walk out. Keep this from happening by listening out for their belching and gurgling noises, and the occasional heavy footsteps.
 These are a special type of Infected. A tall Infected that can wrap its tongue around the Survivors and drag them away from their team, the Smokers are typically quite easy to kill but once they have your teammate in their tongue, you need to save them. Fast.


The best way is to kill the Smoker is to melee the player wrapped up, which stops the Smoker dragging the Survivor. Then, take a few pot shots at the Smoker until it explodes into a smoke cloud.
The smoke cloud it leaves is a minor obstacle; it distorts your vision slightly and causes your team to cough loudly.
You can tell if a Smoker is nearby by their hacking cough and raw-throated scream.
 These are a special type of Infected. Hunters are a dangerous type of Infected. They will leap at you at quick speeds and pin you to the ground. When they do pounce on a survivor, the Survivor that is pinned will incur heavy damage which will lead to incapacitation and then death unless a teammate helps them of course.


It's a good idea to melee them off your teammate as quickly as possible, especially if you don't have a good gun in your hands. But make SURE you kill them while they're staggering or they will simply pounce on you again.
Hunters can also be stopped by a survivor meleeing them away when they are pouncing. This prevents the Hunter from pinning you and stuns it.
It can then be killed easily while it is stunned.
You can tell when one is around by the vicious screaming and growling.
 These are a special type of Infected. Witches are commonly found in areas where Survivors will NEED to go, making them a real pain and hard to avoid. The Witch is incredibly dangerous, she can whack down survivors in one hit and on expert difficulty can kill in one hit.


The Witch is found crying on the floor when found, and if you are clever, you can avoid the Witch and prevent your team fighting her, but there are some situations where you must kill the Witch to proceed (e.g. on a staircase). The witch will always attack the person that provokes her.
The best way to deal with her is NOT to deal with her, just let her be and turn your flash lights off. If you HAVE to kill her and are equipped with a shotgun, aim for the head. One well placed shot to the head can kill a witch instantly if all of the pellets hit, thereby avoiding any damage she may deal you or your team. If you do not kill her instantly or are equipped with one of the other weapons and she chases you, keep out of her range and aim for her head. If she reaches her target, she will kill him (Expert) or incapacitate him (any other difficulty).
 These are a special type of Infected. The Tank is an absolutely massive Infected and is the strongest foe in the game. He is about twice the size of the Survivors, and on Expert difficulty, he is particularly hard to kill. He can pick up blocks of concrete and cars and throw them at you, as well as knocking you away with his giant arms. There is no way to avoid fighting the Tank at all; he will see you and immediately attack your team.


The Tank is quite easy to take down if most or all of your team carry assault rifles. Rapid fire at the Tank using these weapons can take down a Tank in a matter of seconds. Dual pistols are also good weapons to use against a Tank. Another great tactic against a Tank is to throw a Molotov to set him on fire which will drain his health more, but keep in mind that in Campaign or Survival modes, this will greatly increase the Tank's running speed. In Versus you should always try to light the player Tank on fire, as it will actually DECREASE his speed a little.
You can tell if one is coming by their thundering footsteps, the ominous music that precedes them or their distinctive roar.
 First, learn to use the first-aid MedPack, which heals you to at least 80% health, but can give you a little more if you heal with already high health. They can also be used to heal teammates. Lastly are the painkillers, which temporarily give you health which will slowly deplete, but will help for a time. Best used in 40-65% HP.


MedPacks are found at the start and the end of each map and are also found (rarely) in areas of the map. Use these puppies when the end is near (25% health or below).
Know when to heal. Only use your Health Pack when you desperately need to, use pills if it's not serious or you need to boost your health in order to run faster.
 Always be moving, if you stay in the same area for too long the Infected will come and kill you, especially on expert.


Don't hoard health packs or pills if you're doing well. Share them with others, as even a weak player is a fourth gun, and you need all the guns you can get.
 The key to L4D is to work as a team. Move together, shoot together and share together. If you decide you want to go "I Am Legend" with the zombies a Smoker or Hunter will find you and pick you off easily.
 If infected begin charging at you, and you are reloading, melee them back, back up, and reload. Then open fire.
 Crouch when you are approaching swarms (this is assuming you have no molotovs or pipes) and continue to spray the zombies. Crouching makes it easier for people behind you to shoot and steadies for less recoil when you shoot.
 If you are new to Valve games, choose easy difficulty. If you are new to Left 4 Dead, choose normal. After one game on normal, play on advanced for a while. Then when you feel confident, go expert. Don't rush yourself: you're taking your time to master the game!

, Remember, zombie swarms and special infected can come at any time, so always be alert.

