 Start your journey with small comfortable steps. Close friends or a family member are less likely to judge you, especially if you tell them you are trying to improve your response to eating in public.


Ask your friend or loved one to observe you and tell you if there is something peculiar about how you eat. An open discussion will help you make adjustments if necessary. You will likely find out that others have experienced the same things you have and appreciate you discussing the issue.
Be open to suggestions that haven’t occurred to you. It will help you improve.
 Laughter can be healing in many situations.Allow yourself to laugh and lighten your mood. Don’t take yourself too seriously. Feeling awkward in front of someone when you eat is not the biggest problem to have. Life could be much worse, so laugh and help yourself see the positive things in life.


Find an appropriate place where you will not get into trouble for making a mess. Sit down with a friend at the table with the intention of eating in an extremely messy and sloppy way. It’s time to play! Go overboard and smear food all over your face and play with your food and your friend’s food. The goal is for you to release the pressure related to your worries, and experience the feeling of being wonderfully imperfect.
 Inhibitions are restrictions you place on yourself and your behaviors, which leave you feeling restricted and self-conscious. People who are positive tend to have lower inhibitions, which allows them to cooperate with the process of change.Approach every meal with a positive outlook and tell yourself, “This meal is going to be delicious and no one is going to stop me from enjoying it. Nothing is going to hold me back.”
An entire world of culinary delights can open up to you if you are comfortable eating in public.
 Going on a date with someone can be nerve-racking. Both of you are evaluating each other for compatibility, and that can be intense. Use your relaxation techniques and put your skills into action. You may be doing a lot of talking, very little or just the right balance of the two. Either way, you are prepared to eat with confidence.


Try meeting for just coffee and a small snack to build your confidence.
If you go out for lunch or dinner, stay away from foods like spaghetti, corn on the cob, barbecue ribs and things that are messy.
Remember, you can always get a to-go container to bring your leftovers home. Don’t feel pressured to eat everything on your plate.
Also, remember that sharing dessert can be fun if you’ve enjoyed the date up to that point.
 You will reach a point when you are comfortable with eat in front of one person or many people. Your confidence will be well-formed and you will feel like you can take care of yourself in any situation. You may not be eating during the entire party, but when you do it will be a positive experience.


Each social situation gives you the opportunity to improve and become more comfortable.
 Your awkwardness with eating in public may be associated with social anxiety. If you are severely struggling with this, or if you would simply like to get a professional opinion, counselors are available in your local area.


The signs of social anxiety or social phobia include but are not limited to: intense fear of social situations in which you will be judged, embarrassed and scrutinized. Anxiety can be triggered when anticipating these situations. This is a condition that can be successfully treated. Available treatment options can be discussed with a therapist or doctor.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy is one of many types of therapies that are effective with social anxiety disorders.Group therapy is also effective when coupled with a problem solving approach.Groups may be focuses specifically on social anxiety, or can be formed to help with social and coping skills.

