 If nothing else, having a buddy in class can make it more enjoyable. Obviously, if friends of yours from other classes share the same gym class or period as you, hang with them. If not, reach out to others. You could try:Complimenting people when they score or pull off an impressive feat.
Telling someone they must be tough as nails when they recover from a spill.
Making a sarcastic joke about the joys and wonders of phys ed to others who look less than pleased to be there.
 Dive right in and play to the best of your ability. Don’t act afraid of the ball or other players. Impress them with your self-confidence, even when you’re not particularly good at whatever you’re playing.Of course, you don’t want to be seriously injured, but don’t be afraid of scrapes and bruises. Recovering from a spill and walking it off without a complaint can be just as impressive to other students as hitting a homerun.
 That spill you took might really hurt, or that ball you missed should have been an easy catch. Whatever the goof was, just laugh it off. After all, it’s only gym class, not the World Series, so don’t take things too seriously. Show anyone who might be tempted to make fun of you that you are perfectly cool with laughing at yourself.Sure, some students might get really competitive over a baseball game in phys ed. Just keep your cool and shrug it off if a teammate gets upset with you for ruining a play. Keep in mind that everyone else probably thinks that this kid looks way more foolish for getting all worked up over a pointless game in gym class.
 If you happen to be really, really good at sports in general or one in particular, save the superstar plays for the school team or league sports. Although this may seem like a great chance to impress people, keep in mind that others aren’t as skilled as you. Do your best, but remember good sportsmanship and don't rub it in your classmates' faces.


Remember: this isn’t a tryout, so you're not competing with your fellow students for a spot on the team. Have fun and give it your all, but don't get competitive or nasty.
Teamwork, cooperation, and good sportsmanship are all important parts of gym class (and your grade). Remember that your grade won't suffer if you're not the star athlete every day. Make sure you're passing to your classmates and giving them a chance to play instead of always dominating the game.

