 Polyester couches should have a tag, usually found somewhere underneath the cushions. The tag will have one of the following letters or letter combinations written on it: W, S, SW, or X. These codes let you know what kind of cleaners you can use on your couch.The letter W indicates water cleaning only, while S indicates solvent cleaning only.
The tag SW means either a water or solvent based cleaner is safe.
If the tag reads X, do not attempt to clean the couch yourself. Tags with an X label require professional cleaning.;
, Choose the right cleaner depending on your tag. Cleaners are sold at department stores. You can also buy one online.Couches marked "W" can be cleaned with an upholstery cleaner.
Couches marked "S" should be cleaned with dry cleaning solvents.
If your couch is marked SW, you can use either an upholstery or dry cleaning solvent cleaner.
 Do not attempt to clean a couch marked "X" on your own. Unfortunately, couches with this label will require professional upholstery cleaners. Go online and find a professional cleaner within your price range if you need to clean a couch with the label "X.", Before applying a cleaner, give your couch a good vacuuming. This will remove any crumbs or debris stuck in your couch's nooks and crannies. You can use the detachable upholstery brush, if your vacuum has one, to vacuum up things like pet hair, dirt, and debris. Make sure to get into hard to reach places, like between the cushions.If you do not have a vacuum cleaner, use a foxtail brush to sweep dirt and debris off your couch.
 Take your chosen cleaner. If it is not already in a spray bottle, pour it into a spray bottle. Spritz down the surface of your couch with the cleaner. Get the couch damp. If you're only spot cleaning, only spritz your cleaner on spoiled or stained areas., Once your cleaner is on, take a take a clean cloth. Blot or rub the cleaner into your couch. Target areas that are stained or soiled, blotting or rubbing the stains gently until they come off.Most couch cleaners do not need to be rinsed off. You simply blot them into the fabric. If your cleaner needs rinsing, however, refer to the instructions on the package for directions.
 Cleaners can make polyester couches feel a little stiff after cleaning. If your couch is stiff after cleaning, take a soft-bristled brush and gently rub it against the fabric after the cleaning solution has dried. This should give your fabric a soft, fluffy texture., You should never apply a cleaner before testing it. Some couches do not respond well to certain commercial cleaners. Apply your cleaner to a small patch of your couch that is not directly visible, such as a corner on the back of the couch. Wait a few hours and check the area. If you notice any discoloration or other damage, try a different cleaner., Commercial cleaners can often be very strong. Use gloves when handling the cleaners. Clean in a well ventilated area. Open the windows, for example, when cleaning a couch in your living room., A little cleaner goes a long and less cleaner will be less taxing on your couch. Only spritz on a light layer of cleaner. If stains do not come off the first time, you can always repeat the process., If you have a couch marked "X," it can be difficult to maintain. Calling in professional cleaners each time the couch gets dirty can be pricey. In the future, check the manufacturer's label before purchasing a couch and avoid buying couches with the "X" label.