 If you car is leaking fluids, then you should see sudden, unexpected drops in your fuel or oil.Notice if you start needing to refuel more often or if the oil you just added to your vehicle is no longer showing on the dip stick. These can be signs that you have a leak that needs to be fixed immediately.
 An overheating engine can quickly lead to trouble. Even if it doesn’t result in fire, it will likely result in a stalled vehicle. While an overheated engine can cause you a lot of headaches, it’s not hard to spot the symptoms.


Signs will include the temperature gauge warning light coming on, a smell of burning metal or rubber, a thumping or ticking sound, steam coming from under your hood, or a hood that is hot to the touch. You may also see that your coolant is low or leaking, and your car may not perform as well as it usually does.If you notice any of these signs, stop driving your car and get it checked immediately.
 If your car has more than one blown fuse in a short period of time, then you need to get the engine checked. Blown fuses are a warning sign that something is wrong and that your car is at risk., Cracked or loose wiring is a huge fire risk, so you need to get it repaired immediately.Don’t continue to drive a vehicle with damaged wiring.


Check around your engine by looking over the wiring. Don’t touch or remove anything.
If you notice any wires sticking out from anywhere, get them checked out.
 If you feel any clunking or cracking sounds in your exhaust system, then you may have a blockage or damage in your exhaust.Avoid having a buildup of gas or allowing a leak to continue by getting your exhaust system checked.
 A missing oil or fuel cap can be a hazard because oil and fuel are both flammable.Additionally, items can get into the system because of the missing cap, which can put your vehicle at risk.
 While they aren’t that common, broken and missing hoses can compromise your vehicle or allow flammables to leak from your vehicle. Replace any hoses that you discover are damaged or missing.Look for leaks.
If you notice that fluids in your car are dropping unexpectedly or that your air conditioning has stopped working, get your hoses checked.
Glance under your hood to see if everything looks like it’s in good condition and properly connected.

