 If you don't know her very well, you might mistake her appearance as a rejection. Some people just have certain quirks. It doesn't always mean that she isn't interested. Notice if she smiles when you talk to her, or if she laughs at things you say.Don't mistake laughing with you with laughing at you.;
, Creating sexual tension with eye contact can create a healthy attraction. Never stare at a girl. This is just a rude thing to do. Instead make short glances at her and look at her eyes. Hopefully she'll meet your eye contact and then turn away. Continue this until you both hold eye contact longer than the previous time.
 Girls don't like guys who are pretending to be someone else. They'll like you for you. If you were pretending to be someone else before, then just be yourself. She might like you if you relax and stop trying to change for other people.
 Friends of a girl you like are usually easier to talk to. Be casual and ask about the girl you like. Say something like, "Does Jessie have a boyfriend?" or "What's Jessie's type"? They'll either tell you or they won't. The important thing is that they'll probably tell the girl and the more they talk about you, the better your chances are.
 Continue being yourself, but if there are certain thoughts you have that might be rude, keep them to yourself. There's always some give and take, so make sure you're not being a jerk. Girls like it when you show that you can be chill and enjoy yourself no matter what you're doing., Sometimes a girl enjoy playing with a guys heart, and sometimes it's a flirting tactic. Even though she says she doesn't like you, she might want you to try harder to get her attention. The key is to become better friends with her and spend more time together. You'll know her real intentions by her body language and the vibes she's sending., Once you've become a little bit closer with this girl, you can try again. You have to vary the way you present yourself to her. She may not of liked what you said to her the first time. If she says no or looks really uncomfortable, don't force it.


Be honest to her.

