 You can take astragalus supplements for colds and influenza, as it has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. However, in some cases, astragalus supplements can make a cold worse. Use caution when taking astragalus supplements for colds. If your symptoms do not improve in a few days, you may want to switch to a different medication.Similarly, astragalus supplements have been shown to help treat seasonal allergies like hay fever or allergic rhinitis. Symptoms like a running nose, itching, and sneezing can improve with the use of astragalus supplements.;
, Astragalus supplements have been shown to help improve diabetes, as it can help to control your blood sugar and insulin levels. More research is being done on the effect of astragalus supplements on those with diabetes.Speak to your doctor before you use astragalus supplements to treat your diabetes. Never go off of your diabetes medication until you speak to your doctor.
 Astragalus supplements can help patients receiving chemotherapy recover faster. It can also help with the symptoms of chemotherapy treatments, such as nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Speak to your doctor about taking astragalus supplements to help you recover from chemotherapy treatments.The use of astragalus supplements for chemotherapy patients is still being tested and confirmed. Based on your chemo recovery plan, your doctor may suggest the use of astragalus supplements in addition to other medications.
 Astragalus supplements can act as an antioxidant and help to lower your cholesterol levels. This can be beneficial for those with heart disease.It has also been shown that astragalus supplements can help to protect your kidneys and be used to treat kidney disease. Some medical professionals argue against taking herbal supplements for kidney disease, including astragalus supplements. Speak to your doctor if you have kidney disease and before you use astragalus supplements., If you are concerned about taking astragalus supplements or have a preexisting condition that could interact negatively with the supplements, speak to your doctor first. Set up a consultation with your doctor and discuss the use of astragalus supplements to treat your medical condition.Because astragalus supplements are an herbal medicine, you may also see a naturopath to discuss taking it. The naturopath may suggest taking astragalus supplements for a period of time and then switching to another herbal medicine. This is often done with herbal medicines that are adaptogens.
 You can find astragalus supplements in the form of capsules and tablets. You can also get astragalus supplements in tincture form, where it is a liquid. Some hospitals or clinics will give astragalus supplements intravenously or as an injection.Make sure you purchase astragalus supplements from a reputable herbal supplier. Check that the supplement has been verified by a third party or a regulatory organization like US Pharmacopeia (USP) or NSF International.
There should be legitimate contact information for the supplier on the label and the ingredients should state that the supplement contains mostly or only astragalus. Go for supplements that contain mostly natural ingredients, not synthetic ingredients.
 Speak to your doctor about the correct dosage for you based on your condition, your age, and your weight. Your doctor may recommend a standardized astragalus supplement in low doses. Take no more than 30 grams (1.1 oz) a day for three months, 40 grams (1.4 oz) a day for two months or 80 grams (2.8 oz) a day for one month.If you are giving astragalus supplements to a child, always speak to your doctor first to determine the correct dosage. Do not give astragalus supplements to a child with a fever as this can make their condition worse.
 In general, astragalus supplements do not have any serious side effects and can be taken safely. Be cautious of taking astragalus supplements if you have allergies to certain medications or foods. Speak to your doctor before taking astragalus supplements if you are taking other herbal medications or treatments.If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, speak to your doctor before taking astragalus supplements to ensure your baby will not be harmed.
If you are taking medication for an autoimmune disease, like lupus, do not take astragalus supplements. The supplements can stimulate your immune system, leading to medical issues if you have an autoimmune disease.
You should also avoid taking astragalus supplements if you are taking medications that contain lithium, as astragalus can make it harder for your body to process lithium. This can then lead to a dangerous build up of lithium in your body.
 Once you start taking astragalus supplements, make sure you keep tabs on your health with follow up appointments with your doctor. See your doctor every month or within a few months of taking the supplements to ensure there are no negative effects on your health.


If your medical condition is not improving, you may talk to your doctor about trying a different herbal medicine or switching to other medication.

