 Measure and cut your ribbon according to the list below.Grosgrain ribbon works the best for this project, but you can use satin ribbon as well.









Wings: 24 inches (60.96 centimeters) of 1 1/2-inch (38-millimeter) patterned ribbon
Body: 6 inches (cc centimeters) of ⅞-inch (22-millimeter) solid-colored ribbon
Hairclip cover: 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) of ⅜-inch (9-millimeter) solid-colored ribbon

, This is not completely necessary, but it will give your butterfly a neater finish. Light a candle or lighter. Hold the ribbon ends over the flame for a few seconds until they melt.








Don't let the ribbon burn.
Keep a bowl or cup of water nearby, just in case.
 Make a crease or mark it with a pen or sewing pin.
 Set the wing ribbon down on your work surface with the wrong side facing you. Pull the left end towards the center. Twist the end upwards and pin it just past the center of the ribbon. When you are done, your ribbon should have a loop. The right side of the ribbon should be touching the wrong side.
 This time, twist the end downwards. Pin the end of the ribbon just past the center so that it is overlapping the left end. This will create a figure-8 or infinity-symbol shape.








You still want the right side of the ribbon to be touching the wrong side.
It is very important that you overlap the ribbon ends, or the butterfly won't hold together.
 Take the tip of the left loop and bring it towards the center of the ribbon. Pin it in place, with the wrong side facing down and the right side facing up.
 Use the same technique as you did for the left loop. Overlap the two loops slightly, and secure them with pins. When you are done, you should have something like looks like a square with a loop at each corner.








It's important to overlap the loops, or the butterfly will fall apart.
 Thread your needle, and tie a knot at the center. Sew a simple running stitch down the center of the butterfly. Remove the pins when you are done, but do not cut the thread.
 Gently pull on the thread until the ribbon starts to gather. Wrap the thread a few times around the middle of the butterfly, then tie it off. Snip off the excess thread.
 Simply bring both ends towards the center and cross them over to make a loop. Slide one of the ends through the loop. Gently tug on both ends to make a knot.
 Place a drop of hot glue on the center of the butterfly. Press the knotted body into the glue. Make sure that it is oriented vertically. Use the stitching line as a guide.
 Flip the butterfly over so that the back is facing you. Trim the ends of the body down to 1







, Place a drop of glue onto the back of the butterfly. Pull the bottom ribbon up and press it into the glue. Place another drop of glue onto the back of the butterfly. Pull the top ribbon down and press it into the glue, overlapping the bottom one.
 Draw line of glue down your final ribbon. Clamp the hairclip over it; the ribbon will extend part the tip of the clip. Fold the ribbon over the top of the clip, and press it down.
 Draw a horizontal line of hot glue along the back of the butterfly. Press the butterfly against the hairclip and let the glue set.








