 What you anticipate will determine the type of attorney you need to hire. Although you can't predict everything that could possibly happen during probate, if you want to hire an inheritance attorney you should already have a good idea of the challenges you might face.Keep in mind that probate law is a broad area, and most attorneys who practice inheritance or probate law have different specialties.
Your role in the proceedings also has the potential to affect your choice. For example, your needs will be different if you've been named or are likely to be named executor of the estate as opposed to simply being a close family member of the deceased.
Another important issue to consider is whether you or anyone else is going to challenge the will. This situation brings up particular issues and you'll need an attorney who has extensive experience litigating on whichever side of the challenge you're on.;
, If you know someone who has recently been in a position similar to yours, you might want to talk to them about the attorney they hired and find out if it's someone they would recommend.Depending on the situation and the estate involved, this may be a fairly delicate subject, and you may not be able to get a recommendation or even talk about the situation with anyone close to you.
If you can get a recommendation from someone you trust, it may be the most valuable lead you get. However, keep in mind that just because an attorney worked great in one person's situation doesn't mean they'll work for you.
 Your state or local bar association typically will have a searchable online directory, and this can be a good place to start when you're searching for possible inheritance attorneys.You also can use general online directories, but keep in mind that many of these are marketing tools that charge attorneys a fee to be listed. Searching these directories may not give you an accurate picture of all the attorneys available.
Focus your search on attorneys who specialize in probate or inheritance law and practice in the county where the deceased lived. Probate typically will occur in that county, and probate rules and procedures can vary even among counties in the same state.
Many bar associations have special sections for probate or inheritance attorneys. If your local bar association does, look for attorneys who are members of that section – they typically are more active and committed to practice in that area.
Searching on your state or local bar association also gives you the benefit of being able to ensure that any attorneys in whom you're interested are licensed to practice in your area and are in good standing with the bar.
 Most attorneys have their own website – or a page on their firm's website – that can tell you a little bit about them, including their primary areas of practice and their background and experience.Once you've pulled some names from online directories, take some time to look at the websites – there may be a link on the attorney's entry in the directory where you found their name.
On the website, the attorney you've found should have a bio or "about" page that gives you more information about them such as when and where they graduated from law school, how long they've been practicing law in your state, and their primary practice areas.
You also may be able to learn a little bit about the attorney as a person, including their family, hobbies and interests, and groups or community activities in which they participate.
 Avoid limiting your evaluation of possible attorneys to material produced by them or their firm. These marketing materials will paint a good picture of an attorney, but it may not be a complete one.Think of the information you find on the firm's website or an online directory listing as akin to the attorney's resumé. While everything on it may be true, this information necessarily will present the highlights of that attorney's career and gloss over any low points.
Reviews from former clients, however, typically will be unbiased and may be ruthless. Search on common review sites and through social media to find out what former clients have to say about the attorney.
At the same time, take any comments you find online with a grain of salt – especially if they're anonymous. Since you don't have any way to verify who wrote the comment, you shouldn't base a decision to pass on an attorney on the content of a few negative reviews.
When you look at attorney ratings sites and "best of" listings, keep in mind that these lists often are created based on votes from other attorneys. These lists can be biased both because attorneys will agree to vote for their friends and colleagues, and because a fellow attorney typically has not been a client of the attorney for whom they're voting.
 You don't want to just pick a name and go with that person without evaluating a few others. Aim to interview at least three attorneys so you have a range and can properly compare candidates.Use the information you gained from your research to create a hierarchy of the attorneys you found. Start at the top of your list with the one you like the best, and work your way down.
Keep in mind that good attorneys typically will be very busy. Don't write an attorney off simply because they can't meet with you right away – but at the same time, be wary of someone who can't schedule an initial consultation within two or three weeks. Someone that busy likely won't have adequate time to devote to you and your case.
Someone who can see you right away, however, also may not be the right fit. If they're hungry for clients and not in very high demand, there could be a reason for that – maybe they aren't very responsive, or their fees are too high.
 Before the initial consultation, any attorney likely will want to know some basic information about you and the estate with which you need assistance so they know what they can offer you.Generally you'll need to give the attorney the name of the deceased person and your relationship to them, whether you have been named executor or believe you will (or should) be named executor, and whether the person has left a will or other estate-planning documents.
If you anticipate a challenge to the will, the attorney needs information about this as well.
The executor can be a major issue when probating a will. Maybe the person who is named in the will is no longer qualified, or no longer wishes to take on that role.
Another conflict can occur when members of the family don't approve of the person named executor, or don't believe that person is adequate for the role.
You also may need an attorney even if there aren't any issues with the executor or the will, but you stand to inherit significant property interests and have questions about taxes or transfer of ownership.
 Brainstorm multiple questions in each topic that is of interest or importance to you, and take this list along with you to each interview. The list will help keep you focused and also ensure you don't forget something.You want to gauge each attorney's experience and expertise, so ask what percentage of the attorney's work is devoted to inheritance or probate law, whether the attorney has worked with clients similar to you or handled cases similar to yours, and what the outcome was in those cases.
You also want to understand the attorney's work habits and communication style, so ask whether the attorney is available by phone or email, how quickly they respond to inquiries from clients, and how much of the work in your case will be delegated to other people in their office.
Include questions about your case as well. Find out how each attorney would handle your case, what they believe the outcome would be, and how long it will take to achieve that result.
Don't be afraid to talk about fees. Hiring an attorney can be a significant expense, and unless you're the executor, it's not likely those fees will be covered by the estate.
If you stand to inherit a significant amount of money, attorney's fees may not be that much of a concern to you, but you still need to understand what each attorney will charge and the number of hours they anticipate billing you for your case.
 When you have an initial consultation with an attorney, you're not just meeting the attorney – you're also meeting the attorney's staff and other members of the firm, as well as getting an introduction to the office itself.You want to feel comfortable in the office, and feel that everyone there – including staff and any other attorneys – treat you with respect.
You also want to pay attention to how the attorney interacts with staff, as this can be an important indication of what kind of person they are and how they'll treat you. Think of it in terms of the old adage of watching how a person treats restaurant servers when you are out on a first date.
If the attorney indicates that a significant amount of the work in your case will be delegated to an associate, ask if you can meet that person. It's important that you know and get along with anybody who will be doing a lot of work on your case.
Observe the body language and demeanor of the attorney you're interviewing and the other people you see in the office. A good attorney will be engaged and interested in what you have to say, and staff will be responsive and have a positive attitude.
 Once you've met your candidates, you're in a good position to objectively evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. One of the easiest ways to do this is to create a chart that measures each attorney on various points such as experience, specialty, and cost.Keep in mind that your paper evaluation is only a starting point. An attorney who hits all the marks on paper still may not be your best choice if that attorney seemed dismissive of your statements or questions and made you feel uncomfortable or intimidated.
Don't be afraid to go with your gut. If you interviewed someone you really like, who seemed genuinely interested in you and dedicated to your case, they may be the best choice even if they lack expertise or experience compared to the others.
 As you compare the attorneys you interviewed, you may find you have additional questions that pop up. Rather than assuming the answer, contacting the attorney to seek clarification can help you make a more informed decision.For example, if the last attorney you interviewed brought up something you hadn't thought about and hadn't talked to the other attorneys about, you may want to call or email to bring it up and get their take on it.
You also have room to negotiate. If your top choice has a higher fee than you'd prefer to pay, don't be afraid to call and ask if some alternate arrangement can be made.
Many attorneys may be willing to take a flat fee for the more routine aspects of a case, or offer discounts on various services – but typically you have to ask first.
Asking follow-up questions also is a good opportunity to evaluate the attorney's response time. However, keep in mind that you are not yet a paying client, so responses to you may be de-prioritized depending on how busy the attorney is.
 When you've made your decision on which inheritance attorney to hire, let him or her know as soon as possible and get the details of the representation in writing before work begins on your case.Your attorney should go over the retainer agreement with you to make sure you understand it. If there's something confusing, ask about it.
Keep in mind that the terms of the retainer agreement typically are negotiable. If something doesn't sit well with you, speak up. It may be possible to come to a better agreement.

