 Your cat has regular habits that it sticks to every day. This might include what time it gets up, how it greets you when you come home from work, how it asks for food, and how often it goes to the bathroom. Be alert for changes in these habits, especially when they involve the cat becoming more withdrawn.The changes are usually for the worst, such as eating less, not getting up to greet you, hiding away, or toileting outside the litter box.
These changes are not specific for pain, so just because the cat hides away doesn't automatically mean they are in pain, but it does mean something is wrong and you need to look for other signs and clues as to what the problem could be.;
, You should be used to what's normal for your cat, such as which toy it likes to play with and for how long, or which is its favorite sleeping spot and how long it spends there. Changes in favorite activities can be a clear sign that your cat is in pain.For example the cat in pain may find it difficult to rest and so it paces around instead of curling up to sleep. It may repeatedly settle and then get up again. Or perhaps it adopts one posture and then holds it whilst looking stiff and tense. I

, The cat may have difficulty getting up from a sitting or lying position. Once it starts moving be alert for a limp, and look to see which leg the cat is limping on.


Even lack of movement in the ears can signal a problem. The ears would normally move to catch fleeting sounds in the environment. Often a cat in pain has more fixed ears that may well be flattened against its head., This is easily done by fixing on one spot of hairs on its chest and watching them move in and out. A cat usually takes 20-30 breaths a minute, whereas a cat in pain may take rapid shallow breaths. In extreme cases the cat may breath with its mouth open, which is not something cats do normally unless they are extremely hot.
 Does it cry out, wince, or scrabble to get away as if picking it up has hurt it? A change of reaction from what is normal can indicate a problem, especially if other signs are present.

