 Discovering the health benefits can give you incentive to drink it. Coffee is loaded with antioxidants that can boost your metabolic rate and keep your liver healthy.. Coffee may also have preventative properties, as regular drinkers are less likely to develop type 2 diabetes, heart rhythm problems, and certain kinds of cancers.Approach coffee with a balanced view. While coffee has antioxidants and other health benefits, too much coffee can stunt growth and cause fatigue. Like all things, this drink is best enjoyed in moderation.
 Research the history of coffee to gain more appreciation for the beverage. For over six hundred years, coffee has changed the world politically, socially, and intellectually. Coffee history is not just a part of foodie culture but human culture in general.The more you know, the more you'll understand and respect coffee lovers.
 Spend time in locally owned cafes known by gourmet coffee drinkers as high quality. Coffee connoisseurs often hang around local coffee shops to discuss different coffee blends and chat about other intellectual topics. Chat with the employees and regulars, get to know their personal tastes, and ask for their recommendations. You can enjoy talking with them about coffee and listening to their advice.


Try local coffee blends. Find coffee shops that roast their beans daily using beans harvested nearby. These will yield the freshest brews, and the coffee shop owners will likely know a lot about the brew's history.
 Coffee clubs are a great way to make friends, enjoy drinks, and discuss coffee with like-minded friends. You will learn a lot about coffee in a short amount of time when with coffee enthusiasts. If no coffee clubs are around in your area, join an online society and frequent coffee lover forums.


You can also start a coffee club if you want to discuss coffee intellectually but no clubs are in your area. Co-found the club with a more experienced coffee lover, who can help recruit members and guide the discussions.
 Similar to a wine journal, a coffee journal can help you remember great blends you enjoyed and where you purchased them. Keep a coffee journal to record different coffees you taste, what flavors they yielded, and and any notes you have about the blend. This will help you hone in your tastes and recall particularly delicious brews.

