 Partner Pilates is a way to do Pilates without a reformer. You and your friend provide resistance for each other as you make your way through the exercises.You can do partner Pilates on your own, or sign up for a class. Many Pilates studios have partner or duet classes, and you typically save a little money versus private classes.
Especially if you plan to do partner Pilates on your own, make sure you choose a friend who is relatively fit and has taken Pilates classes before. While they don't have to be an expert, if you've never done Pilates before and you partner with a friend who also is inexperienced, you should work with a certified instructor.
With partner Pilates, one person acts as the base and the other person is the balancer. Choosing a friend who's roughly the same size as you can be ideal because it gives you the opportunity to switch positions so you both get the same benefit out of the exercises.
 A back-to-back exercise such as "connecting the spines" provides an effective warm-up that will get you both centered for your practice as well as allowing you to get in tune with your partner.To do the "connecting the spines" exercise, you and your partner sit cross-legged on the floor with your backs to each other. Press against each other with good posture, feeling your own spine against that of your partner's.
You also can mirror movements. One of you leads in bending or rolling forward or backward. The two of you move as though your spines are glued together. Take turns leading this exercise.
Spend several minutes in this exercise, finding a common breathing pattern and connecting with your partner. This connection will assist you in the rest of your exercises.
 Double-leg stretches allow you and your partner to bend and extend your legs while providing each other with resistance, much like the resistance you would experience if you did similar exercises on the reformer.Both you and your partner lie on the floor in a line, pressing the soles of your feet together. Both of you should flex your core. One of you starts with your legs bent and pressed in towards your body, your hands on your shins. The other partner will extend their legs outward and their arms straight overhead.
Your upper spines should be curved in a "C" position. Take care to make sure this curve doesn't extend beyond your shoulders. Keep your shoulders neutral and your backs flat against the floor.
Inhale when your legs are pulled toward your chest, and take turns bending and stretching the legs. Exhale when your legs are extended.
Throughout this exercise, you and your partner will alternate positions and breaths. Your movements should be smooth, as though you are moving as one body.
 When you do the elephant/handstand, have the person with greater hamstring and back flexibility serve as the base. The other will be the balancer. If you both are of relatively equal flexibility, you can each take a turn at each position.The base should go into downward-dog position. The balancer places their feet at the base of the base's spine and their hands on the floor, so they are doing a modified handstand. Viewed from the side, it will look like there's an "L" shape between your two bodies.
From here, you have several options depending on your strength, flexibility, and overall level of fitness. You can simply hold the position and breathe deeply before releasing, or you and your partner can simultaneously lift one leg up.
After lifting one leg, you can pulse it 20 times to work your glutes, or you and your partner can both do push-ups. You also can do push-ups without lifting your legs., For supported bridges and planks, make sure the larger of the two of you serves as the base, since the balancer will be balancing their entire weight on the base. If you're of equal weight, you can alternate positions.In a supported bridge, the base lies on their back and places their feet at the base of the balancer's spine. The balancer will hold the base's hands. The base slowly raises their legs and extends their arms overhead, giving the balancer a deep back stretch. The base can bend and straighten their legs to do legwork. The balancer also can lift their legs to work their lower abdomen.
For supported planks, the base will need to first get into a full plank position. The balancer will then get on top of the base, placing their hands on the base's heels and their feet on the base's shoulder blades. You can simply hold this position and breathe, or for extra challenge you can raise alternate legs or do push-ups – either in tandem or alternating.
 Since both positions in the duo shell stretch are mutually supportive, both partners generally can take turns being the base and the balancer regardless of any size difference.To start this stretch, the base will enter child's pose. Sitting on your heels, fold your body over from your hips so that the top half of your body presses into your upper thighs and your head is on the mat.
The balancer rests the base of their spine on the base's shoulder blades and positions their feet about hip-width apart with their feet between the base's hands. Then lie back into a full backbend along the base's back, extending your arms out above your head.
Relax and breathe deeply for several breaths, then switch positions with your partner. The calming and supportive nature of this exercise makes it a good one to use as a cool-down to end your partner Pilates practice.

