 If you have programs like iTunes or a torrent program running in the background, they could be eating up precious system resources.


Check your system tray for programs that may be running in the background.
Press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Esc to open the task manager and view any programs that are currently running.
 Your graphics card drivers are the software that controls your graphics card and allows it to interface with games. Running outdated drivers can have a big impact on your performance, as drivers are often tweaked in later releases for specific games. Try to make sure you're always running the latest version of your drivers. You can download the latest drivers from the Nvidia, AMD, or Intel website (depending on who manufactured your graphics adapter). See Update Your Video Card Drivers on Windows 7 for detailed instructions.
 The best way to get a big performance boost from your games is by lowering the graphical settings. This may make the game look a little worse, but can lead to massive gains in frames per second (FPS), which will provide a much smoother experience. Look for some of the following settings in your game's Graphic Options menu for a big impact:Resolution - Games will look best when they're running at your monitor's native resolution, but you can make a big FPS improvement by dropping the resolution down. The game will look blockier, but should instantly feel smoother. Changing your resolution can give you one of the biggest performance boosts you can get. For example, switching from 1920×1080 to 1600×900 will often give you about a 20% boost in FPS.
Anti-aliasing (AA) - This is the technique that smooths out the pixelated edges on objects, making edges look more natural. There are lots of different AA options (MSAA, FSAA, etc.), but for now you just need to know that most of them have a big performance cost. Try turning AA off completely and see how your game plays. If you're getting super-smooth performance and want to try some AA, try FXAA if available first, as this is the cheapest AA solution. Also, stick to 2X or 4X solutions.
Texture Quality - If you're getting intermittent stuttering while playing (as opposed to a low frame rate), you may want to lower your texture quality. This is especially important when playing newer video games with older video cards.
Shadow Quality - Detailed shadows can take a whole lot of processing power, so try dropping your shadow quality to get a major performance boost.
V-Sync - This locks the vertical sync to your monitor’s refresh rate which may force the game to run at a lower frame rate. You can disable this setting for a potential speed boost, however it may introduce screen tearing.
 A game may come with an alternative version of the game that is optimized for 32-bit or 64-bit CPU processors or may come with a version that is optimized for your graphics driver such as DirectX 11 or above. Run the different executables and note which one provides better performance.


There are two major graphics card manufacturers on the market, Nvidia and AMD. You may run into a game that was designed around one particular graphics card. The developer may provide a patch that resolves issues with a graphics card brand that is known to cause performance issues. Check discussion forums and developer websites for more information.
 Certain computer configurations such as laptops that feature both an integrated graphics card and a high-end graphics card may cause programs to run on the integrated graphics card that features lower specifications.


Nvidia graphics card drivers come with the Nvidia Control Panel software that allows you to change programs from using the Integrated Graphics card to your dedicated Nvidia graphics card. To open the Control panel, right click on an empty space on your desktop and click on “NVIDIA Control Panel.” On the left hand side click on “Manage 3D Settings.” In the main window pane click on the “Global Settings” tab and set the drop down labeled “Preferred graphics processor” to “High-performance NVIDIA processor” then close the window. This will change the graphics card settings for all programs.Check under the game’s settings to see which video card is being used as the primary display driver. If you have more than one video card installed, changing this setting to your video card that features high performance may resolve the issue.
You can set your BIOS to disable the integrated graphics card. Check with your computer’s user manual or manufacturer’s website for more details on how to disable the integrated graphics card.
 You may run across a game that is not optimized for your hardware or is known to have poor performance. Search online for unofficial mods or enhancements that provide higher performance. Read reviews and discussion forums before downloading to ensure how to properly install the mod.
 Social hubs such as a developer or publisher’s game discussion hubs, gaming websites, and game download services such as Steam or GOG provide an outlet for those who face issues with a particular game they are running. Asking for help while providing your system specifications can help you identify issues that you may be facing. There are also other discussion threads to look out for when browsing forums.


Developers may post about known issues, server maintenance, workarounds and compatibility issues with configurations of your hardware, the operating system, or conflicts with other programs.
Other users may be facing the same issue as you and can sometimes provide a similar solution.
 If you have a virus infection, the virus may be taking up a lot of your system resources. Removing infections will not only increase your game performance, but they will also improve your computer's security. Most virus infections can be removed using a combination of your antivirus program, Malwarebytes Anti-Malware, and AdwCleaner, both of which are free. See Remove Malware for more detailed instructions.

