 If you are trying to become her instead of you, then by all means abandon this article. But if you view her as a role model and want to adapt some of her personality traits into yours, then this article might just be for you.;
, In both the book and the movie, you can see that Tris is involved with heights a lot. She can jump out of trains and off the tops of buildings. She also climbed to the top of a Ferris wheel without falling. If heights only freak you out, but aren't a phobia, practice rock climbing or anything else that involves being up high without hurting yourself. If it is a phobia, start with small things like a balcony, a roof, or a roller coaster and work your way up to activities like rock-climbing.
 If you don't know self defense already, take a class such as karate, kung-fu, or taekwondo and work your way up to a black belt. Eat healthily too and drink lots of water. For days you don't have practice, set aside twenty minutes to practice at home. Before you start, warm up with running, pushups, and situps. If you really want to, you can join a gym and use the equipment there too. Don't worry about your weight, because the point is to train to become stronger if you ever need to defend yourself. Make your exercise schedule reasonable for you, but try to push yourself only a little bit past your limits.
 Tris' seventh fear is that Tobias only wants her for her body. Be sure that any guy you like makes eye contact when you talk to him. If he looks any lower than your head more than 25% of the time, the best thing you should do is either confront him or ditch him depending on how well you know him. If you're dating a guy who wants to always make out and doesn't seem to need anything more than that from you, then that's another sign he's not the one. Don't take this step too seriously, just try to be careful. Don't give him unlimited chances, just a few. A lot of guys can't help themselves so just try to figure out which factor of you he likes more: your body, or your personality.
 Tris always stands up straight, being as it will show that you're both brave and attractive. Practice sitting up straight. Check your posture each meal, each class, and each time you sit down in public. Not only that, but it'll help you and benefit you in the long run, whether you're trying to be like Tris or not.
 If a fact someone told you seems interesting, don't just think about it but get on the computer and do some research. Ask questions, ask questions, and ask questions some more. Also, don't be afraid to experiment with what you've learned, whether you're making a new type of smoothie, a making a new type of cookie, or registering to a new website.
 Love your family more than anything. Try not to hurt people too often, unless it's in self defense. Don't trust too easily, and don't be gullible. Also, keep your fears a secret. Give some thoughts to some of her quotes, and figure out what they resemble in your life. Examples of quotes to think about are, "I am aware of how little space there is between us--six inches at most. That space feels charged with electricity. I feel like it should be smaller..."; "It's easy to be brave when they're not my fears..." and at the end of book one when she says, "I am no longer Tris, the selfless, or Tris, the brave. I suppose that now, I must become more than either..."

, Don't buy designer clothes, and don't worry too much about what you wear each day, because you'll forget a week later. Wear stuff like oversized shirts, skinny jeans, combat boots, hoodies, leather pants, or a dress and high heels with some bracelets if you absolutely have to be fancy for an event or something.
 In difficult situations, don't cry, scream, or freak out. Just take a deep breath, close your eyes, and think of some solutions. If the situation involves others, run your plan by them before taking action. Everyone should agree, no matter who comes up with the plan.
 Dauntless is the faction Tris is part of. Paint it a color like black, red, or gray. Keep your lights off most of the time, and open your window as a source of light. If you can, make your curtains the same color as the wall. Whichever of the three colors you chose, get stuff like a rug, blankets, a chair, a beanbag, and pillows in that color. Make a poster to put on your door. It could be 'Dauntless Members Only', 'You Are Now Entering Dauntless', 'Dauntless', 'Knock Before Entering Dauntless', or 'Dauntless Rules' with your own bedroom rules underneath it. You could alternatively make your own phrase.



If you have a boyfriend, he could be Tobias.
If you have a brother, he could be Caleb.
If you have a boyfriend who has a mother, she could be Evelyn.
If you have a best friend, she could be Christina.
If you have other guy friends, they could be Will and Al.
If you have a dad, he could be Andrew.
If you have a mom, she could be Natalie.

