 Girls will only notice you if you don't try too hard. Make sure you try to talk to girls as much as you can! This helps in letting girls know you exist, and in finding the right girl for you!;
, That is one of the biggest factors why a girl likes a guy.
 You may want to practice talking to other girls first, but once you have it down, you can move on to your crush. Just don't flirt too much with the other girls. This includes finding out what to talk about and what not to talk about.
 Try to balance it 60% (about your crush) and 40% (about you) or 70%/30%. Show her that you're a good listener and are genuinely interested in the conversation. It is also suggested that you try identifying with her interests; point out common interests you have.
 Don't just throw on whatever in the morning and don't just let your mommy buy your clothes for you. Try to stay up to fashion. And fashion may seem expensive for you, but remember: Fashion can be affordable. You can even get fashionable clothes, including shirts, jackets, pants, and shoes, second-hand (for example, at Plato's Closet).
 Don't just let it go wild. Go to the barber; don't let your parents cut your hair. And when your barber asks you what you want, tell them a general (very general) request, and just ask them what they think would work best.
 Do this with other girls if you are just trying to find the right person to crush on. Science says our eyes change a certain way when we like someone. Then, when the other person sees this, their subconscious sees this and the girl will (most likely) be attracted to you. That's the reason why girls wear mascara.
 You want to talk to her often, get friendly with her, and get to know her, but don't do this all the time. This will get them thinking about you and whether or not you like her. Then all this thinking will lead to her liking you.
 ex. "Ugh! I have horrible grades! I'm so stupid!" "No you're not! This was just a hard test! Don't worry, you will do better next time."

, Girls hate jerks. Don't try to act like a bad boy if that's not who you really are. And girls love guys who are nice and polite to them. Also be polite to other people; they will see this and notice that you're not just flirting with them and that you are really a nice guy.
 Ask her on a date, but only if you feel ready. Most likely, you've never dated anyone. If you've never dated anyone, ask your parents or a trusted friend what to do. Just ask her out when you feel you two have gotten to know each other well enough. School Dances are a good chance for a first date.
 You are the gentleman. Don't try to seem like you are trying to buy their love though.
 Always be confident in everything you do! Even when you don't feel confident, force yourself to do the things you want, but don't force her to do the things you want. It's all about mental strength and will. Just try blanking out your mind and focusing on that one thing, but snap out of it once it's done.

