 A magic ring is a basic type of adjustable ring made by forming a ring with yarn, pulling a loop through it, and chain stitching to form the sides of the ring. It does not count as your first round.


Form a loop around your fingers with the working end to the right and the tail to the left.
Insert the hook through the loop, grab the working end of the yarn from the back, and pull it through to the front.
Chain stitch once.
Pull the two ends apart to draw the loop to a close.
 For your first round, pull five single crochet stitches through the hole in the center of the magic loop. Slip stitch the final loop to the first single crochet in the round to close it off.


For a single crochet stitch, insert your hook through the appropriate stitch, catch the yarn, and pull the yarn back through the stitch.

Catch the yarn again.
Pull the yarn back through the two loops on your hook so that only one loop remains on the hook.


To make a slip stitch, insert the hook into the next stitch in the round, hook the yarn, and pull it through the stitch of your project and the loop on your hook.
 Make a chain of one, then make two single crochet stitches in the next stitch of the previous round. Repeat this five times, then close the round off with another slip stitch.
 To form a point of the star, you will need to make a half double crochet, double crochet, triple crochet, double crochet, and half double crochet in the same stitch, which should be the next one from your previous round. Repeat this four more times for a total of five points.


Make a half double crochet by wrapping the yarn over the hook and inserting the hook into the appropriate stitch.

Wrap the yarn over the hook again and pull the yarn through the stitch.
Place the yarn over the hook once more before pulling it through all three loops on the hook to complete the half-double crochet.


To make a double crochet, wrap the yarn over the hook, insert the hook into the ring, and yarn over the hook again.

Pull this yarn through the ring, yarn over the hook again, and pull the top portion of yarn through the two loops on the hook.
Yarn over the hook once more and pull this new portion through the last two loops on the hook.


For a triple crochet, wrap the yarn over the hook twice before inserting it into the appropriate stitch.

Wrap the yarn over the hook once more before drawing the hook and yarn back through the stitch.
Wrap the yarn over the hook again and draw it through the first two loops, leaving three on the hook.
Wrap the yarn over the look and draw it through the top two loops.
Wrap the yarn over the hook and pull it through the remaining two loops on the hook. This should finish the triple crochet.
 Use the same outline described above to make a second star of the same color and proportions as the first.


Cut off the tail, leaving it long enough to serve as a way to sew the sides together. Weave the center tail into the stitches of the star.
 Use a darning needle threaded with the remaining end yarn from your star to sew the sides together. Before sewing up the final 1/2 inch (1.25 cm), stuff with a small amount of fiberfill feeling, giving the star a little more "poof." Finish sewing up the side to complete the project.


Alternatively, you can skip the stuffing and leave the stars flat.







