 Two of these we'll be referring to by name later, so learn them now:





 The power switch of the Canon T90, set to "L", meaning "off".

The power switch, which isn't actually a power switch (the camera is always on). This is the switch with two positions, L and A (for "Locked" and "Auto", or "off" and "on" to the rest of us, respectively). If you're worried about the camera merrily shooting its way through a roll of film while it's stored (or you hitting the shutter by accident), then keep this at "L" while you're not using it.




 The T90's shutter button.

The shutter button. This makes it go "click".




 The control dial. This does a lot of things, as we'll see later.

The control dial. This is the big dial just behind the shutter button.
 Open the flap on the right of the camera. At the bottom, you'll notice a switch with two positions, S-C and a clock icon. We'll refer to this as the "drive mode switch", and confuse you by referring to the big yellow button in the centre as the "drive mode button". Here are your shooting options:




 The arrow next to the "H" indicates you're in the "I'm not shooting on a budget" mode.

Continuous, high speed mode. This will make the T90 continue shooting after the film has wound on from the next frame for as long as you hold down the shutter button, at four and a half frames per second. You might want to use this in low light at shutter speeds that are too slow to get sharp hand-held shots 100 percent of the time (shoot several, pick the sharpest), or just because it sounds awesome. Be careful, because this will burn through a 36-exposure film in about eight seconds.
To get into this drive mode, turn the drive mode switch to the S-C position, then press the drive mode button in the centre until an arrow appears next to the H letter on the left hand side of the top LCD.




 The arrow next to the "L" indicates "I'm too poor for high speed" mode.

Continuous, low speed mode. This is like the above, but advances at a mere two frames per second. To get this mode, turn the drive mode switch to the S-C position, then press the drive mode button until an arrow appears next to the L on the top LCD.




 The arrow next to "SINGLE" indicates that you were a sniper in a previous life. One shot, one kill!

Single-shot mode. This will take a single shot for each press of the shutter button, no matter how long you hold it down (the film is still automatically advanced). This might be useful if you're shooting stills and are paranoid about wasting film. To use this, turn the drive mode switch to the S-C position until an arrow appears next to "SINGLE" on the top LCD.




 The arrow next to the "2" indicates the two-second self timer is set. Pressing the drive mode button would set it to 10 seconds, in case you wanted to get yourself in the shot, too.

Self-timer. This is most useful for shooting from a tripod when you're making long exposures; having a delay after you push the shutter means any vibration you caused while doing so will have dissipated. To turn on the self timer, turn the drive mode switch to the clock icon, then press the drive mode button to choose either a 2 or 10 second timer delay (an arrow will appear next to 2 and 10 on the top LCD as you switch between them).
 Looking at beautiful photos is one thing, and learning how to make them is another. But if you're going to take some of your own, you need to get up, get your stuff packed and go outside. And if you're going to do this, you need to avoid some common attitudes and pitfalls which keep people indoors looking at photographs -- or, worse, talking about making photographs -- rather than taking them. Discard attitudes such as not trusting your own ability to take great shots, or thinking that all the good photos have already being taken; your perspective is unique and is definitely worth being represented in photos., An understanding of camera exposure might be helpful here; see How to Understand Camera Exposure. The T90 will set either aperture, shutter speed, or both for you automatically. Which ones they will set, depends on the mode you have it in. So, hold down the "Mode" button while turning the main control dial. You'll see that different things, like "Tv, Av, Program", and so on appear in the top LCD. Here are the ones that you care about:





 The Canon T90 in "P". Note that it reads "P-1" and "WIDE", meaning the program has been shifted towards favouring longer shutter speeds and smaller apertures. "TELE", the opposite of a "WIDE" program, favours faster shutter speeds and smaller apertures.

P, for program automatic. This will set both aperture and shutter speed for you, and will guess a combination that works for most people most of the time. Once you're in P mode, turning the command dial will shift between different aperture or shutter speed combinations. This is called program shift. Note that this is not the same as exposure compensation (detailed below), in which a shot is deliberately over- or under-exposed. It simply picks different combinations (for example, 1/30 at f/4, or 1/125 at f/2, rather than the default 1/60 at f/2.8), keeping the exposure the same. You can shift up to two stops in each direction.
(You will have noticed a "P" mode, but this isn't the same as "Program". "Program" doesn't allow you to shift between combinations of aperture and shutter speeds.)




 Aperture priority allows you to set a large aperture to force a shallow depth of field (and blurred backgrounds). (Shot with a Canon T90, Canon FD 135mm f/3.5 wide-open, Kodak Portra 400VC.)

Av, meaning aperture-priority, meaning that you turn the main control dial to select an aperture and the camera automatically chooses a shutter speed to match it (again, see How to Understand Camera Exposure if you're unsure what any of this means). Turning the control dial to the left will select a larger aperture (smaller f/number, meaning less depth of field and faster shutter speeds) and turning it to the right will select a smaller aperture (meaning the inverse).
See also How to Use Your Camera's Aperture Priority Mode, and How to Choose a Lens Aperture (F Stop).




 "Tv" mode means that you set a shutter speed, and the camera automatically selects an aperture.

Tv, meaning shutter-priority, meaning that you pick a shutter speed and the camera automatically sets an aperture for you. This might be useful if you want to force a fast shutter speed to freeze motion (or avoid camera shake), or if you want a slow one to blur motion (like those awesome blurred water shots you see). Once you're in Tv mode, turning the control dial to the right will select a faster shutter speed, and turning it to the right will select a slower one.
 The T90's meter is a relatively dumb, centre-weighted one (meaning that it pays more attention to light at the centre of the frame than it does to light sources on the periphery). It's not smart enough to know that bright subjects should be kept bright, nor that things meant to be dark should be kept that way. This is where exposure compensation comes in; it forces the camera to use a longer or shorter shutter speed (in P and Av modes), or a larger or smaller aperture (in Tv mode), than it would do normally, forcing it to over- or under-expose.
To set exposure compensation, hold down the exposure compensation button (marked "EXP. COMP.") and turn the main control wheel at the same time. Each click on the control wheel is one third of a stop, i.e. forcing a shutter speed one third longer than it'd choose by itself. Turn the dial towards the right to over-expose, and towards the left to under-expose. You'll notice that the exposure compensation readout on the top LCD changes, as indicated in the picture. It reads "2", towards the right of the centre, which indicates twice the normal exposure, or one stop.
Some examples of times you'll need exposure compensation:





 A strongly back-lit subject like this one, not shot on a T90, will require deliberate overexposure to maintain detail in the foreground.

Strongly back-lit subjects. You may want to add two stops of overexposure (so that the readout on the top LCD goes all the way over to the right, at the "4" position).

Snow. The T90 is not smart enough to know that snow is snow and that it should be kept bright, so it'll attempt to expose it to turn it grey. You might want to add anywhere from two thirds stop to a whole stop or more.Bright sunsets. You'll lose some of the great details in the sky if you don't underexpose a little. Try underexposing by two thirds of a stop if you're shooting a slide film. This will also ensure that shadows stay dark, as they should be.




 This shot in very little light, with a long shutter speed, required a whole stop of overexposure to make up for reciprocity failure on Kodak Ektar 100. (Shot on an A-1, not a T90.)

Film reciprocity. Many films run into problems when exposure times get very long; they require additional exposure as shutter times increase. This is called "reciprocity failure". The deceased Kodachrome, for example, required overexposure for speeds as short as a tenth of a second. Most films are not this bad, but still require overexposure at longer speeds. Find a datasheet for your film; it'll tell you how much extra exposure you require.
 These are the following things you care about in your viewfinder:


Shutter speed. This is the shutter speed you have either selected (in Tv mode), or that the camera has chosen for you (in P and Av modes). This is at the bottom of the viewfinder, left-to-middle.

Aperture. This is the pair of red digits at the bottom of the viewfinder, just left of the centre. This tells you either what aperture you have set (in Av mode), or what aperture the camera has selected for you (in P and TV modes).

How many shots you have used. This is the indicator on the right hand side of the viewfinder.

The split-image. You will see three circles in the middle of your viewfinder. The inner one of these is a split-image rangefinder, a focusing aid that we will explain later.

The microprism ring. The second-to-inner of the circles mentioned above is another focusing aid, which we will explain later, too.

Other things. If you see a "+/-" in your viewfinder, this indicates that you have exposure compensation set. If you see "M" in your viewfinder, this means you've ignored step 4 under "Preparation" above.
 Turn the focus ring on your lens. You have two focusing aids, as mentioned above. The split-image in the rangefinder will make vertical lines appear as being split in half; when the image in your viewfinder is in focus, vertical lines will be joined.
The other focusing aid you have is your microprism ring. When subjects are out of focus, the area of the image within the microprism ring will shimmer; when it's in focus, it will not., Push the shutter button down all the way. The shutter will click and you can move on to the next beautiful thing to photograph., Once you do, the film will automatically rewind itself., Get your pictures developed, and don't forget to show them off to the world!