 Regular wooden pencils are your best option for the time being, but you can try with a mechanical pencil if you'd like and want to experiment further.You can try to work with a long skinny wooden object that resembles a pencil, but you may not have as much luck. Because pencils are small and available around the house, they're the best and most convenient to practice with.;
, It's important that you line up the erasers perfectly, as you'll be applying a great deal of pressure between the two ends. Make sure both erasers are pretty thick, and that one isn't any duller than the other.
 Don't let the erasers separate from each other while you push. If your erasers aren't lined up perfectly, you may end up slipping out of your push and poking yourself with the pencil point. It's best to practice this trick alone, at first, to prevent mistakes like this from occurring in company.
 Once you've applied the ample pressure, try pulling the pencils apart. This is when you should feel them being forced back together. If it's not working, you may have to hold the pencils together for longer, or with more force. You definitely want to practice this trick on your own to start. That way, you can work out the kinks and perfect the "magnetism" by yourself before sharing it with your audience.
 As with any good magic trick, you want to become a master before sharing it with the public.Doing the trick a few times isn't enough. You want to make sure that it's polished and consistent, so that you won't embarrass yourself when you share it with others.


Record yourself performing the trick. You can go back and replay the video. Watch yourself over and over again. You'll understand your mistakes, and you'll also figure out how to master the trick.
 A magician has a lot of power over an audience, and you need to make sure that you're confident in your speech to properly draw your audience in.You'll want to speak with an even, upbeat tone. This proves that you know what you're doing and makes your audience trust you.


Call attention to the magic of your trick without giving away any secrets. Tell your audience that you'll be "turning pencils into magnets" or "magically pulling two objects together." It's best not to explain the science, as you want to keep up illusion.
Eye contact is key for a magician. Making a lot of eye contact will establish a trust between you and your audience. This will draw them in and make them pay close attention to you. This connection with you will make it all the more rewarding when the magic happens.
Try speaking some magic words as you perform your trick. These words include "abracadabra," which translates to "make something happen," and "voila," French for "here it is."If you can incorporate these phrases into your performance, you'll look like an expert.
 Remember, first off, that applause will come when you've properly rehearsed a great trick. You don't want to demand this directly from your audience, or they'll find you conceited. For a magician, applause doesn't just include clapping. Gasps and cheers can also be nestled into this sense of approval.


If you want to earn a large response from your audience, dress like a magician. This might include a large hat and a robe with long coattails. Dressing like a magician will get people to believe in your magical powers.
 While some magic tricks are far too complicated to get the audience involved, the magnetic pencil trick works well for a volunteer, as it uses the natural forces of physics. Perform the trick for your audience to start, so they can see how you've done it.


You'll then want to call up your volunteer. You can guide them through it, ensuring that they're pushing on the two pencils with enough force and for enough time. If they're following your instructions closely, then the trick should work perfectly.
There's nothing more rewarding for an audience than watching an untrained magician complete a great trick. This way, everyone will be able to try the trick within their own homes.
 If you're curious, you can test the physics of this trick on your own body. The doorway should be large enough for you fully extend your arms within it, or at least fairly close to this width.


You can also try this trick in a tight hallway, or between two walls that are near enough to each other. Make sure that the two surfaces are as close to parallel as possible.
While it's not required to perform the trick, it's exciting to see how the science of the pencil trick works. A good magician should have a fully-formed idea of how his tricks work.
 You'll want to situate yourself within the frame, equidistant from both surfaces. Feel the wall and make sure that you can press equal force on both sides. This trick hinges on keeping an even balance between the pressure on both of your hands, so keep that in mind when positioning yourself., After you've gotten comfortable, push upon the sides of the doorframe or other surface with a bit more force. The more force that you exert, the more magic you'll feel on the other end of things.You should hold this position for about 30 seconds to feel the full effect of the trick. Make sure not to damage the doorframe by applying too much pressure.


It should not feel particularly comfortable when you're pushing against the walls. This trick works because your arms are exerting enough force to become used to the equal reactionary force of the wall surface. If your arms feel a little sore while you're pressing, you're probably doing it right.
 While you'll be able to keep them down at first, they'll then magically lift up, re-establishing the position that you held them at in the doorframe.


When you press your arms against the doorway, there are two major forces operating at the same time: a positive "push down" signal, a voluntary movement, and an involuntary "lift" signal.Research suggests that the latter is cancelled out when the two forces act together. This means that inhibiting voluntary movement is actually its own neural function, rather than simply the absence of positive voluntary commands

