;
, Choose a sturdy table or counter in a dark room that is free of noise, vibration, air currents, and small movements (creaky floors, etc.). If you don't have a sturdy table, a concrete basement floor works well.
 Place the subject securely on the sturdy table. If you have a computer mouse pad or tray of sand, place the subject on top of that. This helps minimize any vibrations.
 Place it about 30 centimeter (11.8 in) away the subject by bracing it with a clothespin (UK clothes peg) and then sticking the clothespin into a cup of salt or sugar.


If your diode laser has an adjustable lens, take off that lens and position the laser so that its beam spreads out horizontally in an elliptical shape (it looks similar to that of a loaf of bread).
If your laser doesn't have an adjustable lens, secure an optical diverging lens to another clothespin and cup of salt so that the laser beam shines through it to spread the light.
, You can use a nightlight placed under the table or even slightly crack open the door to see in the darkened room. Block any direct light from reaching the holography system. The room should be dark enough that one cannot read.
 The book will serve like a shutter of a camera.
 Carefully lean it against the object. Wait 10-20 seconds to let the plate settle against the object.
,,, This process takes about 3-5 minutes total. For making basic holograms, the process of developing is actually quite simple:
Mix the dried powder photochemicals with distilled bottle water to form two solutions: the developer and the bleach






Dip and wiggle plate in developer for 20 seconds






Rinse in water for 30 seconds






Dip and wiggle plate in bleach for 20 seconds






Rinse in water for 30 seconds






Dry with hair dryer








The dried chemical powder photochemicals can be individually put together by going to a photochemist, but is more expensive since only 1 gram of several chemicals is needed, and few photochemists sell in such small amounts. The JD-4 kit recommended in this article puts all the chemicals into a kit and is happens to be the only such kit available. It is preferred by beginners.
 A simple way to do this is by placing the plate on a paper towel and lean it against a wall. If time is limited, you can carefully blow warm air across the holographic plate using a hair dryer from at least foot (30cm) away. Avoid high heat.
 Shine the spotlight from the same angle your laser beam shone on the plate during exposure. You can't use diffused light sources such as frosted bulbs and fluorescent lamps.

