 Lightly grease the inside of an 8 to 10 inch (20.32 to 25.4 centimeters) cake pan with some butter. Line the cake pan with parchment paper, and grease the parchment paper as well. Set the cake pan aside when you are done.

If you absolutely cannot get any parchment paper, then you can leave it out. The parchment paper will simply prevent the cake from sticking to the bottom of the pan.;
, Stir the mixture occasionally as it melts with a rubber spatula. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the pan from time to time to prevent any scorching. Once the chocolate has melted, set the saucepan aside so that it can cool.

Don't use all of the chocolate just yet. You will be using the rest of it later in the recipe.
 If you have not yet done so, separate the yolks from the whites. You can put the yolks directly into the saucepan, but you should put the whites into a separate bowl. You can separate the eggs by passing the yolks back and forth between two shells, or you can use a special egg separator., Make sure that the chocolate has cooled a little, then whisk the egg yolks. Keep whisking until the yolks break and mix evenly into the chocolate. You should not see any streaks of egg yolk.

If the chocolate is too hot to touch, it is too hot for the eggs. If you add eggs to the chocolate too soon, they will get cooked!

, Stir the mixture again until everything is evenly combined. You can continue using a whisk for this, or you can switch over to a rubber spatula. Scrape the bottom and sides of the saucepan to ensure that everything gets evenly mixed.

The nuts are not completely necessary, but they will give the cake more texture and flavor. They will also make it more brownie-like; pecans and walnuts are a popular addition to brownies.
 You can beat the egg whites using an electric handheld beater, a stand mixer, or a food processor fitted with whisks. You can also do it by hand, but it will take much longer. The egg whites should be white, thick, and foamy., Make sure that the baking rack is in the center of the oven. The cake is ready when the top turns crusty, and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean., Let the cake cool in the pan for 10 to 15 minutes first, then remove it from the cake pan. If you used a spring-form pan, simply open up the sides. If you used a regular cake pan, run a knife along the inside of the cake pan, then dump the cake out onto a serving plate., If you'd like, you can dust it with some powdered sugar. You can serve it while it is still warm, or you can let it cool completely. Vanilla ice cream or whipped cream go great with this type of cake.