 Actively listening to someone will help you determine not only what someone is talking about, but potentially why they are talking so much. While some people talk a lot because of egos or aggression, some people talk because they are nervous, want to make friends, or have something on their chest. Knowing why people won't shut up will help you end the conversation gently.


Ignoring people, creating conflict, or feigning interest will all create longer conversations. Being polite but honest is usually best.
 If you know someone is a known talker, and you will have a hard time getting away, state early on that you have somewhere to be.


Example: "Great to see you, but I only have a few minutes to talk."

, When you are at work you often have your best opportunities to get some peace and quiet. Mentioning "that you have a deadline upcoming," you are "trying to focus more on work," or that "I would rather not talk about this at the office" can get you out of long or awkward conversations easily.


If someone has a habit of pestering you, consider talking to HR or a supervisor.
Example: "Great to see you, but I have only have 5 minutes!"
Example: "I have to pick up the kids soon, so I need to run."

, When you spend most of your time with the same person, you will inevitably need some time away from their voice. Most likely, they need time away from yours, too. Find activities together, like reading, movies, or mediation, that require silence.


"I need some time to relax and think, let's talk in an hour." Spending some alone time will allow both of you to focus on what is really important, and be able to talk about it later.
Example: "Today was the longest day! I could use a few seconds for some peace and quiet."

, We all love our parents, but they have a knack for talking our ears off. While you should always be respectful, there are a couple ways to get free without causing family drama. Sending letters or emails, and inviting them to do the same, will help you catch up on your own time.


Be brief talking about problems or stress as many parents will want to know every last thing that is wrong in their child's life.
Don't be a brick wall -- give them some details! If you are sullen and silent, many parents will try to keep talking to figure out what your problem is.
Communicate regularly. It may seem counter productive, but giving periodic updates to your parents can prevent an information overload if you only talk once a month or year.
Example: "I'm so glad we had the chance to catch up Mom, but I have to run. I'll call you soon!"

, Getting a bully to leave you alone can be tough, but getting them to shut up is often as simple as eliminating their ammo. Laugh at their insults, ignore them, and resist the urge to get into a shouting match.


Being coy or sarcastic takes the rug out from under their feet. "Would your poor mother approve of that language?" "Someone watched one too many R-rated movies," or "Sheesh, did someone treat you poorly as a child?" are sarcastic, but resist being too hostile.

