 Empathy is the process of putting yourself into someone else’s shoes and imagining what they must be thinking and feeling. Try to give your partner the benefit of the doubt and consider what may being going on with them.By tapping into your empathy for your partner, you may find it easier to find a solution. Some questions that you might ask yourself include:

What's going on in my partner's life right now that he might be acting this way?
Is it an understandable type of stress or experience?
How would I want to be supported if it were me?
How can I use this information to respond to my partner in a sensitive way?

, Sometimes, you may need to take a step back and think about what has been said. After a discussion, you may have a lot of new information about how each other feels. Instead of rushing to a resolution or decision, it may benefit you both to take some time to think about what the other person has said and how you feel about that.As you take time to process what has been said, really work on understanding the other person and seeing things from their point of view. Try to see their position as a valid one.
If you are unable to come to a solution immediately, you may need to take a step back and think about the issue for a few days. You can come back together to discuss the problem again after you’ve both calmed down and had time to think.
 As you come to a resolution of the conflict, you should be ready to forgive the person. A resolution to the conflict means that you move past it and don’t dwell on it or think about it again. You don’t hold negative feelings inside or stay angry. The conflict is left behind.Don’t reject the person or withdraw from them after the conflict has been resolved. The resolution should bring you closer, not push you apart.
 An important part of handling conflict in relationships is being willing to compromise. When you compromise, you both come to a decision that is acceptable to both of you. You both agree not to expect the outcome to be exactly like you want it. Instead, you agree to find a solution that works for you both.This may take some creative thinking on both of your parts. You both also need to have open minds. You cannot come to a compromise if you are unwilling to work with the other person.
 It is okay to disagree about certain points. You don’t have to agree about everything, even if you are in a relationship. As you face conflict, you may have to accept that you will not see eye to eye on this point. That is okay. You can disagree on the topic and respect that each person has their own opinion about the matter.This may be helpful if you can’t come to an agreement or resolution. However, if you agree to disagree and let the conflict go, you must follow through and let it go. Don’t hold on to it and fester in your frustration that the other person doesn’t agree with you.Because of differing ideas, you may both think you are right and think the other person is wrong. Opinions are rarely “right” or “wrong.” They’re just have you believe. By accepting each other’s differences, you can work towards resolving the conflict and respecting each other.
 If you come to a place where you can’t find a resolution to the conflict, you may consider going to conflict counseling. A professional can help you learn how to discuss your feelings in a calm manner, build conflict resolution skills, and come to a resolution that is agreeable to both of you.You can search online for counselors or therapists who specialize in conflict resolution. Depending on your relationship, you may consider a family counselor, relationship counselor, or marriage counselor.

