 One option for getting rid of the spider is to vacuum it up. If you have a bagless vacuum cleaner, take the spider in the vacuum’s tube, and dump it in an outside trash can. If you have a vacuum cleaner with a bag, throw the bag in an outdoor trash can.It is important that you empty the vacuum cleaner. Don’t just put it back in the closet. If the spider survived being vacuumed up, it may simply crawl out the way it came in.;
, Another easy way to kill a spider is to spray the spider with bug spray. Many brands have created aerosol foams that can spray several feet. In most cases, spraying the spider with a bug spray will kill it, but even if it doesn’t for some reason, it will definitely slow the spider down a lot. Then you can easily squish it with something without having to worry that it is going to run at you.Be careful with bug sprays, though. Be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after using the spray. Clean the area where you have sprayed thoroughly, especially if you have pets or young children that could come in contact with the residue left behind. Always store the spray in a safe place that cannot be reached by children or pets.
Make sure to clean up the dead spider and throw it in the trash. This is especially important if you have pets that could come along and eat the dead spider. The bug spray could make your pet very sick, or it could even kill them.
 Perhaps one of the most common ways to kill a spider is to smash it. You can use whatever you have handy. A shoe, a phone book, a newspaper, or anything that you can bring down quickly and easily on top of the spider. A broom with a long handle can also work to smash the spider from a reasonable distance.


Be careful, with this method of killing a spider you risk missing the spider or simply injuring it. If you smash it, make sure you smash it a few times until you are certain it is dead.
Clean up the dead spider with a big wad of tissues.
 This may seem strange, but it turns out that this may be the most humane way to kill a spider. Catch the spider with a jar or other object that you can put a lid on. Place the spider in your freezer overnight. Since spiders experience cooling normally in the winter, it will not be unusual. The next day, you can fill the jar with alcohol, which will make sure the spider doesn’t come back to life after it thaws out. Flush the spider down the toilet.You can catch the spider easily by placing the jar over the top of the spider. Slide something thin between the floor (or wall) and the top of the jar (a postcard works well). Flip the jar so that it is right side up, and take the lid in one hand. Pull the card off the top of the jar and quickly screw the lid on.
 If you have arachnophobia, the most obvious way to get rid of the spider is to have someone else take care of it for you. If you see a spider, ask someone who lives with you if they can get rid of the spider for you.


Go into another room while they are getting rid of the spider if it is making you feel like you are going to panic.
You can even ask a neighbor to help you. This may be embarrassing, but if trying to deal with the spider on your own is unbearable, it’s a viable option.
 Although you may be afraid of them, spiders play an important role in ecosystems. They eat bugs that might otherwise infest your house. In general, they want you to leave them alone as much as you want them to leave you alone. If the spider isn’t bothering you, and you can function with it around, let it be.


The spider will probably be looking for a way out of your house. This is because spiders actually don’t do well in houses. Spiders need lots of bugs to eat, and they prefer a moist environment. Consider leaving a window or door open, and the spider may find its own way out.