 The most effective way to blend in is to look like everyone else. Take a cue from nature and learn the best ways to camouflage yourself., Neutrals include black, white, brown, khaki, navy and gray.Limit use of any bright colors to one small item, as an accent.


Avoid graphics, including logos, and wild patterns on your clothing. Unless you are hanging out with a group of fashionistas, those busy leggings and rapper-designed sneakers will attract attention, and a lot of it!
Limit accessories to 1 or 2, and keep them small and tasteful. Leave the expensive handbag or watch at home.
 Wear a suit to a formal academic or professional meeting, but not to a movie date.


Avoid wearing hobby or job related gear out of context. A fishing vest should only be worn when fishing. Also leave the camo at home unless you are actually hunting.Bring appropriate gear for the weather. Walking around in the pouring rain without an umbrella or jacket will attract attention from others, much like wearing shorts in a snowstorm.
 Cover tattoos and/or noticeable birthmarks with clothing or makeup, if possible.


If you are planning to get some (or more) body art, make sure it is on a part of your body you can hide easily without having to wearing odd clothing. A tattoo on your upper arm that can be hidden under a short sleeve shirt will help you be invisible, while a full arm sleeve requiring long sleeves in hot temperatures will draw attention.
When removing a piercing, use a spacer to prevent the hole closing. You can get one at jewelry stores or piercing shops.
 Dye your hair only shades found naturally in hair. Avoid trying out the newest trend in styles or cuts. It’s better to let others work out the kinks and wait until the style is widely socially acceptable.


Your hair doesn’t have to be your natural shade, but blue or green will create the opposite effect of what you want! Trendy hair colors like gray and pale pink will also garner lots of attention.
 Avoid emphasizing one feature over others. Makeup application has become a popular artistic expression and pastime, but just as following the latest clothing or hair trends garners glares and double-takes, so will dramatic makeup.

