 Pyometra is a serious, potentially life-threatening condition that takes two forms: open and closed. The difference between the two is as follows:


With open pyometra the cervix is open, which allows some pus drainage from the womb; with closed pyometra the cervix is shut which prevents drainage and means the womb may distend to the point where it ruptures.
However the womb can still rupture with open pyometra if the volume of pus produced in the womb exceeds that rate at which it drains away. In this case, sufficient pressure may build up to distend and rupture the womb.;
, Pyometra is most likely to occur around 4 to 8 weeks after the end of heat, although it can occur at any stage of a female dog's reproductive cycle. The condition is caused by the influence of hormones such as estrogen and progesterone on the lining of the womb.


Hormonal stimulation causes cystic proliferation of the womb wall and an increased amount of secretions. These secretions may become contaminated by bacteria present in the vagina that ascend into the womb. The combination of increased secretions and the presence of bacteria may lead to a womb infection.
The more hormonal stimulation the womb receives in the form of repeated estrous cycles, the greater the likelihood of pyometra developing. Thus, older dogs (over the age of 6 years) are more likely to suffer from pyometra. However, occasionally a young dog is unfortunate and gets pyometra after her first or second season.
 The accumulation of pus inside the womb causes toxicity, and these toxins are absorbed across the lining of the womb and enter the blood stream. This is a form of septicemia and it can cause organ damage and failure.


The signs of pyometra are largely associated with the dog feeling unwell, drinking excessively to try to dilute the toxins in her blood stream, and vomiting. Thus the symptoms include poor appetite, lethargy, and vomiting. In addition, the dog is often very thirsty.
If she has an open pyometra she may spend a lot of time licking her vulva and you might see pus staining her bedding. In extreme cases of closed pyometra her belly may become swollen.
 The only guaranteed way of preventing pyometra is to spay the dog. However, a wise precaution that helps to decrease the risk of (but not necessarily prevent) pyometra, is to avoid the use of hormones which postpone heat.


Some breeders with valuable breeding dogs have also toyed with using antibiotics during the dog's heat (more of this in part three) but this is unproven to be beneficial and spaying is a much safer option.
 Spaying is the removal of the dog's ovaries, both horns of the uterus, and the body of the uterus down to the level of the cervix. This is a surgical procedure most often performed via an open laparotomy. This is where the surgeon opens the dog's abdomen under sterile, surgical conditions, to gain access to the structures inside.


This operation is routine surgery which is none-the-less treated with a great deal of respect. There is a small risk of hemorrhage during the operation because the surgeon has to tie off major arteries to the ovaries and the cervix.
This risk is minimal in fit, lean dogs because there is minimal intra-abdominal fat and the surgeon can get a good grip for the ligatures. In older, fatter dogs the risk rises because fat cloaking the ovarian pedicles makes the ligatures slightly more likely to slip.
 Spaying your dog has distinct health benefits for her. Not only does it remove the risk of pyometra (as she no longer has a womb to become infected) but if performed before her second season there is also a protective effect against mammary cancer in later life.


That said, a female dog can be spayed at any age, it's just that the benefit against mammary cancer is lost after twp or more seasons.
Additionally, the spay operation needs to be timed between estrous cycles so that the surgery occurs when there is less of a blood supply to the womb and the uterine tissue is least friable.
 A female dog usually has two heat seasons a year and each is a huge hormonal event. There is a lead-in period whereby the blood supply to the womb increases, which then tails off after the season.


This increased blood supply makes the tissue more crumbly or friable; this means that the uterine body or horns are more likely to fall apart in the surgeon's hands, causing an increased risk of serious hemorrhage.
To avoid this, the ideal time to operate is when the womb is at its most hormonally quiet, which is a window of time that starts about two months after the end of the previous season up to around one month before the start of the next one.
 Hormone injections slightly increase the risk of a dog getting pyometra.


A single injection of delvosteron (see below) increases the chance of pyometra by 0.3%, whilst repeated injections carry an increased incidence of 1.4%.
Whilst avoiding hormone injections is not a true "prevention", by avoiding them it removes a risk factor for pyometra development., Hormone injections were once used more frequently than they now are, to prevent a female dog coming into heat at an inconvenient time.


However, greater knowledge about the risks of inducing diseases like pyometra, mammary cancer, and conditions such as diabetes mellitus has led to a fall in their use.
The most commonly used hormone to postpone heat is Delvosterone, which contains proligestone – a synthetic progestin. The latter is a hormone associated with pregnancy, so the injection fools the body into thinking the dog is pregnant, and hence she doesn't come into heat. Each injection works for around 4-6 months.
 This is an unproven method of preventing pyometra that has not undergone scientific trials and the results of which are largely anecdotal.


Breeders with valuable stud animals are keen to reduce the risk of pyometra any way they can because they do not want their stock animals neutered. The theory behind antibiotic use is to put the dog onto long courses of antibiotics during her season. This is because the cervix is open during estrous, so there is a theoretical increased risk of bacteria ascending up into the womb.
However, the presence of bacteria is only one factor in the development of pyometra, because significant thickening of the womb wall and increased glandular secretions must take place for the bacteria to colonize. Taking antibiotic does nothing to influence the anatomical changes taking part in the womb as a result of hormonal stimulation.

