 Crunches put pressure on your vertebrae, so doing them often can lead to injury over time. It is important to add variety and do exercises which work the abs without rounding the torso and hips. If you want a strong and defined abdominal area, you need to incorporate exercises that specifically target all the different muscles in your core.If you do a lot of crunches, you can actually worsen your posture or even injure your vertebrae or discs. Instead, focus on exercises that keep your head and neck in alignment and lengthen your abdominal area, such as boat crunches.
 Take some time to learn about the basic movement patterns of your core muscles, and how they work together. Then you can build a routine with exercises that target your upper abs, lower abs, and obliques.A full sit-up is an example of a classic upper abs exercise. However, if you only do exercises such as this one, that target your upper abs, you'll never get the stomach that you want.
Twisting exercises, such as the Russian twist, work your obliques. Any exercise that involves leaning your torso back, or lifting your legs, also works your lower abs.
 It's a common saying in the fitness world that abs are made in the kitchen. A healthy diet that is high in protein and moderate in overall calories will help you burn fat as well as build muscle.Focus on lean meats such as turkey and chicken. If you don't eat meat, look to plant-based foods that are high in protein, such as tofu and other soy products.
Make sure your body is getting all the vitamins and minerals it needs. Take a multi-vitamin supplement if you aren't getting enough vitamins and minerals through food, but keep in mind that food is still the best way to get the vitamins and minerals you need.
 If you're trying to get rid of stubborn belly fat, eating smaller meals five or six times a day will keep your body from accumulating extra calories as fat. You'll also probably snack less because you're eating more frequently.If your work schedule doesn't really allow you to eat a small meal every two or three hours, you can instead have a smaller protein snack that you can eat while at your desk or on the job.
Eating smaller meals more often also will boost your metabolism so that when you exercise you'll burn more fat.
 A 30-day challenge can help, especially if you neglected exercise for awhile and are trying to get back into it. You can find information about 30-day challenges on exercise websites, as well as at gyms and fitness clubs.Some 30-day challenges are focused on building a specific part of your body, such as your abs. If you want to build that tight, toned six pack, a challenge can give you a jumpstart toward achieving your goals.
 You won't build strong abdominal muscles unless you allow the muscles you've trained full time to recover after a workout. If you want to develop a six pack, leave at least 24 hours between abdominal workouts.For example, you might do core training on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. On Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, do a lighter cardio workout, such as walking or jogging, that doesn't target your core specifically.

