 Physical activity releases feel-good chemicals in the body called endorphins that improve your mood and relieve tension. Plus, when you put effort into an exercise routine, you give your mind a point of focus, allowing you to get “unstuck” from negative thought patterns.


Exercise can be virtually anything that challenges your body and gets your heart pumping at an increased rate. Try boxing, running, or dancing. Learn martial arts, which can help you feel more empowered after a traumatic event. You can also walk your dog around the park or escape into nature for a long day-hike.Studies have suggested that yoga can be an effective tool for decreasing a number of PTSD symptoms, including hyper-arousal. Consider taking a trauma-sensitive yoga class to get the benefits of exercise and meditation., The pain and suffering you experience after a traumatic event can cause you to suppress emotions. Hyperarousal symptoms can make it seem impossible to let your guard down. Nonetheless, a great way to relieve anger and pent-up emotions is by letting them all out. For some people in certain cultures or families, crying is considered a weakness. Don’t fall victim to this line of thinking. Crying can be a powerful, healthy, and soothing way to release anger and frustration.


If you don’t feel comfortable crying in the presence of others, go somewhere alone to channel your anger. Cry, shout, or punch something soft, if you must. Just let it out., Not everyone will understand or be supportive of your PTSD symptoms. That’s why it’s significant to have coworkers, friends, and family who are willing and ready to listen when you have angry outbursts. These people shouldn’t take your anger personally, but see your venting as an opportunity to release these negative emotions and problem-solve.Reach out to someone who has shown that they are non-judgmental and attentive. You might say, “I really need to get some things out of my head. Can we talk?”

, Another way to ease anxiety and reduce anger is by journaling your thoughts and feelings. You don’t have to be a good writer, either. Unless you want to share your journal with a doctor or therapist, you can keep it private. Just take some time each day to write down what you’re feeling and what’s going on in your head.


Journaling can be a powerful tool in PTSD recovery. As you progress in therapy, you may start to use some of the cognitive restructuring techniques you learn to challenge negative thinking patterns and reframe those thoughts that keep you stuck.