 For instance, if you typically access social media on your phone, delete the apps from your phone.If you tend to use social media on your computer, keep your computer turned off for the duration of your break from social media. A less extreme alternative is to simply turn off social media notifications on your device of choice so that you are not tempted to look.If you turn off notifications, be sure to turn off email notifications, too.
 If you find that you’re fitter, happier, and more productive during your social media break, you might want to extend the break to a full-time social media deletion. In this case, you’ll say goodbye to social media for good.The process for deleting your account varies with social media platform. Typically, it’s quick and easy, and requires simply navigating the user menu options to the section dealing with your account (which is usually called “Your Account”). From there, just click “Delete My Account” (or some similar prompt) and confirm your decision.
Remember, if you ever want to hop on a particular social media platform again later, you can, though you’d be starting from scratch.
 It’s easy to think of taking a break from social media as the exclusion of something. But instead, consider your time without social media as a liberation from the demands you may have unconsciously placed on yourself to constantly post new content and engage in social media interactions.Instead of posting on social media, you can now simply focus on enjoying whatever it is you’re doing wherever it is you are.Try keeping a mini journal with you and write in it whenever you notice that your day has been better than it usually is when you are always checking social media.
 There will probably be a few days where you really miss being on social media. But after a time – three days, five days, or even a week depending on how connected you are to social media use – you’ll begin to feel the urge to use social media decline. Stay strong through this rough period and know that it will pass. There are several ways to avoid temptation and temporary depression. For instance, you could:See a movie with friends
Catch up on your reading by grabbing a book off the shelf
Take up a new hobby like bicycle repair or playing the guitar.
 On social media, many people post only their best-looking photos and rarely – if ever – posts negative things about their lives. Once you see past this carefully calculated veneer of perfection, you will begin feeling more alienated from and skeptical of the whole enterprise.This sense of alienation will make you more willing to take a break from social media., If you do decide that you want to resume using social media at some point, then you might want to take some time to consider your decision. Make a pros and cons list to help you identify your reasons for wanting to resume your social media use.

For example, your pros might include things like “stay up to date about what friends are doing,” “have a place to share my good news and pictures,” and “engage in conversations with friends about interesting news.” However, your cons might include things like “get frustrated by political posts,” “waste time by checking my account too often,” and “worry unnecessarily over things I’ve posted.”
Compare your pros and cons to help you decide which option has the greatest benefit and make your decision.
You may also want to place some firm limits on yourself if you do resume your social media use. For example, you might set aside two 15 minute time frames per day to engage on social media and stay logged out of your accounts at all other times.

