 Open 2 14.5-ounce (411 g) cans of white beans, and pour them in a colander to drain out the liquid. Next, rinse the beans with cold water to remove the excess salt.If there is a great deal of residue on the beans, you may want to rinse them a second time to ensure that remove as much of the sodium as possible.;
, Pour half of the beans into a large bowl. Using a potato masher, mash the beans until they have a chunky texture.Mashing some of the beans will help thicken up the chili.
If you don’t have a potato masher, you can use a fork or a spoon to mash the beans. It may just take a little longer.
 Once you’ve finished mashing half of the beans, add the unmashed beans to the bowl. Set the beans aside until you're ready to add them to the chili., Place a large Dutch oven on the stove, and add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of canola oil. Turn the burner to medium-high, and allow the oil to heat for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it starts to shimmer.You can substitute vegetable or olive oil if you prefer.
 When the oil is hot, add 1 minced jalapeno, 2 chopped poblano peppers, 1 chopped onion, and 4 minced cloves of garlic to the Dutch oven. Allow the vegetables to cook until they become soft and fragrant, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can replace the jalapeno and poblano peppers with 2 4-ounce (113 g) cans of green chilies if you prefer., When the pepper mixture has cooked for several minutes, add Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Stir well to ensure that the seasonings are fully incorporated., Once you’ve seasoned the pepper mixture with salt and pepper, add 1 tablespoon (6 g) of ground cumin, 1 ½ teaspoons (4 g) of ground coriander, and 1 teaspoon (3 g) ancho chili powder to the vegetables. Allow the mixture to saute for another minute to toast the spices.You can customize the spices according to your tastes. For example, you might also mix in ⅛ to ¼ teaspoon (.25 to .5 g) of cayenne pepper if you want extra heat in the chili. You can also add oregano, paprika, or whatever spices you like., When the spices have had a chance to toast, pour 4 cups (946 ml) of chicken broth into the Dutch oven. Keep the heat on medium-high, and allow the mixture to come to a simmer, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.If you want the chili to have a fresher, brighter flavor, you can add the juice from 1 to 2 limes in with the chicken stock.
 Once you’ve brought the chili to a simmer, add the combination of mashed and unmashed beans to the Dutch oven. Stir well, and allow the chili to simmer for another 20 minutes.Keep an eye on the chili to ensure that it doesn’t come to a full boil. If it starts to boil, lower the heat.
 After the chili has simmered for 20 minutes, taste it. Add more Kosher salt, fresh ground pepper, and any other seasonings that you think are necessary., When the seasoning is right, add 3 cups (375 g) of cooked chicken that’s been shredded or chopped to the chili. Mix well to fully incorporate the meat, and allow the chili to simmer again to warm the chicken through, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.You can use whatever type of chicken that you like in the chili as long as it’s cooked. If you’re short on time, you can purchase a rotisserie chicken from the grocery store and remove the meat from the bones for the chili.
 Once the chicken has been mixed into the chili and heated through, serve it in individual bowls. You can top the chili with whatever toppings you like, such as sour cream and/or shredded cheddar cheese.Other toppings you may want to add to the finished chili include crushed tortilla chips, guacamole, pico de gallo, and/or chopped jalapenos.
