 Not every shot in cricket can be a scoring shot. When a ball is well bowled, use a forward defensive shot to avoid being called out. Having a solid defense is a crucial part of being a good batsman.









Lean your head and front shoulder forward. Take a step with the front foot while keeping the back leg straight.Swing the bat downward and contact the ball as it passes below the eyes. Keep the bat angled so the face is toward the ground.
The bat should end up slightly ahead of your front leg and close the side of the pad. Do not follow through. Keep the heel of your back foot off the ground and hold the position to have the best chance to block the ball.
 This shot is usually played when a full delivery on middle or off stump. It is one of the most common shots and usually the first one learned by cricket players. Depending on the direction the ball travels, this shot can be referred to as a cover drive, off drive, straight drive, on drive, or square drive.








Lean forward and step with your front foot. Bend your front knee. This will give you a solid base for the shot.
Your head should ahead or level with the front knee and your back foot should be up on the toe during the swing.
Swing the bat straight and contact the ball when it is below the eyes. Keep your wrists relaxed and the bat angled to keep the drive low.
Follow through should continue on a straight path so that the bat face is toward the sky.
 This shot is great to use against spinners. When you see a low-bouncing ball on the legside, go to the sweep shot.









Lean your head and front shoulder forward. Stride with your front foot so the pad is in the path of the ball. Drop your back knee to the ground.
Lift the bat to a high backswing then bring the bat down and across the body. Strike the ball in front of the pad. Roll your wrists slightly when you make contact to angle the ball downward.
Follow through. Bring your hands around after striking the ball so they end up near your front shoulder with the bat held high in the air.
 This shot relies of the speed of the bowled ball as opposed to the power of the hitter. A front foot leg glance is best used to play balls delivered off to the leg side.









Lean forward with your head and front shoulder. Shift your weight to your front leg.
Bring the bat straight through. Angle the bat face slightly toward your front leg during the stroke. Make contact in front of the front leg pad.
Flick your top wrist to glance the shot downward. This shot relies on control and precision to deflect the ball as opposed to a powerful swing.

