 Having an out-of-the-way area to store footwear will come in handy when you just want to kick off your shoes after coming in from a long day. Whether you opt for a rack, cubby, mounted shelf or just a corner of the room where you can line up unworn shoes, you’ll be glad to have them all in one place that isn’t right in front of the door.If you live in an area that receives a lot of snow or rain, place a separate plastic tray nearby to leave wet boots and sneakers in.Use a mounted or hanging organizer to keep pairs of shoes together and out of the reach of pets.
 Stash larger and lesser used items in a coat closet near the front door. This could include things like sporting equipment, duffel bags or baby carriers that take up too much room elsewhere. Closets are especially useful because they keep your belongings confined to a single space that’s easily accessible and out of sight.Stacking or leaning items on-end can help you fit more into the closet.
Don’t forget to check your closet space for things that can be thrown out.
 Mount a rack or row of hooks at head height along one wall and use them to hang jackets, backpacks, scarves, hats and other accessories that get put on and taken off frequently. They’ll be plainly visible, which will keep them from getting lost, and won’t obstruct walking space.Attach hooks using removable wall strips to make installation quick and painless and prevent damage.
Stick name tags above racks or hooks so that the kids each have a place to leave their things.
 For most homes, a few inconspicuous baskets or bins will be enough to tuck away stray items. Make sure they’re big enough to hold everything you need them to with no overflow. These containers can then be tucked away in a closet beneath another piece of furniture to make them less noticeable.For a more decorative approach, look for attractive pieces like wicker baskets and ornamental wooden chests or trunks.
An old cabinet or dresser can be converted into an all-purpose storage solution.