 Research has shown that there is a connection between irregular sleeping patterns and the likeliness of experiencing sleep paralysis, as well as a potential genetic influence.People who work irregular shifts and have unusual and disrupted sleeping patterns are more prone to sleep paralysis. Generally sleep paralysis is more common among those who sleep less and are more sleep deprived.Remember that adults should aim for between six and nine hours of sleep a night, and frequently forcing yourself to have less than this is not advisable.Regular sleep deprivation increases your risk of serious health problems such as diabetes, heart disease and obesity. You will also find it harder to concentrate and will have reduced alertness which can make you more prone to accidents.;
, There are no guaranteed ways to induce sleep paralysis. Although it is fairly common, the exact causes of the phenomenon are still not fully understood.Disrupting your sleeping cycle with shorter sleeping periods at night and naps in the evening is one way to do this. It is not precise, but is reported as one way to upset your regular sleep cycle and potentially induce sleep paralysis.


Get out of bed earlier than usual, before carrying out your daily activities as you would normally. You should be generally active during the day even if you feel tired.
Then have a short nap in the evening, for not more than two hours, some time between 7pm and 10pm.
After the nap stay awake and be active for at least another hour before heading back to bed., If you are trying to induce sleep paralysis it's important to lie down in bed in a comfortable position. Lying on your back when you sleep is one commonly reported factor that may help induce sleep paralysis. It is not really known what the causative connection is, but it is thought that a significant number of people who experience sleep paralysis sleep in a supine position.Lie as still as you can and try to repeat a single word in your head, like a mantra. This will help you relax and clear your mind.


Repeat the word again and again, and begin to imagine that somebody is speaking the word to you.
Try not to become distracted if you sense lights and other sensations.
Concentrate on the word, stay relaxed, and you may feel yourself moving towards the threshold of sleep paralysis., An alternative way to disrupt your sleep and potentially help induce sleep paralysis is to wake yourself up during the night. Set your alarm for between four and six hours after you fall asleep, and then keep yourself awake for a short period of 15 minutes to half an hour.Get your mind active by reading for this period. Then as you go back to bed, close your eyes but maintain awareness.


To do this, repeat a mantra, such as "You're a wizard Harry", or focus on a particular point in your visual field.
You may then slip into sleep paralysis as you return to sleep but your mind stays aware.