 Under Minnesota law, you must meet certain minimum requirements in order to qualify for a permit to carry a firearm within the state. These requirements are listed on the application form itself. If you have questions about your eligibility or about the interpretation of any of the requirements, you can speak with someone at your local police department or sheriff’s office. Alternatively, you could consult with an attorney for a legal interpretation., Minnesota has two age requirements for obtaining either a permit to carry or a license to purchase a handgun. You must be at least 21 to purchase and carry a handgun or handgun ammunition from a licensed dealer. You must be at least 18 to purchase a semi-automatic assault rifle., To get either a permit to carry a handgun or a permit to purchase or transfer a handgun, you must have a clean criminal record. In some cases, if you have been convicted of a disqualifying crime, you may still be able to obtain a permit if, after your conviction, you obtain a pardon or go through some other legal process to have your legal rights reestablished. Specific crime-related limitations are as follows:You must not have been convicted of a “crime of violence” in Minnesota or elsewhere, unless you have undergone a legal process to have your civil rights restored.
You must not have been convicted of fifth-degree assault on a family member.
You must not have been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.
You must not be an unlawful user of a controlled substance.
You must not have been committed to a treatment facility for use of controlled substances, unless your rights to possess a firearm have been subsequently restored.
You must not have been convicted of any felony, unless your legal rights have been subsequently restored.
 For either a permit to carry or a permit to purchase or transfer a handgun in Minnesota, there are several limitations that are related to your citizenship, residency, or general identity. You are not required to be a citizen or resident of Minnesota, but the following limitations do apply:You must not be a fugitive from justice.
You must not be an illegal alien in the United States.
You must not have had a dishonorable discharge from the U.S. military.
You must not have been convicted of various gang-related crimes.
 In Minnesota, you can freely carry hunting guns without applying for a permit. The permit and eligibility requirements apply to handguns only.

