 Although some symptoms are quite distinct depending on the type of snake that has bitten your dog, it is possible to say that a snake-bitten dog tends to react in the following general ways:


trembling
vomiting
salivation, drooling, frothing
diarrhea
weakness in the back legs, unsteadiness
dilated pupils
respiratory distress
bloody urine
continuous bleeding from the bite wound
a flaccid paralysis leading to coma or respiratory failureDeath can occur within 30 minutes to two hours, depending on the type of snake venom and the amount of venom injected.;
, If it is safe to do so, and possible, try to identify the culprit snake in order to match the anti-venom (colour, size, distinctive markings etc.). A vet can take a swab of the bite site using a snake detection kit (provided he or she can locate the bite area amidst the hair) to identify the snake venom but it can speed things up if you can either sight identify a snake or possibly relate the type of reaction your dog suffered. These images and symptom overviews will assist you:



Tiger snake: a dog bitten by a tiger snake tends to react immediately, becoming agitated and hyperactive. Not long after, the dog will most likely collapse, its tongue hanging out and the breathing becomes laboured. Lethargy sets in and the dog will either die or recover only with appropriate and immediate treatment.Dugite

, The paralysis takes over and the dog's tongue will loll out, some frothing at the mouth may be apparent and the dog will become lethargic, with its pupils not responding to light.Australian Copperhead snake - see photos for identifying features; only snake found above the snowline because they are adapted to cooler climates. They are found in river, swamp and marshland areas Red-bellied black snake - see photo for identifying features; black top and red base. It is widespread on the coast and eastern regions of Australia and especially likes moist areas, such as near water.

Other venomous Australian snakes: Yes, there are more but the ones listed here are the more commonly encountered snakes. Snakes such as the death adders and mulga snakes are less likely to be encountered by your dog unless you are venturing into their territory with your dog. Follow the general symptoms and advice outlined here.
 Ring your vet and tell them you have a dog with a snakebite coming in immediately. This will alert the vet to make arrangements to treat your dog ahead of any other animal in the surgery. It may also enable them to make logistics arrangements prior to your arrival that will ease any difficulties, such as ensuring you get a car space close to the surgery and pulling out your dog's previous records for allergic reactions etc.
 The best solution to a dog bitten by a venomous Australian snake is anti-venom and vet care. The farther you have to travel to the vet's and the more venom that has been injected into your dog, the worse your dog's chances of survival. However, you and a helper can help prolong your dog's chances of survival by some basic treatment, especially during the car trip to the vet's:


Apply a pressure bandage to a limb bite; do not apply a tourniquet

, Do not wash the bite area or cut the wound.


Apply hand pressure to a body bite (face and jaws are quite common areas for dogs to be bitten)
Keep talking to your dog and stroking it; it is good for both of you to feel a sense of reassurance and to keep calm
Carry your dog at all times - the dog cannot be expected to walk and any movement will spread the venom.
 For your own peace of mind, it helps to know how the vet will probably treat your dog. This list gives a broad overview of likely procedures, although this is dependent on the type of venom and the treatment facilities available:


The vet will likely examine the site of the wound






The vet will determine the stage of envenomation of your dog.
It might be necessary to take a snake detection test (blood or urine sample) and analysis of results
Treatment commences, usually via intravenous fluids and administration of the appropriate anti-venom
There may also be a need for antihistamines, allergy reduction reduction drugs, painkillers or sedatives., If your dog pulls through, full recovery will take 1 - 2 days. However, recovery isn't the same as being well and you will need to set aside time to nurse your dog back to full health; ask the vet for appropriate advice and help.