 Vegetable and fruits can require a bit of work before they are ready to be consumed. It may help to spend some time each Sunday afternoon chopping, slicing, and grating all of the produce that you’ll need for that week. You can then store these foods in containers until they need to be used.To make food prep even easier, try buying pre-cut produce at at your store. It typically costs a little more, but may be worth it if you feel you don't have time to prep too many pieces of produce yourself.
 Print out pictures of tasty looking produce and place these around your cooking space, such as on the fridge with magnets. Clip photos out of cooking magazines and look at them while cooking or prepping. This will keep you motivated to spend the extra energy working with produce., Make it a goal to select one new type of produce to cook with each week. You can browse the grocery store for your new findings or even search online and shop with a mission. This will keep you from getting bored eating the same recipes and produce.You can also try out new produce by rotating through new colors. Go with red produce, purple produce, and onwards., Join a community supported agriculture (CSA) group. They will either send, or allow you to pick up, certain in-season produce. You could also sign up for an online delivery service that guarantees organic or fresh produce delivery. These services will encourage you to cook all pieces to avoid waste.Some people can save as much as 30% on their grocery bills by signing up for a service., Tell your friends and family that you are trying to add more produce into your diet and ask for their help. See if they have particular recipes that they would suggest. In exchange, give them some of yours that have worked well. Keep doing this and you can try to keep food boredom at bay., Search online for a “you pick” farm by entering your location and “pick your own produce” into a search engine. Most farms usually specialize in a certain type of produce. They may also have certain regulations about picking and visitors. Going to a farm like this will make you more invested in your food choices., Growing vegetables or herbs in a garden or box is a great way to get yourself more excited about eating produce. You'll be eager to try your own harvest, and more inclined to eat fresh, seasonal produce, even if it's just from one plant you grow in the window.Look up what types of plants are well suited for your area. Different veggies will require different water, sunlight, temperature, and soil conditions, so it is important to pick a plant that can grow healthfully where you live.

