 Baby proofing is not failsafe, you should always be prepared with basic first aid knowledge. If a burn is small and not severe, put cool water over the burned area and bandage the wound to protect it from infection.Baby-proofing will help to avoid accidents, but you should be prepared to treat injuries regardless of the safety measures in place.
Have your emergency medical information handy if your child ever does receive a more serious burn. Ask your pediatrician for first aid information and know where your closest hospital is.
 Every home should have at least one smoke detector that works properly.


Install an additional smoke detector in the room where your fireplace is located. Early warnings from fire can be the difference between life and death.
Check your fire detectors monthly and replace batteries each year. The National Fire Protection Association recommends that you replace all detectors every ten years., Carbon monoxide poisoning kills thousands of people across the world each year but can be easily prevented. All homes should have working carbon monoxide detectors but consider placing an additional detector in the room where the fireplace is located.Test your carbon monoxide detector monthly to ensure it is functioning properly.
Keep a window open, if possible, when a fire is burning to lessen any carbon dioxide the fire produces in the room.
 While you baby-proof your fireplace, there are important fireplace safety measures that you must take to protect your entire family:Check your fireplace chimney and outtake vents to ensure that no debris, like leaves, can block air flow. Keeping vents clean can help to reduce the risk carbon monoxide created by the fire in your home.
Inspect your fireplace flue with a flashlight to make sure it properly opens, closes, and seals.
If you have a gas-burning fireplace, make sure there are no cracks or damage to the glass doors. Test the gas shut-off valve and igniter regularly to make sure no natural gas is leaking into your home.
 Inspecting your fireplace on your own is important, but it is also important to have a licensed professional inspect your fireplace to ensure safety.


Call a licensed chimney professional or mason if you notice any structural damage to your fireplace.
The Chimney Safety Institute recommends that families who use their fireplace should have their fireplace and chimney inspected each year, if not more frequently.