 If your nerve is exposed, it will be sensitive to variances in temperature. Both hot and cold temperatures will cause extreme pain. Prevent this pain by staying away from hot coffee, tea, soup or other foods. Don't drink iced drinks or eat ice cream.The best temperature for foods or beverages will be about the same temperature as the air.
Wait until coffee or tea is room temperature before drinking.;
, These will cause a nerve to hurt. In addition, they will eat away at the already-damaged enamel of your tooth.Examples of foods to avoid include tomatoes, oranges, lemons, and coffee.
In addition to high sugar content, most soft drinks contain phosphoric and citric acids that wear away tooth enamel.
 Both acetaminophen or ibuprofen can effectively handle the pain that comes with a chipped or broken tooth. Most toothaches are caused by inflammation of the gum or nerve tissue, so an anti-inflammatory pain reliever will work best.Never put a pain reliever directly on the injured tooth itself.
Check for possible interactions with any other medication you may be taking. A pharmacist will be able to answer any questions you may have.
Topical numbing gels, such as Anbesol, may help briefly, but are unlikely to provide any sustained pain relief from cracked tooth pain.
 Take a piece of dental floss between your two index fingers, and gently slide between each tooth. If any food is pressing against your broken tooth, the floss should remove it.Make sure that you go all the way to the gum line.
Waxed floss is recommended as it makes it easier to slide between your teeth.
 Oil-of-cloves, or eugenol, is an effective natural pain reliever. Apply a small amount of the oil to a cotton ball, and press the cotton ball against the painful tooth for about 10 seconds.Be careful not to swallow the oil-of-cloves.
Oil-of-cloves can be found at many natural foods stores.
 You can get a temporary dental cement from most drug stores or pharmacies. These temporary fixes will help cover the crack in your tooth, which will help with the pain.Stick with soft foods while wearing your temporary tooth repair, and avoid unnecessary chewing.
Using the temporary repair should allow you to handle hot or cold foods more easily.
 A fluoride toothpaste or a fluor gel can help speed up the remineralization of your tooth. This can help ease any sensitivity or discomfort., Raising your head just slightly above the level of your heart will help relieve some of the pressure against your chipped or broken tooth. When the head is placed at the same level as the heart or lower, blood will rush to that area, bringing with it more pressure which results in pain.Sleeping with an extra pillow or two will raise your head sufficiently to help ease the pain.
Avoid tilting your head at an extreme angle that may cause pain in your neck.
 Salt water works as an antibacterial as well as a pain reliever. Dissolve several teaspoons of table salt into a cup (8 oz or 237 ml) of warm water several times per day. Fill your mouth with the salt water, rinse, and gently spit out. Repeat three to four times per application.Generic table salt is fine for this. It doesn't need to be iodized.
Don't use hot water while your tooth is chipped, as it will be painful against your exposed nerve.

