 You will need to pursue a higher education to become a radiologic technologist, so you will have to start here if you do not have this degree already. If you're still in high school and know you want to be a radiologic technologist, then you can try to take courses that can help you succeed in the field. Here are some courses you can focus on in high school:Anatomy
Biology
Chemistry
Mathematics
Physics;
, You can get the education you need in three ways: through a bachelor's degree, an associate's degree, or a certificate program. You may find a B.A. program that offers a major in Radiologic Technology, though the most common path for radiologic technologists is getting an associate's degree from an accredited community college or a private (for-profit) institution. The certificate program typically lasts 21-24 months and is perfect for individuals who already have experience in radiology technology. Whatever higher educational path you take, you will study the following subjects:Anatomy and physiology
Patient care and management
Equipment operation
Radiographic procedures
Radiation protection
Image production
Clinical practice
Medical terminology

, While you're getting your education, you will most likely have to get some hands-on training to learn the ropes of the career. Just make sure to take a program that is certified by The Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT). You may have to take coding and medical office courses as well as to learn how to work with actual patients. Once you get your training, here are some of the things you will learn to do:Operate x-ray equipment.
Organize, process and analyze medical images.
Acquire and calculate accurate mathematical measurements.
Perform quality control.
 Specializing in a specific field of radiologic technology will give you a leg up in interviews and will make you a desirable candidate. You can specialize during your training or after you've gone on the job. Specialization requires more training and the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) certification in your field. Here are some fields that you can specialize in:


Mammography
Computer tomography (CT)
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Cellular imaging
Medical sonography
Medical imaging
Radiography

, To become a certified technologist, a student may be required to successfully pass the exams, as well as meet the Technical Standards and Essential Functions (TSEF). The exam may be given by your individual state or by the AART. It tests the following skills:Observation skills. The student must demonstrate the ability to assess and comprehend the diagnosis.
Communication skills. The student must learn verbal, non-verbal and written formats.
Motor skills. The student must execute basic movements to lift and move immobile patients.
Intellectual skills. The student must be able to make decisions, interpret, collect and integrate information.
 Most states require individuals to secure a license along with their certification. You should look into the requirements of your state, since they differ; some states simply use the ARRT exams for licensing, but others may require additional work to be done.Contact your state's health board for more information on what you need to do to become a radiology technician in your state.
 Internships are great for getting training in a field. An internship will allow you to receive first-hand knowledge of the daily routines. This may also be more feasible if you're having a hard time finding full-time employment at first.
 Read the job description and posting thoroughly before completing an application. Make sure that you meet the necessary qualifications before you apply for the position. After getting hired, enjoy the employment benefit package. Go online to reputable websites such as the American Society of Radiologic Technologists (ASRT) site to see what opportunities are out there.Answer all questions with clear and precise information using buzz words. Buzz words are the words the human resources department will initially scan for when checking an application.
If requested, submit all credentials such as a transcript, certification and references. Make a copy of paperwork for your file before submitting.
The benefits packages may include: a pension plan, tuition reimbursement, paid vacation, holidays and sick days and insurance coverage.
 Professional organizations keep members informed of new techniques, procedures, legislative acts, new licensure requirements and updates on conferences and continuing education programs.


These organizations will also help you network and meet other people in your field who could help you find future work.
 If you want to be the best radiologic technologist that you can be, then you can continue to develop the skills you need to excel at your job. Here are the some of the qualities that you should posses and improve:Being detail-orientied. You have to follow the exact instructions you need to get the correct images that will help to diagnose and treat your patients.
Science and mathematical skills. You must deepen your understanding of physiology, anatomy, and other sciences.
Technical skills. You must have a deep understanding of how to operate the complex machinery at your disposal.
 If you want to maintain your ARRT certified status, then you'll need to get 24 hours of continuing education every two years. This will help you brush up on your skills, learn new techniques, and to stay current in your field., As you become more experienced in your career, you may be asked to train or even to manage entry-level technologists. Make sure you know how to educate and manage others in a professional and helpful manner.
 Your job will require you to work closely with patients, many of whom will be under incredible stress or in extreme pain. They will need you to calm them down and to help them relax as you do your job. As you grow in your career, you will need to master small talk as well as the ability to make patients feel as calm and comfortable as possible.They will undoubtedly be nervous and they may ask you what you see on the machines. However, you cannot diagnose patients yourself or tell them what you see; you may notice a large tumor, but you must not show distress and keep telling the patients that only the doctors can diagnose the problems and that your job is just to operate the machine.
 You will need both physical and mental stamina to succeed at your job. Though the average work week for a radiology technician is 40 hours a week, your job may require you to work evenings, weekends, or to take on other on-call work, especially when you're starting out. You will need to stay physically strong because you may have to lift and move patients, and you will have to stay mentally tough because the job can get a bit repetitive and can also be emotionally draining, as working with potentially sick patients may take a toll on you.Though the job can be a bit mentally and physically draining, at the end of the day, you should feel proud that you're helping patients diagnose their problems and to get on the road to recovery.
 Though the position of radiologic technologist has less opportunities for clinical advancement, if you do want to advance, then you can move into several other fields that can offer a change of pace and in some cases, a higher salary. Here are the most common fields that experienced radiology technicians can enter into:


Education
Sales
Consulting
Industry

