 Other people's problems can be emotionally draining. If you feel that being around someone is negatively affecting your life, consider removing yourself from the situation. Be mindful of the amount of time that you spend with negative people.You can't always completely cut people out of your life. For example, the person who complains a lot might be a family member.
You can, however, take the pressure off of yourself to attend every gathering. If Uncle Greg really stresses you out, it's okay to take a pass on the next family gathering. Just plead a prior commitment.
If you have a friend who is really draining your energy, you might want to limit your time together. You can try saying, "John, I'm focusing on making some changes in my life and I'm going to have to stop meeting you for dinner each Tuesday."

, Keeping a positive attitude can make a major difference in your life. Remember, you can't control how other people behave. But you can choose how to react.Make a conscious effort to remain positive. For example, the next time you are listening to complaints, try thinking to yourself, "Wow, my life seems pretty great in comparison."
Positive thinking doesn't mean that you have to ignore problems. It just means that you can choose to focus on finding solutions and other, more positive issues.
Positive thinking can help reduce your stress. This can benefit your physical and mental health.
 Remaining positive can help you feel better able to cope with constant complaints. In order to keep a positive attitude, you need to take care of yourself. Make sure to make self-care a priority.Self-care means making sure that you are meeting both your physical and emotional needs. Take time to check in with yourself each day.
Ask yourself, "How am I doing? Do I need a break?" If the answer is yes, then take one.
A simple five minute walk around the block can do wonders for your mental health. Or you can try taking a relaxing bubble bath.
 If you reduce your overall stress level, you will be better able to cope with people who complain often. Try to find ways to ease your tension. There are many steps you can take to do this.Eat a healthy diet. Fast food can feel good in the moment, but a lot of sugars and fats can actually worsen your mood. Try to eat more fresh fruits and vegetables.
Get moving. Physical exercise is a proven mood booster. Aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week.
Rest up. If you are tired, you will find complaints more aggravating. Try to get at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night to help reduce your stress levels.

