 More likely than not, you've already been tapering down your workouts, having easier practices to save energy for the meet. But these workouts are useless if you don't take them seriously. The week before a meet is about getting your stroke absolutely perfect, not just relaxing.


Even though you're doing shorter workouts, you should still give each one of them your best effort.
Now is not the time to radically reform your stroke, but it is the time to "sharpen your blades," working on a consistent, efficient swimming motion., The day before the meet is not the day to go on a 5-mile hike in the sun with your buddies. It is a day to sit back, eat healthy food, and let your body relax. Make sure you get to bed at a decent hour and don't push yourself more than necessary.


Some light stretching is a good way to stay loose and limber for the race the next day.
Some swimmers like a very light run or swim to stay loose. If you want a short workout, take it slow, stretching both before and afterward., There is no worse feeling than showing up at the meet without your suit, so give yourself 24 hours to catch anything you missed while packing. Another strategy is to always keep a spare set of goggles, trunks, and a water bottle in your bag at all times, ensuring you're prepared in a moment's notice.


If you love music to get pumped up, charge your phone/music player the night before and make sure you have headphones.
 Now is not the time to mix up your routine -- if you have a favorite pre-race meal or something you always have before practices, then stick to the routine that works for you. Avoid greasy, fatty, or overly salty/sweet foods and stick to simple, natural ingredients. If you're looking for new meal options, you can mix and match the following categories of foods, aiming to eat well but not completely fill up:



Lean Proteins: Tuna, hard-boiled eggs, grilled chicken, hummus, peanut butter, turkey slices

Simple Carbohydrates: Bread, pasta, pretzels, oatmeal, rice, quinoa (also high in protein), couscous. Avoid high-fiber carbohydrates -- they take a long time to digest.

Fruits/Vegetables: Bananas, avocados, tomatoes, apples, oranges, berries, greens

, Some swim meets have "positive check in," which means you physically must sign your initials to get a lane assignment. Call your coach and check in what time you need to arrive for warm-ups and check-in, then make sure your plans to get there are intact.


The sooner you know what time you need to arrive, the easier it will be to plan your meals and warm-up., Don't just show up and assume that whatever happens will happen. Champions and top swimmers know that it is much easier to reach a goal if you actually know what it is, so take some time to set a good benchmark for your races.


Your goal doesn't have to be coming in first. It may be lowering your splits, perfecting your stroke, or qualifying for the next set of races., This doesn't mean swimming as fast as you can in the warm-up pool, it means having a racer's mentality the minute your toe is in the water. Don't try to just "turn on" once the gun goes off. No matter what your warm-up routine, use this time to get mentally ready as well as physically.


Focus on your form, getting into a habit of a nice, smooth stroke from the very beginning.
Tailor your warm-up to your events. If you're doing the backstroke, be sure to practice with some backstroke.
Think of your warm-up routine before you arrive and consider writing it down. You want to be on auto-pilot as you get ready for the race., One of the toughest mental battles before a race is staying focused. But the more prepared you are mentally the better you'll be prepared physically. In your mind, imagine your entire routine, from warming up to getting in the pool and swimming. Envision yourself winning, but also envision potential problems and your solutions.


A good way to stay focused is to commit all your mental energy to the race, and all it's potential outcomes, so you're prepared to handle anything.