 The guru bead, or mountain bead, generally hangs perpendicular to the counting beads. The guru bead is intended to be used as a place of rest and contemplation during meditations and mantra recitations. Guru beads can be connected to a tassel, made of different material than the counting beads, or have carvings and other ornamentation.The guru bead will be where you begin and end your meditation or mantra recitation.;
, The right hand is the traditional placement for malas as some cultures view the left hand as being impure. However, there are many other cultures and traditions that do not specify in which hand you need to place the mala. Consult the specific tradition you are practicing in if you are unsure of which hand you should place the mala.If you are relatively new to meditation, or do not practice within a specific tradition, use whichever hand is most comfortable.
 Place your mala on your third, or ring, finger before you begin reciting mantras or meditating. The third finger has a symbolic significance in many buddhist traditions. Placing the mala on your third finger will also allow you to efficiently cycle through the mala throughout your meditation and mantra recitations.


Try placing the mala on your middle finger if you have dexterity or flexibility issues in your hands.
Malas, specifically in the Hindu tradition, can be placed on any finger except for the index finger.In Kundalini yogic meditations, each finger corresponds with a particular quality. The index finger is for wisdom, knowledge, and prosperity; the middle finger is for patience; the ring finger is for health, vitality, and strengthening the nervous system; and the little finger is for intelligence and communication., Use your thumb to count each bead throughout your meditation. Your thumb should allow you to easily move through each bead that is held by one of your fingers. Simply use the pad or nail of your thumb to pull each bead toward you and cycle through your mala.Know that although they are called counting beads, you will not necessarily be counting by number. The counting beads are meant to serve as markers of your progress in your mantra or meditation to allow you to further deepen your contemplative practice.

