 This applies to both informal requests by your host when playing poker at someone else's house and the formal house rules established by casinos when you play there. The house rule most likely common to both would be to respect any non-smoking areas, while many casinos also require checking firearms and turning off cell phones.


Many casinos also restrict players to playing only 1 hand at 1 table at 1 time.
 Your cards and chips should be in plain sight, but not showing the cards' faces, and with the chips organized so you and your opponents both know how much you have to bet with. Keep any food or drink out of the way of other players, and discard cards so the dealer can reach them easily and they don't foul up the game.
 Don't bend, nick, dent, or mark them.
 In a casino, this can be seen as an attempt to cheat. In a home game, it can be seen as a power play to make the other players wait on you. Either way, unless you really have to go to the bathroom, it's a breach of poker etiquette.
 Although TV shows and movies show players tossing their chips around and loudly declaring their calls and raises, keep your plays simple and direct to keep the game orderly. Announce your play, but do it simply, with your action and the amount, and add the betting chips to the pot gently. When it comes time to show your hand, lay out your cards all at once instead of 1 at a time, which is called "slow rolling."


Some poker players consider stringing out your bet, that is, saying, "I'll see your 50 (call) and raise you 50," to be rude, particularly when taking a long time between the call and raise. They would prefer you announce the total amount of your bet (100, in this case) and add it to the pot.
 Communicating with another player in a language other than that used by the other players without the other players knowing beforehand that the other person is acting as your interpreter is seen as rude and possibly as an act of collusion. If you have trouble with English (or the dominant language used at the game), be upfront about it before starting play.

