 This common household item will work to draw out the poisons in the skin and sooth the rash once it has already formed. Mix baking soda with a bit of water to form a paste, and then dab it onto the rash. Let it set until it dries out, and then rinse off with cool water. This process can be repeated several times daily until the rash disappears.
 Vinegar works many wonders, including helping to heal a poison ivy rash. Use regular or apple cider vinegar and pour it over the area. Let it sit on the rash until it evaporates. You can also pour vinegar onto a cotton ball and dab it onto the rash for a more specific location.
 Brew up a cup of regular coffee and let it cool or place it in the refrigerator. Pour it onto the rash or use a cotton pad to dab it on. Coffee contains an acid that works as an anti-inflammatory, which soothes the rash and brings down any swelling and redness.
 Oatmeal has long been used as a skin-soothing agent, and can be added to a bath to create a relaxing soak. Buy an oatmeal bath product or grind a cup of oatmeal in your blender and add it to a bath full of warm water. Soak in the mixture for 20 minutes to remove the itch of the rash.
 Fill a hot bath with 6-8 bags of black tea. Black tea contains tannic acid, an anti-inflammatory that can help soothe a poison ivy rash. Soak in the tea for 20 or more minutes for the best results.
 Wash the infected area with Dawn Dish detergent or any other brand that breaks up oils. Rinse the area with a lukewarm water, followed by cool water, to close up the pores. Apply witch hazel solution after it dries. Then, take a knee high sock or stocking and put some oatmeal inside it, tying it shut. Heat a small amount of water for about 1 minute. Insert the oat-filled knee high, end down into the hot water. When this has soaked a couple of minutes, squeeze out and dab onto affected areas. This will work as a drying agent. This method works well.
 Because a poison ivy rash is an allergic reaction, taking an allergy pill should help a little. Pills containing diphenhydramine (such as Benadryl) can be purchased over the counter and ease the itching and the spread of the rash. , You can buy steroid creams over the counter at your pharmacy, and they should help ease the allergic reaction that causes the rash. Apply it a few times a day for the first few days, then less often as the rash fades., If the itching is unbearable, smear on some of this popular lotion. Calamine lotion is FDA-recommended for poison ivy rashes, and can be reapplied a few times a day., This doesn't destroy the oils but help resist scratching the rash which will make it spread. Resisting scratching at the rash is a key in destroying it. Apply once-three times a day. You should be able to find anti-itch cream at your local pharmacy or drugstore.
 This astringent can be dabbed onto skin to help tighten the pores and soothe the itching. Use a bit daily to expedite the healing process of your poison ivy exposure.
 Another anti-inflammatory, putting a bit of pure tea tree oil on your rash will bring down the swelling and redness. Do this several times a day or whenever the itching is bad to get a bit of relief., In a river or creek, sulfur can be identified by a white or bluish color in the river floor. Also look for white crabgrass rather than green. Sulfur drains the color from the grass and turns it white. It can be also be found in some springs. Sulfur is a mineral that can destroy the poison ivy oils. Apply two or three times a day or when the itching feels unbearable.
 This cactus-like plant is full of a gel typically used to treating sunburns. It works to add relief to itchy-burning sensations, similar to those caused by poison ivy. Break open a piece of a real plant and squeeze out the gel, or buy a bottle from your local drugstore, making sure that it is at least 95% aloe vera. Rub a coat over the rash and let it cool the skin., The tree/bush has mostly red, smooth bark and has dark green leaves. Put the leaves into a pot of boiling water and leave there for 5-10 minutes. Strain the leaves and cool before applying.

