 If the strong smell of car fresheners makes you feel nauseated even when you are not sick, then you should definitely avoid them when you are. The things you see, smell and taste are also stimuli for vomiting, so knowing what makes you feel queasy really matters.For example, some people feel queasy when they see blood, even if it is just movie blood. Other people feel nauseous when they eat blue cheese, or gag when they smell garbage. Whatever your triggers are, stay away from them.
 All three of these liquids can stimulate the gag reflex and may even irritate the lining of your gastrointestinal tract. You will want to avoid them for at least a day after you have vomited.


Carbonated beverages include all sodas and beer.
Acidic drinks include orange juice, grapefruit juice, and other drinks made with citrus.
Caffeinated drinks include coffee, black tea, and energy drinks.
 These types of food are clinically known to promote vomiting. Since your stomach needs to work double time to digest it, you will most likely vomit as a result. Wait at least 48 hours after vomiting before eating any sort of oily or mildly spicy foods., If you have motion sickness, then vehicles are off limits. When you have the stomach flu, you already have a tendency to vomit. Riding in a vehicle will only increase your chance of vomiting. This is because rapidly changing direction (like sitting in the back of a car making a U-turn) stimulates receptors in the vestibular labyrinth of the inner ear. From the inner ear, impulses are transmitted via the brainstem into the cerebellum, which houses the vomiting center, causing you to become physically ill.


If there is absolutely no way you can avoid riding in a car, ask the driver to take turns slowly and drive carefully so that no sharp movements are made. This can lessen your chance of getting sick.
 You probably already know that smoking is bad for your health. However, it is even worse for you if you are trying to stop vomiting. When you smoke a cigarette, you are inhaling nicotine. Nicotine causes the lower esophageal sphincter (the lower opening of your esophagus) to relax, which makes it much more likely that stomach acid will irritate the esophagus, causing you to vomit.
 Anti-inflammatory drugs are gastric irritants. These drugs inhibit the body’s production of prostaglandin, the natural chemicals that serve as messengers to promote inflammation. However, certain prostaglandins also serve to protect the lining of the stomach, and so using these drugs inhibits this protective effect, leading to irritation and vomiting.


These drugs include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen.

