 If he is rushing at you or throwing a punch, move to the side, then push him down from behind when he has passed you. This technique uses the opponent’s momentum against him.


You must remain calm and move quickly to get out of the way. Your instincts to avoid a punch or kick should help, but be aware that you may also ‘freeze’.
When you push your opponent, try to thrust away from the ground with your legs and follow through with your arms to deliver the most force possible.
 Most people will tend to use one style of fighting - punching, grappling, kicking, etc. Don’t engage with the same technique.


If your opponent punches, try to drag him to the ground.
If your opponent seems to want to tackle you, try to stay on your feet.
 Fighting techniques such as Krav Maga encourage explosive attacks against the opponent’s weakest points. Hit soft, weak parts of your opponent’s body (toes, groin, stomach, face, side of the neck) with hard, strong parts of your body (your heel, knee, elbow, heel of your hand, top of your head).Stomp on your opponent’s toes.
Kick or punch his groin, the top of his stomach (solar plexus), or the belly button area (diaphragm).
Gouge your opponent’s eyes, or punch him in the nose, chin, or jaw as hard as you can.
If you are being attacked and have access to anything that can be used as a weapon, use it. You can throw things, such as keys or sand, gravel, or dirt, as well as using things as weapons.You have a right to defend yourself in any way you can. Just keep in mind this doesn’t extend to attacking.
 If you are good at bluffing or acting, you may be able to trick your opponent into making the fight easier for you.


Adopt a martial-arts style stance and put your fists up in front of your face to encourage your opponent to do the same. If your opponent is not a trained fighter, he may mimic your stance, which puts you in control of the fight.
Bluff a kick from the side. Make it look like you're going to kick your opponent in the shin. Instead, deliver a strong punch to his face, solar plexus, or diaphragm. Avoid the temptation to look down at your leg, which may telegraph your plan to your opponent.
If your opponent does not mimic you, this may tell you that he has some training or practice as a fighter.

