 You want to make sure there are no unnecessary fluctuations in your dog’s insulin requirements. In order to make sure your dog has regular insulin levels, you should feed them the same amount of food every day.The specific amount of food your dog eats every day will be determined by your veterinarian based on your dog’s activity level and current weight.Your veterinarian will give you a specific amount of calories to feed your dog every day and then you can use this number to determine the amount of dog food.


The amount of food you feed your diabetic dog will depend on whether you have them on a maintenance diet or have specific weight gain or loss goals for your dog. Regardless, the main thing is to stay consistent in the amount of food you feed your dog.Use an online dog food calculator to determine the appropriate amount of food to feed your dog. You simply enter your dog’s ideal weight and activity level and your dog food’s calories, and the calculator will give you the proper serving size. Try the online calculator on the Dog Food Advisor website: Bring this recommendation to your veterinarian and ask if it is accurate.;
, The dog will be processing food and insulin between meals and insulin injections, so you need to get your timing right. You may want to talk to your veterinarian to figure out the appropriate times to feed your dog. Once you have your routine set, you should stick to it every day.If your dog eats two or three times per day, make sure these meals are spread out and given at the same time every day.
If you feed your dog when you wake up in the morning, try to keep this routine consistent and serve your dog at the same time every day. If you want to sleep in, try waking up at your regular time (e.g., eight o'clock ) to feed your dog and then going back to sleep. This way your sleeping habits won’t adversely impact your diabetic dog.
 It is important to keep track of your diabetic dog’s appetite, mood, appearance, weight, water consumption, and urination habits. You can use this logbook to report any changes to your veterinarian.You can also use it to track any possible symptoms of hyperglycemia such as drinking lots of water, frequent urination, loss of appetite, weakness and lethargy. If you see symptoms of hyperglycemia or notice high blood glucose levels, you should contact your veterinarian.You can use the logbook to track hypoglycemia such as confusion, restlessness, weakness, or lack of coordination and shivering. If you see symptoms of hypoglycemia, you should contact your doctor.You can keep track of your diabetic dog’s reaction to any dietary changes or shifts in appetite.

