 Sugar beet for horses comes in two main forms, including shredded and pelleted. Both are dehydrated and most horse owners reconstitute them with water before feeding, but there is no nutritional difference between the types.


The shreds are not as dense as the pellets and so tend to soak up water a bit faster,but they also tend to be slightly more expensive.;
, Although sugar beet pulp is a byproduct of sugar beet manufacturing, it actually doesn't end up containing much sugar and can be a bit bitter. Some manufacturers add molasses to the pulp to make it tastier for horses and increase the carb load for horses needing extra sugar for energy.


Unmolassed sugar beet is ideal for horses or ponies who need a sugar- or starch-reduced diet, are prone to laminitis (swelling of the hoof),or already have enough sugar in their diet.Molassed versions of sugar beet provides horses extra energy, which can benefit work horses such as hunters, ranch work horses, or race horses, or horses recovering from starvation. It is also good for maintaining weight in winter.
If your horse has no health concerns and is a picky eater, the molassed version might be best since it tends to be more palatable and less dusty than the non-molassed., If you want to serve your horse large quantities of sugar beet, you will need to prepare it overnight by letting it soak in water. Since this can take a while, you may prefer to serve smaller quantities dry, mixed in with your horse's other feed or offered in hand.


If your horse needs sugar beet to replace all or most of his foraging food (such as hay), you will need to serve it moist.
 You can order pellet or shredded sugar beet pulp online, or at your local farm supply or horse feed retailer.


If you have a store nearby, it may be best to purchase there. The bags are generally sold in 25 pound or larger quantities so the shipping might be a bit steep for an online purchase.
Buy a smaller bag the first time you try it, and be sure it does not cause any digestive problems before you spend a lot on a bigger bag. Most horses tolerate sugar beet fine, but some do not.
 Put the appropriate amount of sugar beet into a container, and fill it with water about 5 centimeter (2.0 in) - 10 centimeter (3.9 in) above the sugar beet. This will soak into the sugar beet; think of it like preparing oatmeal. Hot water soaks in quickly and takes less time, but cold can be used if it's all you have (just give it more time to sit).


The first time you offer sugar beet, just one small scoop (about a cup) is plenty. You can add a bit more each time you feed the horse.
 Place the container out of reach of animals and leave it for at least 24 hours to fully absorb the water.


Put a cover over the top to keep out bugs and other pests.
Some brands of sugar beet pellet such as Speedi-Beet do not have to be left as long; these should only take 10 minutes to absorb the water, but check it is not dry before feeding.
 You can do this in one of two ways: by itself or mixed in with the rest of the horse's feed.


A picky horse may reject the sugar beet by itself, so you may want to try combining a small amount with its regular feed and then gradually increasing the amount of sugar beet.
 Horses who are underweight can really benefit from the added sugars in some sugar beet. Many people consider sugar beet an ideal food additive for horses who have been malnourished.Sugar beet might also be a good source of fiber for horses with poor teeth, since it is easier to chew than hay.Other horses who might benefit from sugar beet are those who have frequent digestive issues such as constipation or diarrhea, horses who are insulin-resistant and thus sensitive to sugar and starch, or a horse who is being conditioned and needs to gain weight., Changes in horse diet should always be introduced gradually to avoid digestive issues and to ensure that the horse tolerates the new food well. Gradual introduction also helps picky horses accept a new food.


One study associated the feeding of sugar beet with an increased risk for colic, a potentially fatal gastrointestinal condition in horses, but also found that changing a horse's diet in any way could also increase the risk. The best way to reduce the risk of colic is to introduce sugar beet or any other change in diet in gradual increments.
Always measure the dry sugar beet pulp before feeding it, and keep a record of how much you feed your horse. Start with a very small amount (a handful or two), and gradually work up the amount when you're sure it is not having any negative effects on your horse's digestion., The amount you should give your horse depends on why you are feeding the sugar beet in the first place. For instance, if you are supplementing the horse's diet to add extra fiber, you will need to feed less than if you are totally replacing grain or forage feed (such as hay).


A nourishing diet can have up to 55% beet pulp, but no more. Since horses need to eat between 1.5 and 3% of their body weight in dry matter,an 1100 pound horse can safely eat 12 pounds of dry beet pulp per day (properly reconstituted with water first, of course, which will make it even heavier).