 Here are some basic facts: Qatar is roughly the size of the US state of Connecticut and shares a border with Saudi Arabia. It is governed by a monarchy, the Al-Thani family, that has been in power since the mid-1800s. The current head of state is Amir Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani. Qatar is home to 840,000 people and sits on the world’s third-largest oil reserves. Arabic is the official language, though English is widely used. Qatar is serviced by its national air carrier, Qatar Airways, plus several other major airlines.;
, Qatar is a desert nation with summer temperatures often exceeding 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) with intermittent humidity that can reach 90%. Winters are milder, making November through March the more popular time of year to visit. As a necessity, most buildings are equipped with air conditioning and people rarely spend time outdoors. Nonetheless, it is good to stock up on sunscreen and dress in layers—the recommended desert attire—to protect from the sun and sand but keep warm during cool nights.
 According to the U.S. Department of State, Qatar has a low crime rate and violence is rare, making it one of the safer places to visit in the Middle East. A lack of international disputes translates to fewer security threats as well. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends a typhoid vaccination for anyone traveling to the Middle East.
 Doha is the capital of Qatar and also the nation’s largest city and home to many of its attractions. This rapidly developing metropolitan is the home of the Al-Jazeera satellite TV channel and plays host to the Doha Tribeca Film Festival, a festival founded in part by the prestigious Tribeca Film Festival in New York, each October.
 Whether or not you actually want to buy any gold, the souq (marketplace) is a great place to experience a longstanding tradition and get a taste of a pre-modern Doha.
 The Khor Al-Adaid, also known as the Inland Sea, is a stretch of water surrounded by sand dunes that offers stunning scenery. Gulf Adventures offers tours to the area that include a barbecue and overnight stay. Also available are “dune bashing” rides--a high-speed trek across towering dunes in an off-road vehicle.
 Qatar is among a cluster of Gulf nations that are growing in tourism and cultural exports. Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates are both nearby and are known for their luxury hotels, dramatic skylines and 5-star dining. There are daily buses available to Jordan, Syria, Bahrain, Dubai and Abu Dhabi from Qatar, but be sure to acquire a transit visa for Saudi Arabia ahead of time.

