


If you are between the ages of 17 and 18, you can join as long as you have documented parental consent. You can join without consent if you are between the ages of 18 and 35.
You must have a legal name and valid Social Security number.
You must be a legal citizen of the United States.
You will need a high school diploma or GED. You will also usually need 15 college credits.
You must be literate in the English language.
You must be able to pass a physical exam. Note that women are not permitted to serve in combat jobs regardless of this exam.
You must have a normal body weight for your gender, age, and height. To learn more about these requirements, click here: http://army.com/info/apft/heightweightandbodyfat

You must not use drugs or abuse alcohol.
You must not have any recent, repeated criminal offenses or any violent sexual criminal convictions.;
, The easiest way to apply for the U.S. Army is to complete an account online.


Click on the "Create an Account" button on the following website: http://www.goarmy.com/learn/apply.html

Answer all questions about your background, interests, and abilities as accurately as possible. Afterward, you will receive a list of jobs suited to your needs and abilities.
Indicate the time frame you will be applying in. This will give you a list of currently available jobs.
Review the jobs and select any you might be interested in. Mark your order of preference, as well.
Answer any remaining questions and submit the application.
 If you applied online, a recruiter will contact you. Otherwise, you will need to go to a recruitment center and schedule a meeting with a recruiter on your own.


Contact a recruiter through the following link: http://www.goarmy.com/locate-a-recruiter.html

A recruiter will ask you questions about your goals, reasons for wanting to join, and qualifications. He or she will try to match you to a position you are well qualified for within the Army.
You should also be prepared to ask questions of your own. Ask about the process, combat training, incentives for joining, how the first term will be, and what kind of education opportunities are available.
 The ASVAB is a multiple-choice test that will allow you to reach an understanding of your own strengths and abilities. It is designed to help you determine which Army jobs you are most suited for.


The test is usually given by federal test administrators in various schools. Talk to your academic adviser or local recruiter for more information.
The test will measure your ability with general science, arithmetic reasoning, word knowledge, paragraph comprehension, mathematics knowledge, electronics information, auto and shop information, mechanical comprehension, and assembling objects.
 At the MEPS, you will have your physical qualifications, aptitude, and moral standards formally evaluated.


If you have not done so already, you will need to complete the ASVAB at MEPS.
You will have a head-to-toe physical exam. Your exam will include height and weight measurements, a hearing test, a vision test, urine and blood tests, drug and alcohol tests, muscle group and joint maneuvers, a complete physical exam, a medical interview about your medical history, and any specialized tests needed for your proposed position within the Army.
You will also complete a final interview and fingerprinting for an FBI background check.
 At MEPS, you will form an enlistment agreement with a service liaison counselor. After signing the agreement, you will be given a pre-enlistment briefing.


From this point on, you will be directed to take the oath of enlistment. Your family can watch you take the oath.

