 If you haven’t already, get in the habit of setting aside a portion of your income on a regular basis to help you prepare for the future. That way, you’ll have a reserve to draw on once your downtime increases. The more money you’re able to accumulate, the smoother your transition into semi-retirement will be.Open a separate savings account and make it a point not to dip into it unless you absolutely need to.
Focus on paying off any outstanding debt you may have as soon as you decide to semi-retire. Otherwise, it can hinder your ability to build up a financial safety net.;
, Crunch some numbers and come up with a realistic figure that you think you can survive on while working less. Estimate high, just to be on the safe side. Your projected budget will be a useful guide during your first few months while you’re adjusting to your new spending habits.Cut out as many unnecessary expenses you can—limit the number of times per week you go out to eat, and downgrade your cable package or cell phone plan.If you have any questions about how to structure your budget, consult with a financial planner or the savings and loans expert at your bank.
 As much as possible, stick to the necessities, along with whatever resources you need for the occasional impulse buy or sightseeing trip. Depending on your new rate of income, this may mean selling a vehicle or even downsizing from a house to an apartment or condo. Being semi-retired is about learning to live with less.Unless you hit the jackpot or have an impressive amount of savings, you might not be able to indulge your expensive tastes the way you once did.
 Resist the urge to spend your money on frivolous toys and gadgets. The idea of owning a boat or a fancy new car may seem attractive since you’ll have more time for play, but in the end belongings like this will only eat into your savings and force to you to scrape together in other areas to get by.Think twice before committing to anything that requires long-term financing.
 Put some of the money you would otherwise use on an exotic getaway into your very own startup venture. This could be anything from developing an app to running a personal training business or handyman service. Since you’ll be able to pour all of your time and attention into your new enterprise, there’s never been a better time to give it a shot.If you need inspiration, start by making a list of your favorite ways to spend your time, drawing on your full range of passions and interests.
Identify a niche in your community that’s waiting to be filled, like an auto detailing or catering business., The biggest benefit of part-time employment is the flexibility it offers. You can work as much or as little as please and pick up extra shifts when things get tight. Look for jobs that meet your needs in terms of hours, pay structure, location and scheduling.If you’re coming from a skilled profession, you might even be able to negotiate a more competitive pay rate, which will be a big help when the first of the month rolls around.
Become an administrative or medical assistant, apply for a position with a nonprofit organization, drive for Uber or start your own blog., Even if you decide to step down from your current job, there might still be a place for you there. For instance, you could shift your duties from managing a team of employees to training new recruits. A lower level of responsibility will come with shorter hours and less overall pressure, but still allow you to be of service to the company.If you’ve spent your career in a leadership position with a company, you might continue working for the company in a consulting or advisory role.This may be a wise course for dedicated professionals who aren’t ready to give it all up just yet.
 Rather than working part-time hours week in and week out, consider finding a job that will allow you to work for a short interval, then take a few weeks or months off. Having big blocks of time off can break up the monotony of punching the clock and prevent boredom from setting in as a result of idleness.Periodic work might include seasonal or contractual employment, or specialty work like organizing tours and events.
Some types of jobs permit employees to take sabbatical, which essentially puts your career on pause for an indefinite period., Accidents and injuries are an unfortunately reality of life. Whether you get into a fender bender or come down with pneumonia, you’ll want to make sure that you have enough funds stashed away to cover the resulting costs without bankrupting yourself. If you’re not careful, a bit of bad luck could completely wipe you out.A good insurance policy is indispensable, especially as you get older and health issues become more common.Never deplete your savings to the point that you can’t afford to take care of yourself.
 Many retirees make the mistake of becoming sedentary when they suddenly find themselves with more time on their hands. Combat this by getting some type of regular exercise, even if it’s just a daily walk in the park. Socializing with friends and family will also help you remain engaged with the people around you and keep you mentally sharp.It’s never too late to take up a healthy hobby like tennis, cycling or tai chi.
Inactivity can have major negative impacts on your physical and mental health, including increased risk of heart disease, diabetes and depression., When you decide to take the semi-retirement leap, you’ll be reclaiming your precious time, so use it well. Study another language, go snorkeling in the Caribbean or teach yourself to play the trombone. After all, the whole point of retirement is to finally get around to doing the things you couldn’t do while you were too busy working.Now is a good opportunity to learn new skills, try new things and scratch a few items off your bucket list.
Sign up for painting lessons at your local art studio, join a community league sport or volunteer your time with a social welfare program in your city.Keep in mind that there are many fulfilling pursuits that don’t come with a price tag—going on a hike, writing your memoirs or spending time with your loved ones won’t cost you a penny.