 Licensing varies state by state and, though it has become easier to obtain licensure mobility (the ability to obtain licensing in other jurisdictions),you should try to have an idea of where you'd like to practice and where you might like to practice in the future.


Learn the current licensing laws specific to your state and other states where you would consider living. You can research the license requirements unique to each state by entering the relevant information on the asppb website.
Most states will require that you have obtained your post-doctorate, pass the Examination for Professional Practice of Psychology (EPPP), pass a jurisprudence or ethics exam, pass an an oral exam, and that you've completed a certain number or hours (between 1,500 and 6,000) of "supervised professional experience" (the definition of which varies by state)., The EPPP is a multiple-choice test that covers your foundational, text book knowledge of psychology.The sooner you take it after grad school, the less you'll have to re-learn. Check the requirements to take the EPPP within your state.You need to get about 70% of the questions correct to pass the EPPP. You are not penalized for incorrect answers, so if you find yourself running out of time (the test takes 4 hours and 15 minutes), it's better to guess the answers than to leave them blank.Take practice exams to familiarize yourself with the types of questions you will be asked and to get used to the time limitations. Go back over the test and figure out where your knowledge is strong and in which subjects you'll need to review heavily., This can be tricky, as state requirements can vary widely. On average, states require between 3,000 – 4,000 hours of experience.What qualifies as experience can also vary from state to state. Your state may or may not require internships to be APA-accredited.Cover your bases by fulfilling the maximum number of hours required in most states. Even if the state in which you currently live only requires 1,500 hours, you should aim for 2,000 hours in an APA-accredited internship and 2,000 hours in a supervised postdoc.This will give you the most flexibility and mobility later on, as this will fulfill most state requirements., Again, this will vary by state, so you need to research the requirements to find out when you are eligible to take the test, the topics covered, and how to get approval to take the exam. It may be online, taken in a classroom, open or closed book.


This exam will cover state-specific laws and the ethics code of the APA., Depending on your state, you may also need to pass an oral exam. The purpose and format of these exams is incredibly varied, so research the requirements within your state to prepare.