 This method turns a few ordinary paper bags into a booklet that's a little bigger than the eight page booklet described above. The type of bag you'll want to use is the skinny, narrow paper bag with a "flap" at the bottom that's frequently used for packing lunches. White paper bags are easiest for writing and reading purposes, but standard brown bags also work fine. You'll also want to have a hole punch and some string or ribbon handy.


You don't specifically have to use lunch bags for this booklet — you're just looking for skinny paper bags with a "flap" at the bottom that allows the bag to stand upright when it's opened. As long as all your bags are the same size and shape, you can make a booklet using almost any of this type of paper bag.
 Take one of your paper bags and lay it on the table or work area in front of you so that the flap is facing up. Turn the bag so that one of its long edges if facing you and the square flap is on your left.
 Take another paper bag and put it on top of the first flap side-up so that its flap is on your right, rather than your left. Line the bags up so that they sit evenly on top of each other.
 Take a third bag and lay it on top of your stack flap side-up so that its flap is on the left, exactly as you did with the first bag. Once again, line this bag up so that it's even with the ones under it.
 At this point, you can continue adding bags as you wish, though you don't have to. The more bags you add, the more pages your booklet will have. If you want to add more bags, use the same alternating pattern you've established — your next bag should be flap side-up with its flap on the right, the bag after that should have its flap on the left, and so on.


If you stick with just three bags, your booklet will have a total of 10 pages once it's completed.
 When you've added as many bags as you'd like, take the entire stack of bags and fold it in half over itself. The smooth side of the bottom bag (previously touching the table or work area in front of you) should form the front and back covers of your new book, while the alternating bottoms and tops of the bags inside form the pages.


In your booklet, the bag flaps can function as "fold-out" sections. In other words, if you want to, you can put extra information under the flaps. Alternatively, you can tape or glue them down to give your booklet a more traditional feel.
 Next, to finish your booklet, you need to bind the pages together so that they'll stay together in the shape of a book without making your booklet's pages hard to turn. The easiest way to do this is generally to use a hole punch to put two or more holes along the folded edge (i.e., the "spine" of your book). Loop a short length of ribbon or string through each hole you make, then tie the ends together, leaving enough slack in each loop to allow the pages to turn easily.


If you're handy with a sewing machine, you can alternatively use one to stitch the folded edge of the booklet together. If you do this, be careful not to put your stitches too close to the book's "spine" or you risk missing some of the innermost pages.

