 You want your hair straight and tangle-free to start. Brush out your hair completely before you begin the process of curling.If you just got out of the shower, let your hair dry completely after brushing it. You should not use a flat iron on wet hair.;
, Any time you use a flat iron, you should take steps to protect your hair from excess heat. Pick up a heat protectant spray at a local beauty salon or department store. Gently mist your hair with the spray before using your flat iron.Refer to the bottle's instructions to know precisely how much to use. Usually, you only need a light layer of protectant spray to keep your hair safe from heat.
 Part your hair down the middle. Then, pull about half your hair, found near the crown, into a ponytail. Secure it with a tie or hair clips. You will start curling the under layers of your hair before you get to the outer layers., Start on one side of your hair and work your way around. Clamp your hair into the flat iron at the nape of your neck. Work in strands big enough to comfortably fit into the flat iron. If you want smaller curls, use can use smaller strands., After clamping the flat iron down near the nape of your neck, bend the iron in a roughly 90 degree angle. Then, take the end of your hair and hold it with the hand that's not holding the flat iron. This will be the starting position for curling your hair., Pull the flat iron very slowly and move it down through your hair. As the flat iron moves through your hair, release your hair with your other hand. Keep releasing your hair until you reach the end of the strand of hair., After curling a strand, twist the curl in the direction it naturally flows. This will make the curl a little more apparent and create a ringlet shape., After you've curled enough strands on one side of your head, switch to the other side. Repeat the process of starting at the nape of your neck and running the flat iron through your hair as you hold on to the ends. Twist each strand after you finish curling it., After you've curled your lower locks, remove the top of your hair from the clips or hair tie. If your hair got messy while being clipped, run your fingers or a brush through it before proceeding., You curl the top layer of hair the same way you curled the bottom layer. Clamp the flat iron down at the roots of your hair. Slowly run the flat iron through each individual strand, holding onto the ends and gradually releasing them as necessary. Twist each lock after you curl it.You can start on either side of your head. It does not matter where you start to curl your upper hair.
 When you're done, your hair should have a very tight, ringlet appearance. If you want your curls to be tight and neat, avoid touching or brushing your hair further., If you want more wavy hair, gently run your fingers through your hair. This will loosen up the curls slightly, giving them a wavier, more relaxed feel., After setting your hair the way you want it, mist on a light layer of hairspray. This will keep your look intact throughout the course of the day.If you want to add volume, you can add something like wax or mousse. This can also help hold your curls in place throughout the day.

