 As a general rule of thumb, the needles should be close to the thickness of the yarn. But if you want easy lacy holes in the headband, use large needles with thin yarn. Choose a stiffer yarn if you're working with an intricate pattern that you do not want to stretch out; cotton yarn works well.
 The fewer stitches, the skinnier the headband; the more stitches, the thicker. Leave approximately 3-4 inches (7.5cm-10cm) of tail yarn.
 (You also want a little extra in case you are knitting this for someone else.) If you like the i-cord, you can make the whole headband in this fashion, but for this article we will assume you're going on.

See How to knit an i-cord to learn how.
 If you began with three stitches, knit the first stitch, knit the front and the back of the second stitch, and knit the third stitch. Then purl the wrong side of the headband. Continue to increase in the middle of the stitches and knit the outside stitches, while purling on the other side. The more times your increase in one row, the faster the headband will grow in width. Increase to anywhere between six to ten stitches.


See How to knit increases for more details.
 Stockinette (knitting on the right side and purling on the wrong side) would not be best because the edges will curl. Here are some more ideas that would work well:


Garter stitch (knitting every single stitch) is very stretchy and does not curl. It creates a horizontal rib. You may use any number of stitches.







Ribbing will work well with an even number of stitches; knit one stitch then purl one stitch, until the end of the row, turn, and repeat. It creates a vertical rib.







Seed stitch requires an even number of stitches. On the right side, knit one, purl one, and repeat. On the wrong side, purl one, knit one, and repeat. This creates a bumpy texture.






Moss stitch requires multiples of four; twelve stitches would be good for a skinny headband. On the right side knit two, purl two, and repeat. On the wrong side, purl two, knit two, and repeat until the end of the row.






Simple cable and garter border: Begin with an even number of stitches; for this example we will use eight stitches. Assuming you are starting on the right side:





Knit 2, slip 2 stitches onto the cable needle and hold in back, knit 2, knit 2 stitches of cable needle, knit 2.
Knit 2, purl 4, knit 2.
Knit 8.
Knit 2, purl 4, knit 2.
Knit 8.
Knit 2, purl 4, knit 2.
Knit 8.
Knit 2, purl 4, knit 2.


Or use the internet to find your own! Check out the stitch gallery noted in the "Sources and Citations" below.
 Remember to stretch the yarn while fitting.
 For example if you had eight stitches, knit one, knit two together, knit one, knit two together, knit one, knit two together. Purl the wrong side and continue in a similar fashion until you have for example, three stitches left. See Knit Decreases to learn how.
, Leave approximately 3-4 inches (7.5cm to 10cm) of tail yarn on this end as well.
 Pull it out some distance along the i-cord, pull it so it's very taunt and snip it. Then pull at the i-cord so that the yarn end shrinks into the i-cord. Repeat this at the other end.
 Wrap it around your head, making sure the right side is facing outwards, and tie the i-cords together at the nape of your neck in a square knot.
