 One way to build your confidence before going on a big roller coaster is to go on smaller rides and work your way up to the big one. Going on smaller rides will get you familiar with the sensation of being on a roller coaster so that you won’t be overwhelmed or scared on the bigger ride.Try to go on roller coasters with similar elements as the big roller coaster. For instance, if the big roller coaster has multiple upside down loops, try to go on a roller coaster that one or two smaller upside down loops so you know what it feels like.;
, Some people fear that they will get sick when they ride their first big roller coaster. Although this is much less common than people think, it’s a good idea not to eat or drink a large amount before getting on the roller coaster. Your stomach may already be in knots, and you can always have a celebratory ice cream after you finish the ride!It’s perfectly fine to eat a moderate amount before going on a roller coaster if you feel comfortable doing it. Not eating beforehand is a good way to soothe anxiety for those who are worried about getting sick on the ride.
 Many people who are afraid of roller coasters fear that they will get hurt during the ride or get dislodged and fall while on the roller coaster. Appease this fear by reading about or observing the safety features of the roller coaster that you want to try.All roller coasters have bars or even cages that come down and locks before the ride starts. These bars are made to keep you safe, and only unlock after the ride is over.
The bars usually go across your chest and also between your legs, so there is no way that you would be able to slip out of the roller coaster, even if it goes upside down.
The carts of roller coasters are connected to the rails, so it would be impossible for the cart to fall off. They also have an anti-roll back system that ensures that the carts keep moving forward as opposed to rolling backward., While you are standing in line, observe the roller coaster that you want to go on. Watch one complete cycle of the ride so that you know exactly when all the turns and loops are. Knowing exactly what you’re in for will make you feel more confident and less intimidated., While you are in line for the roller coaster, watch the people getting off the ride. They most likely will be excited and happy, talking about how fun the ride is. Seeing the reaction of people who have experienced the roller coaster should help you feel more certain that you’ll have a good time., Instead of worrying silently to yourself, talk with your friends as you are waiting in line. Chatting, laughing and staying positive will help to make you feel more brave and sure of yourself.

