 You might wish to purchase fabric from an online fabric store or a local craft store, but you can also upcycle unwanted clothing from your own closet!


You will need about ¼ of a yard of fabric and ¼ of a yard of iron-on interfacing.;
, You can purchase a pattern from a craft store or download and print a free pattern from the internet. You may want to read any reviews that are present to assess the quality of the pattern and be sure the pattern is matched appropriately to your skill level.
 Use the pattern to cut the fabric and interfacing pieces into the appropriate size and shape. You will likely have 4 pieces of fabric that are the same size and shape. 







, The interfacing should be ironed on to the “wrong” side (the back side that won’t show) of two of the pieces of fabric.









Most interfacing requires being covered with a damp cloth then ironed on with the bumpy side facing the fabric.
Read the directions on the interfacing to ensure proper ironing.










Place the “right” (non-interfaced) sides of the fabric facing each other and sew a straight stitch across the narrow end. (You should be able to see the interfacing while you are sewing).
Open the two pieces and iron the seam flat on the inside.










Place the “right” sides of the fabric facing each other and sew a straight stitch across the narrow end.
Open the two pieces and iron the seam flat on the inside.
 








Place the “right” sides of the fabric together on the inside.
Use a straight stitch and maintain an even distance (1/8 to ¼ of an inch) from the edge of the fabric. Leave one end of the tie unsewn.
Clip the corners of your bow tie, being sure to only cut on the outside of your stitches. , This can take a little patience, as it can be difficult to pull the whole tie through the small hole.










Flip the ends inside and sew a straight stitch, closing the tie into a long tube.
Sew a straight stitch across the other end so that the ends of the tie match each other.
 Ironing will ensure that the bow tie will tie more easily and will create a crisper look once it has been tied.
