 By saying nothing, you will get more of the same, so you'll end up suffering in silence. Instead, draw a line and make it clear you aren't going to partake in things that annoy you, behave in a way you find immature or listen to stories that bug you, etc.;
, For example, say that your friend invites you over for "coffee". Simply say "no thank you" and don't offer an explanation. If pushed, just say that you don't want to; sorry.
 What is holding you there when you've long wanted to stop talking? It's you're "nice person" persona, not wanting to hurt the other person. The trouble is, you are hurting yourself by continuing to talk or chat inanely when you could be doing something else you want to do. When they call, say you must hang up now because you're busy. If they ask "doing what?" Say, "just busy" and "Bye". There is no need for explanation; this isn't an inquisition.
 It's that simple.


Tell the friend you are in a hurry to get somewhere. If they offer to tag along say, "No, Thank you. It must be done alone because it is personal (no questions asked). Sorry."

, If this person asks you outright whether or not you still want to be friends, say "I aim to be friendly with everybody, including you. However, that's different from my network of close friends." Again, do not go into any more details.
 They may be annoying; that does not mean that you have the right to be nasty and it will reflect very badly on you if you are.


Being assertive is about letting people know where you stand. They may not like it but it's much harder to complain that someone knows what they want and speaks it clearly than to call someone a gossip, a meanie or even a bully as a result of their actions.
 Pretend you are really interested in them, and keep on talking about them to them until they get really annoyed.
 Keeping your distance from the annoying friend may help them get the hint that you don't want to hang out.
 Use this signal when you need to ditch someone in a social setting.


Text your friend or cough loudly. Don't look unnatural.
Get another good friend to call you explaining an emergency. Don't let your emergency seem too serious or the person you're ditching may get worried.
 A few easy ways to do this may be not laughing at their jokes, pretending that you weren't listening to their stories or questions or keeping a cold, expressionless demeanor.


When they talk to you, be busy with other things and pretend you're not listening. Also, you can try interrupting them and talking about one of the things they don't like.
, Talk in a different language, sing, or if they are making unwanted phone calls, either block them or get someone else to answer it.
 If nothing else works it may be best to simply tell the annoying friend that you don't want to be friends anymore.

