 You might be tempted to turn to social media when you feel lonely, but it is better to call someone or speak to someone face to face when you need social interaction. Social media may seem like a good substitute for human interaction, but it can increase feelings of isolation.If you need someone to talk to, then call a friend or go somewhere where you can talk to people.
 If you have difficulty getting out or making friends, then you may try to find substitutes for human interaction, like watching TV. But watching TV when you feel lonely instead of spending time with people can make matters worse.


Try to limit yourself to an hour or two of television per day and do not use it as a replacement for interacting with other people.
 Having a drink by yourself now and then is not a problem, but using alcohol to cope with being alone can cause major problems for you. You should not need to drink or use other substances to make alone time bearable.If you are relying on alcohol (or drugs) in order to deal with being alone, then you should seek some help from a mental health professional.
 Being alone and being lonely are two different things. Being alone just means that no one else is around, while being lonely is when you feel sad and/or anxious because you want to interact with other people.During alone time, you should feel content and comfortable. When you are feeling lonely, you may feel depressed, hopeless, or like you are an outcast.
If you are feeling lonely because of too much alone time, then you may want to speak to a therapist about these feelings.
 It might help you to remember that it is normal to be a little afraid of spending time alone. People crave human contact, so spending time alone may not always seem like a fun prospect. That is why it is important to find a balance between being alone and seeking appropriate interactions.Keep in mind that it is normal to feel a little fearful of alone time, but it is unhealthy to avoid it all the time. If you think that you have an extreme fear of being alone, then talk to a therapist about ways that you can overcome this fear., While it is important to maintain your good relationships, you should let go of any relationships that are unhealthy or that make you feel unhappy. Some people stay in unhealthy relationships out of a fear of being alone, but doing so may be more harmful than helpful.If you are in a relationship that makes you unhappy, but you are afraid to end it because you don’t want to be alone, talk to someone who can help. Arrange to meet with a trusted friend, a spiritual leader, or a counselor to discuss your situation.
Make sure that you grow and maintain your support network. Part of dealing with being alone is having a solid support network of friends and family that you can turn to when you need help. Look for ways to meet new friends and maintain your current friends, such as taking a class at your gym, meeting up with a friend for coffee, or joining a special interest group in your area.

