 Get the mood going before the party even starts by sending the right invitations. You can pick out Mexican-themed party invitations at most party stores or make your own.


Consider using patterned stationary. Look for paper with a chili pepper border or something similarly festive.
Instead of using standard card-style invitations, consider printing your invitations on plain paper, rolling them up, and tying them with a bandana.
If you do opt for card-style invitations, throw a handful of confetti in the envelop for a fun surprise.;
, Invest in a few CDs from popular Latin music artists or stream festive Mexican folk music through your computer.


You can search for a specific online radio station that only plays Mexican music, but an easier option would be to select or build a Mexican music station on Pandora or a similar Internet radio website.
 Classic party decorations can work well at a Mexican-themed fiesta, but to make them fit the occasion better, choose red, white, and green decorations.


These are the colors of the Mexican flag, so basing your décor on this trio is a simple way to pay homage to the culture the holiday celebrates.
Use this color scheme when selecting tablecloths, napkins, plastic utensils, and paper plates.
Don't be afraid of being cliché. Hang streamers and inflate balloons. Provide party hats. This is a time to cut loose and relax, so you and your guests shouldn't have to worry about maintaining appearances.
For an evening fiesta, place colorful candles in lanterns or luminaries and scatter them around the party space.
 Flowers and plants can set the tone of any party, and your Cinco de Mayo fiesta is no exception.


Display a few potted cacti in colorful pots. Make sure that these prickly decorations are kept out of the reach of small children, though.
Create a simple centerpiece by filling a wooden bowl with various citrus fruits, like lemons and limes.
Use sunflowers. Place a single sunflower stem in a glass jar or bottle. Set up a few of these and use them as centerpieces or other decorations.If real plants don't appeal to you, you can make dozens of colorful tissue paper flowers to display, instead.
 Throwing a few undeniably Mexican elements into your décor can give it an added boost of authenticity.


Consider displaying the Mexican flag or decorating each table with a miniature Mexican flag.
Similarly, you can display a few full-sized sombreros or scatter a few miniatures around. If your fiesta is small enough, you can even give each of your guests a sombrero to wear.
Keep a few sets of maracas lying around for your guests to shake and rattle during the more exciting moments of your party.
 Instead of preparing a small number of impressive-looking appetizers, set a spread of tortilla chips, salsa, and guacamole.


This option is both popular and practical since chips and dip can serve a large crowd for a relatively low cost.
To save time, you can buy commercial sauces and spice them up with a few fresh ingredients. Mix a mashed avocado and spritz of lime juice into a jar of guacamole or a few chopped cherry tomatoes into a jar of salsa.If you want to include something for the rare guest who doesn't enjoy chips, you can still prepare something simple by setting out cubes of fresh tropical fruit, like pineapples and mangoes.
 Delight the adults at your fiesta by serving a few simple yet classic Mexican beverages.


Mexican beer is the simplest option. Any export brand provided by Group Modelo will work, including Modelo, Pacifico, and Corona.
Consider serving shots of tequila or preparing tequila-based cocktails, like the Margarita.
 Unless you're having an adults-only party, you'll need to include a few non-alcoholic beverages for those under the age of 21.


Even if you are having an adults-only fiesta, the designated drivers in attendance will appreciate your consideration if you provide some non-alcoholic options.
Mock-margaritas, mock-daiquiris, and similar drinks are a good way to make everyone feel included. For something simpler, you could buy Jarritos (Mexican soda).
 This option is simple to prepare and allows your guests to customize their own food to their liking.Set up separate stations: one for the tortillas, one for the meats, and one for the toppings.
Offer both flour and corn tortillas. You can also consider providing both soft and hard shells.
Provide two to four kinds of meat. Chicken and ground beef are the simplest to prepare, but you can also include strips of seasoned steak and shredded pork if you're feeling bold.
Get creative for your fillings and toppings. Shredded cheese, lettuce, chopped tomatoes, and sour cream are a few basics worth setting out, but you can also include options like Latin-style rice, refried beans, pico de gallo, and black beans.
 No fiesta is complete without a sweet treat to enjoy at the end.


Purchase flan from a Mexican bakery or learn to make your own flan.
Other popular Mexican desserts include sopaipillas, churros, fried ice cream, and fried plantains.
If you're not much of a baker, a simpler option would be to locate the nearest Mexican bakery and ask for a dessert recommendation. Alternatively, visit a Mexican grocery and walk down the baked goods aisle for something both authentic and easy.
 This is a class party game both kids and adults can enjoy. You can make your own piñata or buy one from a store.


The kids version should be filled with candy, stickers, and small toys.
If you want to create an adult gag version, consider filling it with things like tiny plastic bottles of alcohol or scratch-off lottery tickets.
 Most of your guests will probably recognize the sombrero as a symbol of Mexican culture, and the Mexican hat dance is a tradition that encompasses that symbol. Take the concept of the Mexican hat dance and adapt it to a party game.


Hire a professional to teach an authentic Mexican hat dance to your party guests. Consider asking the professional to teach other Latin dances, as well, like the salsa, samba, rumba, bachata, or folklorico.
Ask your guests to perform their own versions of the Mexican hat dance. Have awards for things like “the most original hat dance” and “the most authentic hat dance.”
Host a Mexican hat dance relay. Split into two teams. Place two sombreros (one for each team) an equal distance away, then have the team members run to their sombrero and back. Once they reach the sombrero, each teammate should do their version of the Mexican hat dance. Reward the team that finishes first.
 Challenge the bravest of your guests to see how many chili peppers they can eat before the heat becomes too much for them. The guest who can eat the most peppers or the hottest pepper wins.


Another twist on this game is to have a heat guessing contest. Buy a variety of peppers and ask your guests to guess how hot each one is before biting into it. The guest who guesses right the greatest number of times will win.Mildly hot peppers include pepperoncini, banana peppers, and pimentos. Hotter options include jalapenos, chili, poblano, and habanero.
Have glasses of milk waiting on standby for your brave guests. Milk will take the edge off the heat better than ice water can.
 Hide enough of each item for every team to find one, then reward the team that gathers all the items first.


A few possible items for your scavenger hunt can include: miniature Mexican flags, dried chili peppers, sombreros, maps of Mexico, packets of taco sauce, miniature cacti, limes, and tissue paper flowers.
When setting up a scavenger hunt for kids, however, you should avoid using items that could cause injury, like cacti and chili peppers.

