 Write down the cities, states, nations, or regions that float to the top of your mind when you think about where you might want to live. Your list may be very short or very long. If you don't already have a few places in mind, then you will need to do more research in order to better understand what you're looking for., Run a web search, talk to people, and read guidebooks in order to learn more about each place that finds its way onto your list. Read about the history, the culture, the scenery, the economy. Try to pin down what it is, exactly, that draws you to this place.


Ask your friends. If you are considering moving to a city, and you know someone who has lived in that city before: be sure to ask this person for their perspective. Keep in mind that what works for one person does not always work for another!

, Look for the common factors between the places that you are considering living. Then, use these patterns to help yourself understand what sort of place, generally, you are looking for: urban, rural, or suburban; mountainous or seaside; east coast or west coast. Once you've identified a few similar options, try to parse out the more subtle differences between these places.


If you listed San Francisco, Portland, and Seattle, consider that these are all relatively young, affluent, tech-driven cities along the West Coast of the United States. Perhaps you are looking for a certain sort of energy that you identify with these particular urban centers. To narrow down your decision, examine the differences between these cities.
If you listed Montana, Alaska, and Colorado, then you probably want to live somewhere mountainous, outdoorsy, and relatively unpopulated. There are many similarities between these three states, but there are also many differences. Research each state to better understand the difference.
 If you are intrigued by the idea of a place, try to check it out in person before you make any serious decisions. Take any opportunity that you get to visit the area, speak with the people, and imagine yourself living there.If you are thinking of moving relatively nearby, then you can visit on a weekend or a day off. If you are thinking of living somewhere far away, then make sure that you have the time and resources to get there and back.

