 If you never let people know who is under the helmet (when you are not riding), they will never know that you find joy cycling. You have to let yourself be known as a cyclist if you want to find someone who would be willing to ride with you. Chances are, you may find that others are willing to get you in touch with others who are also looking for a partner to ride with.;
, New cyclists are always hitting the roads, and many more want to. By talking with people about cycling, you may just find that they also want to go out cycling, and they would be more than willing to ride with you. Talk about how much better you have been doing since you have been taking bike rides, and capture their interest. More than likely, you will interest someone enough to where you can move on foward, and invite them to go out riding.
 Cycling can be great bonding time, you can cycle with a family member you wouldn't otherwise spends time with. Be prepared to motivate each other, and remember your limitations. If you choose to go on a father-son ride, remember your father may not be able to do 25 miles on the first round, and vice versa. Train up to a level which both of you are happy, and where it is an enjoyable time for both people.
 Cycling with a partner can bring friends closer together. Friends can be great people to ride with, as you can spend more time together. Convince them by saying things like, "Oh, you will get more exercise while spending time with friends!" be sure to put a positive spin on it, and counteract the negative aspects they may have in their mind.
 Every cyclist will get a flat tire sometime during their life. As a general rule-of-thumb, you should stop and help them fix their bicycle. Then would be a great time to ask about joining them in the future. While you help, just casually remark, "Hey, I noticed you are cycling alone. I could ride with you for the rest of your ride, if you want." If they agree, then do as you say. When one of you has to part, don't forget to ask if the person you helped if they want to ride with you in the future.
 Cycling clubs generally contain cyclists exclusively, which serves as a great resource to find a partner. By going to local clubs, you not only relate with other people who have the same passion, but you meet with people who also cycle in your area. This social setting is great for finding people, and all you have to do is ask.

