 The most effective way to stay relaxed is to prevent stress from accumulating. Unfortunately, the signs that you are experiencing stress can be subtle, and you may not realize it until it’s too late. So keep an eye out for stress-signals and take some steps to get relaxed. Take a few minutes each day to check in with yourself and looks for signs that you may be experiencing too much stress.Check your quality of sleep. Are you having a hard time falling asleep? Are you waking up several times during the night? Do you get plenty of sleep but still feel worn out?
How is your mental focus? Do you feel foggy? Is it hard for you to concentrate?
How are you eating? Have you been forgetting to eat regularly? Or perhaps you’ve been eating too much?
How are your interactions with others? Are you able to be patient, or are you irritable or snippy?;
, Physical movement of any kind is the quickest and easiest way to bust stress and stay relaxed. You don’t need to join a gym (although that is one option). You can take a walk around the block, put on some music and dance, or play in the pool with your family. You can use exercise to zap stress when it comes up, or you can make exercise part of your daily routine to keep stress away.Exercise doesn't have to be a major time commitment — it doesn't have to happen in a 30 minute or hour block of time. Squeezing in a 10 minute walk during your lunch break and then another one during your child's soccer practice may be more feasible and just as beneficial.
 Diet plays a major role in the ways that our bodies handle stress. When we are stressed, it is natural to reach for sugary or high-carb options to get a quick boost. But foods high in processed sugars and carbohydrate will actually spike your blood sugar, making you feel jittery, and even less relaxed. Instead reach for fruit high in vitamin C to help stabilize your mood, or dark chocolate to help reduce cortisol (the stress hormone)., Any time you need to let off a bit of steam, it is a great idea to call a friend and talk. Even if you don’t feel like talking about what’s bothering you, just some friendly chit-chat is an excellent stress reducer. Feeling a connection to someone produces the happiness hormone oxytocin, so calling a friend is an effective way to process stressful emotions., A good night’s sleep is one of best antidotes to stress, and a great way to stay relaxed. Unfortunately, bedtime can be the moment when all the day’s anxieties come rushing back to you. You can prevent this cycle and ensure restful sleep by creating a bedtime ritual that you do each nightPut on some gentle music while you get ready for bed (using the same song each night is a good idea).
Put on your pjs, brush your teeth, and wash your face.
Get a drink of water.
Do this ritual the same way each night. Within a week, you should experience deeper sleep.

