 Retreat centres are obliged to make sure of your mental condition and physical fitness is sufficient to ensure they can adequately cater for your needs. For weekend retreats some centres may or may not ask for a referral from your doctor if you are suffering from a physical or mental illness.


Generally, most meditation retreat centres are vegetarian, but some aren't. It's best to check in advance. Likewise, as while they do their best, few meditation centres are sufficiently funded to cater for people with allergies, so it may be necessary to bring your own food.;
, Many retreat centres run off a 5 or 8 precept system for weekends, which, for 8 precepts, means no solid foods after noon. Some centres are rigid about the time you get up, some are more flexible. If you know you are going into a strict centre, it can be wise to practice the routine for a few days in advance, especially if the idea of the routine makes you feel uncertain about going.
 Many retreat centres are out in the quiet of the countryside and can be a long way from the cities. Ask the centre or the retreat manager for the easiest route from where you are coming from and how long it may take - they generally can estimate within 15 minutes or so, or you can use an online mapping service that can give a travel time estimation.


It is important to know where you are going because trying to get there on time as well as fear of getting lost can add a lot of unwanted tension to a weekend that is meant to be about letting go.
The best option is always to volunteer at the retreat centre before you stay, this may be to help around their kitchen or gardens, or to spend a whole weekend as a volunteer. This helps you become familiar with layout of the centre and its schedules, and gives you a taste of retreat life. It also builds merit and a sense of ease at the centre, which greatly improves your meditation.
 Generally a weekend retreat is a short time as opposed to a week, fortnight or month retreat, but it can be useful to let a trusted friend or neighbour know to keep an eye on your home security and collect any mail if necessary.
 Most retreat centres will supply you with bedding, meditation mats and cushions, and the meals. But most, except for very well funded centres may require you to bring your own bath towel, toothbrush and toothpaste. It is also wise to bring a torch, (very few retreat centres have in-suite toilets and bathrooms) and pack enough changes of clothing (even fewer centres have washing machines available for short stay residents), a thick blanket if you are particularly susceptible to the cold, and insect repellent if in a warm climate. Ideally don't bring loud alarm clocks, as most meditation centres have a community bell, or a small alarm inside the room.


It is generally better to pack less than more, as a retreat is about letting go and living with minimal things to free your mind from them. See if you can go a whole weekend without your smart phone or tablet, without an MP3 player on any electronic distraction - challenge yourself as part of the experience.
It is wise for people to pack plain clothing, that is both comfortable as well as protects one's modesty.
 An hour early is ideal. This allows you to settle into your room and get some quiet meditation time or a shower to unwind from your journey. If you wish you can always assist the centre volunteers to find your way around. Volunteers tend to be busy setting up and aren't always available to give you a tour, but are very welcoming to anyone who wishes to lend a hand, even if its simply to sweep around the hall.
 Generally, strictness is left to the routine - and weekend routines are usually not as strict as longer retreats, so your job is to let go, be easy and relax into the retreat. Most retreats tend to have noble silence for retreatants, but very new retreatants may find this difficult, so be compassionate (or use it as grist for the mill!) rather than let something spoil your weekend.
 Most centres typically have a short induction or orienteering course to let you know details such as evacuation procedures or the etiquette in the dining hall. After that, the retreat begins.


It's usually good manners to leave other meditators alone, which has always raised awkward moments of what is polite interaction (such as holding open the door for someone else), or whether a person either interacts too much (such as making excessive eye contact with other meditators) or oppositely act as if other people aren't there. Generally its wise to take nothing that other people do personally, as they may be new as well, and do your best in each situation.
 Constant intense sitting is challenging even for professional monastic meditators, let alone beginners, so it is wise to switch between walking and sitting meditation and, if you need too, take a rest session in your own room in private (as not all teachers will allow this however, so it depends on the tradition).
 This either will stress your mind to extreme states (which lead nowhere), or if they do lead to productive states of mind, are neither repeatable nor sustainable.


If you have access to a collection of suttas / sutras, or access to some MP3 talks, listen to some inspiring talks before you go on retreat to get you into a positive frame of mind.
 This is both about what to do, what you experience and how to act.


People respond differently to meditation and so you may at some stage in your meditation hobby feel intense emotions that seem troubling, although what they are is simply normal emotions that perception has amplified or something that has never properly been able to express itself. The first type certainly won't last and the latter type is often an expression of healing so it certainly is a normal, not unusual experience at one stage or another.
 Ideally do some stretches in your room or go for a private walk to stretch your legs. As you are likely driving back home, or if you are lucky to have someone drive you, you may have work or school the next day. Jumping from serene surroundings of a retreat centre to a busy work world can create a feeling of culture shock for beginners so it is best to adjust back to normal life first.


Many retreat centres request the retreatants to clean their room, shower block, kitchen and/or hall before they leave, so this is an ideal opportunity to adjust back into work life.

