 It might sound strange, but lemon juice can actually be used to whiten your clothes. Try adding it to your washing machine to boost the whitening power of your regular laundry detergent or using it to pre-treat your clothes.Lemon juice can bleach colors, so only use it with white loads. Avoid using lemon juice on delicate fabrics, such as silk.If using in the wash, add one cup of lemon juice to your washing machine water.
To pre-treat your laundry, simply add a sliced up lemon to a large pot water and bring to a boil. Then turn the heat off, add your clothes to the pot, and let them sit for one hour. After you remove them, wash them regularly., Baking soda can help whiten and deodorize you clothing naturally, and it can be used in the laundry or as a spot treatment.Baking soda should not be used on silk, but it is safe for most other fabrics.
To use in the laundry, add 1/2 cup of baking soda to your regular detergent.
To spot treat stains, add water to baking soda to create a paste and apply directly to the stain.
 Distilled white vinegar is a great natural whitener. The smell will go away after washing, so don't worry about using it on your clothes. Vinegar can be used either in the washing machine or as a pre-treatment. Vinegar can be used with colors as well. It will brighten without bleaching. Vinegar can break down polyurethane fibers, so don't use it with polyurethane diapers. Vinegar can also weaken some other fabrics, such as cotton, acetate, rayon, and silk. Using a smaller amount of vinegar (always diluted) can help prevent damage to these fabrics.Add 1/2 cup of vinegar to your washing machine with your regular detergent to increase its whitening power.
You can also use vinegar as a pre-treatment for stains. Simply spray it on the affected area and let sit for a while before washing. It's especially effective on sweat stains.
To treat super dingy whites, add a 1/2 cup of vinegar to a pot of water and bring to a boil. Then remove the pot from the heat and add your clothes. You can leave them to soak overnight and then wash them as you normally would., Hanging whites outside in the bright sunlight can help brighten them up. It also leaves them smelling very fresh, so consider line drying your next load of whites.