 If you feel that you may have depression, consult a medical professional first. Self-diagnosing a series illness like depression is not safe, since depression has serious side effects like angry outbursts, suicidal thoughts, and social isolation.


If you are under 18 or are a dependent, ask your parents or legal guardian for help finding a doctor.
If you are over 18, your regular doctor will refer you to a mental health professional.
Talking to your loved ones after getting an official diagnoses will be easier.;
, Knowing how you manifest depression will help you explain your feelings to people. Symptoms change according to the individual.Unexplained sadness, a sudden lack of interest in friends or hobbies, and a lack of energy are common among people with depression., Knowing the facts about depression will help you communicate with people. Since mental illness can still be a taboo subject for many individuals, being armed with facts will help you feel more comfortable when talking to those who may be skeptical of your feelings.These are good facts to start with:


Depression is a legitimate, diagnosable disease.Twenty-one million Americans suffer from a mood disorder like depression.Depression is very common, but it is also the most treatable of all mental illnesses.Depression changes the way a person thinks and feels., Depression makes it difficult for people to think positively.Remind yourself that communicating about your depression can strengthen your support network, help unburden you, ease isolation, and help you get perspective.Trying to stay positive about communicating with people you know will make the process of communication easier.
 Unnecessarily spreading around information about your depression can lead to unwanted attention in your social circle. Telling only your best and closest friends is better than telling everyone. Those friends who are honest, responsible, and open with you are trustworthy., Since your spouse, boyfriend, girlfriend, or partner are likely closest to you on a daily basis, they will need to know about your depression. If you are starting a new relationship, you are not obligated to talk about your depression.
 If you live at home, are under the care of a legal guardian, or are a dependent, it will be necessary to tell your guardians about your depression; they will need to help you get professional care. Since family members and guardians have known you all your life, they may be uncomfortable, very concerned, or upset about the information, but they can be the most helpful, too., There are certain instances where employers need to know about your depression. If you are taking a new medication and need time to adjust to it, if you need to adjust your schedule, if you need to be hospitalized, if depression is affecting your work, or if you need to submit benefit claims through your employer, telling your employer is important.Because mental illness can be a taboo subject, unless your situation fits into one of the circumstances above, you do not need to disclose information about your depression.
If you only work part-time and do not receive benefits, the chances that they need to know will be less likely.
Remember, the employer is not obligated to keep your illness a secret., Being open and honest can be difficult, so take time to practice the conversation. Visualize yourself talking to someone. Writing down your key talking points can also help. You can even practice what you’ll say aloud.


“I want to talk to you about something serious” is a good way to begin a conversation.
“I have depression, and I want to tell you about it” is a straightforward way to begin discussing depression.
“I love you, and this doesn’t change our relationship” can be reassuring to significant others and loved ones.
“This is really hard for me” can be said if you get emotional and need space.
 Blaming others and accusing people will not make the conversation productive. Choose a time that is not stressful to approach loves ones for this serious discussion, and talk in a private area.


Remove distractions by turning off the television, putting your phone on vibrate, and turning down music.Use “I” statements when discussing feelings. Saying “you” can make a person feel attacked.For example, say “I need help” rather than “You need to help me.”
Remember to listen, even if you’re talking mostly about your feelings., This is very necessary if a person doesn’t know what depression is. Different cultures have different explanations for illnesses, so if you’re talking to someone who isn’t from a Western, industrialized society, they may have a lot of trouble understanding depression.Let them know that your depression is not their fault.
Emphasize that depression is a medically recognized illness.
Tell them you are not choosing to be depressed or simply having a bad day.
 It probably took a while for you to come to terms with your depression, so some people may also need time before they completely understand. Often, friends and family members have to get used to the idea of someone they love having a mental illness.


You can say, “It took me a long time to understand depression, too.”
Remind them, “This isn’t something that is going away.”
Use a fact as support so they take you seriously, like “Depression is the cause of 30,000 suicides each year; I want to get help.”, Whether you're considering therapy, medication, or holistic treatment, many people will feel better if they know you're getting help. Accept the help they offer.Whether it’s a backrub, a promise to be there, or a simple smile, accept the help people give you.


You can say, “I’m getting therapy.”
If you haven’t gotten treatment yet, say “I will go a therapist as soon as I can.”
It is important to mention “I want to try medication” if you are going to do so.
 If someone isn’t aware that anything has been bothering you, telling someone you have depression may be shocking. Allow loved ones and employers to ask you questions about depression after you have explained your feelings.


Only answer questions you’re comfortable with.
If you don’t want to answer a question, politely say so: “I don’t feel comfortable answering.”
Remain nonjudgmental if their questions seem dumb or obvious.

