 Use mylar or metalized nylon material. You can buy a mylar blanket from a camping or sporting goods store to use if desired.

Fold the bag material over so the shiny side faces outward. Have the top layer of the material overlap the bottom layer by 33 inches (82.5 cm). Cut away extra bag material so you have 33 by 38 inches (82.5 by 95 cm) of material left.
Rub the folded bag material with a terry cloth towel to remove wrinkles and any trapped air.
Weigh down the bag material with books. Mark a bottom border 32 inches (80 cm) from the top fold line with a yardstick and felt tip pen.
Place the yardstick along the left side of the material. Leave 1/2 an inch (1.25 cm) of room.
Iron a seam alongside the yardstick with a continuous sweeping motion. The seam should be smooth and should seal the folded bag material.
Leave room in the bottom left corner of the bag for a fill spout. Do not iron this fill spout area. A nozzle will later be inserted into the fill spout to fill the blimp bag with helium to make it float.
Iron a complete seam 1/2 an inch (1.25 cm) from the right side of the bag.
Place the yardstick 1/2 an inch (1.25 cm) above the bag's marker line. Iron from the yardstick to the end of the bag material.
Cut off 1 inch (2.5 cm) of material from the bottom of the bag. A 1/2-inch (1.25 cm) bottom seam should be left.
Turn the blimp bag over. Mark the fill spout's position on this side. Iron the seams on the left, right and bottom of the bag, while avoiding the fill spout.
Place 2 pieces of clear packing tape along the sides of the fill spout. Cut off any excess tape. The tape gives the fill spout extra protection.
Insert a toothpick in between the 2 layers of bag material to leave an opening for the fill spout.;
, Fill it partway with air from a vacuum exhaust port passed through a drinking straw, then tape the spout.

Leave the bag alone for 1 hour. If its size remains the same, it has no leaks.
Patch holes with adhesive tape or remove air from the bag and redo any problem seams.
 Ask a local florist or balloon shop to do this. The bag should only be filled with enough helium to start floating.,, This is where passengers and crew would be in a large-scale blimp. The gondola goes underneath the blimp bag and has a motor to help propel the blimp.

Push wooden dowels into the gondola's platform. Glue them in place. Let the glue dry.
Attach a small propeller to the gondola's motor shaft. Tape the gondola's dowels to the blimp.
 The tail-fins and rudder also add stability to the blimp., Leave the battery slightly pulled out to deactivate it., Tape paper clips, small coins or other lightweight objects to the gondola for ballast.,