 These will give you a depth on how the store not only accepts different kinds of coupons, but also explains how to use their own coupons. Well known drugstores, such as Target, Walgreens, Rite Aid, and CVS all have store coupons. Supermarkets will usually offer store coupons as catalinas (the machine feeder at the register) or in their own savings books.


Store coupons work exactly like manufacturer ones, but only valid at the specific store. It needs to state the item and weight/size, if applicable. Many times, a store might base a unique coupon off the bar code numbers or the wording if it says "Manufacturer" or "Store" on it. This is why it's always good to double check on policies instead of double guessing.;
, These prices are typically lower than the regular shelf price. Some prices can be considered a "rock bottom" price, where it will hit the lowest price of its sale cycle.
 This is the first bump in making a sale deal. Remember that you can only use one manufacturer coupon per item.
 You can then add it to your transaction math.


Tide Laundry Detergent, 100 oz (48-64 loads), $13.99 - on sale for $7.99
You have a manufacturer coupon, "Save $1.00 on 1 Tide Laundry Detergent".
You have a store coupon, "Save $1.50 on any one laundry detergent".
Combining these two coupons, you are saving an additional $2.50 and your final price would be $5.49. You're spending at minimum $0.11 per load, while using the manufacturer coupon alone would be $0.16 per load, the sale price is $0.17 per load, and the regular price is at $0.29 per load.
 At times, it is possible to combine manufacturer and store coupons along with deals. There are many ways a person can successfully pull off a very cheap to free store trip. People use methods such as gift cards, store reward programs, mail in rebates, gas rewards, and store saving bonuses. This is an example of stacking coupons with deals at a supermarket that doubles coupons up to $0.99:


Store promotion - Save $5 instantly when you buy 10 selected products in one transaction.
Totino's Pizza Rolls 4.5 to 7.2 oz, $1.49; $0.99 each after instant savings.
Get ten for $9.90 for the instant savings price.
Give ten "Save $0.35 on 1" manufacturer coupons to the cashier.
Because the store doubles coupons up to $0.99, each box is now $0.29.
With the doubled coupons and store promotion instant savings, you just spent $2.90 for those ten boxes.

