 You probably have lost contact with your ex. If so, then you might not know where she lives anymore. In this situation, you will have to try and find her home address and telephone number.


You can search websites such as Intelius.Enter your ex’s first and last name, as well as the city or state where you think she lives.
You might have to pay a small fee to access the information on her address or phone number.;
, Your ex might have disappeared. In this situation, you will need to contact a private investigator to search for her. You can find private investigators listed in the phone book, or you could find them advertising online.


Before hiring a private investigator, talk about the scope of the search. Also find out how much he or she charges. Generally, private investigators charge $40-100 per hour, though there are additional expenses such as mileage.See Hire a Private Investigator for more information.
 Once you have contact information for your ex, you should call her. The purpose of the phone call is to ask whether she gave birth. You also might want to check whether she intends to keep the baby or give the child up for adoption.


You might be afraid to talk to your ex. The relationship might have ended badly, and you could be feeling tense as you wait for her to pick up her phone. However, you should try to remain as calm as possible.
Also remember to remain polite. You can say, “Melissa, it’s Mike. I’ve been thinking about you recently and wondering if you’ve gone into labor yet.”

, Sometimes stopping by might be easier, especially if your ex is blocking your phone calls. You should think about stopping by at a time when you are sure she will be at home, such as early in the morning or in the evening.


You shouldn’t stop by if you have a history of violence or if you received a restraining order at any time.
 If you can’t locate your ex, then talk to her family and friends. They will probably know whether or not your ex gave birth to your child. Try to find a family member who you are still on good speaking terms with.


You can send an email or call. Be prepared to explain why you want to know whether or not she gave birth to your child.

