 Your national government’s department of state should provide a list of locations that are dangerous for traveling due to a high risk of terror incidents. Consult the appropriate department’s site before making travel arrangements.


If you do not have internet access, ask your local embassy or police station to provide a list of terror warnings.
You can also learn about terror threats by watching the news. Follow media reports about the country or countries you’ll be traveling to.;
, If you have lots of tattoos, dress so as to cover them, especially if you’re in a relatively conservative nation. Avoid wearing bright colors or flashy clothing. If you’re traveling, adopt the normal dress of the place you’re traveling to. Try to blend into the general population.In most areas of the world, you can get away with wearing t-shirts and jeans. In many other areas, however, the local standards of dress are quite unique. Wherever you are, try to be as uninteresting in your dress as possible.
 Do not wear shirts or hats emblazoned with your national flag. Terrorists could use that to identify and target you as someone belonging to a particular nation. Additionally, do not attach keychains, buttons, stickers, or patches bearing your national flag to your clothing, backpack, or suitcase., If you encounter terrorists who target people of a particular religion, you could become a victim of terrorism. Wearing crucifixes, yarmulkes, or other religious garb could cause terrorists to target you., Obtain a map of your local area. Mark all the police stations, hotels, and hospitals on the map. Circle the ones that are closest to you or to the locations you know you will be visiting regularly or in the near future. Carry this map with you and head to the safe havens you marked out in the event of a terrorist incident.Before traveling, obtain a map of the area you’ll be traveling to and identify safe havens in the same way you did with the map of your local area.
 Some of history's largest terror attacks have taken place on airplanes or at airports. While security and screening for terrorist might be good in your nation, it might be weaker in other nations. Fly directly from your nation to your destination to stay safe.If you can't go to your destination directly, schedule a flight that lands only at airports with the lowest risk of being targeted by terrorists.
 There are two parts of the airport, the secured area beyond the security checkpoint and metal detectors, and the area before the security checkpoint. When you arrive at the airport, you will be in the unsecured area. Do not linger there. Instead, check your luggage and pass through airport security as quickly as possible., Don’t allow hotel staff or anyone else to select a taxi for you. If you do, it’s possible that you won’t actually be getting in a taxi, but a car driven by a terrorist. Vary the taxi stand you use to get around town. Only get into cabs that are clearly marked as such. Ensure the photo in the front and/or rear ID panel matches the face of the cab driver.When entering a cab look for a:


Certificate license with expiration date displayed
Cab number
Cab company name and information
Valid plates and registration sticker

, To avoid being a victim of terrorism, keep your personal information and itinerary to yourself. When you do share information with friends who you trust, do so in a private space and be wary of anyone listening in.This includes religious information. Do not tell strangers what your faith is, as terrorists often target people of particular religious background.
Racial information and citizenship should also be kept confidential. Some terrorists target only individuals of a specific race or individuals who hail from nations they consider to be enemies of their own country.
 Large public events and gatherings are common sites for terror incidents. For instance, concerts and nightclubs are often targeted by terrorists because of their high civilian populations. Areas that are quiet and rural are unlikely to be targeted by terrorists.Other areas to avoid include government buildings and locations that are symbolic of a nation’s economic or political might.
Keep your wits about you when in public, and if you get a bad feeling about someone or something you see, don’t hesitate to report it.
 Many religiously-motivated terrorists schedule large attacks to coincide with their religious holidays. Exercise extra vigilance during these times and avoid public areas., Charge your phone regularly. Program the number for local emergency services into your phone. If you see or notice anything suspicious, or if you witness a terror attack, use your phone to contact the authorities.