 If you have balance issues, using water shoes can help. You can find them at most large shoe stores or sporting good stores. Look for ones that have good traction, and make sure they fit comfortably.Water shoes, as their name implies, are shoes designed to be worn in the water. They let water in and dry out more readily when you get out.
In addition, they have soles with traction, which means you'll have a better grip on the floor of the pool.;
, Start in the shallow end. It doesn't matter how shallow the shallow end is. Just start on that end and work your way to slightly deeper water, going to about mid-chest. Water walking is just as it sounds. You spend time walking back and forth across the pool, just as you do on land., It should be long as you go across the pool. Also, make sure you aren't walking on your tiptoes.Also, make sure you are swinging your arms like you're not in water., You want to have straight posture as you do this movement. In addition, keep your core muscles tight so you don't lean to one side or forward.


One reason this exercise works well for back pain is it lets you stay upright while still building strength in your back.However, bending forward or to the side can increase back pain if you're not careful.
 If you find the workout too easy, you can add equipment to make it a bit harder. For instance, you can use webs on your hands to add resistance as you move through the water.You can also add a weighted belt.
Another option is ankle weights.
If you have trouble staying upright, you can use a flotation belt instead, which will keep you where you need to be., You can also move backwards across the pool, being sure to watch out for other people. Another option is side-stepping. These both help improve your range of motion.You can also move to the deep end. If you can't swim, put on a life vest or other flotation device.
To walk in deep water, you simply move your arms and legs as if you were walking to propel you forward. You can also use a water noodle to help you stay afloat. Simply straddle it as you would a horse, pulling it slightly higher in the back.