 In order to train the cat to stay away from your toilet paper, you should try using remote correction, which makes the experience unpleasant for the cat. With remote correction, you make the cat associate something unpleasant with the behavior you want to eliminate. For example, you can place an unappealing texture on the surface of the toilet paper or on the floor beneath the toilet paper area. A surface that your cat doesn't want to touch or walk on may deter it from messing with your toilet paper.You can apply aluminum foil, sticky paper, or a knobby plastic mat under the toilet paper roll and see if it dissuades your cat from entering the area.
 Cats are very sensitive to certain smells, so you can use this to your advantage when trying to keep your cat away from your toilet paper. Apply a smell that your cat doesn't like around the toilet paper roll to keep it away.Some smells that generally keep cats away include citronella, citrus, aloe, eucalyptus oil and oil of wintergreen.
 If you see your cat going towards the toilet paper roll, you should make unpleasant noises that startle it and cause it to leave the area. Scaring the cat repeatedly near the toilet paper roll will make it associate that fear with the area and will likely cause it to avoid that area in the future.Use a whistle, a can with pennies in it, or some other noise making item to scare the cat away from bad behavior.
Don't use your words or yell at the cat, however, as this can make the cat fearful of you in the future.
 This will make the cat think that this will always happen when playing with toilet paper. Some products you can apply to the surface of your toilet paper include bitter apple, citrus products, hot sauces, cayenne pepper or aloe gel. Be sure to remove the bad tasting layer before using the toilet paper yourself.
Even if your cat is not chewing on the toilet paper, unrolling it with its paws will get the bad tasting substance on its paws. When the cat goes to clean the substance off with its tongue, it will experience the bad taste.

