 Set up a charcoal or gas grill for high temperature heat. Keep separate areas for both indirect and direct grilling.


If you have a charcoal grill, preheat the grill for about 10 minutes, then redistribute the coals into two separate piles on the sides of the bottom grate. Use these piles for direct heat, and keep the center open for indirect heating.If you have a gas grill, preheat all burners for about 10 minutes, then turn off one burner for indirect heat. The lit burners can be used for direct heat.
Note that high temperatures should be between 450 and 500 degrees Fahrenheit (230 and 260 degrees Celsius). If you hold your hand 3 inches (7.6 cm) above the top grate, you should only be able to keep it there for 1 or 2 seconds before needing to pull it away., Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin from each sweet potato, then cut the potatoes into eight lengthwise wedges using a sharp knife.


If desired, you could cut the sweet potatoes into crosswise or diagonal slices instead of wedges. Note that the slices should be at least 1/4 inch (6 mm) thick, however.
To cut the sweet potatoes into wedges:

Slice the sweet potato in half lengthwise.
Slice each half in half lengthwise, forming quarters.
Slice each quarter in half lengthwise, forming eighths.
 Place the sweet potato wedges in a large mixing bowl and drizzle the olive oil over them. Toss the wedges to coat them evenly with the oil, then lightly sprinkle the wedges with salt and pepper.
 Place the sweet potato wedges on the hot grill, directly over the flame. Cook the wedges for about 3 minutes per side, using tongs to turn them halfway through.


Continue grilling the wedges over direct heat until grill marks develop on each side.
 Carefully move the sweet potato wedges to the indirectly heated portion of the grill. Cook them for 20 to 30 minutes, or until tender.


Cover the grill while the wedges sit over indirect heat. You should also turn the wedges over halfway through to promote even charring.
 Remove the finished sweet potato wedges from the grill. Drizzle them with additional melted butter or other desired toppings, then enjoy them immediately while they're still hot.

