 You may also wish to contact the office of your state representative or senator. Several U.S. cities, towns or states have enacted laws to counter predatory towing practices. Visiting your town clerk or contacting a local representative can let them know that predatory towing is a problem. They can also help you understand what the regulations are., You should investigate the local laws in your area to find out which practices are allowed, disallowed or limited. The more you know about the laws on this topic, the more prepared you will be if you ever run into trouble. Some of the common protections that are included in such laws are:One hour minimum. Many predatory towing companies employ “spotters” to watch spaces and call a tow truck as soon as someone parks illegally. Laws counter this practice by requiring that you must be illegally parked for up to an hour before you can be towed.
Unconditional release. If you return to your car before it has been removed, the tow operator must release it to you.
Ten mile limit. A towing operator may not remove your car more than ten miles away from where it was parked.
Clear warning signs are required. The space in question must clearly be marked as a no-parking, resident only, or some other limitation. Without clear signage, you may not be towed.
Valid towing permit required. The towing company must be licensed by the state or municipality.
No profit sharing. The towing company may not pay anybody else, such as spotters or the parking lot owner, any type of fee for contacting them to tow your car.
Credit cards accepted. Towing companies may be required by law to accept credit cards as payment.
Reasonable towing and storage rates. These laws often set limits for the amount that the operators may charge as towing and storage fees. If the company exceeds a reasonable limit with its fees, then the company may be liable to you as a penalty.
 In many jurisdictions, local towing laws have been enacted to protect car owners. One provision that is common to many of these laws is that if you return to your car while the tow truck operator is in the process of hooking up the car, but has not yet removed it, then the operator must release the car to you. This release must be unconditional. However, the operator may be allowed to charge a reasonable release fee of up to half of its normal charge. If you return to find your car in the process of being hooked up, you should approach the operator and say, “Hey, this is my car. According to the local towing law, you have to release it now.”
You should investigate your local towing law as soon as you can, to find out if this is true in your area.

