 Each state’s IDs are somewhat different. Accordingly, you should learn the security features used on cards in your state and in surrounding states. Fortunately, there is plenty of information available:


Purchase the ID Checking Guide from the Driver’s License Guide Company. It contains updated information on licenses in the U.S. and Canada.You can order by calling 800-227-8827.
Pick up any state-published reference. Your state might have published a booklet or handout on authenticating their state IDs. Check with your state’s Department of Motor Vehicles.
There may also be an app you can download to your smart phone that will contain IDs for all 50 states.;
, If you don’t have an ID checking guide, you can compare the ID to one you know is valid—maybe even your own. Check how similar they are. In particular, compare whether the thickness, size, coloring, lettering, and corners are the same.A fake ID may be thinner than a legitimate one. In particular, counterfeiters use different paper or laminate than legitimate IDs.
 Almost all states use microprint as a security feature. It looks like a straight line, but when magnified 10 times you can see the words clearly. Use a 10X magnifying glass to check whether the ID has microprint.The microprint will be located on different positions, depending on which state’s ID you are looking at.
 Depending on your state, certain security features will show up under ultraviolet light. For example, in California, you can see a second, lighter image of the cardholder only under UV light., Your sense of touch can pick up on many signs of fraud. For example, feel the edges of the ID, which should be smooth and not peeling.Also the card shouldn’t be flimsy and bend easily.


Run a thumb over the picture and check its thickness. On some fake IDs, a picture is pasted over the original one, so the ID is especially thick there.
Some information may also be tactile. On California licenses, for example, the cardholder’s signature is now printed using raised lettering. You can run your thumb across it and feel the lettering.
On North Carolina licenses, you can feel the date of birth, which is laser engraved., The barcode contains information which should match the information on the front of the card.Most forgers cannot encode the information because it is too expensive. Scan the barcode and see if any information has been encoded and whether it matches the information on the front.


There’s also an app you can use: BarZapp. The app only costs a couple of dollars and can be downloaded onto your smart phone., Some cards have security features that are only visible from certain angles. For example, you can check for an image overlay by tilting the card.The card might also have the state name that is visible when you tilt the card toward the light. For example, on an Illinois driver’s license, the state name shows up in diagonal across the front of the card.
 You can spot a forgery if the ID contains a misspelling, such as using the wrong abbreviation for the state. Any ID with a misspelling is not legitimate.
 Be suspicious if the cardholder avoids eye contact, is shaking, or otherwise looks nervous. This may be the first time they’ve tried to use a fake ID and could fear getting caught.


Other signs of lying include pursing their lips or touching their face as they talk.If the person is right-handed, then they will usually look to the right when they tell a lie.
 A driver’s license and other IDs should include a physical description that includes height, age, eye color, and weight. Check that the person handing over the ID matches the description.


It can be difficult to judge height in the abstract. However, compare the person to your own height. If you’re 5’6” and the cardholder is allegedly 5’8”, then they should be close to your height.
 The ID should also have a picture. Analyze whether the person looks remotely like the person handing you the ID. Although the picture may be a few years old, the person should look generally the same.


Instead of focusing on someone’s hairstyle, look at those features that don’t change: nose, ears, eyes, and chin.Be suspicious if they look exactly like the picture or are wearing the same clothing. This indicates they made the fake ID recently.
 If the cardholder is signing for something, compare the signatures. If they don’t match, then the ID is probably fake.You might suspect someone buying alcohol or cigarettes is using a fake ID. In that situation, ask them for their signature and then compare it.
Sometimes, people will accidentally sign their real name, so this is a good test., As you’re holding the card, ask the cardholder questions about the information that appears on it. For example, you should ask them their date of birth.If they can’t remember, then the ID is fake.


You can also ask them their middle name or year they graduated high school. If they hesitate, then they may be using a fake ID.
If a companion is with the cardholder, quickly ask them the cardholder’s name. If they hesitate, they could be lying.
 Someone might spend a lot of money to get one fake ID. However, they probably don’t have two. Ask to see a second photo ID. If the person can’t produce one, then the ID might be fake.

