 Treating the ink stain immediately will make removing the stain much easier. If the ink stain is recent and hasn’t set into the material, blot the ink stain with a cloth or paper towel before using any cleaning method. Blotting the stain will absorb the excess ink from the dress so that the stain is easier to remove.;
, Though it is not often used as a cleaning substance, hairspray is one of the most effective ways to remove ink from a variety of materials, including silk. Before you use the hairspray to clean the ink stain, first place the stained portion of the silk dress over a paper towel or a towel.The paper towel or cloth will absorb the ink that may bleed through the dress as you try to remove it. You may need to put the paper towel or cloth inside the dress directly against the stained section so that the ink doesn’t bleed to the back of the dress.
 After you lay the stained portion of the dress over the paper towel, shake the can of hairspray, then aim it at the ink stain. Spray the hairspray on the stain until it is completely saturated.Use an alcohol-based hairspray as opposed to an alcohol-free hairspray.
Don’t let the hairspray dry.
 Once you have wet the stain with the hairspray, immediately dab at the ink stain using a clean cloth with gentle tapping motions. You should see the ink lifting from the dress and transferring to the cloth. Keep dabbing until the stain is completely removed or until the dabbing isn’t having any effect.Dab with patting motions instead of rubbing. Rubbing the stain can cause it to ingrain into the fabric, making it even harder to remove.
 If the first round of spraying the stain with hairspray and dabbing didn’t remove the ink stain, spray the stain again until the stain is soaked. Then dab the stain with a clean section of the towel to lift up more of the ink.Repeat the process of reapplying hairspray and dabbing with a cloth or paper towel until you don’t see any more ink lifting.
If you did remove the stain, wash your silk dress as usual to remove any leftover hairspray.
If using hairspray on the stain didn’t fully remove it, try another method of removing the stain.

