 You might be frustrated that you are not able to grow a beard that is as full as you would like it to be. But the real problem might not be lack of growth, but lack of time. Beards can take up to four full weeks (and in some cases, even longer) to fully grow in. Many people give up before that time, and assume that they can't grow a full beard, when in reality, they gave up too soon.Growing a beard is a project you need to commit to. Don't give up after several days! If after four or five weeks you still don't have results you're looking for, then it is time to try some alternative methods.
Do not shave your facial hair at the first sign of itching. It is normal for new hairs to cause your skin to feel itchy, but as they get longer, they will soften, and the itching will stop.Use an over-the-counter steroid cream like hydro-cortisone. This may help relieve some of the itching.Waiting for hair to grow can be a frustrating experience, especially when your beard and mustache goes through a scraggly period, that may have people commenting. As your hair begins to grow in, it may seem patchy and incomplete. However, as the hairs become longer, the slower-growing follicles will have time to sprout their own hairs. Gradually, the patchy gaps will eventually be hidden, both by longer hairs and the slower, shorter hairs growing in as well.;
, Let your hair do its thing. This means that you should not try to shape it too early in the growth process. When shaping facial hair, it is a common mistake to take off more than the intended amount. For this reason, it's best to just leave it alone while you are growing it out. Don't worry, there will be plenty of time for you to style it later, after you're happy with the growth.


As your hair grows, comb it in the direction you want it to grow. This will help it turn out looking the way you want.
After about four weeks, you might want to have a barber or stylist do some professional shaping. Carefully explain that you are growing out your facial hair, and you just want shape--not a reduction in hair.
 Beard oil hydrates both your facial hair and the skin underneath. Since it contains moisturizing properties, it also acts as a styling agent. A beard oil is great because even if you have less hair than you would like, what you do have will look great.Experts recommend applying beard oil right after your morning shower. Your pores will be clean and better able to absorb the product. Just put a small amount of oil into your hand and rub it into your face and beard or mustache.
Beard oil makes your facial hair look great, and also helps to keep it looking clean and smelling fresh. There are many different brands available, so try a few to find the one you like best. Try visiting the men's floor at your local department store--they might have some free samples.
 There are certain nutrients that you can add to your daily routine that can help encourage faster, more effective hair growth. Consider adding supplements to your morning regimen--just ask your doctor before making changes to your health care routine.


Promote thicker hair with folic acid. This is necessary for the growth and repair of hair. Most drug stores and health food stores will sell folic acid supplements.You can also try increasing the amount of folic acid in your diet. Folic acid can be found in whole-grain breads and cereals, leafy green vegetables, peas, and nuts.Increase your biotin intake. Biotin is an important water-soluble B vitamin, necessary for the the formation of fatty acids and glucose, as well as for metabolizing amino acids and carbohydrates. A biotin deficiency can lead to hair loss, so making sure you are getting the recommended amount is well worth the effort.Biotin is found in liver, oysters, cauliflower, beans, fish, carrots, bananas, soy flour, egg yolks, cereals, yeast, and other foods. While you can take vitamin supplements that include biotin, eating fresh foods is a great option, if it is available to you.