 It's a good idea to take a week or two and go around town to scope out the places you're considering auditioning for. Go incognito and grab a male friend, if possible; you need to get the feel for the atmosphere and the clientele before you dedicate your time there as an employee. If you see that a club is letting too many rules slip, go to another club. You do not want to work in a club where there could be harm done to the girls or they are not treated respectfully. There are three different types of gentleman's clubs:



Upscale types. These types of clubs have dress codes and you are often expected to wear a long gown that falls somewhere between evening wear and lingerie. They often have high house fees and support staff that you are expected to tip out -- generally speaking, an average of 10-20% of your total nightly income. These clubs are often filled with business men and city dwellers who prefer more upscale establishments, so expect to match their demographic (and spend lots of money) with gowns, rhinestone jewelry, and the whole nine yards. For the record, these clubs tend to be large in size and have a lot of entertainers working nightly.

Neighborhood Clubs. These types of clubs are a little more laid back and often attract locals or tourists, depending on the location. You can be a little more flexible with your costumes and themes at this type of establishment. This is usually a good place to start if you are new to dancing as well. Some of the clubs are located in industrial areas and others are like neighborhood bars with topless or nude entertainment.

Third tier or dive bars. These are usually located in very rural areas of town and often have less than average clientele. They are usually very lenient with the hiring process and attract a rougher crowd.;
, Once you do find a place you can see yourself working at, ask a girl about her experience working there. Do they charge to work there? Is tipping out required? (That's where you give part of your earnings to the club/staff. If so, how much do you have to tip out? Forking over 50% of your cash every night probably isn't worth it. Different clubs vary and can change nightly also.


If you've the time and interest, consider asking a couple girls their take on the work environment. The wider a sample you get, the more likely you are to get the truth.
And don't forget to ask them where they buy their clothes!

, If the employee you're talking to makes the venue sound promising, ask her to point you in the direction of the manager. Once you find them, you can let him/her know you're interested and would like an audition.


Ask him/her all the necessary details: when the audition is, how long it would last (i.e., the number of songs), what you should wear, and if they're the manager on duty that night. Once everything is established, feel free to stay and win them over with your charming personality and ask more questions about protocol to put your mind at ease. If you're feeling particularly inquisitive, ask the same questions you asked of the employees to verify what you've been told.

