 Take a straight plastic drinking straw, and use scissors to cut a slit on each end. Make each slit about 1 cm (or 1/2 inch) long. This doesn't need to be exact, so if you don't have a ruler, just cut a small piece, about the width of the pink section of a fingernail.


If you have a drinking straw with a bend in in, cut the bendy part off, then cut slits in the remaining straight section.;
, Cut these from a manila folder, index cards, or thin cardboard such as posterboard or a cereal box. Make the triangle a wide "arrow" shape (isosceles), and keep it smaller than the square. If you have a ruler, make the arrow about 5 cm (2 in.) long, and the square about 7 cm (2 3/4 in.) on each side.You can cut the square into a different shape as long as it is still larger than the arrow. You could also draw on them or add stickers for fun.
 Put the triangle on one end, so it makes a point like an arrow. Put the square into the other slot. If they slip out, add a little glue and lay the straw flat on a piece of scrap paper. Keep following the instructions below, and this wind vane arrow should be dry and stuck together by the time you need it again.


Put down scrap paper or newspaper before using glue, to avoid spilling glue on the table.
 Take a yoghurt container, a plastic drinking cup, or another small, plastic container that no one plans to use for another purpose. Fill this about halfway full with pebbles, sand or other heavy objects that will keep the wind vane from slipping.


If you don't have the right container, you can use a big piece of soft clay instead.Stick the sharp side of a pencil into the clay to keep it in place, then skip ahead to the step that starts "Attach the drinking straw."

, If the container already has a lid, put it on tightly. Otherwise, you can make a lid by gluing a paper plate or a piece of cardboard over the open end of the container. Make sure the glue is dry and the lid is attached before you continue.
 Pick a pencil with a rubber (an eraser) at one end. Turn the plastic container upside down and make a hole through the bottom, asking an adult for help if you need to. Stick the pencil through this hole, writing side down, and into the pebbles or sand to keep it from slipping.


Add glue or putty around the hole if the pencil is still falling over.
 Take a thumbtack or a sharp pin. Stick it through the center of the drinking straw, then into the eraser. If the straw won't spin when you blow on the paper square, or if it falls over, try sticking the pin closer to the center of the straw, or cut a small piece off the paper on the end that falls over.
 If you have the kind of compass that finds directions, use it to find out where north is. Write "North" on that side of your plastic container, or on that side of the lid. You can skip this step if you don't need to know the compass direction of the wind.


Remember, if you move the container, you'll need to use a compass again so you can line the "north" side in the right direction.
You can also write "east", "south", and "west" around the container, in clockwise order when looking down from above.
 Take the wind vane outside, away from walls and large objects that might block the wind. If there's any wind, it should push against the paper square, spinning the straw until the arrow points in the direction the wind is blowing from. If the arrow is pointing west, that means the wind is a "west wind", blowing from west to east.

