 Since your child will have fewer items of clothing to run through, you will need to wash their clothing more often, especially if they are prone to dirtying their clothes. Choose a day or two a week to do your laundry, and enforce this schedule so that you never run out of clothing.
 While cheap or used clothing can be convenient and cost-effective, they may not last very long, causing you to have to buy even more clothing for your child. Instead, invest in a few solid pieces that will last for a while.Sturdy pants, like jeans or khakis, are important.
If you live in a cool area, you may want to invest in a good winter coat and boots.
If you have multiple children, these nice items of clothing can be passed down from one to another.
 Try to resist buying more clothing for your children unless they absolutely need it. This means that you only buy new clothing when they have outgrown the old.


If your child needs new clothing and a holiday or birthday is coming up, you can ask for clothing as gifts. Send your friends and relatives a list of clothing that your children need along with their sizes., Even with a small wardrobe, children’s clothing can still clutter up a room if they are dumped on the ground or tossed around. Teach your child that their clothing has a “home” to encourage them to put it away in the right place. If the clothing is dirty, it goes into the laundry basket. If the clothing is clean, it goes “home” into the closet or drawers.You can create a simple statement like, "Dirty clothing goes in the basket; clean clothing goes on the shelf."
Reinforce this lesson when your child is cleaning their room by asking questions. You can say, "Where is the home for clean clothing?" and wait for them to answer.
 Older kids, especially tweens, may want to buy more clothing as they begin to develop their own unique style. Instead, encourage them to use accessories to make an outfit unique. Since children may go through many fashion phases, this will prevent unwanted clothing from building up.Some good accessories include:


Belts
Scarves
Hats
Jewelry
Gloves
Socks

