 Use your finger, a blending sponge, or a brush to apply liquid foundation evenly all over the skin of your face in light, circular dabbing motions.









Use foundation that matches your skin tone, or is just one shade lighter.
Feel free to apply foundation makeup a little thicker than you would normally, as the doll look features a porcelain or plastic face that is unlike natural skin.
Add concealer to any blemishes, red patches, or dark circles under the eyes so that your face color is completely even.;
, Set your foundation with a translucent powder or a shade that matches your skin tone and foundation.









Use a wide powder brush or sponge to press powder onto the face lightly.Try a powder that has some shimmer to it for a slightly shiny plastic or porcelain look.
 Use a pink or peach hued blush at the base of your cheeks using a blush brush or your fingers.









Keep the blush purposely heavy, or in a distinct circle shape, for a more dramatic doll look.
Add a highlighter to the top outer edge of your cheekbones to make them more rounded and full-looking., Apply a neutral eyeshadow in a shade that is darker than your skin tone to the outer corner of the eye, forming a V shape that extends into the crease of the top lid and along the bottom lid under the lashes.









Don’t go past about the middle of the eye on top and bottom with your darker eyeshadow.
Leave a small gap between your lower lashline and where you apply your darker shadow to make your eyes appear larger., Use a lighter shade than the shadow for the outer corners for use on the top lid.









Blend the two shadow colors together with a small, soft blending brush.
Add an even lighter white or cream shade to the inner corner of the eye and just below the eyebrow to open the eyes up.
 Line the top lid of your eye with a brown or black eyeliner pencil or liquid liner.









Keep the eyeliner thinner or nonexistent toward the center of your eye, and not as wide at the outer corner as well if you want your eyes to appear rounder as doll eyes often are.Don’t line your bottom lashes, or only apply a thin line from the middle to the outer corner.
Use a white eyeliner pencil on your water line (the wet inner section between your lower lashes and your eyeball) in the inner and outer corners to achieve an effect of a larger eye., Apply mascara liberally to your upper and lower lashes. Press on false eyelashes as close to your natural lash line as possible if you want more dramatic and full lashes.









Find false lashes for the lower lid to add length and volume to them as well. You may need to use false lashes that you can apply individually or in small sections.
Make sure whatever false lashes you use have extra length and volume at the outer edges to continue to accentuate the roundness and size of your eyes.
 Use eyeliner or a dark eyeshadow with a very thin brush to apply your own long and exaggerated lashes to the top and








Use the natural curve and direction of your own eyelashes to guide you to draw longer lines away from the lashline. Again, try to make more or longer lines toward the outside of the eye to accentuate the size.
Use this method in addition to false lashes, or if you can’t use false lashes, for extra length and an intentionally artificial and exaggerated look that mimics doll eyelashes.
 Use an eyebrow pencil or eyeshadow in a color similar to your natural brows to gently fill in and define the shape.









Use small, light strokes to create more natural “hairs” to fill in the brow.If you want to, you can also draw distinct edges on your brows to create the perfect curve or arch shape of a doll’s brows.
 Use cosmetic contact lenses to make the pupils and irises of your eyes appear larger and/or more colorful.


Try blue contacts for a popular doll eye color that will also help your eyes appear even larger due to the light color.
You should not use cosmetic contact lenses if you are already wearing prescription contact lenses, or if they irritate your eyes.
 Use a pink, peach, or red lip liner to line your lips, creating a more exaggerated heart shape by defining two rounded curves on the top lip.









For an even more exaggerated heart shape, try covering the outer corners of your lips with the same foundation or powder shade that you used for the rest of your face, effectively making the corners “disappear.”
Feel free to draw outside your natural lip line to alter the shape slightly or simply make them a bit larger.
 Fill in both lips with lipstick or a lip pencil in the same color as the liner you used.









Add a little highlight to the middle of the bottom lip using a light color eyeshadow or highlighter pencil to create the illusion of shine., Create the shiny finish of doll lips by going over the color with a high-shine lip gloss.









Use a transparent gloss, or one in a similar color as your lipstick.
Make sure to reapply your highlighter if you used some on the bottom lip, or avoid obscuring it by sticking to a transparent gloss and not smudging the color too much.

