 Visit your local fabric store to buy some fabric, or use fabric you have at home. The fabric should be about eight inches by nine inches, or a larger piece of fabric will work. You will also need a piece of elastic that is long enough to wrap around your head with a little extra.If your fabric scraps are smaller than the above dimensions no worries! Just sew them together to make a rectangle about that size. This will create a blindfold with mismatched fabric, but that could be fun!
Depending on what you are using your blindfold for will determine what kind of fabric you use. If this blindfold is for fun and games, any kind of fabric works, but if you are using it to sleep in, a softer fabric like felt or satin might be more comfortable.
The elastic can be a thick piece or a thin piece, but make sure when you wrap it around your head there is no slack. If there is slack, when you sew it into your blindfold the band won't stay around your head and so your blindfold will keep falling down.
 Take the sides of the fabric that are eight inches and fold them in half, creating a rectangle that is four inches by nine inches.
 Open up the fold you created and take the strip of elastic and place it inside the fabric lying in the middle of the side of your bandana that will be in the back. Leave about an extra inch of elastic side on each side of the fabric Fold the fabric back over and you should see one inch of elastic sticking out of each side.









To make sure this correctly fits around your head, flip the fabric over with the elastic on the outside and put it around your head, holding the edges of the elastic to the fabric in the same place you put them earlier. If it seems like there is too much slack in your elastic, you might cut a shorter piece, still leaving an inch or sew sticking out of the sides of the fabric.
 To create a wavy crease in the middle of your blindfold that will rest in between your eyes along your nose, cut a two inch piece of elastic and place it vertically in the middle of your blindfold, gathering your blindfold underneath it so it creates little creases or waves. Sew along the elastic.








This is not a necessary step, but will keep your blindfold from being a flat piece of fabric.
 Using a needle and thread, or a sewing machine, sew a line around the sides of your fabric, sewing over the elastic. However, you need to leave a hole about an inch or two wide on the bottom of your mask so that you can turn it inside out.









Start by sewing at the crease of the fabric, where it is flipped over, and sew along the side of the fabric through the elastic. Turn the corner and sew along the bottom of the blindfold until you are about half an inch to an inch away from the center of the blindfold. Then begin from the opposite side and start by sewing again at the crease until you are once again about half an inch to an inch away from the center of the blindfold.
 Once you have sewn your fabric, leaving a one inch hole at the bottom, you can flip it so the right side is on the outside. Do this by taking the fabric and putting it through the hole.









This may take some maneuvering, but you will eventually get all of the fabric through the hole and then it will be the right side of the blindfold.
 Now that you have turned your blindfold to the right side, it's time to sew it shut. Make sure the fabric is folded under so that the ragged edges don't show, and sew a line of thread along the hole, as close to the edge of the blindfold as possible.
 You may be satisfied with how your blindfold looks, but if you want to fancy it up a bit, add a bow or bedazzle it. This part is totally up to your creativity!


If you want your blindfold to look more like an eye mask, follow the same steps, but cut your fabric in the shape of an eye mask after your first fold. Then, continue the same steps such as sewing around it, leaving a hole, sewing the elastic to it, ect.

