 Keeping your house clean on a regularly basis will help get rid of a lot of your dog’s dander. For example, you should dust your home frequently (at least once a week) with a damp cloth.Dusting with a damp cloth will trap the dust and keep it from getting in the air.


Be thorough when you dust. Don’t just get rid of the obvious dust. Target any areas that could collect dust, such as furniture (lamps, toys) and windowsills.;
, Dander can easily get stuck in carpet and upholstered furniture.After you finish dusting, vacuum your home. If possible, use a micro-filter bag in your vacuum to prevent the dander from leaking out of the bag and back into your home.Vacuums with HEPA (high-efficiency particulate arrestance) filters are great for removing dog dander.Vacuum bags are available at your local home improvement store.
Use the vacuum's hose extensions to vacuum upholstered furniture, like couches and chairs.
Throw away the vacuum bags before they get full.If you have a bagless vacuum, empty out the container before it gets full.
 Because rugs and carpets can trap your dog’s dander, consider removing all carpets and rugs from your home.Replace the carpet with easy-to-clean flooring, such as tile or hardwood floors.If you are renting your home or apartment, or replacing the carpet would be too expensive, you will need to vacuum the carpet frequently.
If you do not want to throw away your rugs, wash them regularly with hot water., Items such as pet beds, couch pillows, and curtains can trap dander. To get rid of your dog’s dander, clean these items regularly (a few times a month) in hot water.If they are too large or awkward to fit in your washing machine, consider going to a laundromat, which would have larger washers and dryers.


If you allow your dog in your bedroom, wash your own bedding (comforter, sheets, blankets) frequently.
 HEPA air filters can remove your dog’s dander from your home.If you are handy, purchase HEPA air filters at your local home improvement store and install them yourself. You could also hire a professional company to install the filters.
 Opening the windows isn’t a cleaning chore, but it can help get rid of your dog’s dander. Having the windows open will increase air circulation in your home and remove the dander.Open the windows when the weather is nice.

