 Iron can exist in two ionic forms: ferrous and ferric. Ferrous supplements are better absorbed than ferric.These include ferrous sulfate, ferrous gluconate, ferrous fumarate, and ferrous citrate. Ferronyl is another form of iron that is better absorbed and commonly used in treatment of iron deficiency anemia. It can be found in supplements as well.Look at the elemental iron content in supplements if listed. You want about 30% elemental iron. The greater the percentage or milligrams listed, the more iron is likely to be absorbed.The dosage is usually 15 to 65 mg of elemental iron per day. This is usually best in divided doses.Make sure your supplement is tested by an independent lab and has a “Seal of Approval” from either Consumer Labs, the Natural Products Association (NPA), LabDoor, or the United States Pharmacopeia (USP).
Ferrous is the standard treatment over ferric because it is absorbed better and it has less negative side effects.;
, Most of the adverse effects of an iron supplement can be avoided by taking the iron on an empty stomach, aside from orange juice. Vitamin C helps the body absorb iron.You can drink orange juice along with the iron supplement or take a vitamin C supplement.
Do not take iron with milk, calcium supplements, or antacids. This will reduce the absorption of the iron.
Do not take the iron with high fiber foods, coffee, or tea.
 You should know that just because something is natural or required by the body does not mean you can’t overdo it. Iron is a good example. Iron supplements can be dangerous if you take too much. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions and keep them away from children.A condition called acquired hemochromatosis can occur because of taking too much iron as a supplement. It can cause joint and abdominal pain, weakness, lowered sex drive, and fatigue.Iron taken as supplements can cause an upset stomach, constipation, or black stools.Talk to your doctor if you are also taking tetracycline, penicillin, ciprofloxacin, or drugs used for Parkinson disease and seizure disorders. Iron can interfere with these medications.
If you have peptic ulcer disease, enteritis, or ulcerative colitis, your should not take iron supplements.

