 Synthetic emeralds were grown in a lab, and have the same chemical composition as natural emeralds. These are real emeralds, but cost much less due to the cheaper manufacturing process. If you suspect someone is trying to sell you a synthetic emerald for an inflated price, try the following tests.

For a definitive test, continue on to the next step to get started using emerald filters.
If you do not wish to purchase filters, skip down to the other tests. These do still require some tools, as synthetic emeralds are very difficult to identify by eye.
 Look online for a Chelsea filter, a synthetic emerald filter, and a synthetic emerald support filter. These last two are sold as "Hanneman filters" and may be available in a pair. All three filters together could cost $60 USD or more, so this may not be worth it for a single stone.


In some cases you will also need a jeweler's loupe to examine the emerald up close. This is not necessary for most emeralds.
 To get started, examine the emerald through the Chelsea filter:Place the emerald under a strong, incandescent light source on a flat, white background. (Fluorescent lights may alter results.)
Cover any attached metal or other stones with a tissue to prevent reflected colors.
Hold the Chelsea filter close to your eye and note the color of the stone viewed through the filter, from about 10 inches (25 cm) away or a little closer.
If the emerald looks red or pink through the Chelsea filter, continue to the next step to test it through the synthetic filter.
If the emerald looks green through the Chelsea filter, skip down to the support filter step.
If the emerald looks purplish-red, it is synthetic. Confirm borderline colors by looking through both other filters (synthetic and support) — if it looks greenish through both, it is synthetic. If it looks greenish through synthetic but reddish through support, it is natural.
 If the emerald looked red or pink through the Chelsea filter, it contains chromium. Both natural and synthetic emeralds can contain chromium, so narrow it down with the synthetic filter from an emerald testing kit:Move the emerald several inches away from the light source, then view it through the synthetic filter.
If it looks red or pink again, the gem is a flux-grown synthetic emerald.
If it look greenish this time, it is a natural emerald, likely Colombian or Russian.
 This is only useful if the gem looked green through the Chelsea filter. Follow these steps:Move the emerald several inches away from the light source, then view through the support filter.
If the emerald looks blue-green, lilac, or pink, it is a synthetic, hydrothermal emerald.
If the emerald still looks greenish (but not blue-green), continue to the next step.
 If the emerald appeared green through the Chelsea filter and through the support filter, it could be natural or synthetic. Fortunately, the synthetic emeralds that match this description tend to look quite different from natural emeralds. Examine emerald through a 10x triple jeweler's loupe:


If it is clear and almost entirely free of inclusions, it is almost certainly a synthetic, hydrothermal emerald.
If magnification reveals many small flaws (crystals, needles, wisps, and so on), the gemstone is a natural emerald that contains vanadium and/or iron, such as those mined in Zambia, Brazil, and India.
 Early synthetic emeralds had very few inclusions, compared to the many small flaws found in natural emeralds.Later techniques did produce more inclusions, but some types of inclusions only appear in natural emeralds. Look for these under a gem microscope if possible, or through a jeweler's loupe:


If you see a "pocket" in the gem that contains both gas bubbles and crystals, you have a natural emerald.This is called a "three phase inclusion."
Certain crystals only appear in natural emeralds: bamboo-like green actinolite fibers, mica flakes, or pyrite crystal cubes., For this test, you'll need a "long wave" blacklight — the cheapest, most widely available type. Put your emerald in a dim or dark room. Shine the blacklight onto the gem and watch the color of the fluorescence:


Yellow, olive-green, or bright red fluorescence is a sure sign of a synthetic emerald.No fluorescence at all means the emerald is likely natural, but this is not guaranteed. There is one type of synthetic emerald without fluorescence.Dull red or orange-red fluorescence could be natural or synthetic.

