 Start with the driver giving the first line of a story they make up. Then go clockwise through the passengers and have each person say the next sentence of the story. You can try working together to follow a logical pattern, or some players may think of something crazy to challenge the person after them.The idea is to think quickly and keep the story moving, so have a reasonable time limit on how long each player gets to say their sentence.
If you play multiple times, rotate who starts the story, or let people jump in with their sentence in a random order.
This is a great game for kids because they can make the story extra silly. It gives them a chance to engage their minds when the drive gets boring.
 Before your trip, come up with a list of things you hope you will see along the way. Take the list with you, maybe even a copy for each passenger, and mark things off as you see them. You can even have a disposable camera with you to take pictures as you see the thing. If you have time, you can stop and stand by the things for the picture.Examples might be a round barn, a windmill, a rock formation, an RV, animals, towns in other states with the same name as your hometown, or a courthouse. You can come up with wild things that you’d never expect like a lion or a robot.
You can make the items as general or specific as you want. For example you might say “a cow” or you might say “a brown cow.” You could say “a park” or “a park with a playground.” This makes some items harder to find.
You could also put the items on a bingo grid and have everyone try to get bingo with the items.
If kids are playing, the prize for getting the most items or a bingo might be letting them pick the restaurant when you stop to eat. Or you could have an actual prize for them like a candy bar or a small toy.
 Starting with A, look around at signs, buildings, license plates, and anything with letters, and find each letter in the alphabet. Whoever gets to Z first wins that round.A good way to make the game harder is to say that the letter has to be at the beginning of the word. So you could use the B from Boat but not from Stable.
 Each passenger is allowed one skip during the game. Depending on how well you know each other, you can make them very personal questions to tease each other, or more general to get to know each other better.A personal question might be, “Who in this car would you want to kiss?” Or “What is something embarrassing that happened to you this week?”
Good questions to get to know each other might be “What hobbies do you have?” “What is your dream job?” or “Where are some places you have travelled to before now?”
This can be a risky game if some people want to push the limits with their questions. It might be good to agree not to ask questions that are going to make the rest of the drive uncomfortable.
 Before you start the game, every person chooses a number 0-9. You play nine innings, and each inning is a vehicle that you pass on the highway. Look at the license plates as you pass and if your number is on it, you get 1 point. If the number is there twice, or more, you get that many points. Whoever has the most after you pass 9 cars wins.


You can adjust the rules, as you wish. You can make it any car you see and play for a certain time limit. Or you can make it only cars that pass you.
Be sure everyone says out loud what their number is going to be so that no one tries to cheat.

