 Organic food is far more popular that it once was. As such, more and more organic restaurants are gradually opening. When a new restaurant opens, one of the most important things that restaurant does is to build a loyal customer base by drawing new customers in through advertisements. While older restaurants may not advertise as extensively, new organic restaurants are likely to place ads in a variety of locations.


Check your local newspaper or city magazine for organic restaurant ads. Aside from simple ads, these periodicals may occasionally have a food critic review a new organic restaurant, as well.
Keep an eye and ear out for news. An established organic restaurant may have commercials that broadcast on your local TV stations or on local radio. Newer restaurants may be covered by a local news crew on TV or radio, especially if the organic scene is relatively new to your area.;
, It may seem like a dated method, but searching through your yellow pages is still an effective, time-tested solution to find what you need to find. Organic restaurants may not have their own section in the phone book, but many of the restaurants listed under "Health Food Restaurants" use organic ingredients. Some restaurants may specifically use the term "organic" in their name or description. Searching for organic restaurants using the phone book may take a little additional research on your part, but you can find a list of potential restaurants to look into.


People in most cities still receive yellow pages on their front door step. If you do not get a phone book dropped off at your home, though, you could always search for one or use an online version., There are numerous online directories for organic food. Many are strictly dedicated to the listing of organic restaurants. Some provide information on restaurants that are both organic and vegan, while others list organic food suppliers as well as organic restaurants, and others still contain information about organic restaurants that use locally grown produce.Determine what you need and find the right directory for you.


Most organic restaurant locators are searchable databases, so you can type in your city or zip code, along with other parameters, and find exactly what you are looking for. Others are just lists, but these lists are still usually divided by location, making it easy to find an organic restaurant in your area.
 Most major Internet search engines will allow you to search for businesses in your area just as you would search for other information. For instance, if you live in the Miami area, you could try going to your favorite search engine and searching “organic restaurants near Miami, Florida” or “organic restaurants near 33101.” The first few hits will probably be for websites offering information about organic restaurants in your area, but further down the first page, you will likely see several organic restaurants listed. Depending on the search engine, you may even get a map of these restaurants at the side of the screen.
 If you have a smart phone, look for an app that will allow you to search for the information you need. There are many, many apps that allow you to search for restaurants, and several of these allow you to search for restaurants that specifically use organic ingredients. You can even find apps that will allow you to further narrow your results by setting other parameters, like whether or not you want vegetarian or kosher menus.
 Some websites allow you to search for restaurants in your city that not only serve organic food, but bring it directly to your door. This can be especially useful if you are unfamiliar with the area an organic restaurant is located in or if you are uncomfortable driving there.
 Sometimes, the best way to find anything is through simple word of mouth. Connect with other organic eaters by calling a local co-op, finding a club or organization geared toward organic lifestyles, or going to an organic grocery store and introducing yourself to the workers and other shoppers. It takes a little more work on your part and the results are not instantaneous, but by networking with others committed to the organic lifestyle, you can eventually build up a knowledge bank of organic restaurants, along with other organic stops.


Do not be afraid to branch out and connect with organic eaters through online communities, as well. Blogs, message boards, and e-mail groups are all fair game. While these people may not be able to tell you how to find organic restaurants where you live, they can tell you about restaurants where they live, which may come in handy if you ever need to visit the area.
 Many organic restaurants, especially smaller café-style restaurants, buy their ingredients from local organic farmers. If the farmers and the restaurants are on good terms, an organic farmer may be willing to tell you what restaurants he sells his produce to. After all, if the farmer’s client does good business, the client will need to buy more produce, leading to better profits for the farmer. You can connect with local organic farmers by going to farmers’ markets.

