 Odds are, you may or WILL get hurt, but you can't let that get you down. Remember, and Adventurer's life is full of dangers and risks, don't take up this lifestyle unless your sure you want to (if you're not willing, then it's better to be wise and safe, than to be fearless and dead).
 Okay, sadly there are no trees that just happen to produce Gum Gum Fruits, but you can be somewhat flexible by stretching your joints. If needed, take yoga classes and spend more time stretching when you exercise (you won't be able to perform Gum Gum Storm, but hey, at least you'll be more flexible over time).
 Choose the martial art you like the most and take a course.
 Everyone is stupid in some way, there is no way around it, so do not be afraid to unleash your inner idiot, because Luffy is pretty much the prime example of "Ignorance is Bliss". Don't be too stupid. Luffy has a good sense of things he knows.
 Your friends are not only your crew, but your family as well.
 Although Luffy eats like he's going to break the chair, you never see him overweight (unless he finished eating, or he's doing Gum Gum Balloon) So exercise, and eat right.
, A pirate is nothing without his crew. Choose your crew wisely. Close friends or family are recommended. If you find someone you want to join you, simply ask.
 You're a pirate, you can't always stay in one place with the authorities on your tail. Drift from place to place, and make sure to always have a good amount of money on you. If you find yourself low on funds, offer to do some part time work to gain some more, but do not stay longer than necessary.
 Everyone's got it, either your dream is to be King of the Pirates, or the owner of a mega-corporation. I will be the pirate king! hold onto that dream and do whatever you can to see it realized.
 Don't be afraid to laugh at your misfortune, be nice to everyone you meet. Be friendly and social and laugh a lot (and smile a lot as well) and always look at the bright side of things. Optimism is key.

