 Website where bartering deals are arranged range from the all-purpose, such as Craigslist or U-Exchange, to the specific, such as SwapStyle for clothing or BookMooch for books.Make sure to read the instructions carefully and learn about any membership fees, or fees to receive or send items, before you get involved with a new site.


Some websites require you to pay for the cost of shipping your items, which can be expensive if you are sending heavy or bulky items. It's always a good idea to find out how much the shipping would cost before you agree to a trade.
On some websites, members contact each other to arrange a deal. On others, you earn "points" (or another virtual currency) for providing items or services, which you can then use to request items or services from other people.
 If you are interested in trading services more than goods, join a time bank in your area or start one yourself. Anyone who joins the time bank can "hire" someone else for any type of work. Instead of getting paid, the person who does the work gets the number of hours she worked recorded in the database. She can then "hire" another member of the time bank for that number of hours. In a standard time bank system, one hour of work is always worth the same as another hour of work, regardless of how much hiring someone to do that work would normally cost This can make haggling over deals much simpler.


For instance, Frederico does six hours of math tutoring for Brad, and gets six hours recorded by the people running the time bank. Frederico then "uses up" four hours by hiring another time bank member, Alicia, to do four hours of carpentry. Frederico now has two hours credit in the time bank, which he can use to hire any other time bank member.
 Searching online for bartering groups in your town or region may lead to a community forum where you can make deals with people nearby. Also check out community message boards or locations where flyers are posted to find out about deals on offer. One major advantage to local deals is the ability to trade services that require meeting face to face, or items that are too heavy or delicate to mail.


Large websites such as Craigslist often allow you to search for deals in your region.
 Whether you are looking for individual trades or running a business, advertising locally is a great way to draw attention to your bartering offer. Put up flyers around your community, talk to neighbors, or organize a family gift swap for the holiday season. Finding regular or long-term bartering partners this way can be a great way to save money on recurring needs, such as lawn care, or build better relations with your neighbors.


Your community center, community newspaper, or church may be able to help spread the word for free or for a small fee.
 Businesses can use the other methods to arrange bartering deals with customers, but your business might be looking for ways to save money when dealing with other companies as well. Consider joining a barter exchange for this purpose. Much like some bartering groups for individuals, most exchanges work by crediting your business' account with a virtual currency whenever you provide a service for another member. You can use this virtual currency to acquire services in return, although you may need to pay a fee for the exchange's matchmaking service.


Always look up the exchange at the Better Business Bureau and online review sites to find out if there services are above-board and worth the fees.
 It never hurts to ask whether someone is open to a barter arrangement, as long as you accept "no" for an answer. Most people and businesses are not used to bartering, but may be willing if the right opportunity presents itself. Mention what services or goods you're offering, ask if there's anything specific they're looking for, then drop the subject if they show no interest.

