 The older a child gets the better prepared they are to cope with death. Very young children, like preschoolers, may have a hard time understanding death, instead viewing it as a temporary separation. High schoolers, on the other hand, can understand the finality of death and its causes.


Some younger children may generalize death to understand it. For example, after witnessing Sept. 11, some younger children might associate death with walking into tall buildings.Be truthful -- minimizing or ignoring negative emotions will only confuse your child later on., Don't make up stories, or wait to tell them "at the right time" for fear of hurting them. If a child overhears about the death of a loved one from someone else it is confusing and unbelievable, and they child won't know where to turn for advice if not you.


A trusted, familiar loved one should tell your child about the death whenever possible so that they feel safe.Answer questions with simple and direct questions, not with euphemisms like "lost" or "passed on."

, Like many adults, children have a hard time expressing themselves or knowing when to speak about serious subjects like death. Be sure to encourage them to talk about how they feel, but respect their wishes if they are quiet or uncomfortable at first. Pressuring them to talk will only confuse them more and make it harder to comprehend their grief.


Let your child direct the conversation -- they will ask the questions that are important to them. This helps you find the right tone and information for their maturity level., Talk to children about the good things that they remember. You can look at pictures from happy moments, write down stories you enjoy, and make an effort to stay positive. While this is difficult when you are going through grief too, keeping the positive in sight will help everyone cope healthily with the death., Letting a child recite a poem at the funeral, pick out flowers, or tell a story lets them feel like a part of the family's grieving process. They can have control over their feelings and contribute to the memory of the deceased in a way that is meaningful to them., Do not feel like you need to neglect your own emotional needs for the sake of your child. Your children will take cues from you and learn to grieve accordingly. If you resist showing emotion, crying, or talking about the death of a loved one your child will probably do the same thing., While most children learn to cope with death over time, some deaths hit children particularly hard. When this happens, the advice of a trained mental health professional may be necessary. Keep an eye open for the following symptoms:


Trouble performing basic tasks and chores.
Bedwetting.
Persistent irritability, mood swings, or sadness.
Low self-esteem and/or confidence.
Suddenly provocative or sexual behavior.