 You can exclude any evidence that isn’t relevant. You can also exclude relevant evidence if its relevance is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect or its misleading nature.By filing your motion in limine, you ask the judge before trial to rule that the evidence is inadmissible.


For example, in an automobile accident lawsuit, your opponent can introduce eyewitness testimony about how you were driving. However, your opponent cannot elicit information about your wealth, since that has little to do with whether you drove your car dangerously.
As a defendant, you should try to exclude evidence of your wealth or that you have an insurance policy. Also exclude evidence that the plaintiff in a lawsuit is poor. Jurors might feel sympathy for a poor plaintiff and decide the case on those grounds, which is improper.
Some evidence might be highly prejudicial, yet also highly relevant. For example, if someone saw you smoking marijuana before the car accident, then that evidence is admissible. It may be prejudicial, but it certainly helps prove that you may have been driving carelessly because you were high.;
, The rules of evidence also limit the kinds of evidence that can be admitted at trial. If you are in federal court, then you will want to read the Federal Rules of Evidence.If you are in state court, then find your state’s rules. You can file a motion in limine to prevent the introduction of any evidence prohibited by the rules, such as:


Whether you have liability insurance, if used to prove negligent or wrongful behavior.Most statements made during settlement negotiations, as well as offers to pay someone’s medical expenses.Character evidence to show your propensity to commit an act.For example, someone can’t introduce evidence that you were convicted for assault five years ago to prove that you assaulted the plaintiff.
 You need to give the judge a reason to exclude the evidence. The strongest evidence is a court opinion supporting the exclusion of that type of evidence as prejudicial. Before sitting down to write your motion, you should do research to find cases that support your argument.


If you are an attorney or a law student, then you can research court opinions using Lexis or Westlaw. You should find court opinions preferably from the judge’s circuit. If you are in federal court, then check to see if the district court judge issued any opinions you could cite.
If you are a non-lawyer representing yourself, then you can do legal research in Google Scholar, which is free. Visit the Google Scholar website and click “Case law.”Then select the court you are appearing in. For example, if you are in a Minnesota trial court, then select “Minnesota.” If you are in federal court, select the appropriate federal circuit.
Search for “motion in limine” and then the type of evidence you want to exclude. Read through the results and find an opinion where the court says the trial judge should have excluded this type of evidence.
 Your court probably publishes local rules you must follow when filing motions. You should get a copy if you don’t already have one. The rules will cover issues such as the length, format, and content of motions.You can usually get a copy of the rules from the court’s website or from the judge’s chambers. You should call and ask.
Also check the judge’s deadline for filing motions in limine. In some courts, you can raise the motion the morning of trial; however, other judges might set a timetable which you must follow.
 You should set it up just like every other document you have filed in your court case: the same font size, style, etc. Generally, most motions are 14 point with either Arial or Times New Roman font.In some courts, you need to file motions on “pleading paper,” which is paper numbered down the left-hand column.
Your court might have blank motion forms you can use. You should check the website., At the top of the page, insert the caption: court name, names of the parties, the case number, and the judge’s name. You can get this information from any court document filed in your case.


Also be sure to title your motion. Your title should reflect the evidence you want excluded. For example, “Defendant’s Motion in Limine to Exclude Evidence of Defendant’s Insurance” would be an appropriate title if you wanted to prevent the other side from mentioning your insurance policy.
 In your introduction, identify yourself and then state the purpose of the motion. For example, you could write:


“Defendant hereby moves the Court to enter an order excluding from the trial of this case any argument by counsel, question by counsel, and testimony by any and all witnesses regarding Defendant’s insurance policy.”, In the body of the motion, you need to support your reasons for asking the judge to exclude the evidence. You should also cite to relevant legal authority, whether a court opinion or a rule of evidence.


For example, you could argue: “Evidence must be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect. Fed. R. Evid. 403. Generally, evidence of liability insurance is improper, since it induces the jury to decide the case on improper grounds. Fed. R. Evid. 411. Since Defendant has already stipulated that he owns the car he was driving during the day in question, there is no valid reason for introducing any evidence of liability insurance.”
Your argument might need to be put in a separate brief called a “Memorandum and Points of Authorities.” Read your court rules to check.
 Briefly restate why you have filed the motion and ask the court to grant your motion. For example, you could write:


“WHEREFORE, Defendant respectfully requests this Court to enter an order directing Plaintiff, through his counsel, not to mention, refer to, or interrogate concerning Defendant’s insurance policies, at any time during these proceedings in any manner, either directly or indirectly.”, Insert a signature block underneath the words “Respectfully submitted.” Include your name, address, telephone number, and email address. Also add the date., You have to give the other side notice that you have filed the motion in limine. You can provide this notice by sending them a copy. In your motion, you should add a “certificate of service” where you state how you provided the other side with a copy.


Put the certificate on a separate sheet of paper. Title the page “Certificate of Service,” in all caps, underlined.
The certificate might read: “A copy of the foregoing motion was served upon , this , via U.S. mail and by facsimile transmission to .” Then sign and date the certificate., Read your local rules to see if the judge wants you to submit a proposed order along with the motion. Including a proposed order is pretty standard in federal court.


To draft the order, insert the caption information. Then title the document “Order Granting Defendant’s Motion in Limine to Exclude Evidence of Defendant’s Insurance” or another appropriate title.
The body of the order should read something like the following: “Having considered Defendant’s Motion and finding good cause therefore, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Defendant’s Motion to Exclude Evidence of Defendant’s Insurance Policy” is GRANTED.” Then insert a signature line for the judge and a line for the date., You will want one copy for your records and a copy for the other side. Some courts also want you to file multiple copies with the original.


The judge in your case also might want a “courtesy copy” delivered to his or her chambers. Check your judge’s local rules., Each court differs in how hearings are scheduled. In some state courts, the judge might have told you that all motions in limine will be decided the morning before trial. In other courts, you need to go online and select the hearing date and time. Look at your local rules.


You might also have to complete a Notice of Hearing form. You will need to write the date and time of the hearing on this form and serve a copy on the other side along with your motion.
 Make service using the method stated in your certificate of service. Be sure to give the other side sufficient advance notice. Your Rules of Civil Procedure should tell you how many days before the hearing you must serve notice., Take your copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You might file electronically, particularly in federal court.If you have been filing your documents electronically so far in the case, then file the motion in limine electronically.
Depending on your court, you might have to pay a filing fee. Check with the court clerk.
 After receiving your motion in limine, the other side might file a written reply. You should be served with a copy. Read the reply closely and try to understand their argument.


Check to see what court opinions the other side cites in their argument. For example, they might have found a case which says that in some situations a court can admit evidence of a defendant’s insurance policy. Make sure the other side has accurately summarized the ruling of the court. If not, you can raise the issue with the judge at the hearing.
 You can prepare by reading all of the motions filed in the case. Also read every court opinion cited in all of the motions. You should pull copies of the court opinions and take them with you to your hearing. Highlight the relevant parts of the opinion.


If you’ve never argued a motion before, then you might want to sit in on a motion hearing before the judge.Ask the court clerk when the next motion hearing is held, or look on the judge’s calendar.
 You will get a very short amount of time to make your argument. The judge might not have actually read your motion, depending on how busy they were. Outline your argument into bullet points.


Try to focus on your strongest two or three points. The judge doesn’t want to hear a long debate on this issue.
 At the hearing, you will probably go first since you brought the motion in limine. Address the judge as “Your Honor” and speak clearly.If the judge has questions, then listen quietly and don’t interrupt. Answer all questions to the best of your ability.
The judge should decide the motion after hearing from the other side.
 If you win your motion, then the other side cannot introduce the evidence. However, some lawyers are sneaky and might try to get the evidence in front of the jury anyway. You must stand up and object if you hear the lawyer ask a question which could elicit the prohibited evidence.


Stand up and say, “Objection, Your Honor.” Remember to object before the witness begins to answer.If the judge doesn’t understand why you are objecting, then give the reason for objecting: “Prejudicial.” Then ask for a sidebar.
At the sidebar, remind the judge that you already received a favorable ruling on this issue with your motion in limine.

