 To make a chain of two, first loop the yarn over your index and middle finger twice. Then, slide this loop onto the hook and pull the tail to tighten it. Loop the yarn over the hook and pull through to make your first chain. Loop the yarn over again and pull through to make your second chain.For a wider I-cord, you can chain more than two stitches, such as three, four, or five stitches.;
, You will be working into both of the chains you have created to make your I-cord. Slip the second chain onto the hook so that it is in front of your first chain. You should now have two loops on your hook.If you are making an I-cord out of a chain of three or more, then just slip the second chain on the hook for now.
 You will be chaining each of your loops separately in an alternating fashion to create your I-cord. Loop the yarn over the hook and pull it through your first chain to create the first new chain link.If you are creating an I-cord that is more than two chains, work on one chain at a time. For example, if you are making a chain of three, then you will need to chain into the second loop first and then slide the third chain onto the hook and chain into that loop.
 Next, grasp this new loop you have made and slide it off of the hook. Be careful not to pull on your yarn or the loop may come undone.If you are making an I-cord of more than two strands, then slip each loop off the hook as you create them and be careful not to pull on the loops.
 While one loop is off of the hook, loop the yarn over the hook and create a new chain with the loop that is still on the hook.If you are making a chain of three or more, then you will need to take this new loop that you made off of the hook as well and continue chaining your stitches one at a time until you reach the last one. Don’t take the last one off of the hook.
 For a two chain I-cord, you will just be slipping one chain on and off the hook and alternating which one you are working. If you are making a two chain I-cord, then you can slide your other loop back onto the hook and chain one. Then slide the loop back off and chain one into the other loop.If you are making a chain of three or more, then just slide one loop at a time back onto the hook and chain one for each loop. Then, slide all but one loop off again and repeat the process starting with the loop that is on the hook.
 When you have made your I-cord as long as you want it to be, chain one through all of the loops on the hook at the same time. Then, you can cut the tail and tie off the end to secure it.


Your I-cord should be finished and ready to use!

