 For example, choose Forest Frontiers in RCT 1, Roller Coaster Heaven in RCT 2,and Cosmic Craggs in RCT3. The park doesn't have to be closed. In RCT1 and 2, you cannot build while paused, but in RCT3, the game can be played whether or not you are paused.;
, You can always pay it off later. (Note: Sandbox Mode has unlimited money)

, Choose "Gentle Rides" and pick something small, like a ferris wheel or a carousel. Place the ride near the entrance of the park, but not too close to the road. Face the entrance and exit toward the main path. Now, click path icon and build a queue line path from the entrance to the pathway. Keep in mind that your ride may require a long line. Repeat this step with another gentle ride.
 Click the build icon and choose "Thrill Rides". Try to pick something small, like a swinging ship, or a spinning twist. Place it next to the gentle rides. Don't build the queue lines yet because you do not have a pathway leading to the ride yet. You can repeat this step if necessary.
 Click the build icon and choose "Roller Coasters". Pick "Wooden Roller Coaster" and build something fairly large, but not oversized. Place it by the edge of the park, so you still have space in the middle to install pathways. Put the entrance as close to the station as possible. Also, keep in mind that you have to build pathways that connect all the rides. Do not repeat this step.
 Try to keep it small, but not as small as ferris wheel, or merry-go-round.
 Position it close to the edge of the park, but also close to the entrance. If you build the boat ride, you must dig a lake and fill it with water.
 Build a path from the entrance to the water ride. Try to make the path as straight as possible, and yet reaching all the rides easily. Now, build queue line paths from entrances. If you need a queue line to be longer for more popular rides such as roller coasters, turn it like a maze. When you have the queue lines down, build exit paths. Building the paths in that order will prevent queue lines from accidentally attaching to a path you might not want it on. Exit paths can't be queue paths, or your guests will think they are in line for another ride and get confused. This keeps your park rating up.
 Click build icon and roller coasters again. Pick anything you want - anything really big - and build it in near the water ride and the first roller coaster. Don't put it close to the entrance and be sure to keep the pathways in mind. Do not build on the far side of the park until the entrance, both edges, and the middle is filled up, because guests don't like walking far. That's it for the rides!

, Click on the Build icon and choose "Food". Build Burger Bar, or Pizza Stall. Position it in the center of the attractions. Build a drink stall right next to the food stall, and finally, add a bathroom.
 Click on trash can and place it around the paths. Put it near food stalls and on the exits of the rides. That's going to sound little gross, but people throw up sometimes when they get off rides. Repeat, but choose benches instead of trash cans. Sometimes when people get sick, they just want to sit down. You can also add in some decorations, like fountains.
 Make sure all of the rides are open individually. Open the park. To do that, just click the park entrance and change the red sign to green.
 Be sure to check on specific rides and see what people think. Make a few adjustments if necessary. Pay attention to the announcements. A month in, hire a handyman or two to empty trash cans and clean up vomit. If a ride breaks down, hire a mechanic. If there are complaints about vandalism, hire a security guard. Also, be sure to increase park admission price after about a month, but don't make the price change too dramatic or no one will come.
 You will see all the advertisement options there. Advertise your park for two to three weeks - a lot more guests will come. Also, observe all the rides. If a particular ride does not get as many people as you want it to get, go back to the advertisements, but this time pick "advertise particular ride".
 See how much it's increasing. After you have gained enough money, open up the money control again and decrease the loan as much as you can. Your goal is not to have any loans at all.

