


If you're aware of the weather patterns, you can prepare yourself properly before starting your hike, then properly evaluate when or whether to turn back on the trail.;
, Not only does this keep the rain outside from penetrating in toward your body, but the breathable material also allows moisture from perspiration to escape, so you don't end up soaking wet from your own sweat. You can hike with a non-breathable jacket, too, but you'll have to either open under-arm zippers to vent excess body heat and moisture, or travel slowly to keep from getting sweaty. Otherwise, you defeat the point of wearing waterproof hiking gear anyway; you're already wet.






A broad-brimmed hat to help shed rain. A good hood on your rain jacket can substitute for a hat, but unless the hood has brim to keep water off your face, you might want to wear a ball cap beneath it.






Blowing rain, sitting on wet ground or wading through wet foliage can get your lower half wet, too. If you're going on a long hike or expect to encounter any of the conditions just mentioned, carry waterproof pants that you can slip on over your pants. You won't always need them, but you'll be glad to have them in case of heavy rain.






Dry socks. You'll be glad to have them to change into at the end of the hike, or even at the midway point if your feet are soggy.
 Hiking through mud or wet grass can quickly turn non-waterproof shoes into a squishy, miserable mess.


Avoid cotton socks; once cotton gets wet it stays wet, and loses most of its insulating power. Wool, treated silk and wicking synthetic materials are a much better choice.


You can also spray your pack with a waterproofing spray, but water can still seep through zippers and other fastenings, and spray-on waterproofing coatings tend to wear off relatively quickly.






Some packs come with a stowable rain cover built in. Check the bottom of the pack for a zippered or hook-and-loop compartment that might hold the rain cover.






You can improvise your own rain cover by placing a large garbage bag over your pack, with the opening facing down.







