 When it comes to acting hip, adopting a “less is more” approach is a good place to start. Speak slowly and calmly and keep your emotions in check. Be friendly but don’t ramble or try to manipulate every social situation for attention. Sometimes being hip is more about what you aren’t doing, rather than what you are.


Don’t fight to be in the spotlight. You can learn a lot by sitting back and being a spectator occasionally. By avoiding attention-seeking behavior you project that it doesn’t matter to you that you are seen. At the heart of hipness is not overly caring what other people think of you.
Try to make everything you do appear effortless. Your actions should always reflect that you are calm and relaxed.
It takes effort to make everything look effortless, which probably sounds like a great cosmic joke! But with practice, it will come., Adopt a positive outlook and place less emphasis on how much concern you have for the opinions of others. Instead place your focus on successfully doing things that you care about.It’s not really about not caring – you don’t want to disregard others completely. It’s more about caring a lot about things that have nothing to do with what others think.


Whatever your personal talents are, work to become even better at them. Be proud of your accomplishments and the things you put into the world.
For instance, sometimes staying home to finish a drawing you’ve been working on is so much cooler than forcing yourself to go to some party.
When you focus on the right attitude, your positive body language will fall into place., Rebelliousness is often cited as a key element of hipness.This is because breaking rules gives the illusion that you are powerful and that you are beyond traditional behavior and the norm.This doesn’t mean you should go around with the intent to snub authority at every turn. Instead focus on not being a slave to the status quo.
The old adage is true – just because everyone else is doing it doesn’t mean you should. In fact, if everyone else is doing something, step back and question why that is. You may end up doing it anyway, but know why you’re doing it.
 Instead, approach life in general with a sense of humor. Relax and be more objective sometimes.


When in conversation with others, don’t make them laugh by putting other people down or ridiculing things.
A great sense of humor is understanding and conveying the genuinely funny things in life, of which there is no shortage!

