 If you live in a city, the library is a great source of books on loan. If you'll only read the book once, or you're not sure whether you'll enjoy it, always check the local library catalogue.;
, Many local libraries hold occasional book sales to clear out "deacquisitioned" books they've decided to remove from the shelf. These books are usually sold cheap (US $1–$5), and are usually kept in very good condition compared to other used books.
 Depending on the store and region, second hand stores and pawn shops may sell a wide variety of books under $10. Always flick through the books to check for damage first, as condition varies greatly.
 Also called opportunity shops or "op shops," the selection and quality is similar to second hand stores. The books tend to be slightly more expensive, and prices are less negotiable, since the goal is charity fundraising.


Some hospital gift shops have a similar section to benefit the hospital.
 Books sold here tend to be in the best condition, but are more expensive than other options. Your best bet is stores that sell publisher overstock and other bargain books, although these tend to flood with non-fiction rather than bestsellers. Check the store's website for upcoming sales and discounts.


Antiquarian bookstores are great for finding unexpected treasures and books on old-fashioned topics, often for low prices. And what bookworm doesn't enjoy wandering around a hoard of books older than he is?

, You can find great deals here, depending on the store. However, 99% of the books sold here are unsorted. If you don't mind hours of searching through boxes, keep an eye out for these sales.
 "Take a book, leave a book" boxes have been cropping up in many regions the last few years. If you don't see any in your neighborhood, consider setting one up in front of your home. In good weather, this is as simple as putting out an old bookcase stocked with old books, and a paper sign with instructions. This can be a great way to meet neighbors and start a little community as well.


If you don't have a yard, ask your landlord if you can put a bookcase in the lobby. Public or semi-public places such as libraries, college campuses, or churches are another possible opportunity. If possible, have the hosting organization advertise it on its website.
For more information, look up the Little Free Library project.
 If you know other people who share your reading tastes, don't waste money buying multiple copies of the same books. Lend each other reading material instead, and/or agree to split the price of new purchases between you.
 You can arrange this event at a community center, school, or even just among a large group of friends. Each person drops off books they no longer want, and receives an equal number of tickets. You can then browse the books and talk to other attendees, then trade in each ticket for any one book.


There are also online book swap sites such as BookMooch.
 Thrift Books, Amazon's AbeBooks, and similar sites offer many used books, often for less than US $2. The cheapest ones are often dog-eared, frayed, or heavily marked, but they are rarely unreadable.


Keep in mind that it's difficult to judge a book based on the cover image. Don't spend too much money on an unknown book unless you're confident in the site's return policy.
 Unless you can find a specific book market, these locations usually have relatively few books. Keep an eye out if you're also looking for other cheap goods, but don't expect great results.


The main advantage to these locales is the negotiable prices. Most sellers expect to haggle.

