 There are many ways in which care may be insufficient and, depending upon what happened, you may want to complain about a specific doctor or an entire hospital. Things to consider include:Was it a single incident involving one individual that led to you receiving inadequate care?
Was it a larger systemic problem such as unsafe conditions in a hospital?
What needs to occur to correct the problem so that it doesn’t happen to other people?;
, Many hospitals, medical review boards, states, and government agencies, including Medicare, have formal procedures for filing complaints. You need to complaint to the appropriate authority so that they can conduct an investigation. If you complain to the wrong organization, they won’t be able to address it.


First try filing a complaint through the hospital itself. Many will have a specific department that handles grievances and will follow up on your complaint.
Search online to see if there is a national or state medical review board that has authority over your health care provider. Many have formal complaint processes which can be conducted online.If you have a government run healthcare plan such as Medicare in the US or a National Health Services plan in the UK, you may be able to complain to them. The websites will guide you through the process for making a complaint.If you do not have a computer, search the phonebook for the numbers of your state’s Department of Public Health. Many have departments that deal with licensing and regulations. If they do not accept complaints, they will be able to direct you where to go next., Generally the medical board or organization will conduct an investigation and notify you of the outcome. If you have thoughts about what you feel would be appropriate, make your opinions known in your complaint. The review board will do what they feel is necessary to protect the public’s health and safety, but, depending upon the severity of the incident, they may take your thoughts into consideration. Several outcomes are possible, including the following serious consequences:Formally reprimanding the healthcare provider
Suspending a license
Placing conditions on a license
Revoking a license

, This means understanding what the authority will not do. Read the instructions on the websites of the medical review organization carefully to make sure that the outcome you want is possible to achieve through a complaint to them.If you are complaining about rudeness or an unprofessional manner, that may not be within the scope of a state or national review board. Such complaints might be more effectively addressed to the hospital or health care provider directly.
If you are seeking monetary compensation for damages, you will likely need to file a lawsuit in addition to a medical complaint. This would need to go before a court. Make sure you research your lawyer and choose reputable representation.
 Healthcare services can be extremely bureaucratic and difficult to navigate. A patient advocate may be able to guide you or even file the complaint on your behalf.


Many hospitals have patient advocates on staff. If you talk to a patient advocate who is employed by the hospital about which you would like to complain, ask them whether their assistance will be confidential.Search in the phonebook or online for patient advocate organizations, such as The Empowered Patient Coalition in the US or Healthwatch in England. These organizations should be able to help you find resources that are near you or relevant to your situation., If your issue concerns medical bills or you believe you were taken advantage of, you may want to speak with an attorney. The attorney can give you legal advice on what is permissible by law and help you seek damages if necessary. Common reasons for needing an attorney include:Denial of benefits and requests for assistance with the appeals process
Fraudulent billing or unreasonably high charges
Unnecessary medical procedures

, Specific insurance plans can be hard to understand. Before filing a complaint in regards to billing, ensure that your insurance was filed correctly with correct diagnosis code. Ensure that coverage is reviewed to make certain that deductibles have been met and the service was a covered benefit.

