 Skin care products marketed as natural often contain fragrance. Labels can be misleading as well and the FDA does not regulate label descriptions. Even if a product is labeled as “fragrance-free” or “unscented,” it may still contain some fragrance ingredients that are being used for purposes other than to add a scent to the product. Likewise, just because a product is labeled as “all natural”, “for sensitive skin”, or “hypoallergenic” does not mean it will not cause irritation.While some fragrances may be clearly marked on the product’s label or packaging, others are “hidden” with chemical names that at first glance don’t appear to be fragrances. For example, sometimes the fragrance responsible for a product’s scent is listed as an emulsifier. Fragrances known to cause skin irritation include:Cinnamic alcohol
Cinnamic aldehyde
Hydroxycitronellal
Amylcinnamaldehyde
Geraniol
Eugenol
Isoeugenol
Oakmoss absolute
Lyral
Citral
Farnesol
Citronellal
Coumarin;
, Allergies to peanuts and tree nuts are common in people of all ages. Oils made from these nuts are common ingredients in natural skincare products. While some people report allergic reactions after applying nut oils to the skin, more research needs to be done in this area., Lavender is a common ingredient in natural skin care products, often used as an antibacterial agent. It can cause skin irritation. This can be further aggravated if you spend time in the sun after applying a product containing lavender. Lavender can also cause allergic reactions in some people., Limonene and other extracts from citrus fruits can cause skin irritation. For some people, these extracts can cause significant irritation that lasts for hours or days after the product is removed from the skin. Some extracts, like limonene, can also decrease your skin’s effectiveness as a natural barrier, allowing foreign substances to enter., When used on the skin, tea tree oil can cause skin irritation and allergic reactions in certain individuals. People with known allergies and sensitivities to tea tree oil should avoid skin care products that contain this ingredient. They should also avoid related plant compounds including:Balsam of Peru
Benzoin
Colophony
Eucalyptol
Plants that are members of the myrtle family

, Jasmine oil is a common ingredient in natural skin care products. It can be used in a product to add fragrance or for its antiseptic properties. For some people jasmine oil and plant derivatives can cause skin irritation. This irritation can get worse after spending time in the sun., Peppermint and its most common extract, menthol, can have a cooling effect on your skin. However, these ingredients can also cause skin irritation. This is common in some people, particularly after skin is exposed to sunlight after application., While a product might be packed as all-natural, it can still contain chemical compounds that irritate the skin. Two important chemicals to watch out for are methychloroisothiazolinone and methylisothiazolinone. Both are known to cause red, itchy skin and blisters.