 Peyton expresses herself through art. She loves to sketch, and 9 times out of 10, her sketches are based around depressing moments of her life. Be true to yourself, and try to express your own feelings. But if you don't want to do this, you can maybe find something like writing poems, or something else.;
, Peyton listens to a lot of punk, rock and lots of alternative bands. She also listens because of the lyrics, sometimes listening to different music depending on her mood. Music such as the bands below are places to start. Peyton doesn't go to any concerts, or at least not so much.


The Cure
The Flaming Lips
Honorary Title
Audioslave
Smog
NOFX
Haley James Scott/ Bethany Joy Galeotti
Mia Catallano/ Kate Voegele

, Vinyls show that you are more passionate about music, but owning a CD doesn't mean you like it any less.
 Peyton has a best friend Brooke, whom she trusts most in the world. They have their ups and downs but true friends always become friends again.
 Change the length, straighten it, curl it (a signature Peyton look) flick it. To get hair exactly like Peyton though, you'll need to create tight curls (season 1-3) or soft curls (4-5) or even long and flicked (6). You'll also need blonde/brown hair.
 Use eyeliner on the lower lid, and some mascara. Clear lip-gloss or light pink lip-gloss for day to day wear, maybe some red eye shadow for the night, and for the day you can have light brown and earth colors. At night, Peyton experiments more. Use a bright red lipstick or a deep red and add some blush for colour.
 Wear it as much as you can for true Peyton style. You can pair it with a pair of skinny dark jeans or throw it over a flirty dress.
 For season 1-4 style, try the following items:


Black skinny jeans
Logo/graphic tops
Plaid shirts
Denim or plaid mini skirt
Band shirts (The Ramones, The get up kids etc)
A few pretty tops
Tank tops

,


A LOT of tank tops! Try a variety of patterns/cuts
Tunics
Waistcoats to layer with
Shirts
A couple of logo/band t-shirts
Skirts
Fitted blazers
Plain dresses in different cuts
Jumpers/cardigans
Coats/Jackets

, Her webcam can be viewed online by many people. She also has Myspace so she can take a look at different bands. She also has her own "blog" side, there she just tell you which music she listen to, and she shows her art and she have some links to different web pages.
,