 If you don’t want the international charge to appear on your phone bill, consider using a pre-paid calling card. These convenient cards allow you to pay for the phone call before you make it.Buy a card at a convenience or grocery store. Make sure the card will actually cover calls to the Netherlands. Keep an eye out for hidden fees or restrictions on use before you buy the card as well. You don’t want to be surprised by additional charges you receive.
Dial the card’s access number. This will probably be an 800 number, which will connect you to the calling company.
Enter the PIN on the card. This will activate your card, and begin the clock on your minutes.
Dial the number you want to reach. Include the exit code (011) and the appropriate country code before dialing the local area code and number, as if you were calling without the card.
Be sure to note how many minutes the card will give you so your conversation isn’t cut short.
 The internet calling service Skype will allow you to make calls to Dutch phone numbers. Use the dropdown menu to select the country you are calling, or enter the country code directly (31 or 599).If you want to enter the country code directly, hold down the “0” button for 2 seconds to make a “+” sign appear. You need the “+” sign in order to enter the country code.
International calls using Skype will cost money, so make sure you have enough credit to make the call. If not, you’ll need to purchase some more.
 Calling someone directly through Skype is free, just like in any other country. Make sure you have the right contact information, and that your caller is expecting you., Open up a hangout and click the search button. Click the phone icon on the right side, which will let you enter a phone number in the search bar. The left side of the search bar should include a country flag icon on the left side of the search bar. Click that and search for the Netherlands to make a call. Enter the phone number you want to call, and press dial.International calls using Google+ will charge a small per-minute rate. For the Netherlands, a call to a landline is $0.01, a mobile phone is $0.04, and a pager is $2.29. Calls to the Netherlands Antilles are $0.14 per minute for both land and mobile lines., You can also use the Viber app to make international calls to others who have it. When you open the app, dial the number you want to call, including the proper country code. Make sure you have enough credit on your account, and that the person you are trying to reach has Viber.