 Applying online for your Capital One card is quick and easy. Capital One's website will allow you to apply for a credit card at any time that is convenient for you. Simply navigate your web browser to Capital One's website to get started.


You can find the Capital One website at https://www.capitalone.com

Navigate to the section for personal credit cards.;
, Capital One's website allows for easy navigation, enabling you to quickly find a credit card that meets your needs. There are many different types of cards that you can apply for, each offering a different financial focus. Take your time and browse the cards being offered on Capital One's website to find your new credit card.Some cards offer rewards for travelers.
Other cards are designed to build credit.
Many cards can help you earn cash back or other rewards.
You can easily compare cards on Capital One's website.
 Entering in some basic personal information can help you determine which cards you might be qualified for. Pre–qualification can be a great way to help you narrow down your search for the right Capital One credit card. Try using the pre-qualification tool on Capital One's website to learn more about your credit card options.Visit https://findmycard.capitalone.com/en/PageVersions/LandingPages/LP_ONE_V01.aspx to learn if you might be pre-qualified.
You'll need to provide some basic information, such as your name, address, and the last four digits of your social security number.
 Before you can apply for a Capital One Credit card, you will need to have your personal information ready. This information will need to be entered into the Capital One website, allowing the site to identify you and determine which cards you qualify for. Make sure you have some of the following personal information ready before applying:Your full name
Your social security number
Your date of birth
Your home address
Your yearly income
You may also wish to check your credit score before applying, as this will have a strong bearing on both your interest rate and chances of acceptance.
 Once you've found a card that you think is right for you, you'll need to select that card and begin applying for it. From the web-page that contains the card's detailed information, you'll need to click on the “apply now” button. This will take you to a form asking you to input your personal information. To finalize your application, enter in all of the information requested, agree to the terms, review your application and submit it.Make sure the credit card you've selected is one that fits your credit score. For example, some cards are only available to those with good credit. This range varies but is generally considered to be FICO credit scores above about 700.Generally, Capital One will inform you of your approval within 60 seconds.
You may need to provide additional information about yourself. For example, you may need to disclose your employer, your monthly rent, or other bank accounts you hold.
Make sure you carefully review your application before submitting it for review.
 After you've been approved for a Capital One credit card, all that's left to do is wait for your card to arrive in the mail. It can take anywhere from 7 to 10 business days for your card to arrive at the address you applied with. Once your card arrives, you'll be able to start using it immediately.Your final rates and credit limits will also be delivered to you within 7 to 10 business days.
If your card is lost or stolen, you can report it online or call 1-800-955-7070.
 Credit cards may come with annual fees attached to them. You'll need to pay these fees every year in order to maintain your line of credit and the credit card itself. However, not all cards will have an annual fee included in their terms and conditions. Check the cards you are interested to learn if they will have any fees and what those fees might be.Some fees can be around $60 a year.
Many cards do not have an annual fee.
Additional fees may be charged for late payments.
 A major aspect of a credit card that you will want to look at is the interest rate. Interest will be applied to any balances that remain on your credit card past a billing date. Exactly what the rate is will vary, depending on the specific card you are considering. Always take a close look at the interest rate before applying for any credit card.If you don't always pay off your card's balances, look for a card with a low interest rate.
Be aware of introductory interest rates that will change after a certain amount of time.
Interest rates can vary widely between different cards and some can be quite high. Make sure you know the exact rate of any credit card you are interested in.
 Today, many credit cards will offer incentives and rewards for using them. Each time you reach a certain level of credit card usage, you will earn whatever reward the card offers. Take a look at some of the following common credit card rewards to help you find a card that's right for you:Some credit cards will offer gift cards after a certain amount of usage.
Credit cards may offer reductions on travel costs.
Certain cards may offer you a cash-back reward based on the amount you've used your card.
Make sure the rewards don't result in a high interest rate on your credit card.

