 When kidneys start to fail, symptoms related to fluid balance, electrolyte balance, clearing waste products, and production of red blood cells. The early symptoms may also mimic other illnesses, which can be confusing. If you experience these symptoms and they don’t resolve within a few days or there does not seem to be another cause, see a doctor.Symptoms to watch for include:


Appetite loss
General feelings of fatigue
Headaches
Itchy, dry skin
Nausea
Weight loss (when you are not trying to lose weight)

, Later symptoms occur when kidney function has gotten much worse and the kidneys can no longer filter waste products from the blood. Symptoms of later kidney failure include:Skin color changes
Drowsiness or problems with concentration and thinking
Muscle twitching and cramps
Bone pain
Numbness or swelling of the hands and feet
Blood in the stool
Frequent hiccups
Excessive thirst
Amenorrhea (in women, menstrual periods stop)
Sleep difficulties
Shortness of breath
Vomiting (more often in the mornings)

, End stage kidney failure is the result of damage done to the kidneys. The final stage is called End Stage Renal Disease or ESRD, in which the kidneys are no longer able to filter enough waste products from the blood. At this point your body will either need kidney dialysis or a kidney transplant to keep working. Two of the most common reasons that ESRD develops is diabetes and high blood pressure or hypertension. Other conditions that may increase the potential for ESRD are:Birth defects of the kidneys, such as polycystic kidney disease
Injury to the kidney
Kidney stones and infections
Problems with the arteries that supply oxygen and nutrients to the kidneys
Certain medications used to treat cancer or pain can damage the kidneys and cause failure
Some toxic chemicals
Autoimmune diseases such as scleroderma or systemic lupus erythematosus
Reflux, or when urine flows back from the bladder to the kidneys and damages the organ
Other kidney diseases

, Peritoneal dialysis does not require large machines, so you can undergo this form of dialysis at home. Before you can have peritoneal dialysis, a surgeon will need to place a special catheter (tube) into your abdominal cavity. Using this tube, a special dialysis solution, called dialysate, will be administered. This solution pulls waste products from your blood supply which is then filtered through the tissue in your belly. There are two forms of peritoneal dialysis: Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) and Automated Peritoneal Dialysis (APD).Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis. Three times per day, you will deliver about two quarts of fluid into your belly through your abdominal catheter. This will be followed by an overnight "dwell," i.e. fluid that remains in the peritoneal cavity overnight. Afterwards, the fluid will need to be drained and thrown away. Both insertion and drainage are done using gravity.

Automated Peritoneal Dialysis. While you are sleeping, a machine at cycles fluid in and out of your belly. You will spend 30 minutes hooking up the dialysis solution and machine prior to going to sleep. In the morning it can take approximately 10 minutes to unhook the machinery and remove the solution. You will save the filters and return those to the dialysis center each week, where you will pick up another set of filters to be used the following week.
 Hemodialysis must be done at a hospital or dialysis center. This process uses special machinery to pull blood from your body, filter the waste products and return the blood back to your body. During hemodialysis two filters are used. One will filter your blood for waste products and the second is used to filter the fluid used to wash the blood.The machine filter is sometimes called an artificial kidney or dialyzer. Prior to your first dialysis a surgeon will place an access port in your body. There are three types of ports which may be used.Fistula. A fistula is an access made in surgery by joining an artery and vein in the arm. This access supplies both arterial and venous blood to the machine.

Graft. A graft may be used with a catheter to join an artery and vein in the arm.

Catheter. A catheter may be placed into a large vein in your neck if immediate access is required during acute kidney failure. This catheter is not a permanent solution, but used for temporary immediate access.

There are two types of catheters. Non-tunneled catheters, which are for temporary use, are easy to insert either in the neck (internal jugular vein), under the collar bone (subclavian vein) or in the groin (femoral vein). Tunneled catheters are tunneled through the skin and fat tissues into the vein, usually under the collar bone, and can be used as long-term vascular access for dialysis in patients who cannot have a fistula or graft.



