 You probably are already using a device, whether it be a traditional alarm clock, your phone, or your radio. Think about whether this device is working for you. If there is something about it that doesn't do the job, buy a different device.Consider whether this device is loud enough when it goes off. Everyone has different levels of noise tolerance. If your alarm is not loud enough, consider purchasing or using a different one.
Does the device have a snooze button? If your problem is that you turn the alarm off and go straight back to sleep, you may want to use an alarm that has a snooze button function. The snooze button allows you to sleep for a few extra minutes before the alarm goes off again, which is a way of easing you awake.;
, You may want to use more than one device to set your alarms on. If you are relying on a traditional alarm clock that can only set one alarm at a time, you will need to have at least one other device to set an alarm on.


Many phones have the function of setting multiple alarms. If your phone is able to do this, you may not need to use any other devices to set the alarm.
The upside of using multiple different devices is that each device is a bit different to turn off. Having to think about this might get your brain start to work in the morning, which will make it harder for you to fall back asleep , There are thousands of alarm clocks out there. If you have a really hard time getting up or have a chronic problem of oversleeping, think about buying a specialized alarm clock. Do some research to find out what custom alarm clock would work best for you.


Light alarms are alarms that use light to wake you up. They are shown to make you more alert when you wake up and even can improve cognitive function. If you are an extremely heavy sleeper, think about buying an alarm that is louder than average. There are many industrial-strength alarms on the market that might give you that jolt you need to get up. If you want full control of your alarm noise, look into alarm systems that hook up to your phone or music player. This way you can pick your favorite song to wake up in the morning. There are also incentivizing alarm clocks, including one that shreds money if you sleep in. , Some alarm clock technology takes custom alarms even further by making clocks that are connected to your sleeping habits. These clocks track your sleeping pattern and can can tell when you are in deep sleep. They wake you up specifically when it is the most optimal time in your sleep cycle. Using this kind of personalized alarm clock will make you feel more refreshed and ready to get up in the morning. Many of these custom sleep monitors come in watch form. You wear the watch to sleep and it tracks your body as you sleep.
There are also apps you can download for your phone that monitor your sleep by sensing your movement as you're sleeping, but these are less accurate than the watches.

