 You should be able to tell a lot about your girlfriend's desire to kiss you from her eyes. They don't say the eyes are the windows to the soul for nothing.


If she looks you directly in the eye, she is probably establishing intimacy and is at least open to kissing you. Although eye contact is almost always a positive sign, remember that sometimes people look down or away because they are shy or nervous. Still, if she is not looking at you, that's a warning sign that she's not open to a kiss.Women will give you more submissive looks in some cases when they want to be kissed, such putting the chin down and subtly looking down.
Slightly narrowing the eyes is a pose that many women go into when they are waiting for a kiss.
Are her pupils dilated and are her eyes widening? If so, these are signs that she is enjoying being around you, so she is probably open to a kiss.;
, Women prepare their lips for a kiss. So if you want to know if she wants to kiss you, zero in on her mouth.


Is she biting her lip or licking her lips? These could be signs that she is trying to moisten them for a kiss.
If she is pursing her lips or they look hardened, this is a bad sign. She is closing herself off to you. If she's applied lip gloss recently, or freshened her breath, this could mean she wants her lips to look desirable to you, in the hopes you will kiss them. This is especially true if you can tell she's reapplied them (say when you went to the bathroom). If she's looking at YOUR lips, it probably means she is thinking about kissing them.
 This might sound odd, but research has shown the nose can give away signals of desire - often without her realizing it.


If her nostrils are flaring slightly, she probably wants a kiss. Physically, flaring the nostrils means she is taking in more air because she is preparing for physical activity. You need to take this one in context. If she's in the middle of an argument with you, the physical activity her body is preparing her for might not be in your favor.

