 Unwanted teasing isn’t your fault no matter who you are. No one deserves to be teased or made to feel uncomfortable. Unfortunately, many people are teased because of non-verbal cues they give off to other people. Your physical body and the way you carry yourself say a lot about your self-confidence.Boys tend to tease others who show weakness. Use your body to give off a confident vibe so boys are less likely to mess with you.Look relaxed. Take deep breaths and keep calm. Sit or stand up straight, but keep your muscles relaxed. Be intentional when you look around. Avoid signs of insecurity like glancing quickly around the room, fidgeting, and lowering your head.;
, The more confident you sound when you speak, however, the less likely you are to be questioned. Stand in front of the mirror or sit with a trusted friend and practice. Speak loudly, firmly, and make eye contact. Use a neutral tone that conveys that you truly believe what you are saying.


Try having a simple conversation using your strong voice. Remember that you are developing general self-confidence so that you are ready to respond if you are teased.
Alternatively, practice saying specific comebacks like, “You’re not funny.”

, Boosting your self-confidence is just of the many benefits of learning self-defense. Sometimes just knowing that you can physically defend yourself from a boy is enough to make his mean words seem worthless.Seemingly harmless teasing can sometimes escalate to physical altercations. Poking, hair-pulling, inappropriate touching, or physical fighting may start with light teasing from a boy. Do not get physical with anyone who teases you. Instead, know that you have to tools to fend someone off if anything should happen.
 Build your own self-esteem by focusing on the positive things you have to offer to the world. Encourage yourself by making a note of the things you do well each day. Be nice to yourself and avoid putting yourself down.


Negative thoughts are something to accept as a normal part of life. Manage your negative or critical thoughts by noticing when they come up. For example, you might feel down about a bad soccer game and think, “I really suck at this.” Notice the thought and adjust it to something like, “I made some mistakes, but I know I can get it right if I practice.”