 Always apply makeup on fresh, clean skin.


Use a mild soap or cleaner to avoid drying your skin out.
Pat your skin dry.
You may want to apply a makeup primer at this point to help all of your makeup adhere to your skin.;
, The stick form of concealer is preferable as it applies the most evenly and hides blemishes well.


Use a liquid foundation and blend it well.
Make sure your concealer and foundation are the right shade for your skin tone.The wrong tone can make your skin look washed out, yellow or orange.
Use a foundation brush to apply your foundation for the most even application and polished look.
 Use blush sparingly, as the Emo look focuses on the eyes and less on the colors of the skin and lips.


If you are going for a pale look then try not to use blush as the goal of Emo makeup is to accentuate the eyes.
Keep the shade only slightly pinker than your skin tone.
Apply in circles to the cheekbones.
Avoid putting blush on contours or cheek hollows.
 Use a smokey eye effect.


Start by applying a matte slade shade of eyeshadow across the eyelid.
Add a small touch of black eyeliner towards the outer 1/3 of the eyelid.
Blend the darker eyeshadow to create a smokey effect.
 Since Emo make up is typically dark and heavy, make sure to get a lot of black makeup.


For eyeliner, get a black eyeliner pencil.
Apply black eyeliner on the lash line.
Extend the eyeliner a little bit on both sides of the eye and inner and outer corner to create a 2-way jacketed effect.
Thicken the eyeliner. Go over the eyeliner again until you are satisfied with it.
Make sure the eyeliner ends meet up at the corners of your eyes. On the outside, the effect should be somewhat catlike, with the line slanting upwards towards your temples.
 You can do this using a sponge applicator.


Define the edges of the eyeliner with a liquid eyeliner for a smooth effect.
You can also add a coloured eyeliner here if you want to add some more vibrancy. Repeat the eyeliner application on your top lashes.
Try to keep the eyeliner consistently smooth on both the top and bottom lash lines.
 Remember, the eyes are the focus of the Emo look, so it is important to emphasize the eyelashes.


Take care not to smudge mascara onto the eyelid when applying.
Some people apply mascara to their lower lashes, too. Take care when doing this as it can smudge easily.
For a more dramatic effect, use false eyelashes. Use these carefully as applying eyelash glue can be challenging and you are working close to your eye.
 You want to focus to be on your eyes so don't overdo it with the lips.


Be sure to use a lip moisturizer such as lip balm. This helps your look to not wear away as fast, so you don't have to re-applicate it often.
Avoid dark or bright colors on the lips, as that is more a trend with Gothic style makeup.
A light lip color in a slightly pink or natural shade is best for the Emo style.
Lip liner isn't typically used in this type of look.

