 Determine which side of the box is longest, then measure the full length of this side from one end to the other using a measuring stick.


Round this measurement off to the nearest inch (2.5 cm).
This measurement is the length of your package.;
, The width of your box is the shorter side of the bottom or top face (or the open side) of the box. Measure the full distance of this side from one end to the other using a measuring stick.


Round this measurement off to the nearest inch (2.5 cm), as well.
Even if you mix up the height and width measurements, the final calculation should not be thrown off. The only side you absolutely must identify accurately is the length.
 Use a measuring stick to measure the standing side of the box from one end to the other. This is your height measurement.


The height should be the only side previously unmeasured at this point.
Round the measurement to the nearest inch (2.5 cm).
 Multiply the width by two. Multiply the height by two, as well.


Neither of these calculations have a separate term, but you'll need to know them for your final girth calculation.
Do not double the length measurement.
For example, if you have a box with a length of 12 inches (30.5 cm), a width of 4 inches (10 cm), and a height of 6 inches (15.25 cm), you would only need to double the width and height:

Doubled width: 4 * 2 = 8 inches (20 cm)
Doubled height: 6 * 12 = 12 inches (30.5 cm)



, Add the doubled height and doubled width measurements together. The combined sum equals the girth of the box.


The girth is essentially the total distance around the thickest part of the box.In the previous example, the doubled width was 8 inches (20 cm) and the doubled height was 12 inches (30.5 cm). As such, the girth would be found by adding these two calculated measurements together:

Girth: 8 + 12 = 20 inches (50.5 cm)



, When shipping ground packages, you may need to know the overall size of the package. This can be found by adding the length and girth measurements together.


In the previous example, the girth of the package was 20 inches (50.5 cm) and the length was 12 inches (30.5 cm). To find the overall package size, you need to add these two measurements together:

Size: 20 + 12 = 32 inches (80.5 cm).
 You should have all the necessary measurements needed to ship your box at this point. Keep a note of each separate measurement so that you'll be able to provide the shipping service with the exact information required.


You might be asked for:

Separate length, width, and height measurements (L; W; H)
Length and girth measurements (L; 2W + 2H)
Total package size (L + 2W + 2H)



