 This recipe for celery salad is relatively simple and can be made in as few as 15 minutes. You can speed the preparation of this dish along by buying pre-chopped ingredients. For this dish, you'll need:

Black pepper
Celery hearts (x3)
Chives (1 small bunch, chopped)
Croutons
Cutting board
Green romaine (1 head)
Italian parsley (1 cup, chopped)
Knife
Kosher salt
Parmesan cheese (½ cup, grated)
Radishes (x4)
Red leaf lettuce (1 head)
Red wine vinegar (3 tbsp)
Serving bowl (large)
Sugar (2 tsp)
Walnut oil (or substitute extra virgin olive oil/a nut oil; 4 tbsp), Bacteria, dirt, or leftover pesticide may remain on your veggies. Rinse all veggies thoroughly under cool water, then pat each dry with either a clean dishcloth or paper towel.

If you're not in a rush and want to save paper towel, you could spread your veggies on a clean surface and allow them to air dry., First, wash and dry your hands to prevent yourself from accidentally contaminating the clean lettuce. Pull its leaves apart by hand, then tear each leaf into bite-sized pieces. Do this for both the red leaf lettuce and romaine.

As you tear up the lettuce, you can add it directly into your large serving bowl., If you did not buy your parsley pre-chopped, lay it out on a clean cutting board and use your knife to chop one cup of this ingredient. Add this to your serving bowl, then do the same for your chives, if necessary. After that:

Slice each of your four radishes thinly. Add these to your serving bowl once they are sliced.
Use your knife to shave thin slices from your celery hearts. As soon as you finish, add this ingredient to your serving bowl as well., In a small bowl, whisk your oil and vinegar thoroughly. Then add the sugar and continue to whisk until the sugar dissolves. After that, taste the dressing to check its flavor. You may need to add oil, vinegar, or sugar to adjust its flavor to your preferences., Toss your salad to spread the vegetables evenly throughout the salad. Take your dressing and evenly distribute it on top of the salad. Season the salad with salt and pepper to taste.

To prevent croutons from getting soggy, you should hold off adding these until just before you serve the salad.