 This intense squat targets your quadricep muscles located at the front of your thighs. Ensure you choose a barbell weight that is not too heavy or too light. If you’re doing 10 barbell squats and the exercise becomes challenging at the 7th, you are probably using a good weight. If it becomes challenging before that, lighten your weight, and if it isn’t challenging at all, increase your weight.Stand with your feet hip-width apart.
Support the barbell along your trapezoid shoulder and neck muscles behind your head. Firmly grasp the barbell with both hands.
Keep your chest up and head facing forward. Your upper body should remain upright throughout the barbell squat.
Lower your body by pushing your butt backwards, as though sitting in an imaginary chair. Keep your knees in line with your toes.
Once your thighs are parallel with the floor, pause and slowly straighten your legs, squeezing your glutes, to return to a standing position. Remember to keep your back straight throughout the exercise.
Remember that the weight you use and the number of reps you perform depends on your goals. If you wish to build strength and larger muscles, then you want to use heavier weights and fewer reps, working until muscle failure or exhaustion. If you don't want to bulk up, but are looking to tone and increase your endurance, then you want to use lighter weights and do more repetitions.
 Like regular lunges, dumbbell lunges are enhanced by adding the weight of the dumbbells and require more strength and stability. If you have problems with balance, use a lighter weight or skip the dumbbells all together and stick with regular lunges.Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart holding one dumbbell in each hand.
Step forward with your right leg.
Lower your body until your left knee almost touches the floor and your right thigh is parallel with the floor. Keep your upper body upright.
Ensure that your right knee does not extend past your right toe. If you are unable to lunge low enough without your right knee extending past your right toe, take a larger step forward.
Return to a standing position and step forward with your left leg repeating the lunge exercise on the other side.
 This exercise will work both your legs and abs. If you have an exercise or Swiss ball, you can use it in a lot of leg exercises and exercises that target other parts of the body. An exercise ball is a great versatile piece of equipment that you can even use as a chair at home.Lie on your back on the floor with the exercise ball underneath your calves.
Raise your hips into the air and keep your knees straight. Your body should form a straight line from ankles to shoulders.
Bend your knees while rolling the exercise ball towards your body. Continue to keep your hips elevated.
Roll the ball back out away from your body until your legs are straight again.
 Another great exercise you can do with a Swiss ball targets your inner thighs. Modify this exercise to accommodate your fitness level.


Place the ball between your knees and squeeze.
Repeat the squeeze, anywhere from 10 to 100 repetitions. You can also modify the length of time you squeeze the ball — try holding the squeeze for 15 seconds, or work up to a longer squeeze of a full minute.
 Many gyms will have machines dedicated to strengthening your legs with specific instructions for use pictured on the machine. If you are unsure which machines to use or how to use them, ask a gym employee.


Good machines to look out for include the leg press, leg curl, leg extension and thigh abductor/adductor.
 Classes at your gym, such as spin or yoga, and sports teams, like soccer or volleyball, are all great ways to exercise your legs while having fun. The movement you'll do during the class or sports game will work out the different muscles in your leg and increase your overall level of cardio.

