 Many people get a crush on someone of the same gender and freak out. The first thing you should do is take a deep breath. Remember that what you are feeling is totally normal. It is not wrong to have these feelings.Also, keep in mind that having a crush on a person of the same gender doesn't automatically mean you are gay. Sexuality is more complicated than that.;
, Sexual orientation is more than a question of whether you are gay, straight, or bisexual. Instead of thinking of it as a set of categories that you do or do not belong to, try thinking of sexual orientation as a line between gay and straight. You can be anywhere along that line between the two.You might, for example, feel most strongly about girls, but also like boys a little too.
In addition, sexual orientation is not just about who you have feelings for, it's also about how you think of yourself (as, straight, gay, bisexual, or something else), and how you actually behave. It's possible, for example, to have to have feelings for both men and women, but to think of yourself as basically straight and only date people of the opposite sex if that's what you want.How you think of yourself and who you choose to have relationships with are decisions for you to make. The good news about this is that you have as much time as you want to make these decisions, and it's totally okay to change your answer later if you want! You don't ever have to label yourself if you don't want to., Regardless of what you think about these questions right now, have respect for your own feelings. They are your feelings, and they are true. There aren't rules about what you get to feel.Some people you share your feelings with might tell you you are going through a phase. They might be right, or they might not, but in the end, that's for you to decide, not anyone else. Accept the feelings you have now. If they change later, that's fine too., The feelings you are experiencing right now are probably difficult ones. You don't need to go through this alone, unless you want to. Whenever you feel comfortable doing so, find someone you love and trust to talk to about what you are experiencing.Having people support you can make difficult feelings and decisions easier. When you're ready, find someone who you know is accepting of homosexuality and who you trust to keep your feelings private.
Do this only when you're ready. You don't have to talk to anyone about this until you feel prepared.