 Fruits and vegetables have a lot of vitamins and nutrients, like Vitamin A and Vitamin C, that boost your immunity. They are also rich in antioxidants, which increase your oxygen level.Fruits like berries and oranges are rich in Vitamin C, which helps the immune system function more efficiently.
Carrots, garlic, and spinach contain beta carotene, and Vitamin E.;
, Drinking plenty of water can raise immunity levels in your body. Water flushes toxins out of your blood and helps with the digestion of food.Water also helps the body produce lymph, which carries white blood cells around your body to flight illness.
Your body also uses water to clean your eyes and body to keep away any disease-causing microbes.
 Yogurt is especially good for boosting your immune system. However, dairy products can be detrimental to your immune system, so don’t consume too much milk and cheese.


Yogurt contains probiotics, which strengthen the immune system and can help you fight off colds., You can find complete protein in foods such as eggs, fish, and shellfish. These proteins can help build the amino acids in your body.These proteins are better for you than fatty proteins and red meat, which can also have negative effects on your immune system.
 Oats and barley, in particular, can boost your immunity and may make antibiotics work more effectively. Whole wheat foods can also be beneficial in contrast to breads with less rich substance.Whole grains contain benzoxazinoids or BX, which is a substance that can boost your immune system by subduing bacteria., Drinks like artificially sweetened juice and cola can dehydrate you. Unlike water, these drinks act like food and need water to remove excess waste left over after digestion.Sugary drinks can compromise your immune system. They act against white blood cells as soon as the excess sugar reaches your blood stream., Alcohol can actually suppress your immune system, especially during any binges or when you are already sick. Chronic alcohol use can also lead to long-term diseases.Moderate alcohol use, such as a daily glass of red wine, can improve your immune system. However, that's often because of the other chemicals in alcoholic beverages and not the alcohol itself.