 Work with children first on the four basic parts of speech: nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. For young children, these will be the concepts that are easiest to grasp. Conjunctions, interjections, determiners, and prepositions are more abstract concepts and therefore difficult for young children.
 Children learn best when they are engaged in an activity. When it comes to grammar and the parts of speech, try making their learning a game. Set out eight paper bags, each labeled with a part of speech. With the child, write down a variety of words on a set of notecards. Ask them to place each word in its correct speech bag. For every word they correctly place, they earn a point., Rather than present grammar as an abstract concept, try using activities that link the parts of speech to objects and actions that the child would use. One such activity can be done with a class or individual child. Write “Noun,” “Adjective” and “Verb” on the board or on a piece of paper. Place an object in a bag. Have a child reach into the bag and--without looking-- feel the object. Ask them what they think it is and write their answer under noun. Ask them what it feels like and write the answer under adjective. Ask them what they would do with it and write their answer under verb. Once you have all of their answers, have them make a sentence using all three of their words., Music helps increase attention and improve memory when learning.Children may find it easier to memorize tricky grammar concepts when it is explained to them in song. There are songs available on the internet or available on children’s music albums. Better yet, try to write a song with your class or child that will engage them in the creation process.


Songs can provide an easier method for children to memorize the more difficult and abstract parts of speech, such as the conjunctions, interjections, prepositions, and determiners.
 Mad Libs is a game where one person asks the other for various parts of speech, before inserting these words into a predesigned story template. What emerges is a funny and nonsensical story. Since Mad Libs requires players to understand parts of speech, you will be testing the child's understanding of grammar. They will be so tickled by the resulting story that they will not notice that you are teaching them.
 This is a fun idea for a large group of children. Gather various outdoor sports equipment (such as hula hoops, cones, jump rope, and balls). Break up the children into groups. Each group must design an obstacle course using sentences that use all of the basic parts of speech: nouns, adjectives, verbs, and adverbs. They will describe the obstacle course to the other groups using their sentence, and the other groups must set up and perform the described action.Examples of sentences include:


Quickly twirl in the green hula hoop.
Gently bounce the big ball.
Gracefully jump through the spinning rope.

