 Every Medic possesses a 40/150 Syringe Gun (Primary), the class defining Medi-Gun (Secondary) and their last resort, the Bonesaw (Melee). They may also unlock a series of alternate weapons by successfully completing Medic Achievements.


Use the Bonesaw sparingly, at point-blank range. Melee kills are always fun, and melee weapons have taken quite a boost in power since the Team Fortress Classic (TFC) crowbar, but don't get cocky. Save your Bonesaw for stealthy strikes from behind, or if your attacker is right next to you and retreating isn't an option. Otherwise, you're usually better off healing another teammate and letting them finish the job for you instead.






Use the Syringe Gun for distance shots. As the name implies, the Syringe Gun fires hypodermic needles. It is not the most powerful weapon in TF2, but it is often underestimated by most players. An experienced player can be lethal with the Syringe Gun in their hands.






Note that the needles from the Syringe Gun actually fire slightly to the right of where the crosshair is. Fire at a wall from varying distances and look where the needles land to get a feel of where to aim. They also arc downward rather quickly. You'll need to aim upward and to the left with the Syringe Gun if you intend to hit any enemies from a distance. This does, however, make it useful to shoot over short hills.






The Syringe Gun's needles travel through the air slowly, which can make them easy for other players to dodge them. Keep this in mind.






Try using the Syringe Gun to provide cover fire for your team. They'll stay in the air long enough to travel at enemies that like to sidestep back and forth from corners.






Since the Syringe Gun's projectiles move through the air slowly, it is a good strategy to fire if an enemy is chasing you, with you either standing still, moving towards him, or backtracking. If he moves towards your syringes, he is more likely to get hit and thus die.





;
, This is essentially a given; your teammates will respect you for being able to heal them effectively and quickly.


The biggest change to the Medic since TFC is his ability to heal from a distance. You can now space yourself out from between your teammate as you heal them to avoid splash damage. You don't have to keep your crosshairs on the player to keep healing them, so you should look around frequently to keep an eye on the rest of the battlefield; it's a good idea to look for other wounded players, and keep an eye out for approaching Spies and Pyros.






In addition to healing, your Medi Gun can raise a player's health to 150% more of their maximum health. This will slowly return back to its maximum when you stop healing them. You can tell how "overhealed" a player is by the white glowing/pulsating surrounding his or her health cross; the bigger this glow, the more over healing they have received.






You will earn an "assist kill" if you are healing a teammate that gets a kill point.
 As you heal players, you will notice that the small bar on the bottom right corner of your HUD will start to fill itself. This is your ÜberCharge meter. When this reaches 100%, the Medic will announce that he is "charged". By right-clicking, you will activate the ÜberCharge, which will make you and your healing target completely invulnerable for a maximum of 8 seconds


Note that you and your target cannot capture points when Über Charged. Similarly, you and your target will not be able to carry the enemy intelligence (flag). However, you can still prevent the enemy team from taking a capture point while ÜberCharged.






Your ÜberCharge meter will fill fastest when healing a damaged player. It fills slowest when over healing a player who is already at 150% of their maximum health. This gives Medics an incentive to take care of his team as a whole, rather than to attach themselves to the nearest Heavy.






The announcement of "I am charged!" can be heard by nearby enemies. If you wish to cover up this tell-tale signal so they are less likely to be prepared for it, you can call for a Medic (or any other vocal command) just as the meter reaches 100%, and it will override the passive "I am charged!" announcement.
 The Medic is almost exclusively a support class, so he won't be taking part in as much battling as would a Soldier or other class. Even so, you'll receive plenty of assist kill points by keeping other players healed as they take out enemies.
 This is one point that most Medics tend to forget while on the front line. Medics slowly regenerate their health over time, but not fast enough to be useful during battle. Good Medics should look out for one another. If you are hurt, don't be afraid to call for a Medic like everyone else. Most of the time, it's colleagues before comrades. Healing another Medic on your team to save his life will ensure that he continues to heal, and keep building his ÜberCharge up.
 Lots of players like to shout for a Medic for the sake of getting your attention to come keep them healed - despite having full health. While it's good to keep your more vocal teammates buffed, make sure that you keep everyone else alive too.
 Medics have 36 class-specific achievements that gradually unlock three unique items.

The Blutsauger replaces the Syringe Gun after completing 10 Medic achievements. Each needle that strikes an opponent will heal the Medic for 3 HP. The tradeoff to this weapon is that it will reduce your own rate of health recovery.






The Kritzkrieg replaces the ÜberCharge. This is unlocked after attaining 16 Medic achievements. A charged Kritzkrieg will allow the Medic to grant another player a 100% critical hit rate for 10 seconds. It also charges 25% faster than the Medi Gun, but it does not provide invulnerability. Using the taunt for the Kritzkrieg (Oktoberfest) will give you 10 health points, but you are vulnerable while the taunt animation plays. This is best used when alone and on fire.






The Übersaw replaces the Bonesaw. This is attained by unlocking 22 Medic achievements. The Übersaw swings 20% slower than the Bonesaw (about one swing per second), but each hit will charge the Medic's ÜberCharge meter by 25%. Keep this in mind when you are attacking another enemy, as while you will get more ÜberCharge but will get less attack time. Be aware that that might kill you, losing all your ÜberCharge.






Note that you may switch back to your original equipment at any time by accessing the character load out (default key M or via the TF2 menu (i.e. hit Escape)). You can also edit up to 4 pre-set loadouts of equipment, and just change the preset you're using when the situation calls for it.
 This is a key aspect of survivability, if you're ahead of your team you will be an easy pick for the enemy., Use your ÜberCharge as an offensive tool, not to save your heavy that is backing up. In competitive play, the game is based around which team has Über advantage (more Über than the enemy). When Übering, back up towards the end of it! The uber ends in 8 seconds (less if you change targets) so once you are alone with your healing target you will be an easy pick., But you still are not faster than a scout. Remember that overdose will give you a 10% speed boost when ÜberCharged, but deals 20% less damage.,), for rapid engagement from one player to another.,,,,