 Mix rum with just one other beverage, such as a soda. This is an easy way to enjoy any quality of rum. It’s also a drink that can be made at virtually any bar.


Go for the classic Rum and Coke by starting with approximately two ounces of light or dark rum and adding a dark cola to taste. Pour over ice and serve.
Try a spicier mixed drink, called a Dark n’ Stormy, by pouring dark rum (traditionally Gosling’s Black Seal Rum) over ice and ginger beer (a strong ginger soda). Drizzle the rum slowly over a spoon into the glass to create the cloudy look that illustrates the name. Top with a lime wedge and serve.;
, Try a classic rum cocktail, the mojito. Use light rum, mint leaves, lime, sugar, and club soda for this refreshing drink.


Put several wedges of lime and fresh mint leaves into a glass and muddle them to release their flavors if you wish. Add ice and two ounces of light rum. Fill the rest of the glass with club soda, then stir in sugar to taste.Try adding other fruit flavors to a mojito, like strawberry or pineapple, by adding either the fresh fruit or juice.
 Make a daiquiri by mixing light rum with fresh lime juice and simple syrup (sugar boiled into a syrup consistency). This drink typically uses nearly any combination of fruit juices with the basic ingredients.


Build on the basic recipe of 2 ounces light rum, ¾ ounce of fresh lime juice, and ¼ ounce simple syrup with fruits like banana, strawberry, pineapple, etc.
Make any daiquiri on the rocks (with ice), or typically find them frozen (blended).
Line the rim of a glass with brown sugar and a fresh wedge of whatever fruit you use for a common daiquiri presentation.
 Make a Mai Tai by using a few more specialty ingredients than other rum cocktails. Use orgeat—a high-quality almond sugar syrup—and orange curacao—a liqueur from a dried citrus peel—to make this refreshing drink.Combine 2 ounces of dark rum with ¾ ounce lime juice, ¼ ounce simple syrup, ½ ounce orange curacao, and ¼ ounce orgeat and pour over ice. Top with a lime wedge and a mint leaf.
If you don’t have the specialty ingredients for this cocktail on hand, you can substitute cheaper almond syrup for orgeat and triple sec for orange curacao.