 Doing positive activities may help reduce the risk of depression, and it's an effective strategy for regulating emotions. Research shows that focusing on positive activities can shift attention away from distressing thoughts. On the other hand, focusing on something negative can cause increased distress.Go for a light walk in the park or some calming place.
Watch a funny movie. Laughter really can be the best medicine; laughter has been shown to increase overall health and happiness.Social support is a crucial component of preventing depression.If you can, try to spend time with or talk to others in order to prevent depression. Call up a friend, coworker, or family member.
 If you have been depressed previously due to loneliness, mindfulness can help reduce the likelihood that you will get depressed again.Mindfulness has also been shown to help individuals who feel lonely.Mindfulness is about giving your full attention to what you are currently doing and experiencing. Often we are distracted from the present moment by thoughts about the past (regrets) or future (worry about what might happen). Practice mindfulness as often as you can, especially when you start to become lonely or depressed.


Try a mindfulness walk. Simply take a walk down the street and focus solely on your walk. Notice the sounds you hear, the things you see, the smells, and how you feel. Is it hot or cold out? Is there a breeze or is the air still? Do you see any birds in the sky? Is it cloudy or sunny out?
Another mindfulness exercise is mindfulness-based meditation and guided imagery. Close your eyes and imagine you are in a safe place. This can be a beach, your bedroom, or sitting under your favorite tree at a local park. Imagine that you are there. Experience your safe place in its entirety including what it feels like (i.e. the sand beneath your toes), smells like (salty air, fish), looks like (notice the whole environment), tastes like (if you eat something or drink something), as well as what you hear (the waves crashing). When you have spent sufficient time in your safe space and feel relaxed you can open your eyes.
You can practice mindfulness easily at home, by paying close attention to whatever you are currently doing.For example, if you are washing the dishes - focus your attention solely on this experience. Notice how it feels on your hands, the temperature of the water, as well as what you see. Often our minds will wander when we do these types of mundane activities. Observe any thoughts that come into your mind, and without judgment, let them pass. Accept your thoughts and then re-direct your attention back to what you are doing.
You can research and find many more mindfulness exercises by conducting a quick google search or using some of the resources provided here., Depression poses a significant health risk because it can negatively affect medical afflictions.Overall health is positively related to mental health and well-being.Health issues can also contribute to feelings of depression. In order to effectively prevent depression due to loneliness, you will need to focus on maintaining your physical health.


Improving your nutrition by eating healthier can help prevent and decrease mental health problems.Your body needs proper nutrients to function optimally. Ditch the junk food and focus on eating plenty of proteins, complex carbohydrates, fruits, and vegetables.
Make sure you get adequate rest. This means at least 8 hours of sleep per night. Maintain a sleep schedule by going to bed at the same time each night and waking up at the same time each morning (even on weekends).
Exercise regularly. Aerobic exercise has been linked to reductions in depression.Walk, run, hike, do anything that gets you moving.
If you have any current medical conditions (especially those that affect depression) make sure you have regular visits to your doctor.
 If you think you are already doing all that you can and still feel lonely, or your loneliness is growing into depression, it may be wise to seek expert help. Therapists and psychologists can assist you in developing a clinical and research-based plan to reduce your depression or loneliness. Therapies such as Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy and Interpersonal Therapy have been shown to reduce and prevent repeated depression.Contact your medical insurance provider to inquire about obtaining therapeutic services such as therapy or psychotropic medication (antidepressants, etc).
If you lack medical insurance, you can conduct a local search of low-cost mental health services. Many government agencies also provide low-cost health insurance.
Psychiatrists can prescribe you medication if you are open to that. Ask your primary care doctor or therapist for a referral.

