 These vegan protein bars will give you a kick of protein in the morning, including four grams of protein, sixteen grams of carbohydrates, and four grams of fat per protein bar. You can also enjoy them as a post-workout snack. To make 10 protein bars for the week, you will need the following ingredients: 1 1/4 cups of cooked chickpeas (i.e., 260 g or 15 oz can); 1/2 cup (100 g) of dates; 1/4 cup (40 g) of toasted peanuts; 1/4 cup (30 g) of hemp seeds; 2 tablespoons (30 g) of raisins; seeds from half a vanilla bean. Using these ingredients, make the protein bars:Put the drained chickpeas and pitted dates into a food processor and mix them into a paste.
Add the peanuts and mix until they are turned into small chunks.
Put in the raisins, hemp seeds, and vanilla and continue processing.
Spread the nutty paste onto a flat container covered in parchment paper.
Press the paste down into the container and cover it with parchment paper.
Freeze the bar paste for two hours.
Remove the bar paste from freezer and cut it.;
, When you make your breakfast sandwich in the morning, simply add hummus. If you like a fried egg sandwich on sourdough, you will need one or two eggs, a container of store-bought hummus, sliced sourdough bread, tomatoes, cucumbers, salt and pepper. Using these ingredients, make your sandwich:


Fry up an egg in a non-stick frying pan.
Throw a couple of pieces of sourdough bread in the toaster. When the toast pops up, spread hummus on each piece.
Add your fried egg to the hummus toast.
Add any vegetables you enjoy such as cucumbers or tomatoes, as well as salt and pepper to taste.
 A Mediterranean breakfast pita can be a way to start your day on the Mediterranean diet, which is a diet that lowers the risk of heart disease as well as cancer, Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases.To make a serving for four people, you will need the following ingredients: four large eggs; salt; two whole-wheat pita breads with pockets; 1/2 cup (4 ounces) of hummus; one medium cucumber, sliced into rounds; two tomatoes, sliced; a handful of coarsely chopped parsley; freshly ground pepper and hot sauce to taste. Using these ingredients, make your pitas:Cook the eggs for seven minutes and then peel them.
Cut the eggs into quarter inch slices and sprinkle a touch of salt on them.
Cut the pitas in half.
Spread 2 tablespoons of hummus into each half pita.
Spread cucumber and tomato slices into each half pita to your liking.
Place one sliced egg into each half pita.
Sprinkle each pita with parsley, salt, pepper, and hot sauce.

