 In many cases, moving out is not an option, but it is extremely difficult to ignore someone you live with for more than a few hours or days. If you're aiming for an extended period of time, you have to really want to ignore them — as if they don't exist.;
, Now, this may seem counterproductive, but depending on who you are ignoring, this might be a good method for you. This has the possibility of working out well in your case.


For example, if the person knows you are ignoring them, they may try to do something to improve your feelings toward him/her. This may help resolve the issue you and the person you are ignoring are having.
The person might decide to follow your lead and do the same. This means you can put in less effort in actively evading your ignored.
 Think about how you are going to physically ignore your roommate or spouse. Can you use different bathrooms? Do you know which room they will be in certain days or times and not go in there?

, If you are sharing a bedroom or a studio apartment, this could be the only thing that keeps both of you apart. You can use duct tape or a dressing screen to create a distinct border in the living space. In other for this to work, the person being ignored needs to be actively ignoring you, as well.
 When the person you are ignoring tries to lure you out of your cold-shoulder method, you can simply snatch up a book, turn on the T.V. or put on your headphones.
 While the person you are ignoring is in the bathroom brushing his/her teeth, you can go on sleeping or eat breakfast.
 If they sit down in the same room as you, get up and move to a different room.
 Do not engage in conversation with the other person. Do not look at them. By preventing conversation from forming while still being polite, it is hard for someone to call you out on ignoring them or talk with anyone else about the situation because you are not actually ignoring them. However, they will understand that you're ignoring them.


When they address you, keep your answers extremely brief and super polite. Keeping your answers extremely short and polite effectively kills any conversation another person is trying to start.
When the other person speaks to you, do not look at their eyes, look at their forehead. This subconsciously makes people feel intimidated.
When talking with them make sure your body and shoulders are not directly facing them. Put them at an angle, pointing slightly away from the person. This lets them subconsciously know they are not your focus and that you are not giving them all your attention.
 Try to get to a bathroom, your own room or outside the living area. While you are by yourself, you can take a break from your ignore and work on Step 2.
 Sometimes, you just need to get away. Here are some suggestions:


Try going to a place you can enjoy by yourself, such as a cafe or the mall
Call up a friend. Have you not seen someone in awhile? You can reconnect with someone you do want to spend time with. Also, you can talk out your situation with someone who is not the ignoree.
 If the ignoree asks you a question or tries to talk to you, get another co-inhabitant to answer for you.
 If civil communication cannot occur, try to find a mediator for your relationship — a trusted friend, family member or a counselor. If your situation does not improve, one of you might have to eventually move out and find a different place.

