 The oral surgeon will want to make sure everything is ready to go for the tooth extraction. You’ll want to be comfortable and relaxed before your tooth extraction begins.
 Your oral surgeon may give you either a local or general anesthetic depending upon the time of tooth extraction. A local anesthetic will numb the place where the tooth extraction will take place, whereas a general anesthetic may put you to sleep.Local anesthetics are used when one tooth needs to be extracted, while general anesthetics are more common when multiple teeth are being removed.
The oral surgeon may give you an intravenous anesthetic, so wear short sleeves that can be easily rolled up.
 Depending on the severity of your problem, the oral surgeon may perform one of two different types of extractions. Each comes with their own challenges and preparation.A simple extraction can be done by your regular dentist, who removes a tooth that can be seen in the mouth.They loosen your tooth with a tool called an elevator and remove it with forceps.
A surgical extraction is done by an oral surgeon, though it can be done by your regular dentist. In this type of extraction, your tooth is either not above the gum line or has broken off. They cut into your gum and often remove some of the nearby bone to get to the tooth. These teeth sometimes have to be removed in pieces.
 Once the tooth has been extracted, a blood clot will form. The oral surgeon will have you bite down on gauze to slow the bleeding., Your oral surgeon may also give you stitches to stop any bleeding in your mouth. These stitches will likely be dissolvable and go away on their own.If your oral surgeon uses stitches that are not dissolvable, then you will likely have a follow-up appointment where they remove your stitches.
 Dry socket is a condition that occurs very rarely, but is where the blood clot becomes dislodged and the bone and nerves underneath are exposed to the mouth. It is more common in the following groups of people:People who smoke.
People with bad oral hygiene.
People getting their wisdom teeth extracted.
People who use birth control.
People with a history of dry socket.
People who do not follow the surgeon's post-op instructions.

