 If you suspect your baby has allergic colitis symptoms or if you notice bloody stools or vomiting, set up a medical appointment with the pediatrician. You'll need to give the doctor your baby's complete medical history (including family history of allergies). If you kept a journal of your baby's symptoms, bring it along.The doctor might suggest that you take your baby to see a pediatric gastroenterologist.
 Let the doctor know what your baby is eating. For example, if your baby is formula fed, you should be able to give the exact name of the product you're giving. If you're breastfeeding your baby, the doctor will probably ask what you typically eat. If you've introduced solids, tell the doctor what foods your baby eats and if they've had any allergic reactions to foods.The doctor may want you to feed the baby while you're in the office. You may need to bring formula or nurse the baby. This will give the doctor a chance to look for any signs of irritation or discomfort that your baby might have after eating.
 The doctor should perform a routine wellness check on your baby. The doctor will weigh the baby, check their height and head growth, listen to the heart and lungs, and feel the baby's abdomen. Even if your baby has allergic colitis, the abdomen shouldn't be distended or painful to the touch. The doctor will probably also look for a rash or small tears around the anus that could be causing the bloody stools.While there is no diagnostic lab test for allergic colitis, the doctor may want to draw and check your baby's blood to determine blood loss amounts. This can also inform the doctor about protein levels in the blood.
The doctor may also check stool samples to be sure the baby doesn't have an infection causing bloody stools.
 The doctor may give a diagnosis of mild allergic colitis if your baby does have some bloody stools, but isn't experiencing vomiting or abdominal pain. Your baby will probably be growing at a healthy weight and will have stable protein levels in the blood test. The doctor may diagnose your baby with severe allergic colitis if the baby isn't growing (or is losing weight), has a lot of blood in the stools, or has protein loss according to the blood test., Once the doctor has determined if your baby has mild to moderate or severe allergic colitis, the doctor will talk about immediate changes to your baby's diet. Depending on how severe your baby's symptoms are, your baby will need to be reevaluated after a few weeks to monitor progress.You should notice an improvement in the baby's symptoms 72 to 96 hours after removing the allergen from your baby's diet.

