 To stand out, you have to know yourself and know yourself well. Engage in a little bit of introspection from time to time, whether that means keeping a journal each night or having a meditation practice every morning.Having a rich inner life will set you apart from other girls because you won’t rely on outward validation. This is a powerful ability to have.
To practice introspection, start by asking yourself how you feel each morning and night. From there, you can analyze the things you like and why you like them.;
, Practice exposing yourself to new things. Try new foods, new hairstyles, and new classes. Trying new things will give you confidence, will garner a large set of skills, and will set you apart from others.Experiment safely. Do not engage in illegal or dangerous activities for the sake of learning new things.
If you are nervous, start out with something small, like using online tutorials to learn to knit.
Experimenting can mean cooking meals you’ve never had before, reading a book you normally wouldn’t read, or even joining a community theatre production.
 If you are extremely shy, try going to a party where you don’t know anyone and practice talking to strangers. If you are naturally outgoing, try your hand at observing and people-watching. Get out of your comfort zone to demonstrate that you can go with the flow--a trait that is certain to show you stand out from the crowd of other girls.Again, if you’re nervous, start out small. Speak to someone you’ve never spoken to before, or try a type of foreign cuisine you’re unfamiliar with.
 A lot of girls are terrified of looking stupid or weird, so they hold back or avoid trying new things. Don’t! If you look weird trying something new, or sound weird when talking to someone new, so what? The worst that can happen is you won’t have a new hobby or friend. And even if you don’t, you’ll stand out from the crowd.If you’re worried about what other people think, remember that they probably don’t notice as much as you think they do.

