 A shag rug can be a nice and soft addition to your room’s floor but you may also nail it up on a wall for a unique display. Choose a rug with a unique pattern so that it draws the eye., You may be able to find pillows with interesting quotes, pictures, designs and textures to add to your room. Shop at furniture stores, thrift stores and online. You may also be able to print your own designs onto pillow cases at custom t shirt stores., If you find it difficult to see into your closet or you just want to add a splash of light into your room, add hanging white twinkle lights on the inside of the door frame. Make it look like you opened the door to another universe or a cool dressing room for a rock band.Use hooks or tape to keep the lights in place. Purchase the lights and hooks at a dollar store or local arts and crafts store.
 Use temporary wallpaper that you can purchase at a dollar store or arts and craft store to dress up boring walls. Research online for fun ideas if you are looking for inspiration. You can also cut the wall paper into shapes, like stars, before placing it on your wall.Make sure to use temporary wallpaper so that you can change the style as often as you please.
 Give your room a psychedelic feel or simply add some colour. Purchase these lights online or at a vintage store. You may also be able to find them at a thrift store. Add two or more to create symmetry or patterns., Whether you frame them or just pin them up, old maps can create a certain atmosphere for your room. You may also use them as a pin board for places that you have traveled. Purchase them online, your local map store or find them at a thrift store., Choose your favourite movies or select interesting designs from other countries. If you are in university or college, there are often poster stores that provide unique designs that resemble art work. You may even be able to find vintage music poster replicates. Shop online, at a thrift store, or at your local poster store.You may also look for posters at theaters or record stores. Don’t be afraid to ask the owner of a store if you find a poster that catches your eye.
 Choose unique pots and plants to take advantage of colour and texture. Remember to choose plants that need little maintenance if you have a busy schedule. Plants literally add life to a room. Group plants two or more plants together for symmetry or to create a pleasant pattern., There no sense in hiding the jewelry that you are proud of. Find a display case or jewelry frame that complements your room’s decor to display your jewelry. You may also simply display them in a pattern on the top of your drawer., You may have a lot of mobile devices along with your lamp, tv, and computer. All the cords may be a nuisance and an eye sore. Purchase a cool place for your charges when they need to be out. Shop online or your local electronics store for displays that keep the cords out of the way while blending in with the rest of your decor., If you have a messy cosmetic bag or just a lot of makeup, simply stick magnets on the ones you use every day. Store them on a magnetic board by your mirror so that they remain tidy and convenient.Purchase stick on magnets at a dollar store or arts and crafts store.
 Lay down a yoga mat for stretching or yoga, or a rubber mat for weightlifting or more vigorous activities. Designate a corner of your room strictly for activities and you can make a mini studio complete motivational quotes or inspirational images for yoga.
 Instead of painting your entire room a dramatic colour or even a single wall, paint only small bits. For example, you can paint just the inside strip of your door or the sides of your dresser. While the colour may be subtle, the creative process will be fun.You can also add colour with decorations. You don’t have to paint if you add colourful stuffed animals or cool ornaments.
 Use washi tape around your room in creative designs or intricate patterns. You can purchase a variety of colours at your local arts and crafts store or your dollar store. Find inspiration online or simply add borders to pictures or posters., Fairy lights can be purchased online, your local hardware store, arts and crafts store, or even dollar store. Frame pictures or create designs with these easy to shape lights. Use hooks or tape to keep them in place.