 Instead of dominating a conversation by talking all the time, try to listen more to others’ opinions instead. Don’t just listen, but actively listen to what the person is saying. Focus on understanding the point that they are making, and take a few minutes to digest the information. While they're talking, listen, rather than formulating your answer. Then, provide an adequate response.For example, "So what you are saying is that by being a vegetarian you are also being environmentally conscious. That is a very interesting point. I never thought of it from that angle."
Practice active listening by maintaining eye contact with the speaker, nodding occasionally, and asking clarifying questions once the speaker is done.;
, It is normal to want to feel good and give yourself credit for an accomplishment. However, chances are that you did not accomplish it all by yourself. There is always someone, like a friend, family member, mentor, or coworker, that helped you accomplish your goal by supporting your efforts.Take time to give your supporters the credit they deserve. For example, “I worked really hard to get into law school, but I could not have done it without the support of my friends and family. They were always there to cheer me up when my motivation was low.”

, Always acknowledge other view points in a positive manner. Defer judgment by allowing the speaker to finish what they are saying, and by not interrupting with counter arguments. You gain or add nothing by attacking the speaker or by putting them down. When it is your time to respond, be honest, open, and candid in your response.For example, "That's an interesting point. However, others argue that dogs, especially pit bulls and German shepherds, are not inherently aggressive. Instead, it depends on their socialization and training. What do you think about that?"

, Instead of feeling better because you know how to do something better than someone else, feel better because you helped someone be better. By helping others, you will be able to make lasting friendships.For example, if a coworker struggles with their writing, offer to read and edit their writing, and provide insightful feedback.

