 There are many at-home hair removal treatments. These include waxing, tweezing, shaving, and depilatory creams. Depending on your level of hair and the size of the area, one method might not be appropriate for all your hair removal needs.
 Before you remove the hair, you should always prepare the hair and skin. This makes the hair more susceptible to removal by removing impurities, making it softer, and opening your pores. Preparing your skin helps to prevent irritation and ingrown hairs.


Make sure you clean your face to remove dirt and oil. This helps prevent breakouts, and also helps prepare the hairs for shaving.
Rinsing your face and neck in warm or hot water helps moisten the hairs and make them softer, making them easier to shave.A hot shower may be the most effective way of softening your hairs, especially if you want to shave or tweeze large portions of it.
Another method for softening the hairs is wrapping a warm towel around your face. Barbers use this trick when they shave customers because it opens the pores, relaxes the face, and makes the hairs easier to shave. Leave the hot towel on the face and neck for a few minutes.
You can either rinse the towel in warm or hot water, or you can heat a wet towel in the microwave for 30 seconds. Do not over heat the towel, because a microwave can heat the water in the towel to temperatures that will severely burn your face.Always test the towel before wrapping it around your face.
 Before shaving or waxing, exfoliate the skin. This process removes dead skin cells and helps bring hairs to the surface of the skin.If you are shaving, these dead skin cells can prevent a close shave.


Choose an exfoliating scrub that contains sugar, oatmeal, or salt. If you don't have an exfoliating scrub, use an exfoliating glove or a loofa.
 One of the fastest, most effective methods for getting rid of unwanted facial hair is plucking. Pull the hairs out right after you moisten and heat them. This ensures that the pores are open and the hairs soft so they will come out easily.


Use a well-lit mirror to catch all the unwanted hairs, both light and dark.
Use a good pair of tweezers that will grab onto the hairs. To properly remove the hairs, the tweezers must be able to yank it out without losing grip on the hair. Pull the hair quickly to ensure that the hair is removed and you minimize irritation.
Do not use this method for large areas. It can cause ingrown hairs and scarring.But this is a great method if you only want to pluck errant hairs on your lip, cheek, or chin, or to shape areas like the eyebrows.
 If you have thicker hair growing on your lip, cheeks, chin, or neck, shaving is an easy and inexpensive way to get rid of the unwanted hair.


Cover the area in shave gel or cream. Apply a liberal amount to the area and let it set for a few minutes before you begin shaving. Never shave dry skin or without a lather. Your bare skin needs a barrier between it and the sharp razor.Shaving without gel or cream can cause irritation and ingrown hairs.
Shave the hairs in the direction that the hair grows.Reapply shaving cream as needed to keep the area lubricated. Make sure to use a sharp razor; dull razors can cause irritation and cut your skin.
 Home wax kits can be purchased at both major retailers and beauty supply shops. There are generally two kinds of waxes: wax that needs cloth strips to remove, and wax that can be removed without strips. Choose which kind of wax suits your needs.


When waxing at home, make sure not to burn your skin. Wax must be heated to a hot temperature to melt, so be careful when applying this hot wax to your skin. Also, make sure to pull the skin taut in the opposite direction than you are pulling the strip. This prevents bruising.Whether done by a professional or done at home, waxing can cause redness and irritation to the skin. In some instances, waxing can cause infection.Waxing can also cause acne or darkening of the skin., Depilatory creams are hair removal creams that contain mildly caustic chemicals made of sodium, potassium, and calcium thioglycolate.These creams dissolve the hair at the skin's surface.Make sure the skin is clean and moisturized before applying the cream. Just like with shaving or tweezing, hairs that have been softened are more easily removed.
Always test a section of your skin before removing the hair. Some people's skin is sensitive to the chemicals, which causes a rash.
Read the instructions carefully. There are many different kinds of depilatory creams on the market, and they have different directions. Only leave the cream on for as long as the directions state. Don't try to leave on longer to get rid of stubborn hair.
Make sure to buy hair removal cream designed just for the face.
 Many products are on the market now that are at-home laser hair removal products. Many of these products emit light pulses or flashes that help get rid of hair.


Look for a system that is FDA approved. FDA approved systems are generally more expensive than ones offered through private companies whose products have not been FDA approved. These systems can run as expensive as $600.Many of these systems result in 70% hair reduction after 3 months of use.

