 With most common viruses and with most healthy adults, viral infections clear without additional treatment. If, however, an individual’s immune system is compromised, a doctor should be called as soon as any symptoms of infection occur. Immune compromise can occur in the very young, older individuals, those infected with HIV/AIDs, individuals who have had an organ transplant and cancer patients going through chemotherapy. Watch for these common symptoms of viral infections:


Fever
Joint aches and pains
Sore throat
Headache
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea
Skin rash
Fatigue
Nasal congestion

, If any of the common viral infection symptoms becomes severe, call a physician immediately. If a physician is not available, call for emergency services. , If you experience any of the following symptoms at any time, go to your nearest emergency room.Any change in your alertness or level of consciousness
Chest pain
A deep chest cough that produces wet or liquid yellow, green or brownish phlegm (discharge)
Lethargy or unresponsiveness to stimuli (sounds, light, touch)
Any form of seizure
Any shortness of breath, wheezing, or any difficulty breathing
A stiff or sore neck, or a severe headache
Yellowing of the skin or the sclera (the whites of the eyes)

, Specific treatment always depends on the specific virus. There are hundreds of different viruses that are known to infect humans. Many can be largely prevented with vaccination, such as influenza, chicken pox, shingles and others.


Talk with your doctor about getting vaccinated against certain viruses.
 If you experience symptoms that you think may be a viral infection for more than 48 hours without getting relief from the approaches listed, make an appointment to see your doctor as soon as possible. Many viral infections, like the common cold (rhinoviruses), the flu (influenza virus), measles (rubeola) or mononucleosis (Epstein-Barr virus, or EBV), require primarily supportive treatment. Other viruses cause serious, life-threatening diseases such as cancer and Ebola. Some persistent viruses cause long-term disorders including hepatitis, HSV and varicella-zoster (causing chickenpox and shingles) and HIV., Until relatively recently, there were no effective antiviral drugs. That is changing, with more antiviral drugs being introduced.Antiviral therapy is important for certain infections, including infections with herpes viruses (HSVs), cytomegaloviruses (CMVs) and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).


Another approach to treating viral infections is to use interferons. These are natural substances (cytokines) released from infected cells which function to block various facets of viral replication. Use of the interferons is particularly important in the treatment of the hepatitis viruses (B and C), Kaposi’s sarcoma associated with HIV infection, and a sexually transmitted infection called condyloma acuminata, which results in genital warts. 