 You want a fun, but serious classroom. If you have an empty room in your house, you can use that, or, just use your bedroom.;
, If you have some stuffed teddy's or animals etc use them to be your students.
 This can be your bed, or even a real desk. As long as it is something that you can sit at and it is bigger than the other desks in the room.
 First, find out the number of friends, or students, coming to your classroom. A student desk can be a chair, a seat on the floor, or, a real student desk. You can also seat your students around a table. If the students are in the floor or a chair, give them a large hard cover book so they can have a surface to write on.
 If you have a world or state map, you can hang that up. Just be careful not to tape it, then the paint on the wall will come off; push pins are a good idea. If you have any other educational posters, you can hang them up too.or just go ask your neighbors.
 If you or your family has a laptop, you can move it into the room. A phone is also good for fake calls to different rooms. A TV might be a good idea, along with a DVD player so you can watch a movie for recess or if you have movies about animals or anything educational, you can watch that. You may want to ask your parents before you do this and about the movies to watch. Any movie is fine for recess, as long as you don't spend too much time on it. Twenty minutes is a good time limit. You might also want a bookshelf or something so you can put your friends coat (if they have one) lunch, backpack, graded papers,notebook, pens, pencils, and everything else they might have brought. You need to ask them to bring these things.
 Search the web and print some worksheets, or make your own. You can also ask your teachers at the end of the year for extra worksheets that you can use in the future.
, Make up a fake name, or, use your real one. Make a sign in sign out sheet so if students need to leave the room for the potty or to get a drink. Make a grade book and a bad list. Punishment could be a trip to the principals office or a call home. A grade book can be a binder.
