 If you would prefer to share your life story in a life, storytelling format, write a spoken word poem. You may create spoken word poems about different periods of your life and then prepare them as a performance for an audience. Or you may create a long spoken word piece that covers key events or moments in your life.


You can watch spoken word performances online to help get a better sense of the genre, such as “If I should have a daughter…” by Sarah Kay, “My First Period” by Staceyann Chin, and “Can we auto-correct humanity?” by Prince Ea., Another way you can perform your life story for an audience is to create a play based on your life. Perhaps you write a one person show that focuses on stories from your life, which you can then perform on your own. Or maybe you create a play that explores your life with characters from your childhood or adulthood.


You could then arrange for the play to be performed at your local community center or film yourself performing it and then post it online.
 You can also share your life story by writing a screenplay based on your life. You may use a key event or moment in your life as inspiration for the screenplay, using characters from your life as the basis for the characters in your screenplay.


You could then use the screenplay to make a film based on your life. You may rent camera gear, located actors, and shoot the film yourself. Or you may hire a filmmaker to create the film based on your screenplay.
 If you are meeting someone new at a social gathering, you may want to share your life story in conversation with them. You should try to make your life story interesting, entertaining, and brief. This way, you can get the details of your life across and keep the conversation going. You may include a few funny details from your life story so the person is engaged in what you have to say.


For example, you may say, "I was born in Miami, Florida in the 80s, and grew up right by the beach. It was a nice childhood except for that time I got stung by a jellyfish."

