 Milk and other dairy products are off limits on the paleo diet. If you want to make something that requires milk or you just want a glass of milk, then you can easily swap it out with a substitute like coconut, almond, or cashew milk.You can also try hemp milk, flax milk, or hazelnut milk for a dairy-free alternative to milk.
You can even make your own almond milk.;
, Dairy cheese is not allowed on the paleo diet, so it is important to either leave it out or swap it. Even if you are not following the paleo diet, you can easily make a swap for cheese by using a cheese alternative or making your own non-dairy nut cheese.An easy way to substitute cheese is to sprinkle a couple of teaspoons of nutritional yeast flakes onto your food. These are available in the bulk section of grocery and health food stores.
Avoid anything with soy or tofu in it. It is important to use substitutes that are made from nuts or other acceptable ingredients like nutritional yeast.
Try making your own dairy-free cheese to make a paleo swap for cheese. For example, you can make a cashew nut cheese, a gruyere with nutritional yeast and tahini, or a cashew cream cheese.
 If you are in the mood for ice cream, then you can swap regular dairy ice cream for a non-dairy version, such as a coconut or almond milk ice cream.If you purchase a non-dairy ice cream, look for a brand that does not have too many ingredients or added sugar. Avoid ice creams that have lots of sugar or that include soy.
Try making your own non-dairy ice cream with coconut milk or with frozen bananas.
 Yogurt can easily be replaced with a non-dairy version, such as almond milk or coconut milk yogurt.Just make sure that you do not get soy yogurt because soy is off limits on the paleo diet. Check the ingredients to be sure.


Try making your own dairy-free yogurt with almond milk.
 Butter is not allowed on the paleo diet, but even if you are not following the paleo diet, you might want to swap butter for something a little healthier. You can swap butter with coconut oil or ghee in your baking and cooking.You can also use olive oil for cooking and baking.

