 Alcohol and other sedatives may worsen anxiety. Alcohol is dehydrating and disrupts your body’s nutritional and hormonal balance. Also, the physical symptoms produced from the toxins may trigger an anxiety attack.Alcohol may also interfere with your sleep, and thus cause you to feel anxious throughout the day.
 Like alcohol, caffeine can make you feel anxious and nervous. As a result, it can trigger an attack. Moderate your use of caffeinated products like coffee, teas, and caffeinated sodas and beverages.For example, limit your intake to one cup of coffee per day.
 Fried foods are hard to digest and usually have little nutritional value. Based on animal studies, high-fat diets may increase stress and make your mood more reliant on food rewards. This means you may be more stressed or anxious for a time if you significantly reduce dietary fat, but your mood may improve over the long term.Omega-3 fatty acids found in some fish seems to be an exception, and may even decrease anxiety., Foods that contain large amounts of sugar, especially refined sugar, should be avoided. Like caffeine, excessive amounts of sugar can make you feel anxious and nervous., Foods that are processed and contain additives may cause unpleasant physical reactions. You may notice a change in your mood after eating a certain food or product, for example, you may become irritable, anxious, or develop a headache.Keep a food diary to help you track how your body feels after eating certain foods. For each meal, write down what you ate and how your mind and body felt 30 minutes to an hour after eating the food.
People with irritable bowel syndrome or other gastric problems often develop anxiety related to the issue.Identifying foods that trigger your symptoms may help you reduce the impact on your life. High-carb meals, fried foods, dairy products, and legumes (beans and lentils) are some of the most common reported triggers., If your anxiety symptoms are severe or last for more than two weeks, make sure to talk to your doctor. While following an anti-anxiety diet may help reduce your anxiety, your doctor may recommend therapy or medications.