 Dampen your face with warm water. Pour some raw honey onto your fingers and gently massage the honey into your face, avoiding the areas around the eyes and mouth. Rinse the honey off using warm water and pat your face dry with a clean towel.For a deeper clean, allow the honey to sit on your face for 5 to 10 minutes.
 Create a mixture of oils based on your skin type. Gently massage the oil mixture into your face, avoiding the areas around the eyes and mouth. Place a warm, damp towel on your face, and leave it there for one minute. Take the towel off and repeat it with the other side. You will have a little bit of oil on your face, which is good, but you can wash it off with warm water if it is bothersome. Here are a few oil mixtures to try:If you have oily skin, use 1 part castor oil or hazelnut oil and 2 parts olive oil or sunflower oil.
If you have combination skin, use 1 part castor oil or hazelnut oil and 3 parts olive oil or sunflower oil.
If you have dry skin, use pure olive oil, sunflower oil, or coconut oil. You may add a drop of two of castor oil or hazelnut oil.
 Apple cider vinegar is a natural antiseptic, which makes it a great cleanser and toner. Be sure to use unfiltered apple cider vinegar to get all of the benefits. Unfortunately, apple cider vinegar is acidic, so you will need to dilute it with some water. Once you have diluted the vinegar, you can use it as a cleaner and toner by dampening a cotton ball with it, and wiping your face with the cotton ball. Avoid sensitive areas such as the eyes, nose, and mouth. Here are the proportions you will need, based on your skin type:If you have oily skin, use 1 part apple cider vinegar and 1 part water.
If you have normal skin, use 1 part apple cider vinegar and 2 parts water.
If you have sensitive skin, use 1 part apple cider vinegar and 4 parts water.
Be sure to do a patch test on the inside of your elbow before using the vinegar-water mixture on your entire face. If you get an allergic reaction, do not use this face wash.

