 Just because an interest rate is lower doesn’t mean you’re better off refinancing, although that may seem counterintuitive. The costs of refinancing can easily run into the thousands. Although all of it doesn’t have to paid up-front, if interest rates aren’t substantially lower, it probably won’t be worth the time and money it will cost you to refinance. Some of the costs include:The application fee, which can be anywhere from $75-$300.
The loan origination fee, which is about 1% of the value of the loan principal.
The up-front points cost. A lender might charge you a “point,” which is a charge equal to 1% of the loan principal, in order to reduce your interest rate.
The appraisal, survey, and inspection fees, which cover the value of the home, the dimensions of the property, and hidden defects in the home. Collectively, they can cost anywhere from $700-$1400.
Attorney’s fees and fees to conduct a title search, which will cost between $1,000 and $2,000.;
, Once you’ve evaluated costs, interest rates, and lenders, you need to determine if and when a refinance will save you money. It might not save you enough money to be worth the hassle in up-front cash and paperwork.Luckily, this process is pretty simple with an online calculator. All you’ll need is your monthly mortgage statement, your income tax rate, and the new interest rate, loan origination fee, points paid, and closing costs.You can find a calculator at http://www.bankrate.com/calculators/mortgages/mortgage-refinance-break-even-calculator.aspx. That will tell you how long it will take for you to realize savings from the new mortgage, not counting any fees for appraisals and inspections.
 Another way to analyze your refinance savings is to calculate the total savings from reducing your loan term (the length of the loan's life). Start by multiplying the monthly payment of your current loan by the number of monthly payments remaining. This is the total cost of your current loan. Then, do the same for your refinance. The difference (current loan total minus refinance total) will be your savings.
 The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is one of the biggest factors in determining whether a lender will refinance, because the higher the loan is in relation to the value, the riskier the loan. Conventional wisdom says that a lender wants the loan to be worth no more than 80% of the value of the home, but that’s not an ironclad rule.If you qualify, you can finance more than 80 percent of your home value (up to 100 percent) using a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) refinance.
Before you pay a few hundred dollars for a written appraisal by a licensed inspector, check property tax assessments, sale prices of similar homes in your area, and estimated values from websites like Zillow and Trulia.
If the data are all over the place, you might need to go ahead and pay for an appraisal to make a decision on whether to proceed with the refinance. However, if the values are consistent across multiple sources and they are too low to meet that 80% mark, consider whether it’s worth it to go forward.
 You can check your score at http://www.myfico.com/Products/FICO-Score-1B-Report/.


Your credit score is composed of five factors. For most people, the amount of debt and the payment history represent roughly a third each. Length of credit history counts for about 15%, and new credit and the overall mix of credit each count for another 10%.If your credit score is below 700, your interest rates are going to increase substantially. The quickest way to improve your score is to pay down credit cards that are near the credit limit and get current on any accounts that are behind. Depending on how low your score is now, it may take just a few months to improve your score.
 Although it might seem like all lenders are the same, you can actually save quite a bit of money by shopping around. Credit unions in particular can be good options, because credit unions are nonprofit institutions. Look for differences in origination fees, closing costs, and points paid.There can be substantial differences in fees between lenders, even if interests rates are the same or similar. Some lenders even offer streamlined refinancing, which offer lowered fees and less paperwork to customers with stable incomes and good credit history., If you decide that refinancing is the smart option for you, you’ll need to provide the lender with copies of your pay stubs for the previous two or three months. Your pay stubs are evidence of your ability to repay the loan.If you’ve lost your pay stubs, your employer can give you a copy.
It you’re self-employed, provide profit and loss statements for the previous year instead.
 Your tax statements provide additional proof of income security and employment history in the form of tax returns and W-2s and/or 1099s. This tells your lender about the stability of your employment history, your overall tax rate, and capital gains or losses.If you draw wages or salary from a company and taxes are automatically removed from your paycheck, then you will have W-2s. If you are self-employed or an independent contractor, you’ll have 1099s.
 The statement of assets is the converse of the statement of outstanding debt, a formal documentation of the things you own outright. This includes but is not limited to:Titles to real property or automobiles.
Savings and checking accounts. The lender will want to make sure you have enough liquidity, or spending power, to pay closing costs and two months’ worth of house payments.
Balances of retirement account and CDs.
Stocks and bonds.
 Your statement of outstanding debt is exactly what it sounds like—an accounting of all of your total debt obligations. The lender will want official documentation from your creditors of your current debt picture. This includes but is not limited to:Documentation of mortgage debt, like your monthly mortgage statement.
A copy of your monthly car note.
Your student loan statement.
Any bills for lines of credit, including home equity lines of credit and credit cards.
 Your net worth is the difference between your total assets and your total outstanding debt. Subtract all of the debt on your statement of outstanding debt from your assets listed on your statement of assets to arrive at your net worth. This number represents how much you would own if you were forced to settle all of your debts immediately.

