 Different flavors produce different strengths in a dish. Certain types of flavors and spices will be the main thing you taste when eating. Other flavors and spices provide a more subtle taste. Know the general strengths of ingredients to build the right flavor profile.Things like meat, mushrooms, and beans provide what are known as low notes. They are the subtle flavors lingering under other tastes in a dish.
Mid notes are very subtle flavors. While they help inform the taste of a dish, they are not immediately noticeable. Things like raw vegetables and chicken provide mid notes.
High notes define the flavor of a dish. They are the strongest, most notable flavors. In general, spices, citrus, herbs, and peppers make up high notes.;
, Some ingredients round out the flavor in a dish. this means they bring ingredients together and create a unified taste. You rarely taste these flavors, but they're important to unify a dish. Low notes include things like butter, cream, sugar, and salt., For something savory, use the right ingredients to create a strong flavor profile. Savory foods contain ingredients that are saltier and generally not very sweet. Vegetables, meats, and soups can all be cooked with a savory profile.Ingredients that round out savory profiles are things like salt, hard cheeses, and fish pastes.
High notes are things like soy sauce, miso, seaweed, fish sauce, and pickled vegetables.
Low notes are things like cured meats, such as bacon, tomatoes, and mushrooms.
 A sweet profile can be used for a number of foods. Many side dishes, like sweet potatoes, are sweetened before being served. Opt for the right mix of flavors to create a sweet profile.Honey, jam, sugar, and maple syrup are used to round out a sweet flavor profile.
Low and mid-notes for a sweet profile include mostly vegetables. Things like sweet potatoes, corn, carrots, and squash work here. Most fruit can also be used to provide low or mid notes for a sweet profile.
For your high notes, molasses, ketchup, and barbecue sauce can be used. Different types of vinegar, like balsamic and apple cider vinegar, also work well.
 In addition to a flavor profile on its own, adding a splash of sour flavor can help round out sweet and savory foods served together. For example, sweet and sour chicken helps blend the sweet sauce with the savory chicken.Round out a sour flavor profile with ingredients like lemon, lime, or orange juice. You can also use vinegars such as sherry, red, rice, balsamic, and apple cider vinegar.
Tomatoes can provide mid or high notes for a sour profile.
For high notes, try ingredients like tomato paste, yogurt, sour cream, and pickled vegetables.
 Bitter flavors are not used often for main meals, but you may want to add a mild bitter flavor to balance out something very sweet or savory. Bitter flavors may also be used in desserts, dips, or side dishes. Bitter flavors generally do not have a mix of high or low notes and are only tossed in to balance out other flavors.Things like coffee, cocoa powder, grapefruit juice, or beer create a bitter flavor.
Green vegetables, like kale, spinach, and broccoli also provide a touch of bitterness.
 Spice is generally used in sweet, savory, or sour flavor profiles. It can work well to balance out sour and sweet foods. You can add spice by throwing things like hot sauce, wasabi, horse radish, or spicy peppers into a dish. Food like arugula and radishes also have a spicy flavor.