 You might think PETA only stands against cruelty to animals, but there is much more to the organization than that. PETA has many other values and ideas that you might not be aware of.


There are people who believe PETA is an extremist group. There have been instances of scientists losing their jobs or having their reputations destroyed by animal activist groups like PETA. While this is uncommon, it is important to consider when evaluating how your values align with PETA’s.Understanding how the public views PETA is also important if you are considering volunteering for them. You want to make sure you know what you are supporting in its entirety, so you can feel comfortable doing so.
 This organization has been around since 1980, and its campaigns and information have reached people worldwide.Go to their website and read articles about their history and the background of their organization.


PETA is known for getting involved in politics, and their stance on the issue of things like animal testing are very clear and assertive.Like any political affiliation, you will want to do your research to see how your beliefs align with theirs.
 There are many ways to get in touch with PETA representatives, through e-mail or by phone. On their website, they list various reasons for getting in touch; just select your reason for contacting them and send them an e-mail.PETA has an emergency number you can call if an animal is in immediate danger and your local police have been unresponsive. Use this option only in a true emergency.
Via e-mail, you can ask any questions you might still have about the organization after researching them further online.
 There have been many documentaries that PETA has participated in making. The film titled “I Am an Animal” follows PETA president Ingrid New Kirk through her daily life as an animal rights activist.Some animal rights activism films have graphic content, so make sure you are prepared to view such content prior to watching any of these films.
You can purchase “I Am an Animal” from PETA’s website, or rent it from your favorite movie rental service.

