 List factors that led to the decision to change, such as performance gaps, new technology, or a shift in the organization's mission.


One approach is to describe the current situation of the organization, and the future situation this plan intends to create.;
, Briefly describe the expected nature of the change management project. Determine whether this will affect job roles, process changes, policy changes, and/or structural organization. List the departments, work groups, systems, or other components that may undergo change., List all stakeholders affected by the plan, for example senior management, project manager, project sponsor, end users, and/or employees affected by the change. For each one, write whether the stakeholder supports the change.


Consider a chart to communicate this clearly and succinctly. One possible template lists Awareness, Degree of Support, and Influence for each stakeholder, rated on a scale of High/Medium/Low.If possible, conduct one-on-one interviews to gauge support.
 This team is responsible for communicating with all stakeholders, listening to concerns, and ensuring that the change goes as smoothly as possible. Choose people with high credibility in the organization, and good communication skills.This should include a change sponsor at the senior executive level.Stress that this involves active work promoting the changes, not just a sign-off on the plan.
 Complete support from organization heavyweights is critical for the success of the change. Allow each senior staff member to provide feedback on the change, and work with each one to create an active role in demonstrating and championing the changes., For each stakeholder, including those who support the change, assess the risks and concerns involved. Assign the change management team the task of addressing these concerns.
 Communication is the most important component of change management. Communicate frequently with every person affected. Reinforce the reasons behind the change, and the benefits it will bring.


Stakeholders should receive personal, two-way communication. Face to face meetings are essential.Communication should come from the high-level change sponsor, from the direct supervisor of each employee, and from any additional spokespersons the stakeholder trusts.All communication should have a consistent message.
 There is always resistance to change. This happens on the individual level, so communicate with stakeholders personally to discover the cause. Monitor grievances so the change management team can address them. These concerns commonly include:No motivation to change, or no sense of urgency
No understanding of the bigger picture or why the change is necessary
Lack of input in the process
Uncertainty concerning job security, future role, or future job requirements and skills
Failure of management to meet expectations concerning change implementation or communication

, Many grievances should be met by an increase in communication, or a change in communication strategy that addresses specific issues. Others require additional approaches, which may be included in your plan or left to the change management team to implement as necessary. Consider which of these is right for your organization:


For any change in job roles or process, make employee training a top priority.If you expect low morale or a stressful transition, alleviate this with a company event or employee perks.If stakeholders are not motivated to change, provide incentives.If stakeholders feel left out of the loop, hold a meeting to gather feedback and consider alterations to the plan.

