 Engage your interest in casual conversations, which can sometimes lead into talking about whether or not they're with someone. They may even drop a name!


Ask the person what they've been up to recently. Try to draw out answers that will make them say "I did this with my girlfriend." Asking about their weekend is a good bet.
A definite hint is if they refer to a "we" when talking about past or future plans and events. You might also look for non-verbal signals that someone is already taken. Are they constantly on their phone, texting and smiling? Are they always busy or running off to meeting other people?
Talking to the person could also be useful for you, too. You'll get to know them a little better. You can figure out whether or not you really like them and want to pursue them further.
 If your love interest says something funny, ask "what does your girlfriend/boyfriend think about that?" or "I bet your girlfriend/boyfriend doesn't laugh at those jokes." Or, if you're discussing something the person likes to do or somewhere they like to go, ask "Do you and girlfriend/boyfriend go there a lot?"You can also try asking "So where's your girlfriend/boyfriend?", especially if you've only met the person recently. If they are dating someone, they will answer the question. If they don't, they might be slightly confused or laugh and say, "Oh, I don't have a girlfriend/boyfriend." This gives you the perfect opportunity to flirt by saying, "Well, I just assumed a person as (insert an adjective) as you would already have a girlfriend/boyfriend." This approach allows you to get your game on by complimenting and flirting with the person you like.
Try acting like you're settling some sort of argument. For example, say, "Do you like when your girlfriend/boyfriend calls you a lot? My friend doesn't think she should call her boyfriend everyday. What's your opinion?" Go on using this tactic until you find out.
Remember that even if this line of questioning helps you figure out that your love interest is not in a relationship, it doesn't necessarily mean that they like you. However, at least you're in the picture at this point!, Their partner might suddenly show up.


You might also be able to figure out whether or not your interest is with someone else based on how they act with YOU. If someone likes you, they will try to spend time with you. That's the clearest indication. If they don't make time to see you, it may mean that he is a) with someone else; b) not interested enough; c) not in a time in their life when they feel ready to pursue a relationship., The easiest solution is to be straight-forward and ask the person you're interested in if they are currently in a relationship. Be careful, as this will almost certainly tell them that you're romantically interested and there is no real way to backtrack from that. Nevertheless, this is quickest and most assured way of getting a definite answer.


If feeling bold, just go right ahead and ask them out. If you ask, then they should disclose if they're in a relationship. Of course, it's still possible that they may say "yes" to going out with you AND be in a relationship with someone else, but that's another issue entirely!

