 Although you shouldn’t over-shampoo your hair, condition it whenever possible. Conditioner doesn’t strip dirt away from hair, like shampoo does, but adds in the moisture and reduces cuticle swelling.Invest in a high-quality conditioner if you suffer from dry hair. The few extra dollars will give you a product that goes the extra distance for your hair.;
, Leave-in conditioner comes either in cream or in spray-bottle form; use whichever method feels better on your hair. Towel-dry your hair until it’s partially dry, then apply leave-in conditioner and allow your hair to air-dry the rest of the way.


Leave-in conditioners come in a wide range of prices, and can be found in any grocer or convenience store.As with any product, investing more money will yield better results.



Apply the mask throughout your hair, from root to tip.
Tie it back in a bun if you have long hair.
Cover your head with a shower cap to prevent the mask from rubbing off on clothing and furniture.
Leave the mask in for at least an hour.
Take a shower to rinse the product from your hair.
 Many natural oils are a great source of nutrition and moisture for hair. If store-bought chemicals make you nervous, use natural oils instead. Use the same process as you would for store-bought masks: apply the oil throughout your hair from root-to-tip, cover it with a shower cap, and let it sit in your hair for at least an hour before rinsing it out.


Coconut oil is a popular super-oil that people use on both skin and hair.Avocado oil is a good source of vitamins A, B, D, and E, as well as protein, amino acids, iron, copper, magnesium, and folic acid.Argan oil not only treats dryness, but also can be used to treat split ends.Olive oil is a great product that you probably just have sitting around your kitchen anyway., Honey is a great source of nutrients and adds moisture to dry or damaged hair.


Mix ¼ cup of raw honey with enough apple cider vinegar to make it manageable to spread through your hair.
Take a shower to clean your hair.
Apply the honey and water mixture to damp, clean hair.
Cover it with a shower cap.
Let it sit for at least half an hour.
Shower again to wash it from your hair.
Replace the water with either apple cider vinegar or a nourishing oil (like coconut, argan, or olive oil) if you want extra conditioning power.



Mix 1 tablespoon each of avocado oil and olive oil, and apply evenly throughout your hair. Let sit for an hour before rinsing.
Mash two avocados well in a bowl. Work through damp hair from root to tip, then cover with a shower cap and let sit for fifteen to twenty minutes before rinsing.
Make sure to mash the avocado very well to avoid big chunks and ensure even application throughout your hair.



Blend 3 ripe, peeled bananas with 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of honey, 2 tablespoons of yogurt, and a tablespoon of milk in a blender.
Take a shower to clean your hair.
Apply the mixture to damp, clean hair.
Cover with shower cap.
Let sit for at least an hour.
Wash your hair clean.
, While the lather might make you feel like you’re getting clean, the sulphates actually strips your hair of important natural oils. Low-sulphate and sulphate-free shampoos will get your hair just as clean, though you’ll have to get used to lather-less showers.


Low-sulphate shampoos are available at most grocery stores.
If not, check your local beauty supply store or salon.



Dissolve one tablespoon of baking soda in a cup of water until it dissolves, and use that to wash your hair in the shower.Baking soda alone will dry out your hair, so always follow it up with apple cider vinegar, which is a natural moisturizer.Mix equal parts apple cider vinegar and water, and pour it over your hair after the baking soda mixture has been rinsed from your hair.
Rinse all mixtures from your hair.
 Regular exposure to blow-dryers dry out your hair and cause heat damage.Allow your hair to air-dry as often as possible, and always use protective products (purchased easily at a grocery or convenience store) if you have to blow dry.

