 Poison sumac typically grows into a shrub or tree about 5–20 ft (1.5–6 m) in height, but may occasionally grow even taller. The branches may or may not be covered with leaves along their length, but either way the growth pattern of poison sumac tends to produce a fairly open result, rather than a thick bush of foliage.Large poison sumac trees, like other species of sumac, often grow long, thin branches that sag or tilt downward.;
, Before poison sumac grows into a full sized shrub or tree, it may be relatively upright, with small branches with red stems growing along the entire height of the trunk. In this case, its leaves and branches usually have a noticeable upward tilt, especially near the top of the tree., Poison sumac has a pinnate leaf structure, meaning that each stem has two parallel rows of leaves growing along its length. Each stem usually has between six and twelve leaves, plus an additional single leaf at the end.Young stems are typically red or red-brown, but this color may fade to brown or grey as the plant ages.


Technically, the leaves of a pinnate leaf are called leaflets, but these look like an ordinary leaf, roughly 2–4 inches (5–10 cm) long.
 The leaves of this plant have an oval or oblong shape, tapering to a wedge or point on each end. The sides of the leaf may appear wavy or smooth, but will not have the jagged "tooth" appearance of some non-poisonous sumac trees., Poison sumac is deciduous, so the leaves change color throughout the year. Newly grown spring leaves may be bright orange, becoming light green during spring and summer, changing to red during autumn, then falling off the plant entirely.The underside of poison sumac leaves, at any time of year, may be either smooth or hairy, making it a poor way to identify the plant.



Warning: The fallen leaves may still be poisonous to the touch. Never burn leaves or wood collected near a poison sumac tree, as inhaling poison sumac smoke can be dangerous or even fatal., During the spring and summer, poison sumac may have pale yellow or green flowers.These small flowers grow in clusters along their own, green stems, separate from the red leafy stems., During summer or fall, the plant may have replaced its flowers with small green or yellow berries. Over the course of the fall and winter, these will mature into clusters of white and grey berries, hanging down on stems up to 12 inches (30 cm) long.If the berries are red, and the rest of the plant fits the description above, the plant is most likely a non-poisonous member of the sumac family.The berries may be eaten by animals or fall off naturally during winter. Do not assume they will always be present.
 Poison sumac is still poisonous without its leaves, but it can be much harder to identify. If you're lucky, it will still have hanging clusters of white or pale yellow berries which you can use as a warning sign. After the first few weeks of winter, however, you are more likely to see thin, empty stems hanging from the branches, similar in appearance to light brown grape stems.
 Identifying the poisonous bark of poison sumac can be difficult once all the foliage and berries have fallen off. Use the habitat section below to know which areas sumac may grow in, and steer clear of any trees with rough, grey bark.

