 In order to execute this standard gymnastic move, you'll need to swing your arms down and bend your legs into a crouch, then spring up into the air with a sharp motion. You will extend your arms in a "T," and you will spread and raise your legs in a sort of aerial "splits." You'll reach toward your toes, but you don't need to actually touch them. Beyond practicing the move itself, you can prepare for a successful toe touch by stretching all of the muscles and tendons that you will use: your quads, your calves, your back, your arms, your shoulders.;
, This basic stretch is sometimes referred to as a "toe touch" as well, and it is a great way to prepare yourself for the cheerleading "toe touch" move. Start by standing with your feet together, your back straight, and your hands hanging loosely at your sides. Bend forward at the waist, and reach your hands down toward your toes. Reach as far as you can, then hold your arms and hands steady where they fall. Gradually bend and unbend at the waist, reaching further down each time, until you can touch your toes.


Be sure to keep your knees straight. Bending your knees will make it easier to touch your toes, but it won't help you build flexibility.
You may not be able to touch your toes on the first day, or at all. Everyone's body is different. Even if you can't physically touch your toes, however, the act of reaching further and further toward the ground should improve your flexibility.
 Dynamic stretching is one of the best ways to prepare for an active move like the toe touch. Jumping jacks are relatively easy to do, and they simulate some of the motions that you'll go through as you execute your toe touch. Try to snap sharply through the jumping jacks – you want to be tight and precise, not loose and sloppy.
 Sit on the ground with your legs out in front of you. Then, slowly spread your legs into a "V," as far as they will go without lifting them from the ground. Gently reach your arms down toward one foot, and lean into the stretch as far as feels comfortable. Touch your toe and hold it for 10-60 seconds. Then, straighten back up and repeat with the other foot.After you've stretched each side, try bending your torso forward and extending your arms down the center of the leg "V." Then, try bending forward with one arm reaching down each leg. Hold and repeat these poses until you no longer feel tight.
 You'll need to rotate your hips backward as you jump in order to spread your legs in the way you want. Build strength in your hip joints before you try to toe touch to reduce the risk of pulling a muscle. Sit on the ground with your legs spread and your back straight, and place one hand by each knee. Then, point your toes and raise your legs a few inches off of the ground.Do not hold this stretch for long. Lift your legs, then lower them – then lift them again, then lower them. Perform 10 repetitions of the lift-lower cycle, then give yourself a short break before continuing.
Work your hip flexors every couple of days to build power and flexibility. This is one of the most important motions that you'll need for your toe touch. Take it seriously!

