 Set the oven to 200 degrees Fahrenheit (90 degrees Celsius) and let it completely warm up.


Make sure that the racks inside the oven are rearranged as needed so that the leather piece can fit inside without brushing against the racks or the sides of the oven.
This method should work well with most types of leather, but vegetable tanned leather is still the easiest to work with. Also note that it tends to be a good method to use if you are trying to stiffen leather than has already been formed and does not need any additional shaping.
 When the oven is hot enough, place the leather inside and bake it for about 30 minutes. The leather needs to be notably hot to the touch when you take it out of the oven.


The heat itself plays an important part in the stiffening process. Essentially, it liquifies some of the molecules in the leather, causing them to break down and become more flexible. When those molecules solidify again, they do so in a structure that is even harder than the leather's original chemical structure.
If you allow the leather to get too hot, however, it can become too brittle by the end of the process.
 Place a block of beeswax into a double boiler and heat it until it completely liquifies. Do this step as the leather bakes so that the leather and the wax will be hot enough to proceed at the same time.


Beeswax is the wax of choice, but you can use melted candles or nearly any other type of wax, as well.
To melt the wax:

Heat 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water in the bottom part of a double boiler placed on the stove over medium-high heat.
Place the wax inside the top part of the double boiler.
As the wax begins to melt, stir it with a disposable spoon or chopstick. Continue until the melts completely.
 Take the leather out of the oven and place it on a few sheets of newspaper. Load a large paintbrush with melted wax and brush the wax onto the hot leather using even strokes.


The leather should soak up the hot wax. If it does not do so, the leather is not yet hot enough and should be returned to the oven.
Continue brushing the wax onto the leather until the leather cools and no longer absorbs the wax.
 After your initial coat of wax, place the leather back into the oven and heat it for another 20 minutes or so. Remove it from the oven and brush the surface with an additional coating of melted wax.


You should repeat this process until the leather no longer absorbs any more wax, even when hot.
One way to tell that the leather can no longer absorb wax is to look at the coloring. The wax will alter the color of the leather slightly. If the entire surface of the leather is an even color, it has likely absorbed as much wax as possible throughout the entire piece.
 Let the leather cool and dry completely. When done, it should be extremely hard and nearly impossible to bend.

