 Look over your dog’s coat and notice if it looks duller than usual. The color of their coat may not be as vibrant or not as bright. You may also notice if your dog’s skin is flaking under their coat and if their coat appears less healthy than usual. These are possible signs that your dog’s food is not providing the nutrients they need to maintain a shiny, healthy coat.You may try brushing your dog’s coat to get a sense of whether it looks duller than usual. You may also feel your dog’s coat to see if it feels brittle or dry.
 You may notice that your dog is developing a rounded middle or an enlarged abdominal area. Look at your dog from behind and see if you notice they are developing a rounder belly. This could be a sign that your dog is overweight due to their diet.If your dog’s abdominal area appears swollen or enlarged, this could also be a symptom of a medical issue such as a torsion, Cushing's disease, or cancer.You should bring your dog to the vet right away, especially if your dog appears to be in pain.
 You should check if your dog has any irritated patches of skin on their coat or any signs of a rash. These could be symptoms of an allergy or an allergic reaction to the food they are eating as part of their diet.Many dogs will develop allergies to certain ingredients in their food over time. Switching their diet or adding a different food source to their diet can help to reduce their allergic reaction.
 You should observe your dog's weight and pay attention to any signs that they are losing weight too fast or becoming too skinny. If you notice your dog appears much skinnier than usual, it may be a sign that your dog is due for a diet change. You can determine your dog's ideal weight by considering their breed, their age, and their gender. Often, your dog is at their ideal weight if their rib bones are visible and easy to feel on their body.You can look up your dog's ideal weight by searching their weight range based on their breed.Your vet can also help you determine if your dog is at a healthy weight.
 Body condition scoring is a scale from one to nine that provides a rough idea of your dog's physical health. A score of four or five is ideal. Under four, your dog may be malnourished. Over five and your dog may be overweight. To judge the dog's body condition, both examine and feel your dog's ribs, vertebra, pelvic bones, and waist.

Under ideal (Score 1-3): the dog's ribs, vertebra, and bones are visible. You may be able to feel their hips protruding. The dog appears starved, and there may be few or no signs of muscle.
Ideal (Score 4-5): you can feel the dog's ribs, but you may not be able to see them clearly. The ribs may even be covered by a thin layer of fat. The dog has an apparent waist.
Over ideal (Score 6 and over): the dog's waist is not visible. There is a layer of fat covering the ribs, and in extreme cases, you may not be able to feel the ribs. You can feel fat covering the dog's spine, thorax, and the base of the tail.