 If you're feeling overwhelmed, the worry can really eat you up and prevent sleep. Get everyone helping out with the cleaning, baking, cooking, wrapping, decorating and preparing, just so that you don't feel the stress as much. Each person will have something useful to contribute and it helps to make everyone feel involved instead of left out. And when everyone knows that all the preparations are in place, hopefully everyone will get a good night's sleep and feel happy about it.;
, Maybe go to the theatre, or the bowling alley. This will spend a whole day, and will make the time go fast (unless you don't enjoy it). By the time you get home, it will be at least 6pm if you go to the city or into town. Then think about what you have done during the day when you are lying in bed, instead of thinking about christmas day. This will make you eventually drift off to sleep. Remember, these are only tips, this may not work in all situations.

Recognize that keeping busy during the day is a good thing but only if you're productive and not simply running around in circles worrying. Check off everything on a To Do list and make the most of the time. If something is trivial or can be done another time, drop it.
 Food itself doesn't necessarily make you sleepy (unless you over-indulge) but there are some foods that are beneficial at helping you to fall asleep better. These include foods rich in vitamin B, calcium, magnesium, essential fatty acids and the amino acid tryptophan. Indeed, tryptophan is used by your brain to make sleep-inducing chemicals, in combination with the previously mentioned nutrients. You might want to forget about the beer or cider or wine you are having tonight as this will keep you awake (or anything of fizzy matter). Therefore, for your meals and snacks, have some of these soporific foods:

Potatoes (boiled, mashed, baked or steamed); avoid fatty versions such as fries or roasted potatoes







Sliced banana on wholemeal toast or bread






Dates as a snack
Wholegrain bread with lettuce.
If you know that certain foods cause you to have an upset tummy, avoid having these during Christmas Eve because a rumbling or sore stomach will likely keep you awake.
Don't eat a heavy meal on Christmas Eve; keep all meals light and easily digestible.
 Warm milk is ideal to help induce sleep or a chamomile tea if you don't like milk. Avoid alcohol, which can make it harder to fall asleep or can cause poor sleep with periods of waking during the night, leaving you unrefreshed the next morning.


Other herbal teas of benefit in aiding sleep include lime flower, catnip, lemon balm and hops.Celery seed or valerian teas can also be beneficial.
Be sure to empty your bladder before bedtime. Waking up during the night might lead to an inability to fall back asleep again because you know you are awake and you know it is Christmas, this will make you excited and unable to sleep thinking about it and you might start worrying about money again.
To make a soothing bedtime drink, add 1 tbsp honey and 1/8 to 1/4 tsp nutmeg to a mug of hot milk and drink right away.
 If you like meditating, use it on Christmas Eve to calm your nerves and to restore a sense of balance. Meditation can be beneficial after you've been rushing around a lot, worrying about things like family feuds and budgets or feeling overwhelmed. It will give you the energy and space to focus better and also help you to handle excitement or stress by putting the extreme feelings into perspective. If you don't know how to meditate, simply find a spot to sit in peace and reflect calmly. Stop doing everything you're doing, stop fidgeting, worrying, doing. Simply sit and give yourself 15 minutes of time out from everything to relax. Any method that dulls the stress and excitement will help to prevent sleeping problems.
 Exercise for about 30 minutes will help to prepare your body for sleep. Just be sure to avoid vigorous exercise in the last 3 hours before bedtime, as you don't want to be hyped up. An evening walk, run or dog walk is a good way to get some last-minute exercise in.

