 The eating habits of wild rabbits vary based on season. Choose different types of food for fall/winter months than you would for the spring/summer.


From early spring to the beginning of fall, wild rabbits feed primarily on grass, clover, wildflowers, weeds, and the kinds of crops that grow in gardens. Making a rabbit friendly area of your yard or garden where you grow these types of plants might be a good idea during these months. You can also leave a box or trough out containing grass, clover, etc., in an area where you've seen wild rabbits congregating.In late fall until spring, a rabbit's diet shifts. They eat buds, twigs, bark, needles, and any fresh plants they can find. You should leave such foliage out over the winter if you want to feed wild rabbits during this month.;
, Rabbits love grass and hay. Providing these snacks in a rabbit friendly area will draw wild rabbits to your yard.


You can try letting the grass grow tall in a certain portion of your yard. You can sprinkle bits of hay or leave barrels of hay in this area as well.If you're an avid gardener, you could leave a certain area of your garden exposed without fencing or other barriers. In this area, you can plant tall grass, clovers, weeds, and the kinds of wildflowers rabbits love and also leaves troughs of hay out. This will attract wild rabbits to your garden to eat., Wild rabbits enjoy vegetables such as fresh carrots, lettuce, and spinach. However, you should not overfeed wild rabbits fresh veggies as they're not digesting these kinds of plants.


Do not introduce fresh veggies all of a sudden. Mix in a small amount of leafy greens or carrots in with hay or grass. If you see young rabbits in your garden, it might be a good idea to avoid vegetables as rabbits under the age of 6 months should not ingest them.Always wash any vegetables you leave out for wild rabbits. If you buy vegetables from a supermarket, they're likely sprayed with pesticides before being packaged and sold. You want to make sure any chemicals that may be harmful to wild rabbits are washed off before feeding them fruits and veggies., Commercial rabbit pellets, the kind you would buy for a domestic rabbit, can be an excellent addition to a wild rabbit's diet.


Make sure you select pellets with seeds. This type of pellet is optimal for the health of wild rabbits.Feed pellets at a minimum and mix them in with things like hay, grass, and veggies. Pellets are a concentrated food source and wild rabbits may not be used to digesting them. As they do not rely solely on pellets for sustenance, as do domestic rabbits, they do not need to be fed pellets in as great amounts.