 Your skin changes as you age, especially during puberty, and looking for products in the skincare aisle at the drugstore can be confusing. There are so many options! Which should you choose? To find the right cleanser for your skin, it is important to first determine your current skin type:Normal skin is not too oily and not too dry, with minimal blemishes and no severe sensitivity to products or weather.
Oily skin often appears shiny or greasy, even if you recently washed your face. Oily skin is also prone to blemishes and larger pores.
Dry skin is often flaky, with more visible lines and some reddish patches of skin.
Sensitive skin is often mistaken for dry skin because it typically appears dry and red; however, the difference is that sensitive skin is often a result of a particular ingredient in a skin care product.
Combination skin is when you have patches of skin that are oily in some areas and dry or normal in others. Combination skin is typically oily around the T-zone (the T-shaped area created by your forehead, nose, and chin) and normal to dry on the rest of the face.;
, Before you start cleansing the skin on your face, be sure to wash your hands with warm water and soap to kill all the germs and remove dirt and grime. You wouldn’t want to rub more germs all over your face, would you?

, It is very important to cleanse your face every morning and every night before bed, especially if you wear makeup or are prone to breakouts. Keep in mind:Don’t use water that is extremely hot or extremely cold since this can damage your skin and trap grease and dirt inside your pores.

Gently massage your face with slow, circular motions. Don't scrub! Scrubbing will cause skin irritation, redness, or breakouts.
Treat the skin around your eyes extra gently, as it is the most delicate, sensitive skin on your face. Plus you don’t want to end up with cleanser in your eyes!
Don’t over-wash your face! Even if you have oily skin, over-washing can cause dryness, and your skin will produce more oil to compensate, which means you could end up with oilier, more blemished skin.
 For some skin types and conditions, exfoliating can be helpful, such as those with sun damage. However, for other skin types, such as those with cystic acne, exfoliating can damage your skin. Check with a dermatologist to be sure if exfoliating is right for you.Choose a scrub that’s designed for your skin type and that is not too harsh. Some varieties include:


Mild scrubs containing beads, sugar, salt or other types of natural exfoliators.
Soft skincare brushes. These can be manual or oscillating brushes that you squeeze your cleanser or a mild scrub into before gently rubbing the brush on your face.
Treatment masks that include mild acids like alpha-hydroxy acid or beta-hydroxy acid to slough off dead skin. Be very careful with this option and be sure to read the directions!

, Using lukewarm water, gently rinse the cleanser from your face either with a clean washcloth or by cupping your hands under the sink and carefully splashing water onto your face.Be sure all of the cleanser is removed, as any remaining cleanser can clog your pores and cause irritation and blemishes., Also, it is important to pat, not rub, your face dry in order to treat the skin as gently as possible.
 Apply moisturizer to your face after you dry it off.Many people skip this step, but applying a moisturizer designed for your particular skin type is very important post-cleansing. Moisturizers seal in the existing water in your skin so it doesn’t evaporate, which dries out your skin. You may need more moisturizer, or a thicker moisturizer, during the winter months.
 In addition to removing dirt and oil that can cause body acne, showering or bathing once a day will help wash away the bacteria that causes body odor.While very hot water should be avoided because it strips the skin of important oils, use warmer water when cleaning your body than you would on your face in order to kill the bacteria.
 As with cleaning your face, it is important that your hands and the products you use to clean your body are hygienic. Bar soap and body wash are sanitary, but loofahs, scrubbers, and washcloths, especially ones that are shared, are not. Be sure every member in your house only uses their own products and wash or replace these regularly!, Using a clean washcloth or loofah, focus your gentle, circular motions on areas that are prone to breakouts, like the chest, neck, and back.


Don't exfoliate too much because this can make body acne worse and irritate your skin., The skin on your body is less delicate than your face, but it is still important to only use a clean towel to dry off. Stay in the humid, steamy bathroom and towel off until you are only a bit damp, and then apply moisturizer to your entire body before exiting.The steam helps with long-lasting hydration because the moisturizer sinks into your pores while they are still open.
 Cleaning the skin on your hands multiple times a day is extremely important for your health and for the health of others. Germs are everywhere, and some can make people very sick so it is important to wash your hands often, but especially:After using the bathroom or changing a diaper
After playing outside
Before and after visiting anyone who is sick
After blowing your nose or coughing, especially if you are sick
Before eating, serving, or helping to make any food
If your hands look dirty

, You can use an antibacterial soap if you prefer, but regular soap will work just as well. Just be sure to use soap every time you wash your hands! Rinsing with water might make your hands look clean, but they will still be covered in germs. This is important to do whether you are in a public restroom or at home, as germs and bacteria are everywhere., Don’t just cup the soap in your hand and pass it back and forth between your palms. To really clean the skin on your hands, it is important to lather the soap onto both sides of the hands, in-between the fingers, under and around the nails, and up onto your wrists. You should do this for at least 20 seconds., If you are at home or a friend’s house, be sure the hand towel is clean. If you are using a public restroom, use the paper towel to dry off your hands and then, still using the towel and not your bare hand, open the door and throw the towel away outside of the bathroom. A shocking number of people don’t wash their hands after using the bathroom, and those handles collect a lot of germs., The skin on your hands might not need to be moisturized after every hand washing, but they can get chapped just like any other type of skin post-cleansing. Try carrying around a small tube of hand-specific moisturizer, which tend to be less greasy and sink in faster than other moisturizers, so you can keep your hands clean and soft.

