 Every child develops differently. However, children with schizophrenia typically have severe language delays. Talk to your pediatrician if you believe your child is behind in that department.

For instance, if by age two your child says fewer than 50 words, doesn’t put words together to make a sentence, or has trouble communicating with children their age, they may have a language development disorder.;
, Children with psychosis may use words they invented or repeat the same words and phrases over and over again. They may talk so fast you can’t understand them or say back to you what you’ve said to them. Children with schizophrenia also jump from one unrelated topic to another abruptly or they may stop suddenly and forget what they were talking about.

You may also find that your child appears to be talking to someone who isn’t there. This could be because they hear voices or are experiencing hallucinations., You child may have spoken clearly for a number of years, but schizophrenia could have caused it to decline. The child may not have the ability to carry on a conversation anymore, or could have problems with clarity. Contact your pediatrician if your child’s speech has become unrecognizable or severely declined., Children with schizophrenia may be aggressive and violent. They may show these signs suddenly, if the illness is just beginning, or may have always had these tendencies. The child may also become agitated more easily than other children.

Violence among children isn’t always a sign of schizophrenia. Many other disorders cause these types of symptoms. And since schizophrenia in children is so rare, a visit with the doctor is crucial in determining if your child has psychosis or another disorder., Displaying behavior that is appropriate for children younger than yours is a sign of schizophrenia. They may revert back to being a toddler, or even a baby.

Your child may throw temper tantrums and act bizarrely, such as crawling or sucking their thumb. Watch carefully for these signs, as they could indicate your child has psychosis., Your child may not care about staying clean if they are beginning to experience the disorder. They may forget to shower, brush their hair and teeth, and even put new clothing on each day.

The reason for this could be because they lack the awareness needed to have good personal hygiene. It may also be a result of lacking motivation or the ability to maintain a schedule because of their disorder., Your child may begin to withdraw from their friends or family members when they begin to feel the effects of schizophrenia. They may become shy around them, not want to engage in conversation, and gradually isolate themselves. They may even act this way around people they’ve known their entire lives.

Also take note of if they are able to make new friends and keep them. Lasting friendships may be difficult for them because of their impairments. Their behaviors may make other children afraid or uncomfortable around them., Kids with schizophrenia often fear that something is out to get them. They may be nervous and anxious about fears that are unfounded. They may also be extremely suspicious about the people around them. Your child may also become so paranoid that they are scared to leave the house or engage in other activities they used to enjoy.

Paranoia plagues many children with schizophrenia because of the delusions they have. They may hear voices in their head telling them that they are in danger or they may be unable to separate reality from what is going on in their head., Schizophrenia can cause severe and abrupt mood swings. Your child may seem happy one minute and then enraged the next. The mood swings may be provoked or they may come out of nowhere., Children may have a difficult time empathizing with others and showing emotion in general. However, children with schizophrenia often have no emotions when they should, or they may show emotions that are inappropriate for the situation.

Interestingly, people with schizophrenia claim to feel a variety of emotions on the inside during certain situations. However, they are unable to display these feelings and experience what is known as the “flat affect.”, A child with psychosis may seem to be confused or out of sorts. This is often because of the voices, visions, and smells they experience that aren’t actually there. They may also have vivid and bizarre thoughts that you don’t understand.

A child with schizophrenia may also confuse television with real life. They may talk about something that they saw on TV as though it happened to them. They may deny that it didn’t take place when you try to explain to them the truth., As soon as you notice any peculiar symptoms that resemble schizophrenia, you should alert your child's doctor. Early detection is the best way to ensure your child has appropriate treatment and maintain quality of life. Keep a log to share with the doctor to assist in making a diagnosis.

You might record any behaviors out of the ordinary along with the date, time, and other contributing factors (i.e. potential triggers to the behavior or mood).
If you have a family history of schizophrenia, your child's risk increases. Let your doctor know of any immediate family members with the disorder., Since the symptoms of schizophrenia in children may closely resemble other conditions, you should see someone who has special experience screening for and treating psychotic disorders. You may consult with your child's pediatrician or a family doctor to receive a mental health referral.To diagnose schizophrenia, a child or adolescent psychiatrist will perform an in-depth review of symptoms and interview you and your child about their medical history and the family medical history. You might need to complete various questionnaires and your child may undergo psychological assessment.
 A child with schizophrenia may require a global treatment approach to prevent significant loss of functioning and ensure adherence to the treatment regiment. Your mental health provider may reach out to various other professionals such as assessment specialists, social workers, speech/language therapists, and play therapists.If your doctor does not suggest this approach, you may seek out these professionals to help with your child's case.

