 Fiber-rich foods are known to help stimulate your bowels. Unfortunately, these foods, such as many fruits and vegetables, often get overlooked in a person's daily diet. Don't think of veggies or fruits as optional side dishes, but as crucial parts of every balanced meal. Not only will these foods relieve constipation, but they will also promote digestive health by improving your diet. Recommended fiber intake varies greatly by age, sex, and other factors, so talk with your doctor or use an online tool to help you figure out how much you should be getting.Here are some foods to add to your diet:Avocado, split peas, broccoli, kale, green peas, and lentils
Bran cereal, oatmeal, brown rice, and flax seeds
Black beans, kidney beans, lima beans, navy beans, pinto beans, and soybeans
Raspberries, blackberries, strawberries, blueberries, and oranges
Cabbage and cauliflower
Almonds, dried figs, and olives
Papaya and peaches;
, If adding a few fiber-rich foods to your diet doesn't improve your problem, you can try a three-day fast of a high-fiber vegetable, or substituting one or two of your meals for foods that are entirely fiber-rich. This is not a good long-term solution because a balanced diet does require proteins and carbohydrates as well, but the three-day method can work in a pinch.


Cabbage is particularly good because it's not only high in fiber, but it has enzymes which encourage the entire digestive tract to "flush."
Cabbage can be prepared in a number of ways, including skillet frying, if the oil used is grape-seed oil or olive oil. You should vary your recipes so the three-day fast becomes enjoyable.
 Consider taking a fiber supplement even if you think you are able to get that much fiber from your daily meals. Though these supplements aren't guaranteed to work, they have helped people relieve their constipation in some cases. Some semi-synthetic or synthetic fibers, such as Citrucel, Metamucil, or Perdiem, can do the trick., Constipation can also be caused by insufficient hydration. Generally drink a minimum of 33-66 ounces (1.5-2 liters) per day, or more depending on your size, the weather, or amount of exercise. Constipation results from a lack of liquid in your stools, and hydrating can help this problem.


If you're having a bout of constipation, increase your water consumption for 3-4 days, starting with a big glass in the morning and drinking regularly throughout the day.
Water may not help with all forms of constipation, but can help relieve constipation caused by dehydration. Likewise, drinking water before and during meals may help prevent future constipation.Other drinks, such as juice and soda, cannot compare regardless of how healthy or natural they are, because they tend to contain excessive sugar that could actually exacerbate constipation., Prunes are especially high in fiber and contain sorbitol, a stool-loosening sugar that naturally helps relieve constipation. Sorbitol is a mild colonic stimulant that helps reduce transit time of stool and thus decrease the risk of constipation.If you don't like the wrinkly texture or unique taste of prunes, prune juice may be a more palatable alternative.


Prunes can be more effective for relieving constipation than prune juice. Prunes have 14.7g of sorbitol per 100g, whereas prune juice has 6.1g per 100g. You will have to drink more prune juice to achieve the same health benefits because the prunes are processed, and you will have to take in additional sugars.
 This requires that you eat a banana by thoroughly chewing it. Make sure that the banana is very ripe, not unripe, or it can have the opposite effect., Constipation can result from over consumption of refined sugar, and dairy in comparison to fiber from whole grains, bran, fruits and vegetables. Avoid foods that are high in sugar, like candy or cookies, as well as too much cheese, red meat, white bread, white rice, and hard boiled eggs. You don't have to cut these foods out of your diet completely, but you should cut down on these foods if you're having trouble evacuating your bowels. Here are some other foods to avoid:Chips and crackers
Frozen dinners, which are often high in fat and low in fiber
Cookies
Fried foods like fries, doughnuts, and onion rings
Heavily breaded foods
Dairy products like butter, ice cream, and cheeseRed meat

, Alcohol can dehydrate you and make you more constipated.Limiting or stopping your intake of alcohol can help you relieve your bowels.