 Our standards for beauty are majorly influenced by media, Hollywood, and popular culture. Through these outlets, we develop negative judgements of our bodies by comparing ourselves to photoshopped pictures and glamorized movie stars. These images are created and altered by computers and are not realistic goals to achieve. Popular media can be hard to ignore, but you can loosen the grip of majority rule by deciding to love your body because your body is real.Whenever you see an image in a magazine, commercial ad, or some other media outlet, remind yourself that the image is false. The person you are looking at has most likely been air brushed and altered to look like that. You should not compare yourself to computerized images.;
, Having love in your life starts with loving yourself. You should view and treat yourself with the same kindness and admiration you would with someone you love. You probably wouldn't critique another person's body for the same things you critique on yourself. Don't hesitate to give yourself a compliment, go easy on your mistakes, and forgive yourself when you mess up. Drop the self-hatred, and replace it with understanding and appreciation.Look in the mirror and say "I am attractive, confident, and amazing!" Keep that up and eventually you will see yourself in a more positive light.When you accomplish a goal, let yourself know how proud you are of yourself. Look into a mirror and say, "Great job, I am so proud of you."

, Appreciate what you have and love your inner-self. Do not let the number on the scale or your pant size define who you are or of what you are capable. Nothing good will come from being mean to yourself when you look in the mirror. Here are some ways to practice gratitude in your everyday life:When a bad situation presents itself, do not let it get you down. Instead, ask yourself what you can learn from it when you look back on it and what you may be grateful for.Make a vow not to be negative or criticize for ten days. If you slip up, forgive yourself and keep going. You will notice how much energy you were wasting on negative thoughts.Keep a gratitude journal to write down the things you are grateful for everyday. Your body is a miracle, and you should celebrate all of the gifts your body has given you. Think about all of your great accomplishments, relationships, and activities you love that your body has allowed you to have and record them everyday., Everyone has insecurities, but the key is focusing on what you like about yourself and your life. It can be easy to let the negatives outweigh the positives, but making a list can help prevent this.Start off by finding one thing that you like about yourself, no matter how small. Once you are feeling more confident in that thing, identify a second thing and so on. Build up a list of things you love about yourself, and when you hear a negative thought pop into your head, immediately refocus on the list. Eventually, you will see more positive qualities than negative.
 Stay away from people who often rant about their bodies. Their insecurities can rub off onto you and get you thinking about what problems you may have. Life is too precious to waste time self-loathing or knit-picking about your body, especially when your own self perceptions are usually more critical than what anyone else thinks.If someone starts to bash or criticize their own body or life, do not engage in the negativity. Instead, change the subject or make your exit.
 When you act like you have confidence, you will feel good about yourself. Even if you don't feel like you have any, pretend. Pull back your shoulders, tilt your head up, and smile. Smiling is one of the biggest things you can do to improve both your self-image and the way others see you. If you hold yourself confidently, inner confidence will follow.

