 Cats with separation anxiety will act out in various ways, including defecating outside of the litter box, spraying urine on the furniture, and grooming excessively. These actions could indicate separation anxiety, or indicate a medical problem. If your cat is showing these symptoms, take it to your vet for an examination.It is important to rule out health problems before treating a cat for separation anxiety. Possible health problems include:Urinary tract infection
Intestinal disease
Hormonal disorders, such as hyperthyroidism
Skin disease (mites, fleas);
, After you tell your vet about your cat’s symptoms, allow your vet to perform a physical examination and other diagnostic tests. Diagnostic tests, such as blood work, urinalysis, and skin scrapes (thin scraping of the skin with a scalpel blade) will help your vet determine if your cat has a health problem. If an illness is present, your vet will prescribe the appropriate treatment.


Treating the illness should resolve the symptoms.
If your cat is healthy, separation anxiety is the likely cause of the symptoms.
 If your cat has separation anxiety, you and your vet can discuss ways to help your cat feel less anxious. Treatment for separation anxiety typically involves environmental enrichment and, if necessary, medication to relieve anxiety. Your vet will likely advise you to try environmental enrichment first before putting your cat on medication.


Environmental enrichment is a way to make a pet’s environment more interesting and enjoyable.
 If your cat has separation anxiety, you can lessen its anxiety by enriching its environment. With plenty of things to do and focus on, your cat won’t feel so distressed when you’re not around. A window perch will let your cat look outside.If you have a front or back porch, consider placing a bird feeder on the porch where your cat could see it.Perches are available at your local pet store.
Consider moving the perch to different windows so your cat can experience different outdoor views.
 Scratching posts benefit cats in several ways. They allow cats to stretch their muscles, mark their territory, and simply do something fun.Putting several scratching posts throughout your home will give your cat a great way to keep itself entertained while you’re away.


Pick a vertical scratching post that’s about 2 feet tall. Horizontal scratching posts are available, but cats tend to prefer scratching on a vertical post.Place the post in an area where your cat spends a lot of time, such as its bed or a window perch., The more toys your cat has to play with, the better! They will keep your cat physically and mentally busy, which will lessen the separation anxiety. Rotate the toys regularly so your cat doesn’t get bored with the same set of toys. One great toy for cats is a food dispenser toy.Other great toys for cats include:Toys that make noise or vibrate
Ping pong balls
Old cotton socks stuffed with cotton balls or some catnip (make a knot at the open end of the sock)
Crumpled up paper balls

, Before you leave home, take a few of your cat’s treats and hide them in different places (e.g., under a piece of furniture, in the corner of a room).Your cat will have fun using her nose to find the food, rather than going straight to her food bowl. Place the treats in different places each day so your cat has a new daily challenge to find the treats.


Because treats can be high in fat and cause weight gain, consider hiding small amounts of your cat’s regular food instead.
At the end of the day, pick up any food your cat didn't find.
You could also put your cat’s daily food ration in a puzzle feeder., A silent home may worsen your cat’s separation anxiety when you’re not home. The sound of a radio or TV could put your cat at ease.Put the radio on a station that plays soothing music, such as a jazz or classical music station.


Find a TV station that plays nature shows. This would give your cat a chance to watch something interesting on the TV screen.
DVDs are available that are created specifically for cats.Play these DVDs for your cat.
 Animals produce substances called pheromones. They release the pheromones to communicate with each other and affect the behavior of other animals. Synthetic cat pheromone products, such as Feliway®, help cats feel less anxious in their environment.Spray Feliway® in your home to help relieve your cat’s separation anxiety.Follow product label instructions when using Feliway®.
 Spending quality time with your cat is an important part of treating separation anxiety. Playing with your cat, especially before you leave home, will tire out your cat and leave it feeling comfortable and satisfied.Having multiple play sessions with your cat each day will give it plenty of time to interact with you and get some much needed physical and mental exercise.


Play with your cat for least 10 minutes per day.With multiple play sessions, you will likely play with your cat for more than 10 minutes each day.
 Your cat will enjoy playing with interactive toys. Wands or plastic sticks with toys (e.g., little toy mouse) attached to the end are great interactive toys for cats.Laser toys are also good for playtime. Move the laser beam around on the floor and watch your cat try to ‘catch’ the beam.


Make sure you don’t flash the laser directly in your cat’s eyes.
 Surprisingly, cats are quite good at learning tricks. Teaching your cat tricks will help keep it physically and mentally active. Keep the training sessions short (about 5 minutes).When your cat masters the new trick, reward it with a scrumptious treat, like tuna.



Rolling over is a fun trick to teach your cat.
 A cat that gets rewarded for needy behavior, such as following its owner all the time, is likely to develop separation anxiety when its owner isn't home. If your cat has separation anxiety, reward it when it’s showing independent behavior, like lying quietly on a perch or entertaining itself with its toys. By rewarding independence, your cat will feel motivated to be independent, rather than clingy.When your cat is more independent, it won’t be so anxious when you leave.
 Your cat probably becomes anxious when you start getting ready to leave (e.g., picking up your keys, putting on your coat). To make your cat feel less anxious, it will need to see your departure routine as no big deal. To do this, repeat the departure activities numerous times without actually leaving. Here are some examples:Pick up your keys and set them back down
Open and close the door
Walk out of the door and come back in, gradually increasing the amount of time you stay outside
Eventually, your cat will see those activities as normal and not react with anxiety.
 Giving your cat extra attention and love when you leave will only worsen its separation anxiety—you’re actually telling your cat that your departure is a big deal. Instead, leave your home without speaking to your cat. When you come back home, wait a few minutes before interacting with your cat.