 Recognize and highlight the unique characteristics of each child. You may think that every younger child looks up to older siblings, but comparing them does not actually make them want to succeed to follow in the older’s footsteps. It can do the exact opposite when the one child feels like it is impossible to measure up so the best thing to do is give up.In addition, avoid trying to use one child as a teacher or protector of one of the other kids. This creates an unbalanced sense of power and can make the younger or less talented sibling feel bad. If the kids look to each other for advice or guidance this is the time to encourage working together.
 Calling one child the “troublemaker” certainly won’t encourage friendly, polite interactions between your children. Neither will describing one as the “brainiac”. Doing this allows each child to develop their own sense of self. It also allows each child to play a variety of roles.Labeling the kids based on their birth order is another form of labeling. Do not force older siblings to always be the grown one or take on a care giving role. At some point, all the kids will play the role of teacher and student.
Be careful about giving one child too much responsibility as far as being a role model or “super kid” to take care of a younger child or someone with special needs. While most kids will strive to be helpful, it isn’t their role to take care of a sibling.
 You are not doing anyone any favors pointing out who is right or wrong. It may seem like a logical way to end an argument is to tell the kids who won, but this just creates a more desperate situation for the child on the losing side of the argument to get attention—whether negative or positive.Each child needs to know they are valued and loved. Even if it is obvious one of them is right, you pointing it out can come across as playing favorites.
If the children are persistent in trying to make you take sides, come up with a line you can repeat that reminds them that they need to resolve the matter without your input. This may be something like "You all need to work through this without me because I will not take sides. If I have to get involved, everyone will have the same punishment."

, Most things in life are not. Set realistic expectations for your children about parenting and how much time and attention you can provide each child.Avoid getting caught up in trying to treat each child exactly alike or spend equal time with each. Each child will go through times where one may suddenly need a lot more time to address a need and this is OK. There is no system that says you have to give each child equal treatment, you should focus on showing each child love however it is needed.
 In some severe cases, you may have to attend family therapy to resolve sibling rivalry. One or more children may gang up on another or your efforts to intervene may be ineffective. Professional counselors and therapists who work with families can help you identify the root cause of the rivalry and help your entire family learn to communicate and manage conflict more effectively.