 Do not try to be someone else, because your fraudulence will shine through. Be the person who they first met.;
, Corny jokes may lead to an awkward moment. Laughing often breaks the ice, and everyone loves someone with a sense of humor. Most people love funny stories, but nothing too dirty, especially on a first date.
 Unless you are taking her to the beach, you probably should not be wearing flip-flops or shorts on a first date. No matter what you do for a living, let him or her know that you enjoy what you do and take pride in it. Don't be too boastful - people usually find that to be rude and offensive. Don't get dress up for basic events, like wearing a ball gown to a local movie theater, or a tuxedo on a picnic in the park. For the girls who are having a trip to the movies maybe a floral dress and a blazer would be nice. ]Be sure to accessorize for a small splash of personality, but don't overdo it! Follow the rule: before you walk out the door, take a look in the mirror and remove one item. Less is more.
 Family, friends, work, boss, car, weather, taxes, and gasoline prices should stay out of the conversation. Instead, try to smile and let your date know that you are a fun person - not someone boring who he/she has to talk to.
 Girls love to receive them. If you want to get her something small instead, buy a candle or a picture frame (not with your picture in it). You want her to know that you were thinking about them while you were apart and that you remember what she likes. Just don't go overboard with the gift. Keep it simple and sweet.
 Hold the door and help her with her coat; pull out chairs, do not interrupt her, do not talk on the cellphone on a date, and do not look at other people in the room.
 Try not to be too nosy - don't ask any personal questions. Make your date feel good about his/her career, hobbies, interests, and opinions. Listen attentively as well. People generally hate it when they are asked the same question twice because it tells them that you were not listening the first time. Do not pry into personal matters, and do not tell about private matters in your life.
 Tell her she looks lovely, smells good, is intelligent, has a beautiful house - anything that will make her smile. It counts.
 Talk about her interests as well, and try to focus on mutual interests, since both of you will be able to contribute. Who knows? She may like the things you like and know a lot more about them than you thought she would. What about history, cars, music, movies? Your date may very well share some of your interests, and it could make for a great conversation and allow you both to find some common ground.
 Some people will prefer not to kiss on the first date, unless they have kissed before. When kissing in a public area, you need to respect the other people around you - don't go overboard with the kiss! You might want to kiss at the end of the date to close it off. Bring a mint or breath spray, but do NOT bring gum. It's unattractive to chew in front of your date! Keep the kiss quick and sweet - don't French kiss unless if you have done it with your date before, and you are in a secluded area. Remember - your date may be just as nervous as you are about kissing!

