 If the well has been turned off for a while, you're going to have to start slow, but still fast enough to make it clear to your partner that you're trying. 


If things are only just starting to slow down, you can just make a concerted effort to speed it back up on your own.
If the relationship has been stunted for months or years, you can even let him/her know that you are aware that you've let things get a little bland or boring and you're going to start making an effort to makes things better, but you need time to get back into the groove, and need them to be patient and supportive. 
If things are teetering on the edge of destruction, this might give your relationship the life support and hope it needs, in the short term, while you get comfortable building it back up in the long term.;
, When the relationship was young, love and intimacy happened without a thought, and in fact you probably had to consciously stop yourself at times just to get other things done.  Yes it would be great if it stayed that way forever, but the fact that it doesn't isn't a sign that you love each other less, it's just you returning to a normal state of being. 


In the early stages your body released chemicals to put you into a hyper-sexy state of being as a way to get those babies coming as quickly as possible.  It's those same chemicals that make you think the annoying things your partner does are cute, and helps you to see past that extra twenty pounds they might have around their gut, or ignore their crazy relatives. 
Unfortunately your brain can't keep those chemicals going indefinitely, and in fact stops them in an effort to motivate you to move on to someone else to spread the genetic makeup of the species as wide as possible, and also to allow you to return to a more productive way of life (hunting and gathering).
 Not necessarily having sex, but kissing, touching, looking, fantasizing, etc. 


These days, the idea of intimacy probably crosses your mind somewhere between giving the dog a bath, and getting the rustproofing re-done on your car. It's easy to forget to feed the relationship on a regular basis. But it, like our bodies, needs nutrition in order to survive. Start making a conscious effort to remember to take time for your partner/spouse at least once a day. 
This doesn't have to be a big mind-blowing sexual encounter, but it needs to be something intimate enough that you wouldn't want to do it with anyone else. This tells you're partner that they are special and an integral part of your life.
 Try to do something for your partner at least once a day to gently remind them of your presence.


Leave them a nice note of encouragement, or make a meal that is especially for them in the evening. Even small gifts can be a way of acknowledging their presence in your life.
 In any relationship, each person has different levels of desire, different intimacy requirements, and different ideas of what intimacy is.


As a committed member of your relationship, it is your job to find out what that is for your partner. Inevitably most of the problems in any relationship are caused by not communicating these differences in perspective. 

, One partner may be able to live with slightly less or a lot less and still feel perfectly connected, while the other may need more attention. 


For the person who desires more frequency, they typically find themselves always being the one to initiate, and they might end up feeling like their partner is never interested, or worse yet, disinterested when requests are met with rejection. In turn those feelings may present themselves as resentment, loneliness or low self-esteem.
The low desire spouse, perceives challenges also; the constant pressure to perform is an additional stress to everyday life that makes it that much more difficult to get in the mood.
Neither spouse is to blame, but both need to step into the other's shoes and extend a little understanding so that the stage can be set for building the relationship back up with understanding and compromise.
 If your partner comes to you with an intimate advance, saying no might not be the best automatic response. 


If your partner is the high desire spouse, chances are they've been waiting for you to come to them, holding off their own advance for as long as possible to avoid the possibility of rejection.
If your partner is the low desire spouse and they come to you with an advance, do everything you can to drop what you're doing and accept this as the gift it is. 
Show appreciation and joy for the moment, however fleeting so that they can see the happiness it brings you without any other baggage.
Whichever side you're on in the relationship, when you're partner comes to you for an intimate moment, they are at their most vulnerable.  They are exposing their most fragile side to you and in that moment you must treat it appropriately, and see it for the precious gift that it is.
 That may be as simple as deciding to stop what you're doing for a moment or two to participate, or suggesting a less time or alternative for that particular moment. 


If the first step can not be attained apologize for not being able to take part in that moment. Suggest an alternative time when you will be able to take the time to be with your partner in a more sincere way.
 If you have to say no to an advance to your partner and have suggested a different time, place and activity, you absolutely must follow through with the promise. 


It could be that your partner will be busy and have to put it off themselves, it may even be blatantly obvious that will happen but you need to make the offer anyway. 
Chances are they have been waiting patiently since you re-scheduled and if you miss the moment, or forget (or seem to have forgotten), it will be a significant setback to your progress, and a reminder of less affectionate days gone by.
 We'd all like to believe that we just know what our partner is thinking when they are thinking it. The fact is, even the most connected of couples have no idea what's going on in their partners head at any given time.  


Even if you were able to get perfectly in tune with each other in that regard, next week something could change. Maybe they saw something in a movie, or read in a book, or overheard someone talking about a topic on the bus, and suddenly they have a whole new set of desires they'd like to explore.
Chances are if you were to list off the ten things your partner found to be the most intimate signs of affection, then gave it to them to read, you'd probably miss the mark on eight out of the ten. 
The way around this problem is to make a list of what you see as signs of affection, love and lust ... and then give it to your partner. Ask them to do the same.
  Don't fill your list with fairy tale situations because that's what you think is expected of you based on societal expectations, but don't actually do much for you at all, fill it with things that you truly want your partner to do for you or to you on a regular basis.


Accept the list from your partner without judgement or feelings of past inadequacies.  If your partner has been as open and honest as possible, they are baring their soul to you in a very fragile state, met them with acceptance. 
If you find things that don't appeal to you or you don't understand, take a moment to go over the lists with each other and talk out the ones that don't suit you perfectly and see if there is a middle ground that can be reached that will be appealing to both of you.
It's also very easy to look at the list as being a message from your partner telling you all the ways that you aren't living up to your spousal duties and all the ways that you fall short in their eyes.  That would be a very damaging perspective. 
The list is simply that, a grocery list of everything they find sexy, affectionate, fun, or whatever.  It should even contain things that you already do and don't need to be reminded of.  It's not something to be taken personally as in "why haven't you been doing this all along" —it's something to take the guessing out of the relationship.
 If you are using the list method it should contain everything you can think of that makes you feel good, makes you feel loved, turns you on, or excites you. 


It can be things that your partner can do to you or for you, or it can be things that you want your partner to let you do to them or for them. 
It can be small generic physical things like a kiss every morning/evening/exit/etc., or situational things like taking care of the kids so you can have a peaceful bath.
It can also be detailed and explicit things that you might expect to see on an adult website. 

, Now that you've made the list, you've gone over each other's items together and understand each item to the best of your ability, what do you do with it? 


Hang on to it, read it over often, add to your own as often as possible and update your partner's copy, then perform at least one item from the list daily. 
The longer the list is the better the effect, so try to aim for at least 30 to 50 items to start and add to it over time.  This list is intended to last you a lifetime, so the longer it is the better, and it should grow and change as the two of you do.
 Make sure to keep the list somewhere it can be easily accessed, but probably not somewhere that the kids or the neighbors will see it. 

, You may think that it will take more than this to save your relationship but no matter how far apart you've grown, as long as there isn't an insurmountable roadblock in your way (abuse, affairs, sexual dysfunction, or health issues).


The fact is even the largest most impenetrable buildings are all built one small brick at a time, the best relationships are realized with small, but frequent moments of affection and intimacy.
 At first, it's going to seem a little robotic, possibly awkward and even a little forced; this is normal, especially if your relationship is in especially bad shape, but the key at the beginning is to get the pace going. 


You'll both recognize when things are being done straight from the list and that's fine.  Avoid feelings that you should be trying to be more creative. 
At first you want to be observing the effect each item has on your partner and the overall improvement in their mood, day to day. 
You'll be surprised how quickly things improve in the relationship as long as you keep it up and don't get lazy or fall back into old bad habits.
 Once things have been going well, and you've been following the list for a few weeks or even months, you can start to get creative. 


By now you will know which things create which responses and you'll be able to add your own twists or combinations to start bringing some mystery and unexpected excitement into each moment. 
Keep referring back to the list as always acceptable expressions of intimacy.
 Schedule a date night.  It could be the same night every week, or change it up.


It should be understood that at the end of that night (or sometime during!) you will be having sex. 
This may seem contrived and unromantic, but it carves out a designated time in your hectic life when you know you'll be crossing paths and connecting, and you'll be surprised how much you start to look forward to it during the week and throughout the day. 
It may seem unromantic in concept, but in practice it will be exciting and fun for you both.
 Go out, stay in, make it a quickie, make it long and romantic, do it in the morning, do it at lunch, do it in the middle of the night. The possibilities are endless, just make sure you do it. 


If you're out of town and separate from each other, call up and have some phone sex, send naughty pictures or dirty texts, then the minute you get back together, make up for the missed night.
 Just because you now have a date night too, doesn't mean that you only have sex on that night.  In addition to doing things from your list daily, if any of those things motivate you to go further and have sex, go for it. 


The date night is just a guarantee that you will be connecting at least one night a week.  If the feeling moves you in between though, take advantage of it, especially if you are the low desire partner, your high desire partner will love the surprise.

