 Learn and do something you enjoy, and you'll never be bored.


Often people get angry or start drama simply because they are bored. Boredom is a personal problem. Do something about it.
"Idle hands are the devil's playground." If you are doing nothing, you are a lot more vulnerable to dwelling on angry thoughts and acting on them.
Sublimate (get energy from) your anger such as by practicing a musical instrument, or singing inspiring, happy -- not angry -- songs. Build or make something.;
, If you're not much of a cook, at least consider the barbecue, where it's easy to put together some tasty meat with sweetcorn and potatoes wrapped in foil. So, learn to cook fancy or happy, fun foods. Cook out.
 Some examples include:


Get a hobby like writing, gardening or collecting coins, etc.
Watch a comedy. Laughter can help to quell anger.
Help people rather than fuming at them. You can even help people through the online environment, such as by editing a wiki, sharing experiences with others on a forum or doing a useful project with others around the world.
If you don't feel you have enough drama in your life, watch some inspiring movies.
 Choose a pet such as a cat, dog or a horse if you have the room. While goldfish may be serene, they are not much into active fun with you as a surrogate parent.


Pets can help take your mind off whatever fight you were thinking of starting with someone.
Pets, cats especially, are very peaceful and can teach us humans a thing or two about how to be peaceful.



Enya, or similar Celtic or New Age style music is great. Piano elevator music is good too.
Or, if you are Christian or of another faith, listen to calm worship music.
 It's probably fun.
 Don't overwork yourself, or you will be more likely to get angry at everything and everyone.
 When you notice this happening, it is a good idea to exercise somehow, to release the building tension. Try a walk, a bit of gardening or your favorite workout.


Often, something as simple as house cleaning can help when you are feeling like this. It helps to burn off the extra energy dump that you get when you are angry.
Getting out of the house or the office can sometimes help. By removing yourself from the place where you felt the anger building, it can give you the space needed to gain a calmer perspective.
 Sometimes people start drama because they feel their lives are too boring. Either learn to be okay with the boredom of ordinary things of life, or rise above it.
 The journal doesn't have feelings, and you can say whatever you want to at it, but people do have feelings. By writing it down and getting it out of your system in this quieter way, you are at least giving your anger a channel but you're also working through the anger and thinking about how to get through it.
 Ask a friend or a parent to tell you when you seem to be doing it again, starting drama. When you know that there is someone else to help pull you up, there is more riding on maintaining your pride and trying your hardest not to give in to the anger.
 You can't eat your words -- nor will they warm you when you are cold and lonely.
, "It's a case of mind over matter -- and that doesn't matter anymore."

, Begin to do things for those in need, then your night should turn to day. Visiting people in prison, widows and orphans is a perfect outlet of anger.


You can choose your own destiny/destination. Success and happiness are not destinations. No, they're a never ending process and are usually from making progress, a little at a time. You can have any good thing that you don't use against others.
You are in control of your own future. Whatever worthwhile work is at hand, do it with all your heart, as if it is for good and for loved ones.
 You have heard, "Be kind to your friends, but consider and be kind to your enemy, and to those that say all manner of things against you wrongly and spitefully." Volunteer at a hospital, nursing home or at a school. Do tutoring or teacher assistant work for a feeling of accomplishment helping someone who needs your help. Through volunteering, you can find a way to help yourself while helping others.