 Start with 1-2 pounds of boneless white meat chicken tenders, making sure to remove all visible fat and gristle. You can also use whole chicken breasts cut into thick slices. Place the strips on a clean plate and keep them separated from your other ingredients.2 pounds of chicken will produce enough fingers to feed about four people.
Tenderize the chicken strips by giving them a thorough pounding or soaking them in buttermilk for several hours.;
, Steam 2 cups of red or white quinoa in a rice cooker or on the stovetop. Allow the quinoa to cool to room temperature, or chill it in the refrigerator for half an hour while you prepare your other ingredients.You can also toast quinoa in the oven. This will eliminate excess moisture and make the grains more tender.Pulse the cooked quinoa in a food processor to give the breading a finer consistency.
 Spread the cooked quinoa out in a shallow pan or baking sheet. Shake in ½ cup of finely ground dried breadcrumbs. Stir the mixture together by hand until the breadcrumbs are evenly distributed throughout the quinoa.Try panko breadcrumbs for added texture and crunch.
Incorporate additional herbs and seasonings into your breading mixture, such as fresh parsley or parmesan cheese., Crack two whole large eggs into a medium-sized bowl and whisk them together. Sprinkle the chicken strips with kosher salt, pepper, garlic powder, paprika and any other seasonings of choice. Submerge each piece of chicken in the wash, then set them aside.Seasoning the chicken before you dunk it in the egg wash will ensure that the flavor gets locked inside rather than simply cooking off.
 Run each chicken strip through the quinoa and breadcrumbs, pressing the breading lightly against the outer surface with your fingertips. Turn the strips over on the other side and repeat. By the time you’re finished, the chicken should be entirely covered.For extra crispy chicken fingers, bread the strips twice.
If you’re having trouble getting the quinoa breading to stick, add a splash of whole fat milk or one egg white to help hold the dry ingredients together.
 Set the oven to convection heat. While it’s warming up, take a large baking sheet and grease it with cooking spray. You can also line the baking sheet with nonstick parchment paper if you prefer.Greasing the baking sheet may cause the chicken fingers to turn out slightly darker and crispier due to the direct heat of the cooking surface.
Parchment paper makes cleanup quick and easy, and may help the chicken cook more evenly.
 Lay the chicken strips out on the baking sheet in rows. Make sure to leave a little space between each. This will allow them to cook more evenly and keep them from sticking together. If you wish, you can brush the chicken strips with a little extra oil prior to baking.Baking is preferable to pan-frying if your goal is to prepare the maximum number of chicken fingers at one time.
 Place the baking sheet in the oven on the center rack. Set a timer for 15 minutes. As the chicken cooks, the breading mixture on the outside will begin to lightly brown, while the little bits of quinoa will create a delightful mottled color. Keep an eye on the chicken fingers as they bake to prevent them from getting too done.Every oven is different. Depending on the heat of your oven, the chicken fingers may not need the entire 15 minutes. Watch their progress closely and use your best judgment to determine when they’re done.
 Use a pair of metal tongs to flip the chicken over and expose the opposite side to the circulating heat. Once they’re done on the first side, they’ll most likely only need another 10-12 minutes to finish cooking. When they’re done, the meat inside should be solid white and juicy.Because of the thick breading, it may be hard to tell when the chicken fingers are ready to come out of the oven. Cut into the middle of a strip and take a look at the color of the meat to see how it’s coming along.
Let the chicken strips cool for a few minutes before digging in. This will be the hardest part!

, Cover the bottom of the skillet with about half an inch of oil. The skillet or pan you use should be spacious enough to prepare 3-5 chicken strips at a time. Avoid overlapping the strips, as too much friction can cause the breading to slough off.The type of oil you use is up to you, but it should be one with a high smoke point that’s well-suited for frying. Canola, peanut and sunflower are all good choices.There’s no need to change out the oil in the skillet between batches.
 Turn on the cooktop and let the oil heat up. Once it begins to bubble steadily, reduce the heat to a medium setting. Have a spare plate or serving dish on hand for fresh chicken coming out of the skillet.Frying the chicken strips with too intense a heat can quickly burn them.
 Carefully lower each piece of chicken into the hot oil. Use tongs or hold the strips by one end to avoid burning yourself accidentally.Cook especially large portions of chicken fingers in individual batches.
The oil may pop and splatter once it’s reached a proper cooking temperature—handle the skillet with caution. Consider wearing an oven mitt and long sleeves for protection.
 You’ll notice the edges of the strips beginning to brown when the first side is done. Flip the strips over (again, use an implement like tongs or a fork to stay out of scalding distance) and fry them for another 2-3 minutes, or to the desired doneness. Remove the strips from the heat and allow them to cool, then enjoy!Eyeball the strips individually to make sure they’ve had enough time to cook on each side.
Remove the chicken strips before they get too brown. The oil will continue cooking the outside for another minute or so after they’ve been taken out of the pan.
Serve quinoa-coated chicken fingers with your favorite dipping sauces, like pesto, chimichurri or homemade barbecue honey mustard.