 One quick option for the morning is to pair peanut butter or another nut or seed butter with 100% whole grain toast. Just lightly toast the bread and smear the nut or seed butter on top while it is still warm. Add a sliced banana on top to make it extra filling.This breakfast combines protein (nuts or seeds, plus the whole grains in the bread), fiber (whole grains and the banana), and low-energy dense foods to make it more filling (the banana).
Another good option is spreading a bit of almond butter on toast with a layer of low-fat cottage cheese and a bit of jam on top. Pair it with some fruit to make it even more filling., An egg scramble filled with lots of fresh veggies and a touch of cheese is a great way to get in protein, fiber, and filling veggies. Pair it with a side of fruit or some whole-grain toast, and you're good to go for the morning.Scramble two eggs or three egg whites. Add a bit of butter or oil to a nonstick pan on medium heat, then add in your favorite veggies. You can use onions, mushrooms, tomatoes, spinach, or squash. If you're using spinach, hold off on adding it. Let the veggies cook until they're starting to get tender.
Add the eggs into the pan, and stir until the eggs are setting up. Stir in the spinach, cooking until it wilts. Throw in a small dash of low-fat cheese on top.
 Smoothies are an easy way to combine high-fiber foods like fruits and vegetables with high protein-foods like Greek yogurt or peanut butter. You'll need a blender to blend all the ingredients together thoroughly.For instance, try combining a single banana, 5 strawberries or 6 or 7 raspberries, 2 cups (480 milliliters) of spinach, 4 ounces (120 milliliters) of Greek yogurt, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of almond butter, and a 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of cannellini beans in a blender. You may need to add some liquid such as water or low-fat milk to thin it out.
 While avocados are high in fat, they are a good fat. Eating them paired with protein and a side of high-fiber carbohydrates (think whole-wheat toast, cut-up fruit, or even slices of tomatoes) should keep you filled up until lunchtime. This breakfast takes about 10 to 12 minutes to bake, but you don't have to watch it the whole time.Slice avocados in half lengthwise. Scoop out the seed with a spoon. Add a dash of hot sauce to each of the halves (if you'd like). Crack an egg in each half, and add a dash of salt and pepper. Add any other condiments you'd like (such as pesto). Bake for 10 minutes or so at 450 degrees Fahrenheit (232 degrees Celsius), until the yolk is set to your liking.
You can also beat the eggs before pouring them into the avocado.
 A parfait is a simple way to get a filling breakfast in. Start with eight ounces of your favorite Greek yogurt, which is high in protein. Layer it with granola, fresh fruit, and nuts to your liking. You can even add a bit of honey or a scoop of your favorite jam. The yogurt, nuts, and granola all add protein, while the granola and fresh fruit keep you full with fiber.
 Pancakes aren't always considered the most filling, healthy breakfast, but you can add protein to make them more filling. For instance, some recipes add cottage cheese (blended) to the batter to make them more filling.


Try oatmeal-cottage cheese pancakes. In a blender, add 1/2 cup (120 milliliters) of old-fashioned rolled oats, 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of low-fat cottage cheese, a couple of tablespoons of low-fat milk (or milk replacement), 1/2 a banana, a dash of vanilla extract, a couple of dashes of cinnamon, and an egg (or 2 egg whites). Blend until smooth. Cook in a medium-hot pan.
Add in extras like blueberries, nut butter, banana slices, or chocolate chips.For an extra-filling meal, add a side of eggs and a low-fat breakfast meat, such as turkey bacon.

