 Bittorrent is the most popular method of sharing files between different computers. By installing a torrent client, you'll be able to download files that other users are sharing. One of the most popular torrent clients is qBittorrent. You can download it for free from qbittorrent.org.


Follow the prompts to install the client. If you are installing qBittorrent, you shouldn't be prompted to install additional adware. If you're installing a different client, such as uTorrent, read each screen carefully. You don't want to install additional software.;
, A torrent tracker acts as a search engine for torrents. You can use it to find files that users are sharing with each other. You can usually find most new shows, as well as popular older shows. Search for "anime torrents" using your favorite search engine to find some. Popular trackers that host anime torrents include:AnimeTorrents
KickassTorrents
BakaBT
Haruichan
NyaaTorrents

, There are a few different ways that you can search for things, depending on what you are looking to download:


To search for a specific episode, add the episode number to the end of the title. Most anime shows use a continual numbering system for shows. Season numbers aren't usually included
Add the word "complete" to the end of the title to look for an entire series. This should return torrents that contain all of the episodes released. These can be very big torrents, especially for long shows. It may be broken up into individual volumes.
 Most anime torrents will have Japanese audio with English subtitles included. Older files may have subtitles hardcoded onto the video. You may be able to find an English-dubbed version as well, depending on the show. The torrent title and details will let you know what languages are included.
 Try to pick a torrent that has a lot of seeders. They are usually indicated on the search results in the "S" column. Seeders are users who have the complete file and are sharing it for others. More seeders will lead to a faster download.
 Be careful when clicking this link. Many torrent sites will try to trick you into clicking a fake link that leads to an advertisement.


It is illegal to download anime that you have not purchased. You could face legal action or penalties from your ISP if caught. To learn how to minimize your risk, see How to Be Online Anonymously.
 Most torrent clients will automatically open when you download the torrent file. If your client doesn't open, load the torrent file into the client manually.
 Your torrent client will begin connecting to other people who are sharing it. Your download speed will be slow at first, but start to pick up as you connect to more seeders. You can monitor the torrent's progress in the main window.


See How to Download Torrents for more details.
 The easiest way to play any video file and use subtitles is to install VLC Player. This is a free, open source video player that can play virtually any format. This is important because most anime is released in MKV format. MKV is not compatible with Windows Media Player or Quicktime.You can download VLC for free from videolan.org/ for any operating system. This includes Android and iOS.
 When you install VLC Player, it should take over duties for opening most video files. If the video tries to launch in your default video player, right-click it and select "Open With VLC Player".


If the video is choppy, your computer's hardware may not be up to the task of playing HD video. Try closing any other programs that are running to see if playback improves.
 If the video came with subtitles, you can select them from the "Subtitles" menu in VLC after loading the video. Select "Sub Track" and then choose the language you want to load. If you don't see any options here, you may have to download a separate subtitle file. You can usually find a link to these in the details section of the torrent's page on the tracker. Most anime torrents come with the subtitle files included in the video's MKV file.
 If the anime video has dual-audio, such as the original Japanese track and an English dub, you can switch between them in the "Audio" menu. Select "Audio Track" and then choose the language you want to listen to.

