 This doesn't mean you need to act like a meek, quiet pushover. It means that when you do something, offer something, or make a request, you do it without pressuring the people around you and making them feel like they're being pushed into a corner.


For example, if you're having a conversation, it's one thing to ask a question or offer your opinion, but it's rude to push the matter when someone has expressed discomfort (verbally or non-verbally) about the subject.
Even if you're trying to help, like offering to pay for lunch or wash the dishes, don't be too insistent. If the person says "No, thank you, I've got it" then say "Please, I'd really love to help." If they still say no, then let it go. They obviously want to treat you, so let them, and return the favor some other time.;
, How are they greeting and addressing each other? What are they doing with their coats? What kinds of topics are they discussing? Different settings require different standards of formality, and those standards often define what is polite and what is not.


A work-related dinner, and holiday gathering, a wedding, and a funeral will all demand a different, but generally somewhat more formal tone than a party with a group of friends.
 Always be courteous, as you might meet this person again in another setting and wouldn't want to have caused negative memories that would give you a bad standing. If someone annoys or even insults you, don't get into an argument. Say "Let's agree to disagree" and change the subject, politely debate, or simply excuse yourself from the conversation.
 Try not to talk about yourself too much—if they want to know (or are polite) they'll ask. Be confident and charming. Do not hog the conversation, that is arrogant and boorish. Look interested and listen to the answers.


Don't look over the person's shoulder or around the room when they are talking, or let your eyes linger on the hot new guest who just walked in. That implies you are distracted or not interested—that your conversational companion is too trivial or tedious to bother paying attention to.
 You might want to practice this a bit so you don't squish people's hands, depending on how strong you are. That would make them feel uncomfortable. Beware especially when shaking hands of women who are wearing rings. Too much pressure can be very painful.



Remember too that many people with an "old-school" etiquette background (especially if you are in Europe) find it inappropriate to offer your hand for a handshake to a lady or an older gentleman if you are a gentleman, or to an older lady, if you are a lady. Always greet the other person first, but wait for them to extend their hand. On the other hand, if you are the older person or lady, keep in mind that if you do not extend your hand, the other person may feel rejected, as he or she is not permitted to shake your hand. Usually this situation only takes half a second in checking whether the other person is moving towards you for a handshake. Be alert.
Do not approach someone with an already outstretched hand. That is pushy. If you want someone to know you are moving towards them, establish a firm eye contact and smile, maybe opening your arms a little (bent at the elbow) to make a welcoming gesture.
 For silverware, go from the outside, in. Place your napkin on your lap, and do not add anything to the table that was not there when you got there (cell phone, glasses, jewelry). Put your purse between your feet, under your chair. Women should not apply makeup at the table. It is rude and demonstrates a lack of refinement. If you want to fix your makeup or check if something is in your teeth, go to the restroom.
 Loudness either indicates arrogance or insecurity. A charming polite person makes another person feel good. Keep this goal in mind, be considerate of other people's needs and opinions. Don't make derogatory remarks towards any kind of ethnic, political or religious groups under any circumstances.
 Carry yourself smoothly, with a sense of calm, yet involved in the moment. People will notice this subtle charm and this will help you greatly.
