 On White Day, you should give a return gift to anyone who presented you with a gift on Valentine’s Day. This includes female friends and colleagues as well as that special someone. Be sure to keep track of what you are given on Valentine’s Day so that you don’t forget to return gifts to all the ladies on White Day., “Honmei-choco” means “true love chocolate” and is of a higher quality. It is given to a romantic partner or to a person one wishes to be involved with., Traditionally, men should give each woman a gift worth three times the value of the gift they received themselves! This means you may want to save your money in order to get nice gifts for all the women who gave one to you, or risk offending them., Traditionally, gifts given on White Day should be white in color.Think of fun ideas, such as white chocolate for “giri” gifts or even white lingerie for your lover. Alternatively, you can use white gift wrap paper or a white gift bag, and tie it with some pretty ribbons.
 You should give a gift to each woman who gave one to you, but be sure to let the woman know if you want to be just friends or something more. Return “giri” gifts with similar items, such as Poko or candy. Choose something special for a “honmei” gift, such as a purse or jewelry.If a woman gives you a “honmei” gift and you don’t share her feelings, it is customary to let her down gently by explaining your feelings in person or even in a note, and presenting her with a gift that equals the value of what she got for you., Marshmallows, chocolate, cookies, and other sweets are very popular gifts for White Day.Choose some delicious treats to show your affection for female friends. To make the gift even more meaningful, make the sweets yourself.
 White flowers such as lilies, peonies, and orchids are perfect White Day gifts. Alternatively, you can give a woman her favorite kind of flower to show how much you care., A soft, white stuffed animal is a great White Day gift for younger girls. A teddy bear is a popular choice, or you can choose her favorite animal., Perfume, body mist, lotion, scented soap, or candles are nice White Day gifts. Choose something with a sweet smell and a pretty label., White gold or platinum jewelry fits with the white theme. However, only present expensive gifts such as jewelry to that one lucky lady in your life, rather than a friend., This special day is the perfect opportunity to go out. Eat at a nice restaurant, go to the movies, or visit a museum or art gallery. Enjoy spending some time with the one you love on White Day.

