 Open any web browser on your computer, and visit the Goodreads website.;
, Enter your email address and password for your Goodreads account on the fields provided at the top right corner of the home page, then click the “Sign in” button beside them.


You can also sign in using your Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and Amazon accounts, provided that you’ve already previously linked them to Goodreads.
Upon logging in, you will be brought to your main wall, which lists all the recent Goodread activities of your social network friends. You can see what your friends are reading, what books they recommend, what ratings or reviews they gave on books, and many more.
 Click “My Books” from the header menu. You will be brought to your inventory of books. You can see the book titles, authors, ratings, shelves, and related dates in proper columns here.
 You can see your current bookshelves on the left panel menu. Bookshelves are just categories or groups for your books. Default shelves include: All, Read, Currently Reading, and To Read. Click the “Add shelf” link at the bottom of the current bookshelves.
 An open text field will appear right beside the “Add shelf” link. Type in the name of the new shelf you’re creating. Click the “Add” button below it when you’re done.


The new shelf will be added to the bottom of your bookshelves. You can now use it and put books on it.
It is a good idea to properly name your shelves in order for you to get your books organized and catalogued. For example, you can name your shelves by author, by genre, or by your ratings.
 Use the search box at the top of your bookshelves to look for the book you want to add. Click the magnifying glass icon beside it to do the search.
 The list of results will be displayed. Browse through them to see if your book is there.
 When you find the book, click the “Want to Read” button beside it. The book will be added to your bookshelf, under the To Read shelf or category.
 For better organization, move the book to one of the personal shelves you created. Hover over the book’s button right beside the “Want to Read” button. A submenu of your bookshelves will drop down.


Click the shelf where you want to move this book to from the list. The book will be added and moved to that personal shelf.

