 Set the oven to 180°C, 350°F, or gas mark 4. Butter two 9-inch cake pans or 2 12-by-17 inch rimmed baking sheets. Line the bottom of your pans with parchment paper, butter the paper, and then sprinkle flour all over it. Gently shake the flour around and shake the excess out of the pan.


Don't be tempted to skip the parchment paper. It will ensure that the cake doesn't stick to the pans and will make it easy to remove.;
, Pour water into a saucepan and get it simmering, or slightly bubbling. Place a bowl over the saucepan taking care that the bowl doesn't touch the water.


You can also buy and use a double boiler, which similarly nests two saucepans.
 Whisk till the yolks and sugar over the simmering water until the sugar dissolves, about 3 or 4 minutes. When you no longer see sugar granules, remove the bowl from heat.
 Use a hand-mixer on medium-high to beat the mixture until it lightens in color and thickens slightly, about 3 to 5 minutes. Stir in vanilla extract and salt. Pour the mixture into a large bowl.
 Place the whites in a separate large bowl and beat with a mixer on high speed. Beat till soft peaks form. These should be slightly droopy if you lift the beaters out of the bowl. Once this happens, beat in the rest of your sugar until the peaks become stiff and shiny. This should take a couple of minutes.


Be sure to use spotlessly clean beaters and bowl. If there's any trace of grease or fat, your egg whites won't form peaks.
 Do this gradually, by folding in one third of the whites at a time. Then, gently sift the flour over the top and fold it in as well. Stop folding just before all the flour is incorporated.


To fold in a mixture, simply use a spatula and a light hand to gently combine a lighter mixture into a heavier one. Avoid stirring, or you'll lose the volume of the lighter mixture. Instead, rotate your wrist when combining substances.
 Pour it down the side of the bowl and fold it into the batter until it's smooth, but take care not to overbeat.
 Divide the batter between your two cake pans or sheets. Bake the cake pans for around 25 minutes or 15 minutes for the sheet pans. To ensure even browning, rotate the pans or sheets halfway through the baking time. The cake is done when a tester or toothpick comes out clean after being stuck in the center.
 If you used cake pans, hold a plate over the cake, then swiftly turn it upside down so the cake comes out onto the plate. Remove the parchment and then use the same method to flip it onto your serving plate.


If you used sheets, lay out a few kitchen towels and dust them with the powdered/confectioner's sugar. Immediately flip the hot cakes onto the dusted towels. Dust the top of the cakes with more powdered/confectioner's sugar and then roll up the cakes in the towels. Let them cool for at least an hour. Unroll them before filling.
 Sponge cakes baked in cake pans easily lend themselves to filling between the layers. Sponge cakes baked in sheet pans can be filled and rolled before being frosted on the outside.


Try making a Buche de Noel. Take your prepared sponge cake made in a sheet pan and fill with your choice of chocolate, chestnut, coffee, or cream cheese fillings. Roll it up and cover with a frosting of your choice (typically, a chocolate). Decorate the rolled up cake to look like a Yule log by adding meringue mushrooms, holly, and sugared cranberries. Dust with powdered sugar.Try making a Victoria Sponge. Place one of your sponge cakes made in the cake pan onto your serving plate. Spread raspberry jam overtop or scatter with fresh berries. Dollop whipped cream or buttercream over the jam or fruit and spread. Stack the other sponge cake on top of the fruit and cream, then dust with powdered/confectioner's sugar and serve.