 If you want to keep a garter snake as a pet, make sure you have a cage that is the best size for the snake and has a place for the garter snake to hide.Supply your garter snake with the right amount of space. A 5- to 25-gallon tank is appropriate, depending on the size of the snake. If there’s not enough space, the snake will not be able to exercise and be unhealthy. With too little space, the garter snake will feel exposed.
Give your garter snake with a “hiding box”. A hiding box is a space where the garter snake can conceal itself. Consider putting in a plastic box or a hollow log for the snake to curl up into.
Provide your snake with a water dish that is regularly refilled. This will give them water to drink as well as a way to stay cool.
Keep your snake safe by making sure it cannot escape. Garter snakes are at risk in a home by other pets and humans. Also, a garter snake on the loose can frighten people who do not know if it’s a venomous snake or not.
 These snakes eat a variety of food, but it’s important to provide your snake with a good diet. Ideally, give them mice, but fish and earthworm are also good food for garter snakes. Avoid frogs and toads, since they can cause dangerous infections for garter snakes in captivity.Mice provide garter snakes with a balanced diet. Not all garter snakes eat mice, so make sure yours is one that does. Otherwise, you’ll have to keep in mind ways to balance the garter snake’s diet.
Earthworms are a particularly good diet for younger garter snakes. Cut them into smaller pieces, so they are smaller than the garter snake. They may not be able to eat full-size earthworms when they are younger.
Fish can also be used for garter snakes. Frozen fish is best, since parasites will not be a problem. Don’t give them fresh fish, since your garter snake may become infected.
Avoid feeding your garter snakes frogs and toads. Though garter snakes eat frogs and toads in the wild, they are more resistant to the parasites in frogs and toads. Your pet garter snake will not be as resistant, so it’s best to avoid them entirely.
 Garter snakes may make fun pets, but it may also be best to release them back into the wild. Make sure to bring them back to where you found them, so they will have the best habitat to return to. Also, always release garter snakes back into the wild during the warmest months.Some garter snakes may refuse to eat in captivity. If this is the case, release your garter snake as soon as possible so it does not starve to death.
If the garter snake is not adjusting to captivity, release them within a week or two. Keeping a garter snake too long can reduce its chances of survive in the wild.
Bring garter snakes back to where you found them. They can easily find their way back to their habitat. Returning them to a foreign environment may make them less likely to survive.
Release garter snakes into the wild only during warmer months. Since they hibernate, garter snakes are not able to survive during the winter. Keep them in a warm, safe space until they are ready to come out of hibernation.

