 Stretch a tape measure across the expanse from one stud to another. You should be measuring between the inner edges of the studs. Write this number down, rounding to the nearest quarter inch (roughly 1.25cm) The firestopping blocks will be cut to fit this space.Before you begin, check to see if your the walls of your basement already have some form of firestopping in place.It will be necessary to fireblock any wall sections that create interior cavities greater than 10 feet (3m) in width.;
, Acquire a set of 2” (48mm) nominal lumber boards. Using the measurements of the stud spacing that you just took, saw the boards straight across width-wise. Take care to make the edges clean and even. The best way to do this is to use a circular saw that allows you to make precise cuts.To install firestops between every stud, you may need to use several boards.
You can also use 2x8s (48mm x 198mm) if a wider space exists between the studs and the foundation wall.Nominal lumber is one of a few firestopping materials approved by the International Residential Code (IRC).
 Position the newly made blocks in the space at the top of the studs where they meet the floor joists or recessed wall frame. Nail the blocks into place, then test them to confirm that they’re firmly fastened.


The firestopping blocks act as a barrier to keep flames and combustible gases from rising to the upper levels of your home. Without them, hollow wall cavities are like chimneys, creating drafts that draw the fire upward.Some homes utilize a double layer of firestopping for added protection. You might consider this approach should your space and materials allow it.
 If there are any spaces remaining between the studs and the firestopping blocks, this will seal them and prevent drafts from forming and accelerating the spread of fire. Simply spray a thin line into whatever cracks and crevices you come across. As it dries, the caulk will expand inside the gaps, blocking them off and neutralizing airflow. To be on the safe side, seal every space surrounding the blocks, including where the studs intersect the joists of the upper floor.
 Once the firestopping blocks have been successfully installed, you can proceed to cover the studs with plywood or drywall. This will create multiple separate compartments inside the wall rather than one large cavity. In the event of an emergency, each individual compartment will help stop or slow the spread of fire.Oxygen will be unable to infiltrate the sealed compartments, effectively stifling the fire.
Patch holes opened by contractors and plumbers with fireproof building materials and sealants.

