 When you begin your dissertation, it is important to understand the purpose it is meant to serve. In understanding the larger goal of the exercise, you can more carefully craft your paper to demonstrate that you have achieved said goal and are deserving of those coveted post or pre-name letters.


A dissertation will prove your ability to produce original research with original, impactful ideas. One of the main things you will be expected to do after getting your advanced degree is furthering your field by producing new ideas which solve the problems previously present in the discipline. You will need to prove that you are capable of making these significant contributions and your dissertation will be your first major step.
A dissertation will demonstrate your knowledge of research design. You will need to show that you can perform research in a way that is acceptable for your discipline. This means coming up with tests that properly correspond with your hypothesis, accounting for variables, and accurate methods of collecting data, among other things.
 A life of serious academic work is not for everybody. While for some people it will bring great joy, others will feel unfilled. Because of the amount of work involved and the stress that comes with it, you will want to be sure that this is really what you want for your life.


People are often goaded into pursuing higher degrees by their parents, who generally just want what they feel is best for their child. However, this may not be what’s best. If your parents have pushed you into this, you will need to seriously consider if your parent’s wishes should guide your life decisions. It is your choice, in the end. Not theirs.
There is no shame in choosing not to pursue this degree. As already discussed, not everyone is suited to the life it will bring. It also should not be considered a waste of time or money, as the additional training is often not only useful but still looks good to many employers.
 Before you begin, you will need to decide on a topic that is right for you. Remember, you will be working on this for a very long time. It needs to be something that you find interesting or you will have a very unpleasant time. Your thesis for the topic must also be a significant contribution to the scholarship, so try to avoid topics that are well researched already. It also needs to be something that you feel you have enough ability to prove and support.


For example, you will not be able to write a historical dissertation on aliens building the pyramids. Or at least, not one that you’ll get past your committee. A dissertation on guano curing cancer is going to end similarly. Try to choose something that won’t lead your university to disown you.
 Before you begin, try to find sources of funding. You will need to be able to support yourself (just in terms of living conditions), because working while writing a dissertation is at the very least extremely challenging, if not outright barred by your program. You may also need funds in order to pursue research, either for traveling to collect or view materials, for purchasing rare or expensive texts, or to pay for materials necessary to conduct experiments.


There are a number of ways to get this funding. Asking your department for advice will probably be best, since funding is often specific to discipline. Generally, seek grants rather than loans. Fellowships from your university are also extremely helpful. Many schools will have scholarships and grants specifically set aside for those beginning work on their dissertation.
 You will need to be able to focus while writing your dissertation. This means having a space where you can have quiet and will not be constantly bombarded by distractions. You will need to also have easy access to everything that you need for writing: books, a computer, internet connection, power sources, etc. Be sure that you've secured this before beginning work.

