 Don’t develop your lecture material from a single source. Try to get a diverse perspective from professional texts, academic papers, news sources, and even less formal sources like blog posts. Diverse sourcing will give you a more comprehensive understanding of the subject matter and reflect a more authoritative ethos to your audience.It’s good to present scholarly perspectives that conflict with each other. This will demonstrate that you are aware of critical perspectives, present a more comprehensive view of the topic, and give your audience something to think about.;
, Make sure you are properly citing any sources you plan on using in the lecture and know precisely where each piece of information comes from. Keep written bibliography on the side in case someone requests this information.Verbal citations for a lecture don’t have to be as complete as written citations for a paper. You can say some like “According to the U.S. Department of Labor’s 2008 study…” before preventing the relevant information. Still, you should have a complete citation that includes the author, date, author’s qualifications, title, publication, relevant page numbers, and instructions for finding the source on the internet or in print in case someone wants to see your sources firsthand.
 Use your preferred internet search engine to find other lectures on similar subjects. This can help you both in developing information for your content and giving you a template for how the lecture can be organized and delivered.YouTube and onlineuniversities.com are good places to find lecture videos.


As with any other source, make sure you cite the lecture if you are using specific information you gathered from it.
 The general purpose of your lecture is most likely to inform your audience about something they don’t know. However, you can consider this purpose more deeply. Are you trying to prepare them for an exam on the material? Are you leading them toward developing their own unique thoughts on the subject? Throughout the research and development of your lecture content, ask how you’re serving your overall purpose.