 Use wire cutters to snip off two 4-inch (10-cm) lengths of 20-gauge craft wire.

You can use a different wire gauge, if desired, but it must be thin enough to bend without pliers.
If you don't have any craft wire available, try unfolding two small, uncoated paperclips and using them, instead.;
, Insert one of your wire pieces through the hole on the back of a small shank button.

You'll need to use two shank buttons for this project. Ideally, the two buttons should match. Choose buttons with a design you like since the decorative face of the button will show.
Check the size of the buttons, too. The buttons themselves must be able to slide in and out of standard sleeve buttonholes. The holes on the back of each button must be wide enough for the craft wire to fit through.
 Once the wire is halfway through the hold on the back of the button, fold it in half and twist the ends together once or twice.

This secures the button in place at the center of your wire.
Note that the two wire ends should still be separate and distinct beneath the twist.
 Place one scrap of fabric, wrong-side up, beneath one wire end. Lay a thin line of glue over the fabric and alongside the wire, then fold the fabric over to cover the wire.

Fray-resistant fabric works best, but most medium to heavy weight materials can be used.
Repeat with the other wire end. Note that you should use matching or coordinating fabric scraps.
Let the glue dry before continuing.
 After the glue dries, trim away any excess wire and fabric.

Use wire cutters to trim the length of each wire end to approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm).
Use scissors to trim down the width of the fabric. Cut away all fabric that lies to the outside of the glue seal.
 Create a matching cufflink with your second button and second length of wire. Follow the same steps used to complete the first cufflink.

Check the fabric after you complete both cufflinks. If the material starts fraying, you can apply a little seam sealant to the raw edges.
 Insert the wire ends of one cufflink through the buttonhole of one sleeve. Bend the covered wire ends back in opposite directions to hold the cufflink in place.

Repeat with the second cufflink and the second sleeve.

