;
, You can even look up the first EP called Ready Set Rock. They have two other EPs called Heart Made Up On You and Loud. Learn the lyrics to a few of the songs by listening to them a few times and watching lyric videos. You can find these on YouTube but they're often pitched due to copyright.
 Once you know the lyrics to most of their songs, you can now officially call yourself a fan!

, Now that you know their songs, you need to know their names, ages, birthdays, place of birth and other facts.


Wikipedia has different facts about the band such as where they originated, grew up and other stuff like that. R5's website (r5rocks.com) has lots of facts too. Their website includes videos, pictures and even a social media section where you can contact different R5ers from all around the world!

, They add new questions every week plus, you learn different facts each time you take the quiz.
 You can make an Instagram, Twitter, YouTube or Facebook page dedicated to them.
 For most social media sites, you can change your user name but for some you can't so choose something that you know you won't want to change later on.
 It should also include some information about you as well so people can know more about the person who is running the account / page.
 Using hashtags on websites such as Instagram and Twitter will attract more viewers to your account and you will get more and more likes.
 People won't want to follow an inactive account and will quickly unfollow.
 Owning R5 merchandise shows that you love and support the band. You can get R5 merchandise from many different sites such as:


eBay
Amazon
Etsy
Cafepress

, They have a large assortment of products such as shirts, hoodies, bracelets, etc. If you are from Europe, R5 also have a European store called r5rocks.eu. They sell a lot more items but they're slightly older than the items sold on the US store.
 R5 have always said, you don't fully understand R5 until you go to one of their shows, so definitely go to one of their shows! The atmosphere is amazing, being surrounded by other people from the same city / state as you who also love R5. You can even get meet and greet where you can meet the band and take a picture with them.
 R5 go on a tour at least one a year. Keep up to date with tour dates by signing up to the R5 Rocks The World emailing list, this way, you will get an email whenever R5 announce a tour date near you.


The band often do a vote. Basically, you vote for where you want them to go. It's that simple! The places with the most votes will win and R5 will play a show there.
 Tickets are usually £18 - £22 depending on when and where the concert is held.
 This is usually between £60 - £130. Again, it depends on when and where the concert is. You can buy Ryland meet and greet too. For those that didn't know already, Ryland is the Lynch's' youngest brother who isn't in the band. His meet and greet is £48. More information is on his website, rylandlynch.com.

