 This pendulum experiment is easy to do at home. All the materials should be readily available. For the purposes of this article you'll only be doing one pendulum, but you can cut more of different lengths, so make sure that your length of string is over 70 centimeter (27.6 in).Gather two chairs and a meter stick. You'll use the chairs and meter stick to create the frame for your pendulum. The pendulum will hang off the meter stick between the chairs.
The scissors are for cutting the string and the tape if you need it. The tape is if you end up using pennies instead of washers.
Your string should be at least 70 centimeter (27.6 in), but preferably longer. It can be string or yarn, depending on what you have available.
The stopwatch will be for recording things like the period of the pendulum and how the period changes when you change the angle of the pendulum or the length.
You can use five washers, or three pennies to weight the pendulum. These are good weights to use and easy to find in your house.;
, You will want them spaced about one meter apart, because you'll be placing the meter stick across the backs of them. Make sure that you're facing them back to back because otherwise the fronts will get in the way of the pendulum's arc.


Put the meter stick across the tops and make sure that it is centered between the backs of the two chairs. Off-centering the meter stick can make your calculations incorrect.
If the meter stick is sitting stably on the back of the two chairs, you can tape it down to keep it in place.
 This is the string that will make up one part of the pendulum. All you'll need to do is add a weight. If you do choose to make more pendulums of varying lengths you'll find that frequency of the pendulum (how many times it swings backwards and forwards per second) is dependent on the length of the string.


Tie the string towards the middle of the meter stick. This will make it so that the pendulum won't hit the chairs.
 These are your weights, which will turn the pendulum into the pendulum. Instead of metal washers you can use three pennies. Tape them securely to the free end of the string.


You'll find that a pendulum with a heavy weight will move at the same rate as a pendulum with a light weight (like a foam ball from a fabric shop, for example) because with gravity the acceleration (speed) of a falling object is the same whether it is heavy or light.

