 Your body needs all the energy it can get, so make sure to get plenty of rest. Use an additional pillow to elevate your head while you sleep. This will help make sure that your nose effectively drains while you sleep rather than getting even more clogged up.


Take time off from work or school. You cannot continue your normal routine and also get enough rest. You should stay at home. To prevent the transmission of the virus, you need to stay away from large groups of people. With the common cold, the rhinovirus spreads through the air. Normally the worst day of your cold — around day two — is when your body is eliminating the virus. You’ll still be a carrier for a couple of days past this.
 The steamy soup clears congestion, relieves stuffy noses, and provides a great source of nutrition to keep you going. Researchers argue that compounds found in chicken soup actively increase white blood cells, which attack foreign bodies that cause illness., If you have a fever, your body will inevitably feel colder. Get a warm blanket and snuggle up on the couch. Wear plenty of layers and use as many blankets as you need to. While staying warm won’t get rid of a cold, it will make you feel more comfortable while your body fends it off. There is little scientific evidence to back up the assertion that sweating fights colds. You cannot “sweat” out a cold., Since nasal congestion often leads to sore throats be sure to gargle with salt water regularly. Add 1/4 tsp table salt to 8 oz (237 mL) of water. Thoroughly dissolve the salt in the water. Take small sips and gargle for about 30 seconds each time. Spit and repeat as needed.
 You can purchase these supplements at most pharmacies. Many of these supplements also come in the form of “cough drops.” Find some with honey, licorice, or slippery elm as ingredients.


Honey consumed in lozenges or tea can be a good remedy for sore throats and can help suppress coughs.Licorice root can be purchased in a tablet or as a separate solution. Dissolve 500 mg of licorice root (generally 1 1/2 tablets) in 30 ml of warm water. Gargle and spit.Slippery elm has been used as an herbal supplement in North America for centuries. You can purchase it in tablet or powder form. Take three to four tablets (400 – 500 mg each) daily for one to two months. To make a slippery elm tea, add two tsp of the powder to 2 cups of warm water (473 mL). Drink three times a day for the duration of your cold.
 Using either a humidifier or vaporizer in the room you are resting in can make you more comfortable by keeping the air moist.This is especially helpful if your nasal passages or throat are dry and irritated. Keep in mind that although humidifiers might help soothe your throat, they probably don't help relieve cold symptoms or shorten the duration of the cold.


Some studies have suggested that humidifiers and vaporizers may be more harmful than useful. Humidifiers can spread pathogens, mold, and toxins, in addition to causing nasty burns. Use your own judgement to decide if using a humidifier is right for you., According to the Mayo Clinic, products like Vick's VapoRub don't actually relieve nasal congestion, but the strong scent of menthol and camphor does manage to break past your clogged up nose. This tricks your brain into thinking that you can breathe, which decreases illness-driven anxiety. Try it to calm yourself., Tobacco use can weaken your immune system and exacerbate many cold symptoms. In addition, the added strain on your throat and lungs hinders the healing process., Sometimes, you simply need to visit a doctor.You should visit a doctor when you experience the following symptoms:


Fevers over 103 degrees Fahrenheit
When symptoms persist for more than 10 days
Difficulty breathing
Severe ear pain or discharge of mucus from the ear
Confusion, disorientation, or seizure
Frequent vomiting or abdominal pain
Painfully swollen glands in the neck or jaw

