 Study the different traits that are usually attributed to each sign. An easy way to remember these traits is to think about people that you know in each sign. Think about how they do or don't fit into the categorization of their sign. The more you compare people you know to the descriptions of their signs, the easier it will be to keep an idea in mind about what each sign is like.;
, These individuals often have a very forceful confrontational voice. They are stubborn, egoistical, show-offs, fiercely independent, extremely competitive, freedom-loving, adventurous, enthusiastic, bold, athletic, impulsive, reckless, dynamic, powerful, overly-confident, loud, blunt, hasty, hard-headed, stubborn, strong-willed, hot-tempered, rude, selfish, impulsive, enterprising, risk-takers, and challenger. Aries tend to act first and think later due to which they end up in last., People born under this sign love nice things; they can come across as extremely materialistic, or as people who enjoy the finer things in life. They are sometimes slow to act, great at managing money, lovers of the outdoors (and of doing outdoor activities such as farming or gardening), very practical and down to earth. Taurus people typically dislike change., Geminis are usually good arguers, witty, adaptive, flirtatious, playful (but may come across as offensive), tricksters, inconsistent, easy to please, intellectual, chatty, quick-witted, social butterflies, knowledge-seeking, and changeable. They typically like reading, writing, and mental games, and are great at multitasking., They are very sensitive (with unpredictable moods), romantic, nice, sweet, caring and nurturing, motherly, homey. Cancer individuals like home-cooked meals and quality family time; they are socially conservative, and withdraw from the scene when hurt or offended., Leos are loving and sensitive leaders. Leos love children, are very attractive, enjoy luxury and jewelry, and have a bigger-than-life dramatic attitude. Leos are show-offs, egoistical, dominant, powerful, determined, charismatic, very demanding, athletic, smart, arrogant, pompous, conceited, temperamental, competitive, passionate, stubborn, loud, loyal, strong-willed, and usually laid-back, but can be highly aggressive or even potentially destructive. They typically want to be the center of attention and have a tremendous sense of vitality., These individuals are usually considered perfectionists, critical, detail-oriented, fastidious, practical, intelligent, sharp-witted, with keen intellect and powers of observation, shrewd, and penetrating. They have great mental dexterity and try to live healthy lifestyles. They can be judgmental, opinionated, naturally shy, and organized. Virgos often like order and cleanliness, and they know how to effectively prove their point in an argument., Those born under the sign of Libra are intelligent, charming, flirtatious, frivolous, graceful, loyal and diplomatic. They like equality, justice, beauty, and beautiful things. They are usually considered social butterflies, polite, gracious, pleasantly mannered, idealistic, attractive, and peaceful., Scorpios are secretive, passionate, confident, loyal, athletic, hyper-sensitive, mysterious, penetrating, investigative, powerful, sexual, resourceful, jealous, controlling, hot-tempered, magnetic, strong-willed, resilient, and revengeful. They typically have high levels of self-mastery in all areas. It's often hard to determine this one because Scorpios are very private although they often seem like they're an open book. , They are adventurous, independent, friendly, enthusiastic, broad-minded, overly-optimistic, brave, intelligent, charismatic, flirtatious, rebellious, and freedom-seeking. Sagittariuses dislike restrictions. They are talkative, natural entertainers, impulsive, exaggerating, over-indulgent, blunt, risk-takers, with a child-like wonder. Sagittarius people are always hungry for knowledge, opportunistic, philanthropic, and philosophical., Capricorns are ambitious, determined, patient, mature, powerful, achiever, mysterious (disappearing), reserved, and detached, cautious, hot-tempered generous hard workers with a pair of penetrating eyes. They are usually very ambitious and enjoy responsibility. They are self-disciplined and respect authority. They are career-oriented, with a remarkable capacity for endurance and patience. They possess a tough exterior to protect others from hurting them. Inside the mysterious Capricorn is a charming and passionate human.They also possess a remarkable sense of humour., Aquarius people love to help others. They are liberal, democratic, humanitarians who are broad-minded and enjoys social equality. They are considered reformers, but can be cold and indifferent. They are often eccentric, erratic, rebellious, unpredictable, highly opinionated, original, one-of-a-kind, friendly, sharp-tongued, idealistic, inventive, quick to change their minds, and resolute., They are highly creative, smart, passionate, sensitive and friendly. They like to take care of others, but are often viewed as offensive because of their changing temperaments. They are typically characterized by beautiful eyes and smiles., Each sign has several physical attributes commonly associated with it. Look at the person carefully and see if any of the following descriptions are true for them. What strikes you most about how they look?


Usually the ascendant influences the physical appearance more dominantly so you may be able to guess that using physical traits and not the sun sign (which is the typical zodiac determined by your birth date alone).
 These traits include high set and narrow facial bones, broad foreheads, rosy cheeks, strong, well-proportioned body, above or below average height, and dark or sandy colored hair, strong eyebrows (not necessarily large though, they're often extremely thin but very notable), as well as clear and penetrating eyes which are often close-set.
 Taurus is ruled by Venus so these people will often be very attractive overall. Taurus people usually appear innocent, with childlike eyes, full lips, small/even teeth, with thick hair and strongly defined jawlines. Their bodies tend to be quite square overall. They typically have low foreheads, slightly thicker than usual necks, and attractive faces.
 A mischievous smile, full lips, average height, and a well-proportioned chin are standard characteristics of Geminis. They usually have high cheekbones and a youthful appearance. They are typically thin or even bird-boned, with pointy features, long fingers, a jaunty walk, and bright and sparkling eyes. They usually have a great fashion sense. They have a great ability to mimic things such as expressions. Their mimicking ability can help you distinguish one.
 Cancers have far-apart eyes and innocent facial features. They are of below average height, have a fleshy body and short legs, usually with brown hair, a round face, and a prominent forehead. They usually have very rounded bodies. All their features are very soft looking (unlike Aries). Their eyes are typically small, with a small or average sized nose, crooked teeth, and a full mouth. In essence, the upper body is invariably larger in proportion to the lower, which may make for a rather clumsy or top-heavy bodily appearance at times.
 Leos are known for their glamorous, thick, mane-like dark hair, large dark eyes, proud and confident expression which usually results includes their chin going up a little (resembles a lion), Leo is one of the attractive signs, but they can sometimes have bad luck. They may get irritated and have a prominent nose. They are typically tall with thin waists, trim athletic legs, broad shoulders, and muscular bodies. Leos are the type to have a Leo symbol tattoo. They also have very dramatic appearance .
 Virgos are typically fair, with clean-looking skin, a roundish head, and delicately-shaped lips. They have large and expressive eyes with an outward apex, and strong symmetrically refined features. Virgos are always very clean.
 Libras are ruled by Venus so they're going to be very attractive. Libras have dimples on the cheeks, nose, knees, or elbows, with chiseled lips, a roundish head, pretty face, thin nose, and generally refined and well balanced features. They make lots of facial and hand gestures while talking and have a loud, ringing laugh.
 They have strong features, intense hypnotic penetrating eyes that could burn holes in your soul, glowing tan almost oily skin, and a fixed expression. They tend to have very dark hair. There's something very sexy about this sign, and it's not necessarily in their physical appearance although it's definitely there.
 Sagittarius people have faces, chiseled jawlines, usually with a large and well-shaped skull. They have a high, broad forehead, a wide and infectious smile, and a tall well-formed figure with strong legs. They are usually good runners. They usually have a loud, booming voice.
 They typically have a chiseled, certain face, doe-like steady eyes, and brown or dark hair. Their hands are capable, and they have prominent cheek bones. Their faces aren't usually very expressive.
 Key characteristics of Aquarius people include a friendly but aloof expression, large and rounded eyes, and finely chiseled facial features. Aquarians also have average noses and lips that are full at the center and thin out toward the edges. Aquarius usually has something distinct and somewhat strange about their appearance (like a disproportionate feature, or an odd walking pattern etc.)

, They typically have innocent features, with a delicate and feminine expression. Pisces natives tend to have petite features. They have a gentle look about them. Their expression is often very dreamy and disconnected. They can lean toward corpulence (obesity) in their later years.
 People born in the Spring tend to have an attractive face (not necessarily handsome or pretty, just striking): Aries, Taurus, and Gemini.
 People born in the Summer tend to have exceptional skin and hair (hair does not have to be straight, just glamorous): Cancer, Leo, and Virgo.
 People born in the Fall tend to have natural, attractive gestures, looks, and movements: Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius.
 People born in the winter usually have strong, attractive bodies: Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces.
 Aries, Leo, Sagittarius: These people are physical and active. They tend to be rude and selfish, headstrong, confident, talented, charismatic, sociable, in good shape, and into sports. In a word, they are the doers.
 Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn: These people are physical and passive. They are perfectionists, hard-working, and tend to be introverted. They are confident, reliable, consistent, and understanding of many things. They're often overlooked but they, in a lot of ways, hold society together. In a word, they are the back-bone.
 Gemini, Libra, Aquarius: These people are mental and active. They are intelligent, interested in knowledge, energetic, charming, and good with words. They tend to be too changeable, articulate, and optimistic. In a word, they are the thinkers.
 Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces: These people are emotional and passive. They are emotionally sensitive, and deep. They are capable of powerful thoughts and actions; they are passionate and sexual. They are very intuitive and can almost seem psychic. In a word, they are the feelers.
 It has little to do with being macho or girly. In fact, men with astrological femininity often compensate by acting macho (working out, claiming to be promiscuous or tough) and women with astrological masculinity often compensate by acting "girly" (wearing "girly" clothes and makeup, claiming to be emotional).


Astrologically masculine qualities: Independence, dating a lot, they may come off as rude to those that don't understand them but in reality they just stand up for what they think is right, traveling a lot, and preferring to pursue people; being energetic, active, headstrong, talkative, confident, open-minded, sexual, and flirtatious.
Astrologically feminine qualities: Preferring long-term relationships, preferring to stay at home, needing more sleep, and preferring to be pursued; being methodical, considerate, reliable, kind, stubborn, polite, and shy.
 Are they confident in their habits? Do they display distinct qualities that most people do not possess? Do you know the person rather well? If so, this person may be a good candidate for analysis. On the other hand, does the person tend to act like everyone else? Is the person shy? Is the person quiet?

, Think about people you know very well and compare this person to them. Consider many personality traits, physical traits, and how they respond to stress. Compare this information to people that you know intimately to help you guess their sign.
 It is especially important to observe their behavior while they are in conflicts or while working in groups. We all learn to hide our inner feelings to some degree while in public. People usually display their astrological traits in relationships and tense interactions.For example, Aries' first reaction when faced with conflict is to yell or threaten, Gemini will talk his/her way out of it, Cancer usually responds with an emotional outburst, Taurus responds to conflict with silence and a posture of strength, etc.
Cardinal (Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn): These people usually responds to conflict with a bold, decisive, instinctive action in an attempt to trump the assault. They are easily motivated to start tasks.
Fixed (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius): These people tend to hold in their reaction and respond that the attempt to hurt them was futile, with passive aggressive behavior or with silence. They concentrate on finishing things well.
Mutable (Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces): These people tend to be artful with conflicts, and are known to try to avoid arguments. They are good at motivating people.
 Aries is considered the youngest, while Pisces is the oldest. The younger signs tend to display quick tempers and be more selfish and eager to learn while the older signs are wiser, more compassionate and more set in their ways. This is where people get the term old soul.
 Base your prediction from your study of astrology. The average guesser should have a 1/12 guess rate, but any study of astrology, however small, will improve on the 1/12 rate. Keep studying astrology from experts and from your own observations and your "guessing" will be 1/11 - 1/10.
 This will help you verify your guesses and improve your skills. You can use Google to find a birth chart calculator.

