 Songza is another Internet radio site, but it has a different model and interface than Pandora or iHeartRadio. It allows users to create their own playlists that can be shared, and offers suggestions based on theme rather than song or artist.

To access Songza, go to http://www.songza.com/. When you enter the site, Songza will ask you a series of questions in order to recommend playlists for you, known as the “Music Concierge”. For example, based on the time of day, it might give you a choice among music for “work or study”, “an energy boost”, or “a weekday dance party”. Then you can pick a specific genre, and finally a playlist based on your preferences. When you select a playlist, it will begin playing.
Alternatively, you can skip the Music Concierge process by clicking “Today's Biggest Hits” or “Brand New Music” in the middle of the page. “Today's Biggest Hits” will take you to a list of the most popular playlists, which you can adjust to cover today, the past week, or the past year.
“Browse New Music” gives you list of playlist with new music. The search bar in the top left lets you search all playlists, which you can filter by genre, mood, decade, and more. To play a playlist, just click on it and then click “Play” when the icon and info for the playlist appears.
Create a Songza account to manage your playlists. Once you sign up, you can save and share playlists, contribute your own playlists for other users to listen to, and see what your friends are listening to., The format of Spotify is fairly similar to iTunes, but there are advertisements to keep the service free. You can sign up for Spotify at https://www.spotify.com/us/.


Install Spotify to your computer and create a Spotify account. You can then begin listening to music. Spotify has a number of different options for finding and listening to music.
Go to the "What's New" page to get recommendations for songs and playlists. Use the "Discover" section to find new music you might like, based on what you've listened to so far. You can also type in a song or artist in the search bar in the top left corner if you have something specific in mind or click "Local Files" to listen to songs from your iTunes library on Spotify.
You can create a playlist by clicking "+ New Playlist". Then, search for songs and drag them over to your playlist on the left-hand side.
 YouTube is good if you are looking for a specific song. The program will often have a number of different versions of a song, some higher quality than others. Usually, you will get the best quality if you can find the official music video version of the song, but you should still be able to find a good version even if there is no official version.


Go to https://www.youtube.com/ and use the search bar to search for a song or artist. For popular artists, YouTube usually has an option when you search for an artist called a YouTube mix. This will be on the right side of the screen. It's a playlist of that artist's most popular songs.
One of the downsides of YouTube is that, normally, you have to manually switch videos every time a song ends. You can get around this, though, by finding a playlist for the artist that you want to listen to. For many artists, especially the most popular ones, a playlist will be one of the top results. You can also search for playlists by typing “+ playlist” in the search bar.
You can also create your own playlists by signing up for YouTube using your Google account. To create a playlist, start by going to the video of a song you want on the playlist. Then, click the "Add to" button below the video. Click "Create New Playlist" and give the playlist a name. Click "Create".
You can go to other videos of songs and add them to the same playlist by clicking the "Add to" button.

