 You can start your search for adoption agencies online. Public and private adoption agencies have websites. Use these as a jumping-off point to learn more about each agency and its adoption process.The process for private agencies may be a bit more involved than if you go through a state agency, and also may cost a little more money. In exchange, you may have more control over the adoption process or more guidance and assistance after the adoption is complete.
State adoption services can be a good source of information about the legal and financial assistance available to adoptive parents.;
, While there are plenty of American children looking for forever homes, you may also adopt a child of another race directly from their home country. Look for an agency headquartered in the United States if you want to explore international adoption.Agencies headquartered in another country could be a scam, and you may not have the ability to adequately research their background and reputation.
Check adoption alert notifications on the State Department's website regularly. These will let you know if there are any problems with adoptions in specific countries., Once you have a list of three or four different potential adoption agencies, make appointments to visit each of them and talk to the people who work there. Then you can compare to choose the best agency for you.Get an understanding of costs up front, but don't base your decision solely on the amount of money it will cost to complete your adoption. You want to choose an agency where you feel comfortable and at home.
Since you want to adopt a child of another race, find out if any of the agencies offer cultural or language support, or if they have classes or other resources available for transracial families.
 Most agencies have prospective adoptive parents attend an orientation session or an introductory class so you can learn more about the adoption process and the policies of that particular agency.Pre-service training is required in most states, whether you are using a public or private adoption agency.
Focus on the presentation, and make note of any questions you have so you can ask agency staff later.
 While you certainly don't have to be wealthy to adopt a child, you will have to be able to demonstrate that you have the space to house the child and the financial means to support the child.Home and community environment are also important. Talk to your family and friends, and evaluate the multicultural resources available in your area. Make sure those close to you accept your decision to adopt a child of another race.
You also want to make sure there are no legal restrictions that would prevent you from adopting a child. If you're thinking about adopting internationally, you want to look at the laws in the child's home country as well.
 Take a look at your adoption application and make a list of the documents you'll need to provide to back up the statements you make on your application. Typically these are personal and financial documents.You'll need proof of employment and income, as well as proof of your identity, citizenship, and place of residence.
Depending on the agency, you also may be required to submit copies of other documents, such as university diplomas or professional licenses.
 Take your completed application and copies of any documents together to the adoption agency. There may be an application fee you have to pay when you submit your initial application.Based on this application, the agency will decide whether to proceed and open a case for you. At this stage, the agency really is only looking to make sure you meet the basic minimum legal requirements to adopt a child.
Typically if you are living with a spouse, both of you must sign the application to adopt the child.
 When the agency accepts your initial application, you'll be assigned a caseworker. Your caseworker works with you to get you approved as adoptive parents and helps match you with potential children.During your first meeting with your caseworker, they will explain the adoption process more in-depth, giving you a basic timeline for each of the phases of the process.
The caseworker also will ask you questions about the information on your application, as well as follow up questions, in an effort to get to know you as potential parents.
 Most states require criminal and employment background checks for adoptive parents, whether you're adopting through a public or private agency. The same background checks are required for all adults living in your home, or who would have frequent contact with the adopted child.You will need an FBI federal criminal background check, as well as criminal history reports from the state law enforcement agency of any state where you've lived.
You also typically must show that you've never been required to register for child abuse or domestic violence, or as a sex offender.
 The final step in the application process to adopt a child is the home study. Your caseworker will visit your home and interview you and other members of your family. They'll also review your personal, legal, and financial records.In some cases you must provide a physical health report. You can still adopt if you have a disability or health condition. The agency primarily wants to make sure that you don't have any conditions that would seriously shorten your life expectancy.
Answer your caseworker's questions as honestly as possible, even if you think the answer might negatively impact the caseworker's opinion of you. The caseworker is on your side – if you're honest with them about any issues you might have, they can help you find ways to handle those issues.
 When your caseworker completes your home study, they'll compile a report. If they recommend you for adoption, they may start looking for potential children for you right away.Work with your caseworker to learn the types of children who are typically available. Based on this information, you may want to adjust your preferences.
You may have a longer wait before you are matched with a child depending on your preferences. For example, you may have to wait several years before an infant is available, whereas if you were willing to adopt a school-age child you could have found a placement within a few weeks.
 When your adopted child is a different race than you are, help them understand the concept of race and how they may have different racial or ethnic traditions than you do.As you teach your child, learn about these customs and traditions yourself. If you've adopted a child from abroad, learn as much as you can about the history and culture of the country where your child was born.
If your child comes from a country or culture that speaks a language other than English, you might consider learning the language yourself and helping your child learn.
 Making your adopted child a part of your family means making that child's ethnic holidays and cultural traditions a part of your family life as well. Strive to include more than just a holiday or two once a year.For holidays that are celebrated in the child's birth culture as well as your own, incorporate some of the other cultural traditions into your celebration.
Invite friends and family to participate in the child's birth culture and learn about the child's cultural background and ethnic traditions.
 If you adopt a child from another race, they'll feel more welcome and part of the family if they see examples of other interracial families as well. If you treat interracial families as normal, the child won't grow up thinking there's very much different about their family or your relationship.Depending on where you live, you may be able to join a community group or organization committed to diversity and interracial families.
You also should include families in your life who are the same race or ethnicity as your adopted child. These families will allow your child to interact with people who look like them and potentially understand more about their birth culture.
 If you can afford to do so, your best option if you want to adopt a child of another race is to move to an area that is racially diverse. That way your adopted child won't be the only child of their race in school.Having a racially diverse community gives your child the opportunity not only to socialize with other children of their own race, but also to get to know a variety of children from various races and ethnic backgrounds.
Especially if you had an international adoption, you also might consider living in or near an area that is an enclave for immigrants from the same country as your child. For example, if you adopted a child from China, you might want to move into or near your city's "Chinatown" or "Little China" neighborhood.
 Various cultural pride groups often have public events centered around cultural holidays and traditions. Taking your child to these events allows them to experience a slice of their culture.Try to return to the same events every year so your child can develop habits around those events and get to know the people who organize and attend those events in your city or town.
If there aren't any such events near you, search on the internet for nearby festivals and events that are within a day or two's drive and plan a short family vacation.
 As your child grows up, it's important that they see people who look like them represented in the stories they read and the toys they play with. Look not just for books and toys with a "cultural" bent, but those that involve regular children doing everyday things.You want your child to recognize and appreciate the diversity of humanity, not see themselves as "other" or "less than" simply because of the color of their skin.
Maintaining a diverse selection of books and toys that include children of many different races and ethnic backgrounds will help teach your child about diversity and equality from a young age.

