 If you're thirsty, opt for water most of the time. Water quenches your thirst better than other beverages and has no calories and carbs. Proper hydration is also important to overall health.Have water when eating out or at home. It can help to store cool water in your fridge so it's easy to pour a cold glass of water with a meal.
If you want to liven up regular water, infuse it with fruits or herbs, such as mint. For example, you could place slices of strawberries in regular tap water.
Staying hydrated throughout the day can help fight the urge to drink unhealthy beverages. Make a point of carrying a water bottle with you wherever you go.;
, Notice where your beverage calories tend to come from. For example, do you frequently have a latte as a pick-me-up after work? Do you drink soda with lunch or dinner? Tiny tweaks can eliminate calories, making your drink choices healthier.If you drink sugary sodas or ginger-ale, opt for diet and sugar-free varieties. This greatly reduces calories and sugar.
Going for smaller sizes can also help. Ask for a small latte rather than a medium one, for example. You can also tweak some of the ingredients. Request fat-free milk, for instance.
 Coffee and tea only have a few calories per cup. However, calories can be added on fast when adding things like sugar and other sweeteners. Try to drink coffee and tea black or opt for low-calorie sugar substitutes if you're a coffee drinker., Fruit juices are often not as healthy as they appear. They're often high in added sugars and even juices without added sugar are high in calories and overall sugar content. Instead of drinking juice straight, pour a splash of juice into seltzer water. This creates your own sparkling juice with less calories and sugar.For healthiest results, go for juices without added sugars and limit your intake to 4 oz (120 ml) a day.
 Milk is a high protein beverage that contains beneficial vitamins and minerals, such as calcium and vitamin D. Adults can enjoy up to three 8 oz (240 ml) cups of milk a day for optimal health., Some beverages should be consumed rarely, if ever, due to their poor effects on health. The following beverages should not be a staple of your diet:Sugar-sweetened soda, fruit punches, fruit juices, sweet tea and powdered drink mixes provide little nutrition and a lot of extra calories and sugar.
Energy drinks are packed with sugar and caffeine, which can lead to a spike in blood pressure.
Sports drinks do contain electrolytes, which can be helpful after a workout in some cases, but are usually too packed with added sugars to be healthy. You should only drink them if you engage in very high intensity workouts of at least 60 minutes and, even then, drink them in moderation.

