 Knowing where you stand can help you gain perspective of what you need to do to gain prep status.;
, Eat well and take care of your body. Take up a school sport such as tennis, track, golf, dance, lacrosse, polo (any type of English riding), rowing, swim, soccer, or whatever else your school offers. You're body DOES NOT have to be perfect; being preppy shows more in how you act and treat others around you, but participating in preppy sports never hurts.
 If you can't attend a private school, at least try to take advanced placement (A.P) or accelerated courses in almost everything you can. If your school offers electives, choose preparatory vocational training classes (such as culinary, architecture, or agricultural science) rather than an "easy A" class. Taking student council or a physical education class is also good. Try to focus your high school career on getting good grades and participating in clubs, sports, and organizations. It's okay to have fun sometimes, but it's important to realize that school is IMPORTANT. Use your school's resources (pre-ACT/SAT classes, tutoring, library, etc.) and try your best to earn scholarships! Take a foreign language if your school offers it. Many universities require 2-3 years of a foreign language for admission, and you will look very educated. Preps take education very seriously, and can always hold up a conversation about any topic; be very well rounded.
 This is definitely the most important aspect of being preppy. Real preps are always polite and kind. Preps are never rude, mean, or unpleasant. They are never bullies, and should always be able to make others feel good about themselves. Preps do little to no cursing. They treat adults with respect, and follow their rules. They surround themselves with positive, kind people, much like themselves. They are people you can go to with a problem, and they will help.
 Never wear excessively revealing clothing! Stay away from extreme fads as well! Good brand to buy from are Lacoste, Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Banana Republic, Vineyard Vines J. Press, Lilly Pulitzer, or any other place that sells good quality clothes. Wear a lot of polos, rugby shirts, blouses, cardigans, cable knit sweaters, khakis, bermuda shorts, quality denim,and tea dresses.
 What is important is to dress for the occasion--do not let these labels slip into your everyday wear.
 Wearing those brands is not preppy, and everyone knows it. You can find really cute outfits for low prices at n op-shop. No-one knows how many previous owners your clothes have had unless you tell them. Being preppy is practically the opposite of mainstream (that's right, hipsters are not the opposite of mainstream). They cost less than the real thing, but that's because they are not the real thing. If you are low on cash, check out discount stores; they will almost always have the real thing for a fraction of the cost!

, Monogrammed bags from L.L Bean are also a plus.
 Wear conservative ballet flats, top siders, loafers (penny are the best!), dock siders, conservative wedges, and nice sandals, to name a few.
 No unnatural colors or weird hair cuts are not preppy at all. Your hair should always be clean, shiny, and well groomed.
 A ponytail with a ribbon tied at the base is very classic. Try family heirlooms, such as your mother's silver bracelet or your grandmothers diamond necklace. A simple charm bracelet (preferably gold in color) or sparkly headband should do the trick. Try to look simplistic, never gaudy.
 For foundation, get something with SPF protection from Lancome or Clinique. Use primer and a moisturizer. Eyeliner, blush, and mascara should be used lightly. Makeup does not have to be from expensive department stores; if makeup from the drug store works well for you and makes you look good; use it! It's all about making you look your best and making you feel good; makeup is not about brands.
 Women such as Meryl Streep, Princess Diana of Wales, Audrey Hepburn, and Jackie Kennedy. Women with class and grace are the kind you should be looking up to!

