 Stir 1 cup (250 ml) baking soda into 2 cups (500 ml) hot water until well combined. Combine the two ingredients in a large bucket or other container.


Note that the baking soda will not dissolve, but it should be completely soaked.
This homemade fabric softener is often praised by people who have hard water.
Baking soda regulates the pH level in your rinse water, preventing it from becoming too acidic or too alkaline. It also cancels out mineral deposits, like those found in hard water. These mineral deposits are often responsible for making clothes stiff.
 Slowly add 1 cup (250 ml) white distilled vinegar to the mixture. Stir gently until the baking soda is dissolved.


The vinegar will react with the baking soda, causing a fizzy chemical reaction. Do not pour the vinegar too quickly or you will end up with a mess.
Vinegar strips soap and residue from clothing and also helps to soften hard water.
Some believe that the vinegar and baking soda cancel each other out, making them ineffective. The salt that is produced from the chemical reaction acts as a buffer in the rinse cycle, however. Moreover, many of the elements that help soften clothes remain in the solution even after the reaction occurs.
 If you want to make scented fabric softener, then you need to add essential oil or scent booster to the ingredients. Stir either option directly into the fabric softener solution.


If using essential oils, 25 to 30 drops should be sufficient.
If using scent booster, add 1/4 to 1/2 cup (60 to 125 ml) of the crystals to your water and stir until dissolved.Scent booster is usually found in the laundry aisle. It is not a natural product, so it may not be preferable from an ecological sense, but it will lend your fabric softener a pleasant scent and may save you money in the long run.
 For a normal load, fill a fabric softener ball with 1/4 cup (60 ml) of the fabric softener solution or add the same amount directly to the washer just before the rinse cycle begins.


Do not add the fabric softener to the machine before its primary wash cycle.
Pour the rest of the fabric softener into a storage container. Shake or stir well to combine before each use.
 You do not need to do anything special from this point on. Let your rinse cycle finish up as it normally would.

