 By noticing signs of aggression in other dogs, you can quickly remove and protect your dog from a potential attack. Aggression in dogs usually begins with warning signs and then culminates into an attack. However, the time between warning signs and an attack can be very quick. For example, it can be as quick as two to three seconds. Here are some signs of aggression in dogs:The dog’s body becomes very still and rigid.
The dog makes threatening sounds, like guttural barks.
The dog begins to snarl, i.e., growl and show teeth.
The dog begins to lunge forward or charge at you and your dog.
The dog tries to make itself look bigger by raising its ears up and forward, by making the fur on its back and tail stand up, and by raising its tail straight in the air.;
, If another dog begins showing signs of aggression toward you and your dog, try not to get anxious, angry, or fearful. Your dog, as well as the aggressive dog, can read your energy. If you become fearful, anxious, or angry, your dog will sense this and become anxious. The other dog will be able to sense your fear or anxiety, as well. Your fear, anger, or anxiety can encourage or provoke the other dog to attack.


Do not yell or scream at the aggressive dog or your dog. Take a couple of deep breaths and tell your dog, “It’s ok,” in a reassuring tone. You can calmly and firmly say, “No,” to your dog, as well as the other dog., Create space between you and your dog, and another person and their dog, by moving across the street to the other sidewalk.If you cannot move across the street, create space by standing in front of your dog. You can also create space by moving into a driveway or a lawn to let the other dog and their owner pass. Or, go behind a car., If an aggressive dog is already lunging or running toward you and your dog, pick up your dog immediately. Do not run the other way, or turn your back. This will prompt the dog to either chase you, or attack your back.


Simply scoop up your dog and remain calm. Put your hands over your dog’s eyes and face. Firmly tell the aggressive dog (without yelling), “No,” “Leave it,” or “Stop.”
Stand your ground. Slowly back away from the dog until the owner has regained control of their dog.