 It's important to have the right resources if you even want to consider taking a course online


Do you have a reliable Internet connection?
Do you have a reliable laptop or computer?
Do you have the time to study and complete your assignments?;
, Before you consider taking a course online, figure out the types of programs you will need to use and get comfortable with them. Many course require you to discuss in a forum, which might be new to you, so try to learn about different programs.  Online courses depend on technology, so get familiar with Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Wordpress, and etc.
 If you are a student who finds the traditional lecture courses hard to follow, then online courses might be for you. If you hate teaching yourself, consider staying away from online courses.


Think about how do you like to learn - hands on, visual representations like PowerPoint, listening to audio recordings, etc., are some examples.
 Online courses appear to be very helpful for students who don't have a reliable method of transportation or just can't afford to travel to campus many times a week.
 If you are already working in your career field, but want to update your skills, online course may benefit your busy work schedule and give you that competitive edge in your career field.
 When considering taking a online class don't think it'll be easier than attending the lecture. Most online courses have the same amount of work than the regular class. Some even have more assigned reading and quizzes to make sure you are following along and understanding the course material. Online course are for the independent learners. It takes a lot of self-teaching and time management to pass an online course.
 Schedules are set. If you are thinking of taking online course because you want to turn assignments in whenever you want, then think again. Most online courses are planned weekly and have specific due dates just like normal course. Also, if you aren't good with keeping track of due dates they will pass by and you will end up failing the course.
 Online course can sometime be shorter than traditional courses. They can be 8 weeks instead of 16, which means you have half the time to do the same amount of work.
 Communicating is harder when taking an online course. When attending an online course, your method of communication is limited to emails, there's no way to ask a "quick" question. You should expect replies after 12+ hours. Collaborating with group members can be so much harder through email.
 Online courses have large class sizes. The class sizes range from 30-200 students, which can make connecting with classmates and your professor so much harder. When classes are that large, emails can get lost in the flurry of confused students. It also makes finding a classmate you can ask for help from almost impossible.
 Some colleges provide online degrees that cost less than traditional degrees. So, if you want to get a degree, but can't afford to pay, try looking for a college that provides cheaper online classes.
  If you are someone who is extremely shy, has anxiety, or any learning disabilities online courses can be a more comfortable learning environment.


If you have ADHD, then focusing in a classroom can be a challenge. It might be easier to work by yourself on your own time.
If you suffer from anxiety online classes can be a good option if traditional course become too challenging.

