 When recovering from trauma, it’s imperative to have a place that feels safe. Your body may be on high alert when you’re out and about, so have a place you feel entirely safe. This might be your bedroom, a restaurant, or a parent’s or friend’s house. The important thing is that you feel safe and not threatened.You may also want to have activities that make you feel safe at your safe place. This might be singing, dancing, talking to someone, or writing in a journal.
 You don’t have to talk about the trauma, but surround yourself with people who love and support you. If you feel like talking, share your feelings with someone, preferably face-to-face. If you don’t feel like talking, be around people who make you feel supported and you can talk to if you want to.Lean on people who will listen and care about you. If there are friends who often drain you, take some time away and focus on being with the people who add to your life positively.
 A therapist can help you navigate through healing from a trauma. They can help you make sense of your feelings, develop a safety plan, and create some coping skills to deal with stress. Many therapists use cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) or trauma-focused CBT as a primary treatment method. See a therapist who specializes in treating people with trauma.Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or by calling your local mental health clinic. You can also obtain a recommendation from a physician or friend.
 Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is a type of therapy that uses eye movements to reprocess and work through a trauma. It helps to “unfreeze’ traumas that may be stuck. It’s especially effective in treating trauma and helping survivors move past their experiences.Find an EMDR therapist by looking online. Make sure that they are qualified to administer EMDR therapy.
 You might find it comforting to meet with other people who have also experienced a trauma. Joining a support group can help you feel less alone in experiencing the pain that goes along with a trauma. It can also be a place to give and receive support, ask questions, share your story, and get advice.Find a trauma support group in your local community or join an online group.

