 Moisture will help your nails recover after a gel manicure, which strips them of a lot of their natural moisture. You can buy nail moisturizer at a local beauty supply store or department store. You should apply a nail moisturizer each day. Apply it to your nails and the skin around them.Look for a fortifying nail and cuticle cream that contains peptide, which hydrates and strengthens nails.
As washing your hands dries out your nails, apply moisturizer each time you wash your hands.;
, Once a week, soak your nails in warm milk. Milk will whiten your nails, removing color residue.It will also strengthen your nails as they absorb the milk's nutrients.Warm your milk in a bowl, using enough milk to submerge your nails. You can microwave your milk or warm it over the stove.
Soak your nails for five minutes and then rinse them.
Moisturize your nails when you're done.
 After nails have a gel manicure, they may have ridges and other uneven edges. It's important to use a nail buffer to smooth out nails, focusing particularly on ridges. Do so every other day until your nails have healed.Buffing also promotes blood circulation, which can strengthen nails.
 You can buy keratin gloves at a beauty supply store or online. They are an excellent means to strengthen nails after a gel manicure. Use the gloves for the time recommended on the package. The gloves can be worn during leisurely activities, like reading and watching television., This works well if you don't prefer polished nails. Instead of going for colorful nails, or more gel products, apply a clear, strengthening product after your gel manicure. You can find many clear strengtheners at drug and beauty stores. Look for strengtheners labeled "for problem nails.", If you let your nails grow out immediately after a gel manicure, they will be more prone to breaking or snagging. Trim your nails short while recovering from a gel manicure.Round your nails as well, as this is the strongest shape. Do not use sawing gestures when filing. Instead, use gentle swipes to file in one direction.
 If your nails are not recovering as fast as you want, have another manicure done. Tell the manicurist you're looking to protect your nails from damage. They will able to give you the right treatment to keep your nails strong while they recover from a gel manicure., Your eating habits can actually affect nail strength, so healthy eating after a manicure is key. Make sure to get sufficient amounts of protein, biotin, and calcium.Low-fat dairy foods can be a great source of protein and calcium.
You can also opt for supplements if you're worried. Talk to your doctor first, however.
Some evidence indicates Jell-O makes nails grow faster, so stock up on Jell-O if you like it.
 If your manicure is beginning to peel and crack, it can be tempting to pull it off. However, this will cause more damage to your nails. If you want to remove your manicure, either make a new appointment or call the salon and ask for removal instructions., Gel polish can be fun, but when used too much it can seriously affect nail health. Take a break on the gel polish once in awhile so your nails can adequately heal.Think about getting a keratin manicure between gel manicures.
 Push back your cuticles after a gel manicure instead of cutting them. Your cuticles protect new nails that are growing, so they're vital for recovery after a gel manicure.You should also treat your cuticles to cuticle creams and gels during the recovery process., Proper removal will help keep your nails strong. Before you remove your polish, buff your nails with a nail file to remove the shine on top so you just barely see the natural nail beneath them. Then, soak a cotton ball in acetone-based polish remove and secure to your nail using an adhesive like tape. Leave the ball in place for 15 minutes. Do this for each finger.If there's any remaining nail polish, push it off using a cuticle pusher.

