 You will want to fold it so that the contaminated part is facing out, not touching any other part of the fabric. Try to peel off as much of the gum as you can with your fingers. You want to be careful not to smear the gum further into the fabric, and also careful that you do not accidentally stick it to other parts of the fabric.You could consider wearing rubber gloves during this process so that you do not have to deal with the stickiness of the gum. However, do not delay putting the garment in the freezer simply because you are looking for rubber gloves.;
, It should be a bag that you can seal. When you put your article of clothing into the bag, make sure that the gum does not touch the bag and then smear (thus contaminating the rest of the garment).


The plastic bag can be any size that you want--it doesn’t have to fit into a particular bag, it just has to be one that can fit into your freezer.
 Once the bag is sealed, but it in the freezer. While this may seem like an odd thing to do, freezing the gum will actually make it hard and it in turn will lose some of its stickiness. Freezing the gum will make it easier to get off.If you do not have access to a freezer, but happen to have some ice cubes on hand, you can rub an ice cube on the gum until it hardens from the cold. After it hardens, follow the next steps.
 The harder the gum gets, the easier it will be to remove it from your clothes. Take the bag out of the freezer once the gum is hard.
 You should do this as soon as you take the garment out of the freezer. Remove the garment out of the plastic bag and put it down onto a hard surface. Use a blunt but pointed object to peel or scrape the gum off of your clothes. You could use a paint remover, simple butter knife, or even your fingernails if yours are long and sharp enough.


It is important to remove the gum immediately after you take the clothing out of the freezer because if it is allowed to warm up, it could get sticky again which would make it a lot harder to remove.
 If there is any gum residue left on your garment, and to make sure that the gum has not stained the fabric, you should put your article of clothing in the washer machine.

