 Try to make sure that the sides are all equal. Using a ruler can help you to do this. You might also want to consider drawing the eight parts in pencil so that you can erase if you make a mistake.
 In order to break up the square into equal rectangles, you will need to find the center of the top and bottom sides of the square. To do this, measure the halfway point of each side of the square and make a little mark where the center of each side is.


For example, if you have a square where each side of the square is 4 inches (10.2 cm), the halfway point will be 2 inches (5.1 cm). Start at the top left corner and measure along the length of the top side of the square. When you get to two inches, make a mark with your pencil. Do this for the bottom side of the square, starting at the bottom left corner.
 Once you have made your marks along the sides of the square, draw a straight line from the mark on the top side of the square to the mark on the bottom side of the square. This will create a vertical (top to bottom) line through the center of the square.


When you draw this vertical line, you will cut your square into two equal rectangles.
 Now that you have two rectangles, you will need to find both of their midsections (or centers). This is the same process as what you just did to find the centers of the top and bottom sides of the square.


For example, if you started out with a square that had 4-inch sides, you now have two rectangles that have 2-inch top and bottom sides. Measure the halfway point of the top of each rectangle (you should measure in 1 inch because half of 2 inches is 1 inch). Make a mark 1 inch (2.5 cm) in. Do the same for the bottom.
 Now that you have found the centers of the top and bottom sides of each rectangle, draw a vertical line through the center of each rectangle. This will effectively give you four equal rectangles.
 Find the centers of the tops and bottoms of each of the four rectangles you have created. To continue with our example 4 by 4 square:


Each rectangle should have a top and bottom that are both one inch long. That means the center of each rectangle will be ½ inch in from the top corner of each rectangle and the bottom corner of each rectangle. Make a mark in the center of the top and bottom sides of each rectangle.
 Now that you have made marks that show where the center of each top and bottom side of each rectangle are, you can connect the marks in each rectangle. Again, using a ruler is the best way to do this. When you are finished connecting each top mark to each bottom mark, you should have eight equal rectangles.

