

Find a template to use, and include your contact info, pertinent previous employment information, as well as a list of educational background and skills if necessary. Use the tools of the job search engine Monster.com to help get you started.



 


Have more than one person proof your resume for you when you are trying to find a new job. Those words will be an employer's first impression of you, so the key to a good job hunt is to be prepared with the critical information that you need to share with that company.;
, HotJobs and CareerBuilder.com to search by your area of expertise or physical location.


Apply to any applicable jobs by filling out the required information and/or copying, pasting or attaching your resume that you previously created.
 Take a look at Indiana's site at https://www.indianacareerconnect.com/.
 Most newspapers publish the largest job listings in their Sunday edition, but some include a job listing section all week and also post jobs online.
 Go to their location to speak to a career counselor who can help you with your resume, assist you with applying for jobs or answer questions about unemployment.
 Because of the high cost to advertise in the help wanted section of the newspaper or on the major job search websites, many businesses start with this grass-roots approach as their first attempt to bring in candidates.


Call ahead and see if you can get any details on the job and/or who the contact person is. Make sure to get the correct spelling of that name.
Prepare a good copy of your resume on professional paper. Consider adding a cover letter if applicable, and always put it in a manila envelope to help protect it from getting smudged or damaged.
Dress appropriately for the location, and physically stop in to drop off your resume/cover letter and find out if the location needs you to fill out an additional application. Have your resume handy to list your previous jobs and other attributes, and you should also have a reference list readily available because most applications include that as a required section to fill out.
 The more jobs that you apply to the greater the likelihood of getting hired.


Commit to applying for a set number of jobs each day.
Give yourself a quiet area and block of time as you prepare your resumes and cover letters so as to avoid any typos. Any error on that important document will send red flags to a potential new employer, and you will unlikely be called for an interview if that company finds such a mistake.
Keep a record log of positions you have applied for to help you keep track of everything.
,