 Once you get into the middle levels, having a Town Hall of level 4-7, you want to maximize your defenses before trying to upgrade your Town Hall. For a defensive minded player, focus your resources on your Clan Castle, towers, walls, storage, and mining structures before your army.


Focus on upgrading your walls first. Walls are the most expensive buildings to upgrade, but will provide the best defense against all ground troops. However, don’t focus on maxing out your walls as this won’t allow you to upgrade anything else.
Upgrade your mortars and air defenses. Once you get to higher Town Hall levels, you’ll be attacked by airborne creatures like dragons. Additionally, your enemies will send flying healers to aid troops on the battlefield. By upgrading your air and splash damage defenses you can counterbalance new enemy troops from breaking through your walls.
Upgrade your Wizard and Archer towers next. Wizard towers have a relatively short range, but are powerful and can be hard to take out at higher levels. Put your Wizard towers near your Town Hall, storages, and mortars to develop a powerful back line of defense.
 As you level up your Town Hall, you’ll gain access to more versatile and powerful defense buildings. Air defense towers, the Hidden Tesla, and the X-Bow are more defensive buildings that can provide your village with a lot of defensive power. Make sure to edit your base when you can buy these items.


The Air Defense tower becomes available at level 4, and exclusively attacks air units like Dragons and Healers. Place your Air Defense towers towards the center of your base to combat incoming airborne attacks. Be sure to protect your Air Defense with walls and other defensive buildings.The Hidden Tesla becomes available at level 7 of your Town Hall. It has a fast attack speed which is effective against light units like Archers and Barbarians. It’s also hidden which means your enemy cannot see it when attacking. Place your Hidden Tesla on the perimeter of your base to pick off Wall Breakers and Archers before these units can deal a lot of damage and open an attack path., As you get to higher Town Hall levels, you’ll not only have more options for buildings, but you’ll be able to build multiple buildings of the same kind. You’ll also be able to build more walls.


Take advantage of building more walls as soon as you have access. There are several strategies to building your base as you gain levels and resources. A standard base puts defensive and storage units inside the walls. It also has only one large wall, which allows you to place a lot inside, but is vulnerable once Wall Breakers, Giants, and Goblins enter.
A pocketed base surrounds each individual defense building with its own wall. During the mid-range levels this strategy will protect your Town Hall, Clan Castle, gold and elixir stores, and a few defensive buildings. Consider opting for larger pockets of wall that you can place several buildings inside. This will create several layers of defense, while still ensuring that you can protect your most valuable assets.
Remember as a rule of thumb, to place your splash damage buildings like your mortar and Wizard towers towards the middle while your Archer towers hold the front lines.

