 Most base model vehicles come pre-wired, allowing the manufacturer or a service technician to upgrade and install a car radio. Or, the original factory installed radio may be missing or defective. In either case, the electrical connections to the power source and speakers could be intact.


Locate the wiring harness to assess its condition. The antennae and power wires should also be inspected before proceeding.
If any wires on the harness or in the dash are damaged or frayed, speak to a sales consultant at an electronics store about replacement kits.;
, There are many aftermarket stereo systems that can retrofit in the dashboard of a Toyota pickup. Depending on how much money you have to spend, installing a car stereo system can allow you to enhance your driving experience with additional features.


Review the optional features at the electronics store. Navigation devices, MP3, even video players are features incorporated in modern high tech car audio systems.
 Disconnect the battery in your vehicle. Remove any cover that may hide the empty space where the radio should fit. Be careful not to break any plastic components. If you are replacing or upgrading a radio, remove the screws in the face plate or other covers with the appropriate screwdriver and pull the old unit out. Disconnect wiring.
 Make sure the new car radio fits snugly in the opening on the dash. If the unit is too tight, check for any springs, wires, or other obstacles. Return the unit for exchange if it does not slide in securely without being forced.


Attach all the wiring, including the antennae, the hot wire power source, and the wiring harness. Verify all connections are snapped together correctly.
 Reconnect the vehicle's battery terminals. Following the manufacturer's instruction manual, turn the radio on and verify that all speaker connections are working properly. Test the equalizer, the fade and balance controls, and all other functions, including, if applicable, CD, MP3, and other features. Adjust the clock and other programmable features.

