 Turn the voltage dial to the DC side of the multimeter. Set the voltage range so that it is a little higher than the expected voltage.Most batteries use "DC," or "direct current," voltage. When measuring any battery or any device run by a battery, you'll need to switch the multimeter to this setting. It is usually labeled with a "DC" or "-V."
The correct range will vary depending on the type of battery being tested. For instance, if you're testing a standard 1.5V alkaline battery, you will need to set the multimeter to a range of 2V DC. Most automotive batteries are 12V batteries, though, so you'll need to set the multimeter to a range just above 12V DC.
Note that if you set the range too low, you run the risk of overloading the multimeter and damaging the device.
 Your multimeter should have a black probe and a red probe. Black is negative and red is positive, so you should plug the black jack into the "COM" or "-" port and the red jack into the "V," "mAV," or "+" port.


Make sure that you connect the banana jack end of each plug to the multimeter. The straight probe tips on the other end of each wire will by touched to the battery.
Some multimeters may have more than one port. In these instances, the black plug will always be connected to the COM port, but the red plug may need to be connected to the mAV port for low currents (up to 200 mA) or the 10A port for high currents. When testing most batteries, use the low current mAV port.
 Touch the black probe tip to the negative side of the battery, then touch the red probe tip to the positive side of the same battery. Hold the two in place until the multimeter displays a measurement.Make sure that you only grab the insulator base of either probe when testing the battery voltage. Do not touch the metal tips.
The multimeter should display a measurement almost instantly once the two probe tips are in place. If no measurement appears, make sure that both metal tips are placed directly over the correct terminal. Reposition as needed and try again.
 Read the voltage displayed on the multimeter. When using a digital version, the voltage should appear on a digital display screen. If you use an analog meter, however, you'll need to examine the scale and identify the position of the needle as you continue to hold the probes in place.


Don't be surprised if a new or recently charged battery has a voltage that is higher than it is labeled for. For instance, some 1.5V batteries may actually read between 1.5 and 1.6 volts. The labeled voltage usually signifies the average number of volts you can expect from the battery throughout its lifetime, not necessary the highest amount it is capable of.
If the voltage reads as "1," it means that the range is too small to measure the battery. Increase the range to a higher setting and try again.
If the voltage reads as a negative value, you may have the probes connected to the wrong terminals. You will need to try again, touching the probes to the opposite terminals when you do., After you've measured the voltage, simply pull the probe tips away from the battery terminals and set them aside.


Make sure that you continue to handle only the insulated base of each probe. Avoid touching the metal tips, and avoid letting the metal tips come into contact with each other.
After setting the probes aside, turn the knob on the multimeter down to its lowest range. You can then switch the device completely off.

