 Since spiders are not insects, many generic insecticides may not have a strong effect against wolf spiders.A pesticide specifically labeled for wolf spiders is even better, but most chemical products designed to work against spiders will work effectively.
Chemicals designed to kill spiders immediately will only exterminate spiders already in the home. These measures should be used in conjunction with measures designed to prevent wolf spiders from sneaking in for maximum effectiveness.
Residual chemicals provide more long-term effectiveness and may be more helpful if you have difficulty preventing spiders from getting into the building.
Residual pesticides sprinkled on the ground work better against wolf spiders than many other spider varieties. Many spiders travel along webs and walls, and as a result, they rarely cross over barriers made with residual pesticides. Wolf spiders hunt on the ground, however, so they are more likely to step into a residual pesticide.



Pyrethroids are a family of chemicals made from pyrethrum flowers. Insecticides made with pyrethroids are common and usually the most effective against spiders of all varieties.
Common pyrethroids used in household insecticides include bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, permethrin, and tetramethrin.
Aside from pyrethroid insecticides, insecticides containing deltamethrin, cypermethrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, or bifenthrin are also generally effective against wolf spiders.
 Sprinkle a small amount of boric acid in dark corners, cracks, and under floorboards and furniture.


Boric acid, also called hydrogen borate, is a white powder used for insecticidal, industrial, and other purposes. It is relatively non-toxic for adult humans, but it may pose a threat to children and pets.
The chemical is abrasive, cutting into the exterior of the wolf spider and causing it to leak bodily fluids. It also acts as a stomach poison. The spider gets it on its legs and ingests the poison as it grooms itself.
 Using pesticides around the foundation will create a barrier, preventing wolf spiders from crossing through.


Do not spray firewood piles. If you do, throw the firewood away afterward. It is unsafe to burn firewood treated with pesticides.

