 Marshmallows are one of the essential treats to a hot cup of cocoa. Use small buckets or baskets to add different marshmallow flavors and sizes:

Mini, regular, or jumbo marshmallows
Seasonal flavored marshmallows, such as peppermint, pumpkin spice, or holiday mixes
Strawberry, chocolate, or vanilla marshmallows
Marshmallow peeps;
, While people think of whipped cream being the top addition, allow your guests to enjoy other ideas:

Sprinkles
M&Ms (so they melt into the drink)
Nutella or another chocolate hazelnut spread
Crushed chocolate candies, such as Butterfinger, Twix, etc

, Like coffee, it's a nice treat to have a side stirrer in your drink. You can provide:

Peppermint sticks or long candy canes
Cinnamon sticks
Chocolate dipped spoons

,, Add a ladle for simple convenience., You can add unopened hot cocoa packages in coffee mugs and allow them to use the microwave or use a kettle filled with boiling water.

This option is best for a teen sleepover and can be prepared in advance.
 Depending how many items you are planning to serve, tables can vary between a small fold-up table to a long serving table.,

Non-perishable food can easily be added into the desired bowls or platters and wrapped as is.
Hot items can be prepared a few hours ahead of time and kept in an oven or slow cooker when your guests arrive. Heated trays or slow cookers are the most ideal while the food is on the table, especially if there is an outlet available to use.
 This will give off a delightful presentation. Some ideas include:

Lazy Susan
Cake stands
Fruit trays
Mason jars (preferable for the stirrers)

, Insert spoons or tongs in each bowl or platter., Bulk amounts can be found in cheap department stores or wholesale stores., This is basically a uniformed guideline in most buffets. Have the items go in a line to how they are created - mugs first, hot chocolate serving section next, toppings after, and stirrers and spoons last.

Insert labeled sticks to each platter so your guests can know what the item is.
