 When you go into the piercing studio, let them know you're a little nervous. Have them walk you through the process, explain what they're doing and why, and answer any questions or worries you might have. They might offer you a comfortable chair or a glass of water. Chances are most of the people getting piercings are a little nervous, so they'll know exactly how to make you feel better.
 Know that it's probably going to hurt a little, and be ready to deal with it. Bring a friend for moral support, and bring painkillers for afterwards if you think you'll need them. Think about how you best deal with stress and pain. Do you like to squeeze a stress ball? Does gossiping with a friend or playing Angry Birds help take your mind off the pain? Plan ahead and bring anything you think might help you deal with the potentially stressful situation.
 When you get nervous, having your friend there to comfort you is invaluable. Squeeze your friend's hand when you need to, and talk to your friend to take your mind off the piercing.
 Read a book or magazine. Gossip with your friend, or get to know your piercer a little. Chat about your weekend plans, what's going on in school, that great movie you just saw -- talk about anything but the piercing. Thinking about other things will help you calm down enough to get through the piercing.
 Focus on your breathing to physically calm down and force yourself to relax. Breathing deeply slows your heart rate and lowers your blood pressure, mimicking the state your body is in when it really is relaxed.Doing breathing exercises, or just focusing on breathing deeply, will help you calm down your body, which will make the stress of the piercing much easier to deal with.
 Focus on the best part of getting your ears pierced -- think about how you'll look with your new earrings! When it comes to the actual piercing, don't think about the pain or the stress. Instead, tell yourself that you can do it, you will get through it. If you do this enough, you'll find that it becomes true.


Friends are great for this. Ask your friend to help you stay positive and to periodically remind you how great having your pierced ears will be.
 Your friend can help you approach the piercing with a sense of humor. Laughing is a key way to reduce stress and calm you down, so whether you're laughing about the piercing itself or about an unrelated story your friend tells you, it will help you relax. Joking about the piercing will make it seem less daunting, which will help you approach it more calmly and easily.
 Ask the piercer if they can pierce both of your ears at the same time so that you can get it over with faster. Know that it will be over soon, and the pain will be over.
 Thank the piercer and give your friend a high five. Pay, making sure to tip your piercer, thank him/her again, and leave. Congratulations, you made it! Enjoy your newly pierced ears.

