 If you've got some extra sprouts lying around, you don't necessarily have to go to the trouble of making an entire sprout-based recipe — instead, try simply adding them to your favorite dish! For example, if you already have a salad ready, add sprouts over the top for an extra "crunch!" Sprouts' neutral flavor goes well with most salad ingredients, so don't be afraid to experiment!


Sprouts don't just taste good in your salad — they can give it a big nutritional boost! Most sprouts are relatively rich in protein, vitamins A, C, and E, and other essential nutrients., Is your soup a little lacking? Try giving it with some texture with a handful of sprouts! Sprouts are frequently added to lend variety to clear Asian soups and broths (like, famously, Vietnamese pho soup). However, there's no reason not to add sprouts to other types of soup, so don't hesitate to toss some in your homemade chicken noodle soup or tomato bisque.
 Iceberg lettuce tastes boring and, nutritionally speaking, is fairly weak. For a better alternative, use sprouts! Laying a handful of your favorite sprouts over the top of a sandwich's meats, vegetables, and cheeses gives the same satisfying, fresh crunch as lettuce with the addition of sprouts' nutrition benefits.


Be careful to eat your sandwich over the plate after you add sprouts to it — no matter how hard you try, it's tricky to eat a "sprout-y" sandwich without some falling out.
 If you've ever ordered quinoa at a restaurant, you may have eaten sprouts without even knowing it. Sprouts are often added to quinoa, rice, couscous, and other grains to modify their taste and texture (and for nutritional reasons.) The grains mentioned here are already quite nutritious in their own right, so give them a further boost by stirring some sprouts in!


Thinner sprouts like alfalfa are best for this — thick sprouts like mung bean sprouts aren't necessarily bad with grains, but their textures can pair somewhat oddly with the relative softness of the grains.

