 Ground flaxseed, also referred to as “milled flaxseed” or “flax meal”, can cause bloating and abdominal discomfort if you do not give your body time to adjust to it. If you are just starting to use flaxseed, start with 1 tbsp (14 g) a day, and gradually add more to your diet.Do not exceed 2 to 4 tbsp (28g to 56.7g) of flaxseed a day.;
, You can consume whole flaxseed and still receive some nutritional benefits. But grinding the flaxseed will ensure your body digests the seed and processes it properly. This will allow your body to receive the maximum amount of health benefits from the flaxseed., Flaxseed can cause bloating and abdominal discomfort. If you have existing bowel issues like acute or chronic diarrhea, diverticulitis (colon disorder), or inflammatory bowel disease, avoid flaxseed as it can make these conditions worse., You should also avoid this seed if you are allergic to flaxseed oil, or any other members of the Linaceae plant family.Allergic reaction symptoms include itchy palms, hives, itchy eyes and weeping, nausea, diarrhea and vomiting after consuming flaxseed.
 Check with your doctor before you consume flaxseed to avoid other health issues.If you currently have breast cancer, limit flaxseed to 2-3 Tbsp per day and avoid flax supplementation. Talk to your doctor and health care team before beginning this regimen., Look for whole flaxseed if you have access to a coffee grinder or small powerful blender, like a Ninja or Bullet, as whole flaxseed will pass through your body without being digested and you will not get the healthy benefits of this superfood.Buying ground flaxseed is also a good option as you will not have to grind the flaxseed yourself.
 You can also use a mortar and pestle to grind up the flaxseed. Don’t worry about making the flaxseed very fine or ground, simple break up the seeds so they form smaller pieces that your body can digest., You can put the ground flaxseed in a liquid or consume it with a liquid on the side. Your intestines may be obstructed if you consume flaxseed without enough water or liquid., Soaking the ground seeds will give them a soft, chewy texture that blends well in your smoothie or juice.Put one heaping spoonful of ground flaxseed in a bowl. Pour enough water to submerge the seeds and cover the bowl. Leave the flaxseed to soak overnight.
Add the swollen seeds to your morning smoothie or juice. Blend or stir them into the smoothie or juice. Flaxseed has a nutty flavor that pairs well with fruit and vegetable smoothies., Ground flaxseed also pairs well with low fat yogurt or sugar free cereal. You can also add ground flaxseed to hot oatmeal for a nutty and healthy kick., Toast the ground flaxseed in the oven on a sheet pan or in a small toaster oven. Be sure not to burn the flaxseed. Sprinkle them on your salads and soups for a crunchy, nutty taste., Ground flaxseed is a great option for a low carb, high fiber diet. Using flaxseed in muffins, cookies, and cakes gives your baked goods a nice moist texture that is also good for you.Try this one minute flax muffin recipe.Mix ¼ ground flaxseed with ½ teaspoon baking powder, ¼ teaspoon Stevia (or other sugar supplement), 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 egg, and 1 teaspoon coconut oil in a mug or small, microwave safe bowl.
Microwave the mug or bowl for one minute on high.
You also add frozen fruit like frozen blueberries or strawberries to the mixture. If you include frozen fruit, microwave the mug or bowl for one and a half minutes on high.
Put a small amount of butter on the muffin and enjoy a low carb, high fiber snack.
 The ground flaxseed will keep for several months in an airtight container., Keeping whole seeds in the refrigerator will keep them fresh and ready for grinding., Flaxseed oil is an easy and safe way to ingest flaxseed without having to grind the seeds. It’s also a good moisturizer for your skin., You can also drink 2-3 teaspoons of flaxseed oil a day in a glass of water or a smoothie., Flaxseed oil has a low smoke point so it does not hold up to the high heat of a burner and is not recommended for cooking on the stove., Flaxseed oil can become unstable if exposed to heat, so keep it cool in the refrigerator after you use it.