 The throat is a weak point in a person's body. When defending yourself, attack his throat by punching or hitting it. If you’re able to get your arm completely around his neck, you can apply pressure to his Carotid artery to induce unconsciousness. This artery can be found on both sides of the neck and only requires 11 pounds of pressure to close.Pinching off the Carotid artery stops air from going to the brain and could cause brain damage if held for too long.
You can use your hands, elbows, feet, or forearms to attack the strong man’s throat.If you are behind him, using a rear naked choke can cause unconsciousness quickly. Read Do-a-Sleeper-Choke-Hold to learn how to do this.;
, Kicking a man in his groin is a great strategy when defending yourself. Make sure you are close enough to him to make clean contact, and don’t hesitate.Doing a soccer kick in-between his legs is the best way to strike his groin.
Mix in attacks to the groin with strikes to other parts of his body so it catches him off guard.
 Eye gouges and pokes can hinder the ability for a person to see, and more severe eye gouges can cause permanent blindness or death. If you are struggling against an attacker, press your thumbs hard against the surface of his eyeballs.Only perform this attack if you are in a dire situation. You could potentially kill someone by performing an eye gouge.
 Places like the elbow, ankles, and knees are vulnerable parts of the body.Each joint has a range of mobility, and will break or sprain if pulled or pushed in the opposite direction.


Attack the soft part behind his kneecap, or do a push kick with the bottom of your foot onto his kneecap to incapacitate him.
 Try to find things around you that you could swing at your attacker, like a broom, a brick, or a bottle. Any object in your vicinity that's hard enough to break skin can be used.


Using a weapon can carry heavier jail times if you are convicted of assault.
Be careful when reaching for a weapon. It may escalate the situation and your opponent may also grab a weapon in retaliation, or take your weapon away from you.

