 If you're new, it's best to create your own game first in order for you to learn the basics and get the feel of the environment before letting yourself be exposed to the bigger world.;
, In creating a new game, you’ll have the option to modify your server.


Game Mode – You have three options to choose from: Survival, where you get to explore Navezgane  County, Arizona to uncover the truth behind the apocalypse; Deathmatch, where you get to compete with other players to get most kill scores. You can gain loot from around or from air-dropped supplies. Lastly, Zombie Horde, wherein a lot of zombies appear at night and supplies are air-dropped each morning.
Game World – This provides a selection of the different maps in each Game Mode. (i.e. Forest Map, Wasteland and Navezgane).
Game Name – Type in your desired name for the server.
Difficulty – The 5 difficulty levels of this game are: Scavenger (the lowest and the best level for beginners), Adventurer, Nomad, Warrior, and Survivalist (the highest level).
24 Hour Cycle – This is where you adjust the pace of 24 hours in the game.
Friendly Fire – Turning this ON allows players in the server to damage or kill other players.
Enemy Spawning – Enables spawning of zombies in the world.
Zombie Run – Gives zombies the ability to run or not. It is best to leave it as Default.
Show Players Icon – You’ll be able to see player's icons in your map. Make sure to switch this off in Deathmatch mode.
Public/Private – If you choose Public, your game will appear in the master server which allows players to join your game.
Max Players – The number of player you want your server to hold (minimum of 2 and maximum of 16).
Game Password – Make your game Public, and then add a game password for your friends to access the server.
Game Port – The Port number which players use to connect to your game; there's no need to change this.
Cheat Mode – Enabling this will give you access to all resources by pressing “Z”. Switch this off in a multiplayer server.
 Once the server is set up, you can press START to build the world and start playing with other players.
 If you want to join an existing game, choose Connect to Server. A list of Servers will appear on your screen including the name of the server, Game Host, World Name, Game Mode, country, etc.
 If joining a particular server, type the Game Name in the Game Filter box using proper caps. Click the name and then press START.
 Another way to join a server is by typing the IP manually; use this to join a private game.


Ask for the IP address of the Host and then type it in the “Connect To Server IP” box below. There are no spaces and the period is included. (e.g.: 127.0.0.1).
The port number default is 25000. Now, press START.
 Remember to keep your character in top shape. A life gauge is located at the bottom left of the screen.


Hunger (Green) - Regenerate your hunger by eating canned foods, berries and cooked meat.
Health (Red) - Health can be replenished over time by using medical supplies such as painkillers and bandages. It also regenerates if Hunger is appeased, though not as good as what medical supplies do.
Thirst (Aqua Blue) - Your Thirst lowers quickly as you move around. Refill your thirst; drink bottled water or juice. If you don't have water with you, equip an empty bottle. At a nearest lake, right click on the water; this will refill your bottle.
 Time is important. Zombies run and move faster as soon as the sun sets in.


Daytime (7:30AM - 8:30PM) – Strengthen your shelter and find loot. Zombies are slow, but they run in dark places.
Nighttime (9:00PM - 6:00AM) – Zombies at night are more active and aggressive; they deal more damage and can even break blocks. They can also spawn at your shelter if you're not around so use torches to light up your home.
 Gather as much food, water, and weapons as you can, from cars, junks and even dead corpses by pressing “E”.


Save your bullets for emergency; you can kill zombies with a stick, and aim at the head.
Once you have killed them, you can loot their items as well.
 Search for a good shelter to keep you safe from horde attacks. The best shelter for beginners is a house with a basement.


With enough supplies, begin digging the ground at your basement. This is a great hideout for aggressive zombies.
Block up the door and windows with a stone block for added protection. Block up the entryway as well to prevent the zombies from entering the hole.
Put torches around the cave to slow them down and to prevent them from spawning.
 After having supplies and shelter, you can start crafting items.


Press “I” to open up your inventory; your crafting box is located at the upper part.
At the right side of the box is a list of craftable items you can do with your materials. Click the item you wanted to make and then a pattern will appear.
Put the materials at the highlighted blocks to have your crafted item appear at the single empty box. Click the crafted item to bring it into your inventory.
 While waiting for sunrise (7:30AM), you can continue digging deeper to look for iron or other minerals for you to use in crafting (e.g. gunpowder for dynamites).


Remember to keep your Hunger and Thirst high.
Avoid making huge rooms underground to prevent caving in.
At sunrise, crawl out from your cave to explore and gather materials again. But be careful, sometimes zombies have gathered right at the exit. Multiple exits are more useful but make sure to securely block it up.
Strengthen your shelter and crafts; install traps as well. The longer you survive in this game, the stronger you get. But equally, the zombies grow in number and become smarter as days pass.

