 Communication styles are learned from our earliest years so it might be difficult to tell what assertiveness looks like.If a child observes aggressive interactions, they will most likely adopt that style. Someone might respond aggressively to you when you get when you want. The other person is put on the defensive and feels intimidated. An aggressive response might look like this:


One person says, “Our guests will be arriving any minute. Do you think you could get me a clean shirt sometime this century?” The other person responds with, “I have to finish getting the food ready. Why don’t you get off your lazy duff and get your own clean shirt?” Both people are communicating aggressively. Each is aiming to get what they need without regard for the other person.
 When someone gets what they want out of a situation, this might leave you feeling resentful, angry or taken advantage of. If you respond passively, you won’t stand up for your own needs. A passive response might look like this:


One person says, “Our guests will be arriving any minute. Do you think you could get me a clean shirt sometime this century?” The other person responds with, “Fine. I guess the food will just be late. Don’t blame me if everyone complains.” The first person is still being aggressive and the second person responds passively. One gets what he wants while the other doesn’t stand up for her needs.
 Even if the other person is being aggressive or passive, respond with assertiveness. Assert your rights and feelings by telling the other person what you don’t like. Tell the other person what you need. One person might say, “Our guests will be arriving any minute. Do you think you could get me a clean shirt sometime this century?” The other person can respond assertively with: “The clean shirts are hanging in the closet. I need to finish getting the food ready.” Although the first person’s request is still aggressive and sarcastic, the second person is able to respond assertively. She could further assert her rights and feelings by telling the first person that she doesn’t like the sarcasm and that she would appreciate it if he would see that they are both busy getting ready for the party.
 In an assertive response, both you and the other person feel respected and heard. Even if you have learned to respond aggressively or passively, you can still learn to communicate assertively and respectfully.One person says, “Our guests will be arriving any minute. Do I have any clean shirts?” The other person responds with, “Yes, there are several in the closet. I need about five more minutes with the food.” Both people address their needs while respecting those of the other.

