 Don't go into school one day with Doc-Martens and think you're cool. You really should invest in this kind of thing. It is recommended that you stock up on skinny jeans. You should also make sure to own a number of graphic tees that says stupid stuff. You can also make your own t-shirts, it's easy. Doc-Martens are good with certain outfits but you should own some Vans and Converse, too! Avoid bright colored jeans, that's Scence, not punk princess. Be creative. Own a few band tees as well. You don't have to wear black, but the traditional punk princess is always spotted dressed in black.
 To be a punk princess, you need to go way back. The bands that you listen to shouldn't be just new or popular ones. Listen to Joan Jett and the Blackhearts. Write Bad Reputation Nation on your notebook. A few bands you should know are: The Rolling Stones, who are rock and very popular, The Beatles, who are pop and arguably the most popular pop group ever, Kiss, The Ramones, The Sex Pistols, The Clash, and of course the rock band Aerosmith. You should know these bands as well as the new ones that are popular today., If you don't think something is right, don't stick with it. Don't yell at your teacher and slap her, then walk out the classroom. You should stand up for your rights, that's all., There are a wide range of hairstyles you should get. Mohawks are good for anyone. You can get layers and just poof your hair. However, it shouldn't be too poofy, because then you'll look like a Scene kid. Check out the mullet hairstyle for girls. Kirsten Stewart's or any of Toyah Willcox's styles from the 80s are perfect examples.
 It is recommended that if you're pale, just stick with black eyeliner and black eyeshadow. Go bolder and maybe try some orange or something on your eye lids if you wish., You may be a punk princess in training, but you may not perfect your punk princess rebel attitude for a few years. The rebel attitude takes time. Still be nice, but sort of rebellious at the same time., Your grades shouldn't change. Don't start letting your grades slip because that's what you think "punks do". Punks are smart, but again, they are rebellious. They never give in too easily, but they are also less stubborn., Take regular baths, keep your face clean, and of course, wear deodorant., For the modern punk princess look, these are important., Don't care what anyone thinks. It's all about you.