 You probably have months notice when it comes to this event, so start early. What's your budget? How many recipients will there be? What does the boss have in mind? You're putting together quite a few pieces -- sometimes these things take time, so leave yourself some wiggle room to avoid missing the deadline.


Do you know the demographic you're dealing with? Men and women, young and old, will enjoy different things. What do you know about who you're working for?

, If you're having a convention or holding any sort of event, you'll want to contact companies that sell products related to the topic at hand. There are things to consider here:


Contact companies that have offers of free samples on their website. You may only be able to get your hands on a few, but who said the goodie bags had to all be the same?
Email companies asking for free samples. It's marketing! They do it all the time. Tell them how many people you have (that could be potential clients), what and when your event is, and what kind of samples you're looking for. Just give them enough advanced notice!

, While you may be proffering other companies' goods, you want your own name to be seen, too. Have your company's name on the goodie bag itself so everyone knows where these free gifts are coming from. You're trying to bank brownie points here, not just promote other companies.


Pick out your bag after you know what the contents are -- you want neither a bag that's empty nor a bag that's overflowing. And if the bag doesn't have your company's name on it, put it on there. A tag, a sticker, heck, paint it on there if you have to. It's a goodie bag and it's art! Impressive.
 You've contacted your companies, you have the goods from the ones who actually responded, now what? You'll need to throw in a few pens, maybe a notepad or a key chain, but is that enough? Nope! Just because your goodie bag is for business doesn't mean you can't make it fun, too.


Don't be afraid to add in some decorative things and some food, too. If your company has a color scheme, add in a few tokens that match. And as for food, some pre-wrapped candies or mints will go along away -- and they're usually pretty cheap.

