 Some organizations may be more casual in approach than others, but respect the fact that each one is an institution with a stated purpose. Conform to the demeanor expected of employees. Foster a positive impression with your employers and coworkers by:Following dress codes.
Obeying rules and codes of conduct.
Treating others with respect.
Setting personal matters aside while on the job.
Abstaining from office gossip.
 Present yourself as part of the team, rather than an individual who just happens to clock in here for a paycheck. Think of the organization the way you would with a significant other. Learn its wants, needs, and concerns. Demonstrate to your employers and colleagues that you are fully invested in the organization’s well-being, and thus theirs. Aim to understand the following:The organization’s main mission.
Its history, present situation, and future goals.
Obstacles that it faces.
Weaknesses to be overcome.
Strengths to be employed.
 Do the obvious and follow their stated expectations of you. At the same time, pay close attention to their own workday. Note the issues they face on a day-to-day basis. In addition to following the basic duties of your position, develop strategies that will anticipate those issues so they can be preempted or at least minimized. Create a symbiotic relationship with your supervisor so you can become indispensable to them.Play to their preferences. Learn how often they expect to be updated on progress. Use whichever means of communication they prefer (email, phone, meetings). Tailor your updates to emphasize information they prioritize.

Volunteer what you know they will ask of you. As your working relationship becomes more routine, use your prior experience to guess what they will need next from you. Offer to do it before they think to ask it, thus demonstrating your initiative and adaptability.

Become the yin to their yang. Identify areas in which your supervisor proves to be consistently weak. Use your own strengths to make up the difference and improve your department’s overall performance.
 Create a working environment that people are glad to join instead of eager to leave. Recognize challenges and hardships as they appear and address them as such to maintain credibility, but accentuate the positive to increase optimism. Reinforce your coworkers’ attitudes by:Regularly expressing gratitude for others’ contributions in a natural, casual manner, thus avoiding the impression that your thanks is staged or forced.
Encouraging sensible breaks from any employees under your supervision, which will demonstrate your concern not only for their productivity, but their well-being, too.
Welcoming new ideas and brainstorming sessions, thereby building your coworkers’ self-confidence and sense of worth.
Trusting others to complete their duties without prodding. When you do check in to establish their progress, emphasize that you are only making sure they have the proper support they need, not checking to see if they are slacking off.

