 This may seem like a no-brainer, but you will need to wash your hair before blow drying. Use a smoothing shampoo and conditioner if your hair is thick or prone to frizz, or go for volumizing if your hair is thin or flat.


Only apply conditioner to the ends and mid-lengths of your hair. If you apply it to the roots, you hair will look flat and greasy.
Use a wide-toothed comb to work out any tangles while the conditioner is in your hair. The conditioner will make it much easier and will minimize hair breakage.
 Once you step out of the shower, wrap your hair in an absorbent, microfiber towel and leave it for a minute or two. Then unwrap your hair and use your towel to gently dab or blot your hair to get rid of any excess moisture.


Don't rub your hair with the towel, as this will cause your hair to break.
Remember that you are not trying to dry your hair with the towel, it should still be pretty damp when you're finished towel drying.
 Use a wide-tooth comb or paddle brush to part and comb your hair. Make sure to be gentle because damp hair is very fragile. Remember to work from the ends upwards, rather than from the roots down, as this will cause less breakage.









Defining your part while your hair is still wet will help it stay more naturally after it’s been dried and straightened.
If your hair is very knotted, try spraying it with a detangling mist or a leave-in conditioner.
 Apply a small amount of straightening serum or cream to the ends and mid-lengths of your hair and massage it in. This will help to make your hair extra smooth and sleek after drying.









If you can find a straightening product which contains a heat protection element, all the better.
Again, avoid applying these products to the roots, as they will weigh hair down.
 A good hair dryer is essential when you are trying to blow dry your hair straight. The more power and heat a hair dryer can provide, the easier and faster you can straighten your hair. If you need to invest in a new hair dryer, there are several things you should consider:


Wattage. The wattage of a hair dryer is an indication of how powerful an air flow it has. The higher the wattage you can get, the better. Most salon hair dryers have a wattage of around 1800, though a wattage of 2000 may be necessary for very thick or curly hair.Speed and Temperature Controls. Having a hair dryer with adjustable speeds and temperatures is a major bonus, as you will use different settings to achieve different styles. For example, a cool setting can be used to finish your hair with a blast of cold air, which helps to set the style while adding shine.Weight. The last thing you want is a heavy hair dryer which is going to tire out your arm when you're just halfway through a blow dry. Look for a hair dryer which weighs less than two pounds. The weight should be indicated on the box.Attachments. If you are using a hair dryer to blow dry your hair straight, you will definitely need a nozzle attachment which concentrates the air flow and prevents hair from frizzing. Check to see if a nozzle attachment is included with your hair dryer or if it needs to be purchased separately., Turn your hair dryer on (to a high speed and heat, if possible) and begin roughly drying your hair. Concentrate on drying your roots, using your fingers to lift and separate your hair. You shouldn't use a brush just yet.








Make sure that the hair dryer is pointing downwards. It should be blowing hair down from the crown of your head, rather than upwards.You should continue rough drying your hair until it is about 60% to 80% dry, but no more., Dividing your hair into sections before you finish blow drying is a good idea, as it will help you to focus on straightening one layer of hair at a time. Split your hair into three layers - one at the crown of your head, one at the middle sections and one at the nape of your neck. Use butterfly clips or hair ties to keep the top two layers out of the way for now.









If you have bangs, leave them down and dry them first, before you dry the bottom layer. This is because bangs will dry quickly and they will be harder to straighten once dry.
 The type of hairbrush you use while blow drying your hair will have an impact on how your hair turns out. If you want to add volume while you straighten, or add a slight curl or flick to the ends, use a thick round brush. But if you want poker-straight locks, a paddle-brush is your best option., Take a section of hair between two and four inches wide and hold it taut with the hairbrush. Keeping the hair taut while drying is the most important technique in achieving straight hair.








You also need to make sure that you are directing the air flow downwards - the nozzle of the hair dryer should be pointing towards the ends of the hair as you dry. This keeps the hair cuticle down, giving you a smoother, sleeker result.Once you have completely dried each section of hair, finish it off with a blast of cool air to help set the style and add shine., Once you have completely dried the bottom layer of hair, remove the butterfly clip holding the middle layer. Dry this layer of hair using the same technique as before. Once the second layer is completely dry, let down the third and final layer and finish off your blow dry.









Once your hair is completely dry, it should look straight and sleek. If it's still a little wavy, you may need to dry it further, really using the brush to pull the hair straight.
And if all else fails, use a straightening irons to go over any particularly stubborn bits.
 To set your style and give your hair a little extra shine and control, apply a pea-sized amount of finishing product to the ends and mid-lengths of your hair. A shine serum or a shine spray will both do the trick. If you're worried about your hair falling flat or losing its shape, mist it with a light layer of hairspray, holding the can about six inches away from your head. This will ensure that your hair stays straight all day (or night!) long.








