 Sometimes a bad mood is like the weather: it just happens. Other times, a bad mood has a specific cause. Perhaps you are stressed out at work, or perhaps you had a fight with a close friend. Take a few minutes to breathe and think about why it is that you are feeling down: that is the first step to finding a solution to your bad mood., One of the most common reasons for a bad mood is feeling lonely and rejected. Rather than stewing when you feel lonesome, consider reaching out to your friends or family members.Write them a letter, give them a call, or schedule a coffee date. This will help you realize that you are not alone.


If you do not have friends or family nearby, consider joining a meetup group to . You can also volunteer or attend classes to meet like-minded people in your neighborhood.
 Sometimes a bad mood can be caused by receiving a compliment when you do not feel worthy of admiration. To make sure that you admire yourself as much as the rest of the world does, undertake self-affirmation exercises.Write down in a journal your talents, skills, abilities, and positive traits. This will help you see yourself in the positive light that others see you.
 It isn't always possible to just "snap out" of a bad mood. When you get into a funk and nothing seems to be working, forgive yourself for feeling bad. Understand that everyone experiences these moods sometimes: it is not a reflection of your worth as a person., Studies show that listening to music can help improve moods.When you feel a bad mood coming on, put on your favorite album or find a new artist. Sing and dance along to make yourself feel more positive about the world.


If you feel stressed out, consider listening to classical music, Celtic music, or Indian raga music. Listening to these types of music for 30 minutes a day can help lower blood pressure and help you feel healthy and relaxed., One common reason for a bad mood is having too much on your plate, leading to stress and a general feeling of being overwhelmed.To get yourself out of a funk, find the easiest and quickest task on your list and get it done. Even if it is something simple like folding your laundry, you will feeling better for crossing something off your to-do list.
 Emotions can be contagious, much like physical illnesses.Spending time with someone who is stressed out or in a bad mood can make you feel the same way. Try to find a few friends who are always in a good mood and spend time with them. You might find that their optimism is contagious too.
 If you cannot shake your bad mood, find something to do that requires mental energy and concentration. Do a puzzle, watch your favorite funny movie, or do some baking. Occupying your mind with a task for a few minutes--especially a pleasant one--might help you forget your bad mood., A hobby can serve as an effective distraction. It can also help you see just how talented and productive you can be. When you are feeling down, working on something at which you excel can be immensely valuable. Whether it is playing an instrument, making art, playing a sport, or doing stand-up comedy, engaging in your favorite activity is an excellent mood elevator.
 There might be an advantage to being in a bad mood: it can help you think more carefully about the world and your place in it.If you cannot shake your bad mood, consider it an opportunity to learn about yourself and about those around you. You might learn something valuable if you pay attention.
 Social media can sometimes make us feel stressed out and disconnected instead of in touch with the world.If you are feeling low, turn off your social media notifications and shut down your laptop. Try to find another way to connect with your friends and family, or try getting out of the house for a few minutes.
 There isn't a one-size-fits-all approach to lifting moods. Think about what it is that you love doing, and use that to guide how you will approach getting out of your funk. If you are an introvert, consider doing a quiet activity on your own. If you are an extrovert, consider getting in touch with friends. Do what you love most to help you shake your bad mood., "Mental nagging" is when your brain has trouble letting go of all the things you need to do, the mistakes you may have made, or upcoming stressful events you must prepare for. Mental nagging can lead to bad moods. In order to reduce mental nagging, write down your thoughts in a journal. This can help your brain stop worrying about things it cannot control and allow you to focus on the positive things in your life., In order to remember how joyful your life is, maintain a gratitude journal, in which you note everything you are thankful for. Be thankful for small things (such as when someone gives up her seat on the bus for you) or for large things (such as how your parents made you feel cared for when you were younger). Writing down your feelings of gratitude can help you feel empowered, happy with yourself, and happy with the world around you.