 People are going to ask you questions about the suicide. Being dishonest about what happened usually has negative consequences.People will find out the truth. In addition, not being honest with people will keep you in a state of denial and stop you from really coping with the suicide.

The term ‘committed suicide’ has been replaced with either ‘died by suicide’, ‘died from suicide’, or ‘died of suicide’ to alleviate some of the stigma associated with this form of death.If someone asks you what happened, you can say, “She died by suicide.”
Don’t feel obligated to give a full detailed explanation of what happened, how, when, or why.
You might say, “She hung herself. It is still very painful and I’d rather not get into details right now. I will contact you about the memorial arrangements.”

, It is important to explain the suicide to other children.Youth suicide rates increase when one of the peers has recently committed suicide.Talking about it with the other children will also help you cope better with it. However, you should seek the help of a mental health professional to help you do this.


Be as honest as you feel comfortable and appropriate, but don’t go into detail.You might say, “He shot himself. But we aren’t going into the details of that. I want to talk about how you are feeling about his death.”
Explain that it is not their fault. Try saying, “This was not your fault. There was nothing that you did to cause what happened. There was nothing you could do to stop it from happening.”
Tell them help is available. Try, “You might feel lots of different things about what happened. You can talk to me. You can also talk to someone that knows how to help when something like this happens.”

, You may be responsible for making arrangements or in assisting with this process. In order to cope better with the suicide and avoid making the memorial too painful, think about how these arrangements will be handled.


Ask beforehand if the funeral home and/or clergy are comfortable with a suicide death.Finding out up-front may prevent unnecessary confusion and pain later.
Avoid large, public memorials that focus on death. These are often difficult for close friends and family, and may, in fact, glorify the suicide in the eyes of some youth.Instead, organize an event educating the community on risk factors for suicide to honor the child or ask that donations be given to a suicide prevention organization.

