 To make an advent calendar out of toilet paper rolls, start setting aside empty rolls ahead of time. It may take you a while to save enough to make the calendar. You will need the following materials:25-31 empty toilet paper rolls
A large piece of cardboard
A glue stick
Multipurpose glue
Scissors
Brown paper
Markers or crayons;
, Decide if you want to make your calendar for the entire month of December, or just until Christmas Day. Draw numbers on the brown paper for each day on your calendar.Make sure the numbers are small enough to fit over the opening of the empty toilet paper rolls. Leave some space between each number so it is easier to cut them out.Once you have drawn all your numbers, cut them out. Cut them out in squares, leaving yourself enough room to glue them onto the empty rolls.
If you don't want to draw the numbers on, print out some numbers from your computer. Open your word processor an find a font you like. Type out your numbers and size them to fit your empty rolls. Print the numbers onto brown paper, and cut them out., Use the glue stick to glue each number to the opening of an empty roll. Cut off any excess paper., Buy or make enough small gifts for each day on the calendar. Get creative with your gifts.Not every gift has to be an item. Make some of the gifts certificates good for a home-cooked dinner, or a back rub.Keep the gifts light so that they don't weigh down the rolls., Find a large piece of cardboard. Assemble your rolls in order on the cardboard. Make sure you can fit them all comfortably.You can align the rolls close together in rows and columns, or space them out along the board. If you space them out along the board, you can add decorations to the cardboard.
 Keeping the gifts inside the rolls, place the rolls back onto the base. Once you have the rolls how you like them, glue each one down to the base., Add holiday decorations to the background of your advent calendar. Decorate the rolls as well. See if you can come up with a theme for your calendar.Use the layout of the rolls to help you come up with fun design for your calendar.
 Hang the calendar on a wall using some twine. Punch holes in the top two corners of your calendar. Take a long piece of twine and tie an end through one of the corners. Tie the other end through the opposite corner. You can hang your calendar wherever you like.