 Realize that no matter how hard you try, you cannot change your mother or her behavior. You may have to find a way to accept her, your relationship with her, or her ‘eccentricities’.Learn to accept her, in both her positive and negative qualities.


If you feel like it’s your responsibility to change her or for your younger siblings to have a better life, realize that it is highly unlikely you can affect her to change her behavior. It is not your responsibility.
 While this is more difficult if you live with your mother, it can be helpful when you visit if you live separate. Instead of going over to her home or having you in yours, agree to meet on neutral territory. If you meet in a public location, it can make it easier for you to leave, and may neutralize the conversation since it is generally rude to explode or behave inappropriately in public.If you don’t like your mother coming into your home for fear she may criticize your possessions or cleanliness, don’t invite her. If she shows up unannounced, communicate that that behavior is unacceptable to you.
 Your mother may have a difficult time relating to your wants and needs because she lacks empathy. You may wonder why your mother would treat you this way, and it may be related to her not understanding what it feels like to be talked to or related to in the way she does with you. While the natural reaction is to be rejecting or avoidant, choose to be loving instead. Give her the empathy you wish she would give to you.When you want to react in anger or frustration, pause and respond in a kind, loving way instead.
 As a child, you need a lot of attention, affection, and guidance. If your mom lets you down, you tend to remember it forever and possibly hold it against her for not meeting your needs. Keep realistic expectations for your mother and for your relationship, without holding her to an unattainable standard.It can be hard to accept at times, but mothers are human, too, and make mistakes or don’t meet your needs.


You may want to have a discussion with your mother about your relationship. She may have an expectation to see you 3 times a week when you want to see her once a week. Knowing each other’s expectations and how they differ can help alleviate some of the stress of the relationship.

