 Turn the oven on to 450 degrees F (230 C). Get out a large baking sheet. Tear off a sheet of parchment paper and lay it on the baking sheet. Set the pan aside while you make the eggs., Place a large mixing bowl and 4 small ramekins on your work surface. Get out 4 large eggs. Crack each egg and separate the whites from the yolks. Put the egg whites together in the mixing bowl. Place each yolk into separate ramekins and put them in the fridge.Keeping the yolks separate will make it easier to place them individually on the four egg "clouds."

, Add kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to the egg whites according to your taste. Take an electric mixer or a whisk and beat the egg whites for about 5 minutes (if you're using an electric mixer).The egg whites should become stiff.
 Add 1/2 cup (50 g) of freshly grated Parmesan cheese, 3 tablespoons of finely chopped fresh chives, and 1/4 pound (113 g) of chopped deli ham (optional). Hold a rubber spatula and use a twisting motion with your wrist to gently incorporate the seasonings into the egg whites.Try to lift the egg whites up and over the seasonings so you combine them while keeping the volume in the egg whites.
 Scoop the flavored egg whites onto the prepared baking sheet so you get 4 evenly sized mounds. Avoid spreading the egg whites into large circles or they won't get very much lift as they bake. , Take the back of a soup spoon and gently press down on the center of each egg white mound. These indentations will be where you add the egg yolk. Put the sheet of egg whites in the preheated oven and bake them for 3 minutes.The egg whites should turn a little golden and look set.
 Remove the egg whites from the oven. Take the ramekins with egg yolks out of the refrigerator. Carefully tilt a ramekin over an egg white mound so the yolk slips into the indentation. Repeat this for each of the yolks and mounds.Avoid trying to scoop up or handle the yolks. This could cause them to break and run.
 Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over each egg yolk. Return the pan to the preheated oven and bake the cloud eggs for 3 more minutes. The yolk should be almost set. Remove the cloud eggs and serve them immediately. Consider serving them with:Buttered toast
Asparagus and tomatoes
Mashed avocado

