 School can be a place where meanness and hostility grow, and many students forget the rules of treating each other well. Make a specific effort to be someone who counteracts this. Always speak kindly to people in the class by not criticizing their wrong answers or making fun when they struggle. The person you want to impress will take notice that you are someone who everyone sees as kind and good to be around.There are lots of ways to be more friendly. Go out of your way to be nice to students that usually are overlooked or bullied. Ask people how they are doing and really mean it and listen to their answers. Show an interest in your classmates’ lives outside of school.
 Your classmates will take notice if you are really great at something. Within the limits of school, you have the basic options of academic success, sports, and the arts, but don’t be afraid to find something outside of school to excel at. You shouldn’t get good at something for the sole purpose of impressing people, but it can be a good addition to making you well-rounded as a person.You may not have a lot of opportunities to show the talent you have, but if something like a talent show does come up, have the confidence to go for it.
It’s also a good option to invite the classmate to participate in the activity with you so you can show them the skills you have.
 If you want to be noticed, go out of your way to try things that everyone else seems to be afraid of doing. A great way to do this is to volunteer in class when the other students are sitting back not wanting to be picked. Your classmate will see that you are confident and will be impressed by your initiative., School can often be a time of stress, tension, and drama in aspects of school work, fighting among students, and times of performance like giving a speech. When the others around you are giving in to all the pressure, you can maintain a balanced composure and stay cool. Be someone who can handle whatever situations come your way. Your classmate will be impressed and will look to you as someone to rely on when things get rough.A great way to stay composed in any situation is to take deep breaths and focus your attention on your breathing. When you start to feel stressed, your body's natural response is to speed up your breathing, but this often makes it harder to stay calm. Take breaths more slowly than you normally would.
It can also help you stay calm to pause for 5-10 seconds before responding or reacting. Losing your cool tends to happen in an instant, but if you practice waiting for a little while before doing anything, you will have time to think first.
 It’s fairly common among students, and even adults, to want to talk a lot about themselves and tell all about their lives. You can make an impression on someone by showing true interest in what they like and think about. Go out of your way to notice some of their interests and then learn about those for yourself. Your classmate will be impressed that you cared to let them share with you and that you took an interest in them.If you take the time to get into the interest they told you about, you can go back to the person and tell them about your experience. If they mention a band, go listen to their albums and tell them what you liked about it. Or watch the person’s favorite movie and go repeat a line from it to him or her.
 With so many people bragging about themselves and wanting everyone to notice them, you can stand out by giving a compliment. If your classmate wears an outfit you like, tell them how great they look. If they do well on a project or big assignment, congratulate them. If you know they played well in a sport over the weekend, tell them nice job. You can do this consistently over time, but not so often that it becomes obvious you are doing it.