 The wart is the result of exposure to human papillomavirus (HPV). There are over 120 different strains of HPV, only five to six of which are responsible for plantar warts.The virus is caught through exposure to skin scales that are infected by the virus.Athletes who shower in common areas are at higher risk due to the increased number of people who use an area, usually without protection over the feet. For instance, swimmers, both indoor and outdoor during the summer months, are at increased risk if they use communal showers and tiled areas around the pool; however, this includes all individuals who use a gym area locker room, shower cubicles, or hot tub areas where people normally walk barefoot.
Individuals who have cracked or peeling skin on the feet give the virus good entry into the body. Also, individuals whose feet remain moist or sweaty throughout the day will have an increased risk as the skin breaks down from overexposure to moisture increasing the risk the virus can gain entry to the body.
Individuals who have had plantar warts once are at higher risk for having them again.For instance, individuals who pick at a wart can spread the virus more easily to other parts of the body.
Individuals who have a compromised immune system from illnesses such as mononucleosis, Epstein-Barr virus, cancer, cancer treatments used for individuals with psoriatic arthritis, or individuals with HIV or AIDS., It should be a small area of skin that is hard and flat with a rough surface and defined boundaries. Although a plantar wart may start out looking like a callus, warts are caused by an infection. There are two ways the plantar wart may infect your foot: either as a solitary wart or as a cluster, called mosaic plantar warts.A solitary or single wart will increase in size and may eventually multiply into several solitary warts that are satellites of the original wart.
Mosaic plantar warts are a cluster of warts without clear skin between them. They are not satellites of each other, but rather grow very closely together and appear to be one rather large wart. Mosaic warts are more difficult to treat than solitary warts.
 Is the area painful? While plantar warts may look like calluses on the bottom of the feet, they are painful when standing and are painful when they are squeezed.


Look for black specks inside the thickened skin. These are often called wart “seeds” but are actually small clotted blood vessels inside the wart., Warts are contagious between people and on your own body. Three small plantar warts on the bottom of your foot can quickly spread to 10 satellite warts, making the situation more difficult to treat.


As with most medical conditions, the earlier you find a wart and start treatment the easier it is to experience successful results.
 After treatment and resolution you are more at risk for another infection with HPV, which causes plantar warts. To begin with, wear flip flops or other waterproof shoes in public areas, showers, locker rooms, saunas, pools and hot tubs. Also, keep your feet clean and dry. Change your socks daily and use a foot powder if your feet are sweaty.


Use coconut oil on your feet in the evening before bed to prevent cracked and peeling skin. Use a pair of clean socks after applying a dime size amount of coconut oil to each foot.
 Do not scratch or pick at a wart you already have. This can spread it to other parts of your body or to others.


Do not touch other people’s warts and do not wear socks or shoes that belong to other people.
Wear flip flops or other waterproof shoes in the shower at home when you have warts to prevent the spread to other family members.
Keep clothing, towels and socks off the floor of public locker room and pool areas.

