 It's a blue app with a white "A" made from writing utensils. By default, the App Store is on the Home Screen.;
, This tab is in the bottom-left corner of the screen. Highly rated and up-and-coming apps are picked by Apple and listed on this page.
 It's the tab immediately to the right of Featured at the bottom of the screen. You can view specific categories of app, such as "Photo & Video" or "Entertainment", on this page.


Tap a category to view popular subcategories and apps recommended by Apple users.
Tap the "Back" button in the top-left corner of the screen to return to the "Categories" page.
 This tab is in the bottom-middle of the screen. You'll find the most-downloaded apps here, though you can sort through them with tabs at the top of the screen:



Paid - Apps that cost money (starting at $0.99).

Free - Free apps.

Top Grossing - A current list of the most successful apps.
 It's the magnifying glass icon in the bottom-right side of the screen. Now that you know a little bit about how to find apps, it's time to download one.
 It's at the top of the screen.
 If you don't know the name of an app you'd like to download, try searching for a keyword like "video" or "paint".


As you type, suggestions will pop up below the search bar; tapping one of these suggestions will search for it.
 It's the blue button in the bottom-right corner of your iPhone's keyboard.
 You may have to scroll through the apps listed on this page or re-enter a new search query to do so.


You can also go back to one of the tabs visited previously and tap on an app you like.
 This option is to the right of the app. If you chose a paid app, you'll tap the price instead (e.g., $1.99).


If you've downloaded the app before, there will be a cloud icon with a downward-facing arrow here instead.
 It's in the same place as the Get or price button was. Doing so will prompt you to enter your Apple ID password.


If you aren't logged into your Apple ID account on your iPhone, you'll need to enter your Apple ID email address as well.
 Alternatively, you can scan your fingerprint if you have Touch ID enabled.
 You'll see a small square with a circle appear to the right of the app; once the circle is entirely filled in, your app will be done downloading. This can take anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes depending on the size of the app and the strength of your Internet connection.


Tapping the square in the middle of the circle will stop the download.
As a rule of thumb, avoid downloading apps when you aren't connected to Wi-Fi. Downloading apps over cellular data may incur charges from your carrier.
Once your app finishes downloading, you can tap Open where the Get option was to open it.
 This tab is in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 By default, your apps will update automatically; however, sometimes the App Store won't refresh on time, so opening the Updates tab will force the list to refresh.


Any app listed on this page with Open to the right of it is up-to-date.
Any app with Update to the right of it is due for an update. You can tap What's New below the app's icon to view the update details.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will prompt all of your apps to update.


If you don't see Update All, your apps are all up to date.
You can also tap Update to the right of an app to update it individually.
 You won't be able to open them from your iPhone's Home Screen until they're done updating.
 It's at the top of the "Updates" page.
 This should be at the top of the page. It will display a list of every app you've ever downloaded, whether it's currently on your iPhone or not.


The Not on This iPhone option filters out apps that are currently installed on your phone.
 This icon will be to the right of an app's name.


If you've purchased an app and then deleted it, re-downloading it will be free.

