 Too avoid this, it's best to use lower exposure, lowering the saturation one point off the center or two and even changing the white balance and color temperature settings. Even consider changing the outdoor sunny white balance setting to cloudy or indoor lighting like fluorescent.


Be careful with extremely bright and neon colors. Other terms for these kinds of colors is highly saturated and pure. These colors easily transform themselves into other colors different of which they are viewed naturally in the viewfinder or on the actual photograph. Yellow lemons can turn to green. Bright red poppies turn out orange or pink.
Red produces very strong wavelengths that can easy take over a photograph and cause blobs, spots, other strange phenomenon in photography. Bright saturated reds are very tricky even for professionals to photograph accurately.
The color of the walls in a room indoors or the surrounding buildings or other things outside can be reflected onto your subject affecting the color.
Some other darker colors can do this too. Dark burgundy can become bright reddish purple and not deep and rich.
Many items are not just one color. What appears to be bluish green to a naked eye under the magnification of a camera in macro zoom can have extra spots of yellowish green. Almost every leaf is or flower petal is not that pure color but has veins of many different tones, tints,shades and even other colors. These colors blend with each other and cause different colors. Same goes for trying to photograph a child's art project. The different stokes of crayon even if it's the same color can appear more or less intense due to the color of the background paper.
 It can be difficult to tell rather or not the subject is the correct color when it's out of focus and colors are blurred together.
 Also experiment with various different degrees of white balance, saturation, and color temperatures in different settings. Don't be intimidated and take risk to see what the results are. You'll be surprised. Have a notepad and pencil handy with you to be able to copy down the settings of the exposure, white balance, aperture, shutter speed, flash settings etc. in the mode so you use different parts of these settings in a custom or manual mode if one is available to create your own perfect mode or setting.

The snow setting can be useful when photographing a landscape loaded white flowers and rocks.
The snow setting as well as the beach setting is good for when you are in a situation where there is a lot of reflection like a portrait behind a glass building.
The sunny white balance setting used indoors can make colors appear natural and very pleasing instead of using the cloudy or indoor settings.







