 If the sleep study confirms you have sleep apnea, the doctor will document the diagnosis, and you will have your official record of a positive diagnosis of sleep apnea. Follow your doctor’s instructions for treating your sleep apnea. Your doctor may prescribe either a continuous positive airway pressure or bilevel positive airway pressure (CPAP or BiPAP), device to help regulate your breathing. You will need to wear this device every night to help regulate your breathing while you sleep. Your doctor may also make other recommendations about your lifestyle that may eliminate or at least lessen the symptoms of your sleep apnea.


It is very important that you follow the instructions and use the CPAP or BiPAP machine every night or at least five nights out of the week. The C-PAP is not only to help treat your diagnosis, but to ease the symptoms and suffering caused by this serious condition. It is vitally important not to ignore symptoms of sleep apnea and seek confirmation and treatment.
If left untreated, the symptoms become worse, and the risk of developing additional serious physical ailments increase, and the higher the chances of putting your physical health and well-being at risk. If left untreated long enough, it can be even be fatal.
Be assured that sleep apnea is easily treatable, and with proper diet and exercise in addition to the disciplined use of the CPAP machine, your symptoms and suffering will begin to lesson, more and more. Within a year, it is very possible you may be symptom-free and healed of the disorder.
Your doctor will re-test you at the end of the treatment period to determine if the disorder is still present, and the majority of cases where treatment was followed consistently, the test will confirm you no longer suffer from sleep apnea.
 Since excess weight may be the cause of your sleep apnea, losing even a little weight may help to treat your sleep apnea. Make sure that you seek your doctor’s advice before beginning a weight loss program and follow your doctor’s recommendations for healthy weight loss., Obstructive sleep apnea symptoms may improve by getting 30 minutes of moderate activity each day. Try walking at a comfortable pace for 30 minutes per day to start and slowly increase your activity level as tolerated., These chemicals interfere with your breathing patterns by relaxing your throat. By decreasing or eliminating your intake of these chemicals, you may see an improvement in your sleep apnea symptoms. Make sure that you talk to your doctor before stopping any prescription medications., Smoking increases fluid retention in your throat and upper airways and increases inflammation in the same areas. These effects can make obstructive sleep apnea much worse.Talk to your doctor to get help as well as information on smoking cessation programs in your area.
 When you sleep on your back, your tongue and soft palate are more likely to block your airway and cause sleep apneas. Try placing pillows behind you or sew a tennis ball into the back of your pajama top to prevent yourself from rolling over onto your back., For some people, using a nasal spray or allergy medicine can help keep your nasal passages open at night, allowing you breathe more easily. Talk with your doctor about whether this is a good option for you.