 If the pan has food crusted onto it, start by soaking it for several hours in warm, soapy water (you could also let it soak overnight). Drain the water, and then scrub vigorously with a scouring pad. This will remove most food build-up.


Do not use steel wool pads or copper-based scrubbers - although they do a good job of removing burnt-on food, they will scratch the surface of your cookware.;
, If your pan has heat damage (for example, from being left on a lit burner for too long), you may be able to clean it off using baking soda. Make sure the pan is completely dry, then sprinkle a generous amount of baking soda onto the surface. Rub the baking soda around the pan thoroughly with a dry cloth or sponge.









You can also add a little water to the baking soda to achieve a paste-like consistency.
If you're really having trouble with burn marks, try a mildly-abrasive cleaner, such as Bar Keeper's Friend. Just sprinkle a generous amount onto the bottom of your pan and add a little water to form a paste. Scrub with a wet sponge, then rinse thoroughly. Your pans will look good as new., Water spots are actually caused by the minerals in the water, not the water itself. These will occur more frequently if you live in an area that has mineral-rich water, but water spots can also result from added compounds like fluoride. If you hand dry your pans, water spots are not likely to be a problem. If they occur, swish some club soda around in each pan. Rinse them off, and then wipe them dry with a clean cloth.








Alternatively, you can try soaking the pan in vinegar, then clean as usual with a mild detergent and soft cloth.
 If the pan's burn marks cannot be scrubbed away with baking soda or soap, you can actually attempt to cook them off. Fill the pan with just enough water to cover the damage, and bring the water to a boil on the stove. Add a few spoonfuls of salt to the water, turn off the heat, and let the pan sit for several hours. Dump the water out and try scrubbing away the damage with a scouring pad. If the stains are really burnt on, you can repeat this process again.








You should only add the salt when the water is already boiling. If you add salt to cold water, it might pit the metal.
Instead of the salt, you could also try adding lemon juice or white vinegar to the pan. Another interesting option is to boil 100% tomato juice in the burnt pan. The tomato's natural acidity is supposed to help remove stains.