 Listen to what your parents are scolding you about. Make sure that you truly understand why they are upset. Do not interrupt them or yell back, but show that you are listening to what they have to say.As you listen to your parents, make sure that you are giving them your full attention. Put away your phone or anything else that might distract you. Make eye contact with your parents and face towards them to show you are paying attention.
Do not interrupt your parents. If they say something that confuses you, make a mental note of it and ask questions when they give you a chance to speak.;
, It is important to stay as calm as possible when your parents are scolding you. Otherwise, your parents may feel like you are being defiant. Try your best to avoid yelling, even if your parents are yelling. Instead, speak in a low, calm voice. This will show your parents that you are trying to have a serious discussion with them instead of just arguing with them.Try taking a few slow, deep breaths to calm yourself down before you start talking.
 It would help you to know why you are being scolded. If that isn’t clear to you, you should ask them to explain it. If you ask calmly and under control, they may also respond in a calm way.Try saying something like, “I am not totally sure about what I did to make you upset, but I would like to know. Can you please explain it to me so that I can try to correct the problem?”

, There is a good chance that you have some fault in the situation. Do not make excuses for any part you played, instead own up to it honestly. If own up to your mischief and make an effort to fix it, your parents are likely to be more pleasant to deal with.Try saying something like, “I know that I broke the rules. I will do what I can to make things right.”

, Aside from owning up to any mistake you may have made, it is also helpful to say that you are sorry. Express to your parents that you are sorry that you have broken the rules. Remember that a real apology also includes fixing the problem and making a serious effort not to repeat it.Try saying, “I am sorry for breaking the rules. I will do my best not to break the rules again.”

, Your parents might not know your side of the story, so it is important t share it with them. Make sure that you give all of the details that are needed to understand why the event happened. This is not about making excuses, it is about making the case that you had a reason for your actions.For example, if you were out past your curfew because your best friend got a flat tire, then share this with your parents. You might even offer to call your friend so that she can confirm that what you say is true.
 If the conversation does not seem to be going anywhere, then you might ask to be excused for a few minutes. Taking a five minute break in your room might be enough to help you collect your thoughts and calm yourself down.


Try saying something like, “I want to talk about this, but I am feeling a little overwhelmed. Is it okay if I take a few minutes to myself?”

