 Fill the pan with 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) of vegetable oil and bring to a temperature of about 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius) over high heat.


Use a candy thermometer or frying thermometer to check the temperature of the oil. You should also periodically look at the temperature throughout the cooking process to make sure that it does not get too high or too low.
 Wash the patty pan squash under running water and pat dry. Peel the squash with a vegetable peeler and slice each one into thin slices with a knife.


The slices should be no thicker than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
Cut off the green ends before slicing the squash.
If the seeds are too large, you can pop them out using your fingers.
While the rind of the patty pan squash is technically edible, removing it for this recipe will allow the breading to cling to the slices better.
 Crack the eggs into a pie plate and beat slightly with a fork. Add a roughly 1 tsp (5 ml) salt and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) pepper and mix well.


If you do not have a pie plate available, you could use any bowl with shallow sides and a wide mouth or any plate that has a decent lip around the edge.
 Add roughly 1 tsp (5 ml) of salt and 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) pepper, seal, and shake to combine.


If you want to give the patty pan squash more flavor, you can also experiment with other herbs and spices. Herbs like thyme, oregano, and parsley work well, as do spices like garlic powder and onion powder.
 Dip each squash slice into the egg wash before dredging it in the cornmeal mixture on all sides.


Hold the squash slices over the egg was after dunking them to allow the excess to drip off. After removing most of the messy excess, then you can coat the slices in the cornmeal.
The egg wash is necessary because it allows the cornmeal breading to stick to the squash slices.
 Place each coated slice of squash in the hot oil and fry for 2 to 3 minutes per side. The squash should be lightly browned on both sides when done.


Be careful whenever you work with large amounts of hot oil. Hot oil can catch on fire if exposed directly to an open flame, and it can also cause nasty burns if it “snaps” and splatters onto you during the cooking process.
 Transfer the squash slices onto sheets of clean paper towels or brown paper bags. Let drain for 1 to 2 minutes before enjoying.

