 You will need to navigate to your Importing Settings in order to change the encoding format. Before iTunes Plus, all of the music sold on iTunes was encoded using proprietary software called Digital Restrictions Management. DRM allows Apple to track how many computers have decoded the file you downloaded, which is why you must register your music every time you format your hard drive or change computers. There is a limit to the number of computers that can decode a given file.


Windows: Click Edit, then Preferences.
Mac: Choose iTunes, then Preferences.;
, First, click the General button, then click the Importing Settings... button in the lower section of the window. Choose "MP3" from the Import Using pop-up menu. Then click OK to save the settings.
 If you still need to import some songs, you can choose to import and convert them at the same time. The new songs will show up as MP3 files in your iTunes library.


Some older purchased songs may be encoded using a Protected AAC format, which blocks the in-iTunes conversion. You may be able to convert these files using a third-party file converter program or website. You can also convert these files by paying for iTunes Plus.
 Select one or more songs in your library, then select Create MP3 version from the File > Create New Version menu. To convert all the songs in a folder or on a disk, hold down the ⌥ Option (Mac) or ⇧ Shift (Windows). Then, select File > Create New Version > Convert . The Import preference" should be set to the file encoding format that you chose on the Importing Preferences page. iTunes will prompt you for the location of the folder or disk you want to import and convert., Two copies of the song will show up in your iTunes library: the original M4P file, and the new MP3 file. You should be able to play both files in iTunes.


If you don't want to see both copies of the song file in your iTunes library, move the M4P file somewhere else. Try consolidating unwanted M4Ps into another folder, or removing them from the library but keeping the files on your computer for future use. Consider simply deleting the old file, if you don't think you'll need it.
Be aware that conversions between compressed files can cause a slight loss in sound quality. Consider keeping the M4P files around until you're sure that the sound is still solid.