 Birth control pills, often referred to in shorthand as "the Pill," consist of synthetic estrogen and progestin hormones that keep a woman's eggs from leaving her ovaries, so that pregnancy can't happen.When taken properly, they are extremely effective. Contraceptive pills are available on a prescription-only basis from your gynecologist or health care provider.


The Pill must be taken every day, at the same time each day, to work properly. Skipping a few days could decrease its efficacy.
The Pill causes some women to experience side effects. Different brands of pills have different levels of estrogen and progestin, so your doctor may prescribe a different brand if one seems to be causing negative side effects., The same hormones that make birth control pills effective can be distributed to the body by other means. If you don't like taking pills every day, consider these options:

Depo-Provera, or the birth control shot. This shot is administered in the arm once every three months. The shot is very effective at preventing pregnancy, but it has been reported that side effects are possible.The birth control patch. The patch is usually placed on the arm, back or thigh. It distributes hormones through the skin and has to be replaced every few weeks.






The birth control ring. The ring is inserted into the vagina once a month. It releases hormones to prevent pregnancy from occurring.






The birth control implant. A small rod is inserted in the arm, and it releases hormones to prevent pregnancy for up to three years. It must be inserted and removed by a health care provider., The IUD is a small metal device inserted in the uterus by a health care provider. One type of IUD works by releasing hormones, and another type is made of copper, which affects the mobility of sperm and stops them from fertilizing the egg.IUDs are extremely effective and last up to 12 years, although they can cost from $500 to $1,000.
If you're concerned about disrupting your menstrual cycle, consider the copper IUD, which doesn't interfere with your hormones or cause hormonal birth control-related side effects.

