 Sterilization requires you to get your clippers to a hot enough temperature to kill bacteria and micro-organisms. Autoclaves or bead sterilizers are special machines that are intended specifically for this purpose.Each sterilizer will be different, so you should follow the setup directions for your sterilizer for best results.
You could also use your oven to sterilize your clippers. To do this, lay your clippers on an oven-safe pan and bake your clippers at precisely 170째C (340째F) for 60 minutes.If you use your oven to sterilize your clippers, you should remove them with caution, as they'll be hot after being sterilized.
Plastic nail clippers, or any clippers you worry might not hold up to extreme heat, should be sanitized with another method.;
, Use a clean cloth or a piece of paper towel to give your clippers a thorough wipe down before sterilizing. This will remove any loose bits of gunk or buildup from your clippers. Pay extra attention to ridges and contours on your clippers. Gunk and buildup love to hide in these places.









After you finish wiping your clippers, you should wash or throw away your rag or paper towel to prevent the potential spread of bacteria or micro-organisms.
A little bit of water or some cleaning agent on your cloth can add more cleaning power to your wipe down.
If you get your clippers wet while wiping, be sure they are completely dry before sterilizing, especially with a bead sterilizer. The beads in bead sterilizers can become stuck to your clippers if you attempt to sterilize them while wet., Depending on your method of sterilization, the time it takes your sterilizer to reach heat up will vary. Many bead sterilizers, for example, only take about 15 to 20 minutes before they're ready for your clippers.


Exercise caution whenever using heat to sterilize. The extreme temperatures can easily cause burns.
 Some methods of sterilization may require more time to completely sterilize your clippers than others. Generally, you can expect a metal tool to be sterilized if it has been held at a minimum of 170째C (340째F) for 60 minutes, but sterilizing machines may take as little as a single minute.








Heat conducts easily through metal, so you may want to use gloves or an oven mitt whenever handling tools that are freshly heat sterilized.
When using a bead sterilizer, glass beads can sometimes stick to your clippers. Be careful, these will be extremely hot.