 A written marketing strategy will provide a guide for future marketing efforts and reduce challenges when new marketing plans are developed.


Emphasize that with a marketing strategy in hand, your organization or business could improve its performance and operate more efficiently.
Since the marketing strategy is often reviewed by the head of the company or an executive, it is important to write a strong marketing strategy to ensure the marketing department receives adequate attention and resources.;
, If you are targeting multiple consumer segments, you might need to devote a section on each population.


For instance, if your product or service is aimed at both young people generally and Hispanics specifically, you’ll need to be clear about whether a single strategy is appropriate for both (it probably isn’t), and how the two campaigns will be developed.
When writing the strategy, lay out any evidence you have about who your core customer base is. Draw on polls, census data, and customer feedback surveys to establish the demographics of your consumers. Think about their age, race, class, and gender.
 Start brainstorming ideas about what customers might like in the future based on advertisements and imagery that you know they've respond to before. Write the best of these ideas into the marketing strategy so that you can reference them later.


Evaluate your current and past marketing campaigns to discover what worked and what didn’t. Include these findings in your strategy to help explain what future strategies should and shouldn’t do. Use this section of the strategy to find out who you are and who you want to be as an organization.
If you have trouble figuring out what your customers are interested in, write a list of possible steps you could take to find out more. For instance, you might recommend a more thorough data-gathering process during which the marketing team investigates similar brands and products, and evaluates how their marketing campaigns succeeded or failed.
You might also suggest more intense research like focus groups consisting of your core customers or a new customer market you’re interested in attracting. In focus groups, you can give questionnaires or conduct interviews with specific members of a relevant demographic to find out what they’re interested in. For instance, you might show two different ads to a group of Millennials and see which they responded more positively to.
 Think about both internal and external goals and obstacles when writing this section.


Internal goals include hiring more staff and creating more stable workflows within the marketing department.
Internal obstacles might be a lack of space or funding.
External goals might include improving the public’s image of a brand, product, or service.
External obstacles might be the stock market or consumer attitudes toward your product or service.
 What does your company or organization stand for in the eyes of the consumer? When you write the strategy, be sure you explain what the company is all about, and how the marketing strategy relates to the overall image the company is trying to develop. The strategy might express to consumers that the brand is hip, well-established, stable, dependable, or associated with some other feeling or idea. Write a strategy to communicate your brand story through:


Advertising (radio, online, and in television)
Social media (Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram)
Web presence (a website and online store)

, Partners could be other corporations or agencies, or they could be customers. Customer interaction and collaboration can inspire feelings of loyalty and create new interest on the part of the consumer.In your written strategy, list your partners and suggest some projects that could include them to help build the brand.

