 Pluck your eyebrows if needed, wash your hair at least every two days and take good care of your skin. Having beautiful skin is half the battle, and this will come in good time if you start to use moisturizers and wash your face regularly. If you have acne, don't fret and don't use lots of concealer - the best way to get rid of spots is just to leave them alone! Body Shop products can be very effective, and are great for your skin and the environment.;
, If you've got long hair and wear it out everyday it's bound to get greasy. Wearing your hair up you can show off your beautiful face and smile. A great way to make your hair look amazing tied back is to use a Synthetic Hair Bun Ring - this gives your hair move volume and shape when you put it up in a bun. To top it off, add a cute ribbon or clip to your hair.Also, having different hairstyles really shows that you are willing to change and are quite spontaneous.
 Base coat your nails if you paint them at the weekend, or else the tips will start to go yellow. Always make sure you have clean nails when going to school, as dirty nails are always a real turn off! Take good care of your skin. Keep your skin soft, smooth, and healthy by using moisturizers and lotions.
 Believe it or not, just simply smiling can make your look around ten times better, and can distract people from your flaws. It doesn't matter if you have braces, so long as your teeth are clean. One of the first things people notice about you is your smile, so flaunt it!

, Studies show that the more comfortable you are with the way you look, the more comfortable others will be about how you look. Never doubt yourself, if you think your look amazing, others will too.
 A few bracelets here and there can add a real spark to your personality. If your school allows earrings, wear small studs as they'll make you look classy and go well with your no makeup look. Don't over accessorize. You still want to look as natural as possible.
 Even in today's society, people still make judgements on your personality. Be nice to everybody you meet and stay away from those you dislike - just remember, being pretty on the outside doesn't always mean you have a pretty heart. No one likes a mean girl . People hate that and you'll loose your popularity . TRUST ME.
 That boy you want to impress? He'll notice you because you're different. People know that those with makeup on don't really look like that when they put makeup on in the morning - but the thing is - you do! You're natural and take good care of yourself, you don't have to cover anything up!

, No one likes the girl who pulls her shirt up every second trying to miss class, in a glittery shirt. What's better, comfy-ness or fashion? For the best shops, go to brands you trust, and ask your friends which shops are the best!

, Keep this regime up and people will soon notice the true you. Everybody is pretty in their own way, so believe in yourself. A natural beauty is so much more beautiful than a faker, so don't go breaking the school rules, they're there for a reason. You are beautiful, always remember that. Somewhere out there in the world, someone knows just how beautiful you are, and those who don't have yet to find out.

