 Glass stringers are thin, specially prepared rods designed for use in craft projects. While they are easy to work with, their use still involves extreme temperatures and brittle glass. Always wear eye protection, and never touch the glass at the heated point.









You will also need a safe place to put the hot glass down, such as a brick. Tweezers are also useful for some of the steps below.
 Unlike thicker rods, stringers can be bent using an ordinary candle flame. A Bunsen burner or stationary torch will work as well, but these are not necessary.
 Hold both ends of the stringer with your hands. Lower the center into the candle flame and rotate it so it heats evenly. Once the glass is quite soft at that point, raise it up out of the candle flame, pause for a second, then bend the glass by moving one end of the stringer.









If wax gets on the glass, burn it off to prevent imperfections.The stringer will become black with soot, but this will burn off during firing. If you do not plan to fire your stringer in a kiln, wait for the glass to cool to room temperature, then rinse off the soot.
 To create curlicues, curved bends, or zig-zags, heat the end of the stringer. Use a pair of tweezers to push the hot end gently into position. Slowly move the stringer into the candle flame to heat the next section, pushing it with the tweezers as you go.








Stop well before your fingers reach the candle flame.
 Pull the stringer apart after the center has been heated to stretch it into a longer, thinner shape. Create a classy end point by snipping this thin piece apart with wire cutters or specialized glass cutters.
 Stringers are designed to be fired in a kiln, fusing to other fusible glass objects. If you are using a community kiln at an art studio, all you need to do is drop off the art and pay a fee. If you are handling the kiln yourself, and your stringers did not come with specific firing instructions, follow these steps instead:









Use glue or hairspray if necessary to arrange the stringers onto the fusible glass object. You can glue them to "thin fire paper," which will burn off in the kiln. Place the object in the cold kiln.Heat the kiln rapidly until it reaches 675ºC (1250ºF). Top-fired kilns can be heated as much as +550ºC (+1000ºF) per hour, while side-fired kilns should not be heated faster than +330ºC (+600ºF) per hour.Heat more slowly and watch closely. Glass and kilns vary, so pay close attention as the kiln reaches 700ºC to 780ºC (1300ºF to 1450ºF).Start cooling the kiln, but leave it at 500ºC (950ºF) for 30 minutes to "anneal" the glass, relieving stress and preventing cracking.