 As boring and time-consuming it may sound, it's necessary for you to follow this rule in order to ensure good health and a beautiful smile that's free of yellow teeth and unattractive stains. Brushing your teeth will also help keep your breath fresh. Purchase an effective toothpaste and make sure you change your toothbrush every few months, because your toothbrush's bristles will eventually wear out.


For an extra layer of good breath, swish mouthwash around your mouth for a minute before you leave the house in the morning. Using mouthwash at night isn't necessary, but it still kills odor-causing bacteria in your mouth.
You can also chew minty gum during the day to get gunk out of your teeth and maintain fresh breath.
 Use a good-smelling soap that will effectively clean the dirt off of your skin without irritating it. Adjust the water until it's lukewarm, and limit your shower time to six minutes.


Be sure to use a shower cap on days that you are not washing your hair.
Hot water harms your skin and damages your skin cells, since the blood vessels in your face have to expand/contract. Cold water is too cold for your skin.
 If you wash it every day, it will wear out easily and become dull and dry. Use an effective shampoo and conditioner appropriate for your hair type while making sure it brings a pleasant smell that will prevent your hair from reeking. Do not postpone washing your hair if desperately needed. This will cause dandruff and oil to form on your scalp, resulting in greasy, dusty hair.


If you have naturally oily hair, wash it four times a week.
Refrain from blow-drying your hair or using heat on your hair often. Heat is your hair's worst enemy, and frequent usage of heat will cause your hair to form split ends, go limp, and become very dry. Try air-drying your hair since this is both healthy and more comfortable.

If you're afraid of getting your clothes wet, wrap a towel around your wet hair while it dries.
 This keeps your lips moisturized, especially during the cold winter days. Avoid licking your lips to moisten them. While it may be effective for a while, your lips will begin to chap and become inflamed. Ripping off dried skin on your lips will also damage your lips and possibly result in bleeding.


A great method to ensure moisturized lips throughout the night is to apply lip balm to your lips before you go to sleep. In the morning, your lips should feel moisturized. Apply lip balm throughout the day to lock the good, moisturized feeling in.
Use a smooth, good-smelling lip balm. Burt's Bees brand lip balm is a good choice. It comes in lots of flavors, and it works really well.
Even though EOS lip balm comes in a cute container, it is expensive, and it actually dries your lips out more than it moisturizes them.
 Clean out any dirt and grime from your nails every day. If you want to go even further, go to the spa to get your nails done every two or three weeks, or give yourself your own manicure and pedicure at home, using natural ingredients and household items.
 They are there to keep you healthy and make sure you look good―it's not rocket science! If your teeth aren't perfectly straight, get braces to straighten them out. This will ensure that you have a beautiful smile.

