 A tape measure comes in handy when you need to know the dimensions of a room before buying a new piece of furniture or centering a picture on the wall.;
, A box knife, or utility knife, can be used to open packages, cut small pieces of wood or slice cardboard.
 Duct tape can fix nearly anything. It can temporarily stop a leaky pipe, seal packages, hold something while it's being glued and be used for many of other purposes.
 Finishing nails can be used to hang pictures, nail down a loose board or to serve as a hook on the inside of cabinets.
 The hammer doesn't need to be fancy or extra large. It just needs to enable you to hammer in a nail or remove one with the claw head.
 You will need at least one flat-head and one Phillips-head screwdriver. Also, put in an eyeglass screwdriver set, which usually includes a mini flat-head and Phillips-head screwdriver. These are great to use on toys that require a small screwdriver to open battery compartments.
 It can be used to tighten or loosen any size of nut or bolt. This type of wrench might be called a crescent wrench. Monkey wrenches can also work for this purpose.
 Standard, adjustable pliers will help you perform many household tasks. Additionally, include a set of needle nose pliers, which are able to reach into smaller spots.
 It doesn't need to be a large level. One that is 6- to 12-inches long will be adequate for basic household projects. Look for a level that can be used on both horizontal and vertical surfaces.
 Ratchets are good for assembling (or taking apart) bed frames or other furniture.
 A circular saw helps out when it's necessary to cut a 2x4 or small board. It doesn't need to be an expensive or industrial model. A simple electric drill also helps to fulfill simple tasks around the house. Many people buy cordless drills, but find the batteries and charges take up lots of space.
 Having a flashlight easily accessible helps you see into tight, dark places. Put a few extra batteries into your toolbox, too, so you aren't stuck without flashlight batteries when you need them.
