 If you're too hot, take off some blankets. Too cold? Make sure you're well covered. It can be hard to get used to sleeping in a new place, so make sure you bring your favorite pajamas. Bring some socks to keep your feet warm if you need to.Bringing your own pillow or stuffed animal will help you feel safe and comfortable.
Doing your normal nightly routines, like brushing your teeth, taking a bath or reading a favorite book before bed, will help you fall asleep at a sleepover.
 Many sodas contain caffeine, which is a stimulant and may keep you from going to sleep. Try not to drink too much liquid of any kind right before bed, but if you're thirsty, stick to water.Not only are many sodas full of sugar and caffeine, but most are diuretics, which means that they make you need to go to the bathroom.
If you're sensitive to caffeine, stay away from anything containing caffeine after 3:00 in the afternoon.
 Sugar can give you an unpredictable burst of energy that will easily keep you awake at a sleepover. Cookies, candy, cakes and ice cream are the main culprits, but remember that a lot of junk foods are loaded with sugar as well.Eating chocolate will combine sugar with caffeine, a double-dose of wakefulness.
Overeating before bedtime is also associated with nightmares, another cause for difficulty sleeping.
 Watching scary movies is fun to do unless it keeps you from falling asleep. If you've been telling scary stories or watching scary movies with your friends, turn your attention to something more calming when it's time to go to sleep.It can be helpful to remind yourself that the scary movies are always pretend. There might be some scary things in the world, but none can be solved by staying awake worrying!
Having a nightlight or keeping a hall light on can be helpful to remind yourself where you are. If you feel safer at night having a little light, don't be afraid to ask for it. Chances are, other kids will be grateful.
 It's natural to have difficulty sleeping in a new place. If you're worried about not being able to sleep, you'll be even more stressed and tense. Those feelings make it even harder to sleep. Instead, practice relaxation strategies such as paying attention to your breath.Try using your sleep routines, such as listening to relaxation apps on your phone.
Practice thinking good thoughts as you try to fall asleep. Focusing on the things you're happy about will keep you from being worried.
If you can't sleep after a short time, don't force yourself. Go read a book, or enjoy listening to an audiobook. After a while, you may fall asleep on your own.
 It can feel terrible to feel like you're trapped at a sleepover. Make sure you have a phone number to call if you need to leave to go home, whether it's the middle of the night or the next morning. If you know you have a ride home whenever you need it, you might feel calmer and more able to sleep.If your parents are out of town, make sure you have the phone number of another adult or trusted family friend to call.
Always have a phone number to call in case of emergency.

