 The arms form an essential part of the ghost's "skeletal" structure and are created with clothesline wire, a padded clothes hanger, and polyethylene foam pipe insulation.


Wrap the center portion of the wire around the padded portion of the hanger six times. Equal amounts of wire should hang off both ends.
Slip the foam insulation over each piece of wire hanging from the center of the hanger. Slide the insulation as far as it will go so that each piece is directly against the padding of the clothes hanger.
Use packing tap to hold the insulation in place.
Straighten out the hook of the hanger so that it can be used as the "neck" of the ghost later on.
 The torso is created by draping bubble wrap over your hanger.


Trim large rectangles of bubble wrap over the top of the hanger. Each piece should be the same size, and the overall length should be twice the length you want for your finished ghost.
Poke the straightened hook of the hanger through the center of the bubble wrap.
Start with one piece of wrap and gradually add on other layers.
Secure in place using packing tape.
 Place a plastic foam wig head on top of the hanger, pushing down so that the straightened hook sticks through the center bottom of the foam.


Secure with packing tape.
 Drape the center of the fabric over the center top of the head and let the rest hang down. Shred the bottom of the fabric with scissors to create a more ghost-like appearance.


Save any scraps of fabric you cut or rip off.
Use sheer white fabric or white fabric that has sheer pieces attached to it. Tulle works well, but other sheer, free-flowing fabrics work just as well.
If you have trouble working with the fabric while the ghost is flat, temporary suspend it using fishing line tied around the neck.
 Use wire cutters or sharp crafting scissors to trim the arms to an appropriate length.


Note that both sides of the clothesline wire arms should still be roughly equal to one another.
 Stuff white gloves with cotton balls until they appear full. Tape the gloves onto the sharp wire edges of the arms.


You can use plastic, rubber, or fabric gloves, but make sure to choose either clear or white gloves when making your choice.
 Glue scraps of torn fabric over the arms, head, and torso of the ghost.


Once thee fabric has been completely used up, cut and shred pieces of white trash bag to fill the ghost figure in instead.
 Thread fishing line or twine around the ghost's neck if you have not done so already. Use this line to hang the ghost from the ceiling, doorknob, or any other area you choose.

