 Your equipment should not be too bulky or heavy, as this will put you at a great disadvantage on the field.;
, First put on your mask (to make it more realistic). You can use a laser pointer taped to the barrel of the marker to represent were you would hit if you fired a paintball. Now, with the pointer on and the mask on, put it into firing position. Learn that position. If you can, (put the marker barrel-down) and try to estimate were the shot would hit before you even bring up your marker. Quickly bring up your marker into firing position. Practice this for a while, and then without the laser pointer.but do not let the opponent see the light or else the opponent can trace it back it you and tag you if too many opponents notice you before you realize it and then have another target.
 Take your middle and index finger and place them in the air as if they were a pair of scissors. Position your thumb straight and pinkie and ring finger like you're holding a gun. Take your middle and index fingers and place them on the trigger. Start pulling the trigger slowly back and forth, then get faster and faster. This is called "walking the trigger". You will have to put more pressure on those fingers in a real marker trigger. Try this out with different guns, and find the one that you can fire with the fastest. There are market triggers available for almost all guns. (This will only work for markers with a "double trigger." That is, a trigger that has room for two fingers.) This technique is also called "spray and pray" since you are not usually concerned with accuracy; only with getting a lot of paint into the air quickly.
 With the laser pointer, put the gun into firing position. Then aim the laser pointer at a wall inside your house. Try to keep the laser on the wall steady as you go from walk, jog, to running. You will feel comfortable after a while.
 When you're in a three-on-three man match, get into a bunker! When you find your man, start firing. After you do get your man, make sure he is the only threat shooting at you. Keep him in or let him run out of paint then run towards him, fire off a couple rounds and make sure you hit him. You can try to bunker him when he is least suspecting it or have your teammates pin him down, then bunker him.
 Watch your position. One way to perfect your sharpshooting is to practice in front of a mirror. Get behind an object in front of the mirror and practice making accurate shots by popping out of the object, or as called, bunker.
 Make sure you have paintball pods in your harness. Relay information to your teammate (yell "reloading, cover me!"); "Cover me" is the key phrase and not too loud because then if you yell through the sky it will echo and then it could bring opponents when you're reloading, making you vulnerable. Now open your hopper. Keep a finger on the trigger, take a pod out then pop the top of the pod, and pour in the paint into the gun. Throw your pod on the ground (don't worry, you will get them back), close the hopper and start firing. You may not want to yell "reloading" because the other team will hear as well, and try to bunker you. Practice reloading and you won't have to ask your team to cover you.
 Start firing now.
 There are 3 main positions in speedball: front, middle, and back.


The Front man is the one who relays information about what is going on to the middle and looks for windows or openings to bunker or take out a player.
The middle player relays the info from the front to the back. they shoot a lot of paint, so they should have a good hopper and be great snap shooters.
Back men shoot a lot of paint to try to get men out and help out with the openings for the front man.
 Making game plans by yourself can lead to confusion of your team. Your plan may not be fool proof because it wasn't viewed with multiple people. Making a game plan with the teammates can lead to better results.
 Have a strategy and communicate with your teammates. Two of anything beats a single ace.