 If you need evidence to support your claims, use your phone to take a video of your teacher’s behavior in class. If this is impossible (if the behavior is hard to see, or if it happens too fast for you to film it), write down all of the incidents in detail. Make sure you note the date and time of the incident.If there are other students in your class who have noticed your teacher’s problem behavior, ask them to keep their phones accessible to help you document incidents.
 Let your parents know what you are seeing in your classroom and how it makes you feel. Discuss with your parents what you would like them to do.Have your parent email the teacher with their concerns. If that doesn’t resolve the issue, have them meet with the teacher. Make sure your parents stay calm during the meeting and do not approach the teacher in anger.If you are concerned that your parents contacting your teacher will result in repercussions for you, have your parents contact the principal. It might be a good idea to come along to the meeting if you feel comfortable, so you can describe the situation in your classroom.
 If your parents do not get involved, speak to your guidance counselor, a dean, or the principal. If you still do not feel listened to, write a letter to your school board.You can ask that your name not be identified to the teacher. Whether this will be honored, however, may depend on the policies of your school district.
Explain the problem respectfully and state only the facts. Try to keep your emotions out of it. For example, saying “Mr. Esposito is horrible! He makes me sick!” doesn’t let anyone know what’s going on. Instead, say something like “Mr. Esposito has made comments to several of the girls in my class about their clothing. He told two girls their jeans were tight and another girl that her skirt was ‘too long for her.’”

, Ask your school administrator what will happen after you make the report. What will happen depends on the severity of your accusation, as well as the policies your school currently has in place.


Ask for an expected timeline. For example, “When can I follow-up with you about this conversation today? When do you expect to move forward on this?”
Discuss how you would like to see the situation resolved. Do you want the teacher to be disciplined? Would you be comfortable in their classroom if they stopped the problem behavior? Let the administrator know what you would like to see happen.