 Finding a fun activity is a great way to bond with a child. Let the child's imagination be your guide. Ask them what type of adventure they would like to have. Then imagine that you are off on an adventure to the moon. For example, you could build a "spaceship" out of a cardboard box and take an amazing journey.Kids love to play pretend. Be willing to participate in the games they come up with. They might want to pretend they are at "work" or playing in a major league baseball game. Being imaginative with kids is fun for both of you.
 Having story time is a way for kids to both have fun and learn. Try reading out loud to small children. Enhance the story by including some funny voices or other sound effects.If the child is learning (or knows how) to read, have them alternate pages with you as you read aloud. This will make reading more of a team activity.
 Music is an important part of a child's development, and it is also a lot of fun. Try singing songs with kids. Songs that have easy melodies and a repeating chorus are great choices.If you have any musical instruments handy, let the child take a turn playing them. Kids love to try out the keys on the piano, and they especially love to bang on drums.
 Games are a great way for you and the child with to be active together. You can play games that have set rules (think easy board games or card games) or you and the child can invent a game together. Whichever game you choose, make sure to congratulate the child when he does well.Games can also be great teaching tools. Try looking for ones that teach skills like counting for younger kids. If the child is older, there are many great "brain teaser" games that you can purchase.
 Kids love to go new places. For them, almost anywhere new can be an adventure. If you have the opportunity, take her to a nearby children's museum. There will be lots of interactive exhibits that will be a lot of fun for both of you.If you don't have access to museums or other attractions, you can make going to the neighborhood playground seem like a special trip. Be enthusiastic, and when you get to the park, be willing to play!

