 In a natural environment, your snake will move between areas that have different temperatures. Snakes are cold blooded and the temperature will change their level of activity. To replicate this, you will need to maintain your ball python's enclosure with a temperature gradient.The basking area should be 88 to 96 degrees Fahrenheit.
The overall temperature of the cage should be 78 to 80 Fahrenheit.
Use two thermometers to monitor both the cool and warm areas of the cage.
You can heat the cage with under-cage warming pads or heating lights.
 Supplemental lighting can be used in your ball python's enclosure. However, it is not a requirement. If you want to use additional lighting, try using a full-spectrum UV light. Consider adding supplemental lighting to help make your enclosure feel even more natural and comfortable.Use 12 hour cycles of lighting. Keep the light on for 12 hours during the day and off for 12 hours at night.
Do not leave the light on at night. Leaving the light on too long will stress your snake out.
 Creating and maintaining the right level of humidity is very important for your snakes health. Humidity will help keep your snake healthy and allow them to easily shed their skin. Always keep a close eye on the humidity levels in the cage to best care for your ball python.Humidity needs to be between 50% to 60%

, Your ball python will need to have the right substrate in order to be comfortable and safe in its home. Certain substrates will work better than others, keeping your ball python happy and making the enclosure easier to clean. Take a look at some of the following examples of substrates to learn what's okay to use:Aspen shavings will work well.
Cypress mulch is okay to use.
Most other mulch based substrates can be a good pick.
Never use substrates that contain cedar or pine.
 Your ball python will want a place to hide and be alone. If your snake is forced to be left out in the open, it will become nervous and stressed out. Always provide a hide box for your ball python to help them feel comfortable and at home.Make sure you clean the hide box whenever you clean the cage.
You can buy premade hide boxes from pet stores.
Make your own hides by cutting a small, round door out of a plastic Tupperware container or bowl.