 Start with a gentle facial cleanser for your skin. Look for a cleanser that does not contain alcohol or fragrance. These products can be irritating for dry skin. Use a cleaner that will remove dirt, makeup, and other impurities from your skin without stripping it of moisture.Some people with dry skin find using an oil-based cleanser or a natural cleanser like coconut or olive oil to be helpful.
Avoid cleansers that are labeled “scrubs” or “foaming.” These cleansers can end up drying out your skin more.
When washing your face, make sure to use warm or luke-warm water. Do not use hot water, as hot water can dry out your skin.;
, Next in your skin care regime is a moisturizing ointment or cream. Go for an ointment or cream rather than a lotion, as lotions can be irritating and less effective for your skin. Choose an ointment or cream that contains olive oil, shea butter, or jojoba oil. Ingredients like lactic acid, urea, hyaluronic acid, glycerin, lanolin, mineral oil, and petrolatum can also be good for soothing dry skin.Make sure you apply the moisturizing ointment or cream right after you wash your face. You can also apply it right after you take a shower or a bath. This will help to lock in moisture.
 Toners are good for dry skin as they soothe, moisturize, and refresh your skin. You can use toner to remove excess oil and makeup residue on your face as well as flaky or dry skin. Go for a toner that contains salicylic acid, glycolic acid, or hydroxy acid. Avoid toners that contain alcohol, as this can dry out your skin more.Apply the toner with a clean cotton pad, preferably after you wash your face. If the toner starts to sting as you apply it, use less of it as you do not want to irritate your skin more.
 Sunscreen is an important part of any skin care regime. If you have dry skin, you should use sunscreen daily to protect your skin from UVB rays, which can dry it out more. Go for a sunscreen that is water-based, as it won’t clog your pore. It will also keep your skin hydrated throughout the day.Apply the sunscreen daily before you put on any makeup or cosmetic products.
 To help your dry skin feel moisturized and supple, use hydrating face masks regularly. Try sheet masks, which contain moisturizing ingredients. Or make your own hydrating face mask at home with natural ingredients.Get in the habit of using face masks one to two times a week. Using face masks regularly can help reduce dry patches and irritated skin. Over time, the dryness and redness should start to heal or fade away.
 For those with dry skin, using a foundation that is hydrating is key. Avoid pressed powder or powder foundation, as it will dry out your skin more and lead to flaking. Instead, go for a water-based liquid foundation. This foundation can be worn with a moisturizer and sunscreen underneath. It will blend well on your face and will not cause dryness. Water-based liquid foundations also give your skin a nice glow, which can be ideal if your dry skin tends to look dull or washed out.You can also try BB cream or a tinted moisturizer, especially if you do not want to wear heavy makeup on your face. Both options will be moisturizing for your dry skin.
Shop for the foundation in person to ensure you find a foundation that matches your skin tone. Speak to a sales representative for help on finding your shade.
 If you need concealer to mask blemishes on your face, go for a concealer that is moisturizing. Liquid moisturizers are a good option, preferably a liquid moisturizer that has a wand application for easy use.Read the label of the concealer to make sure it does not contain alcohol or fragrance, as these can be drying.
If you have a lot of redness on your face in addition to dry skin, try a moisturizing concealer in a green shade. Green-based concealer can help to counteract redness on your face., If your lips tend to get dry, use a lipstick or lip balm that is hydrating. Look for lipstick that contains moisturizing ingredients like glycerin, shea butter, or jojoba oil. For extra hydration, apply lip balm or lip chap first and then apply lipstick on top of the balm.To help keep your lips moist, exfoliate your lips weekly with a mixture of honey and sugar. Use a clean washcloth to gently exfoliate your lips with the sugar and honey until they feel soft and moist.
 You may notice that your makeup looks dry or flaky after several hours of wear. If this happens to you often, invest in a skin refresher that you can carry in your bag. Make your own skin refresher with water and a soothing essential oil like lavender, tea tree, or jojoba. You can also buy skin refresher in a small spray bottle.Apply the skin refresher as needed throughout the day so your skin does not get flaky or dry. A few light sprays every few hours can help your skin to stay moist.

