


Remove pet food if possible. Cockroaches and other bugs can live off of your pet's food. If possible, organize meal times so that the dog or cat will eat all of their food immediately and you can wash the bowl.;
, If it cannot be refrigerated, place them inside airtight containers.
 Trash cans and compost piles that are open to the air will attract, feed and hatch more bugs. Take out trash daily during roach infestation.
 Water bugs live in places that are rarely cleaned and moved.


Recycle newspapers and food containers every week. Make sure your recycling containers have tight fitting lids over them.
Remove old cardboard boxes. These are popular hiding places.
 Pet water bowls, tarps, glasses of water, plant saucers, bird baths and rainwater can produce inviting places for water bug hatching.


Place a lid over the container of water. Turn over bird baths, pots and other containers during the rainy season.
 Make sure you include kitchen appliances like the toaster, food processor, juicer, grill and other areas where food particles become trapped.
 Discourage children from snacking in their rooms or in front of the television.
 This will reduce the amount of food available around the house.


Clean the rugs or carpets with soap and water at least once per year.
 Make sure to place these items on your to do list immediately. Cockroaches can stay alive for a long time if they have a constant water source.
 Replace these items with tight-fitting items, so that bugs cannot enter.
, This will remove ways for the water bugs to get in and set up a nest.
 Open them to create circulation in damp areas. Water bugs prefer damp areas, so make sure your home is dry and well-ventilated.
 This will help you get rid of the water bug problem in a quick and targeted manner.
 Include your dishwasher, bathtub and toilet as well as sinks.
 of liquid dish detergent into your pool, if you notice an infestation. Turn your pump off.


Allow them to die and float to the surface when they get stuck. Remove them with a pool skimmer several hours later. Turn the pump back on.
 Sprinkle a thin dusting in the area of the water bug infestation. Wait for the bugs to die and remove them.
 The boric acid will seep into their legs and kill them.


Water bugs avoid large clumps of Borax, so make sure it is a very thin dusting.
 These traps use a concentrated poison inside a box. Water bugs are attracted and they die inside the box for safe removal.
 If your house is infested with water bugs, you may need to use a more aggressive chemical treatment. In this case, you will have to evacuate the house and clean kitchen and other surfaces before using.

