 Divorce is a scary situation, and it can be easy to let the negative emotions control you. Taking care of your mental health is an important part of the healing process. If you can focus on the positive parts of the situation, you will begin to feel better.You are learning important coping skills from going through this tough situation. You will come out of this a more competent and mature person. That's a positive thing.
 In addition to some general positive thinking, you can probably come up with some specific aspects of this situation that are positive for you. For example, you will probably get to celebrate each holiday twice!Try making a list. Maybe your parents had been arguing late at night. Now you won't have to listen to that anymore. Write it down.
Your extended family might become more involved in your life now that your parents will need some extra support. Will you get to see your favorite aunt more often? Write it down.
 There is no doubt that dealing with divorced parents is stressful. That's completely normal. But stress can have negative effects on your physical and mental health. There are several things you can do to lower your stress level.Get enough rest. It's tough to deal with a divorce when you're well-rested, but it's even harder if you are tired. Try to get 8-10 hours of sleep each night.
Exercise. Physical activity can release endorphins, which can elevate your mood. Try to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity a day. Join a new sports team, or grab a friend to go for a walk.
Take a deep breath. Focusing on your breathing can lower your heart rate and make you feel calmer. When you are feeling anxious, take a time-out to focus on your breathing for a minute or two.
 It turns out that laughter is one of the best medicines. Research shows that laughter is an excellent antidote for stress and conflict. Make it a point to have fun, even while you're dealing with this difficult situation.Spend time with the funny people in your life. Do you have a friend that tells excellent jokes? Call and ask her to hang out.
Watch a funny movie. Ask your mom to join you for a marathon of silly movies on Netflix. It will be fun and relaxing for both of you.
 While there are many things you can do to make yourself feel better, it's important to remember that there is no shame in asking for help. You might need to talk through the situation, or maybe you need some advice. Turn to someone you trust to help you out.If your school has a guidance counselor, she is a good resource. Ask her for some ideas to help you cope with your divorced parents.
Contact a relative. Talking to a cousin, for example, can be helpful since he knows everyone involved in the situation.

