 Open contracting opportunities are listed on the FedBizOpps website, located at https://www.fbo.gov/. The website is operated by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), the federal agency that oversees all contracts and government procurement., Particularly if you're waiting for small-business certification, you may want to get your feet wet by bidding for a few state or local contracts before you jump right into federal contracts.Each state has its own process to register as a state government contract. The information you need to get started shouldn't be any different than what you needed to register as a federal contractor.
To find out the registration requirements and open contracts available in your state, visit the website of your state's procurement office or Secretary of State.
 If you want to contract for a particular agency or department, get to understand their budget and operations. This will give you a better idea of how high or low to bid to get a contract.You'll also find up to date information on regulations and safety standards that may apply to your business if your bid is accepted.
 You want to cultivate the government as a client just as you would any other. Get to know the people in departments, especially local contacts.Talking to people in government agencies helps you get a better sense of what the agency's needs are, as well as their budgetary restrictions.
 The SBA and government contracting agencies host conventions, workshops, and other events that allow contractors to better connect to the staff in different government agencies.You also can attend events focused on your particular industry that are hosted by a company in the private sector. In addition to private networking opportunities, government procurement experts frequently attend.
 If you're a small-business owner just getting started as a government contractor, you may want to take part in one of the two mentor programs sponsored by the federal government.The mentor program run by the GSA connects you with a larger and more experienced government contractor in your industry. They help you navigate the bidding process and get you on your way to winning your first government contract.
If you were certified as a socially or economically disadvantaged business under the SBA's 8(a) program, there's another mentor program you can use that will connect you with a successful federal contractor.
 When you work on a federal contract, your business and your team may be subject to federal laws and regulations that wouldn't have applied to your operations otherwise. Your team should be up to date on these requirements so there aren't any problems.Some contractors must complete a mandated training process before they can begin work on a contract. Even if training isn't required for your employees, there typically will still be specific regulations and policies they need to know about.
 When you respond to bids and write proposals, you are advertising your company. Put your research to work by drafting proposals that clearly identify the needs of the government agency and how your business is best-situated to meet those needs at the best price.Looking at previously successful proposals also can give you a good idea of how to structure your proposal and the kind of language to use.
If you have a formal mentor, talk to them about marketing toward specific agencies. Even if you don't have a formal mentor relationship, experienced contractors typically will be willing to share their knowledge with you.

