 This is about the size of the large soda bottles you can buy at a grocery store.Poke a 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) hole into the cap of a 20 ounce bottle with a sharp object like a knife or sharp pen. It needs to be big enough to fit the bottom of the quarter inch socket but not so big that the socket falls all the way through.The bottom of the socket is the smaller cylindrical portion. This part should poke down through the bottle cap if the cap is on the bottle.


The larger bowl portion of the socket will act as a bottleneck and brace against the bottle cap to stop it from falling into the bottle.
It would be best to start with a smaller hole and make it larger, because if you make it too big you’ll need an entirely new cap.;
, You can buy a small socket wrench piece at any hardware sore. The socket will be the part of the bong that you put your herbs into eventually, which is called the bowl. Put the quarter inch socket into the hole that you just made in the cap.It should fit snugly and not jiggle. You definitely don’t want it to fall into the bottle – the bottle will ultimately be filled with some dirty water after you have smoked it. This socket will be used as your bowl.


Instead of using a bowl you can also roll a joint and stick it in the hole at the top.
If the connection feels a little loose you can stick a bit of gum around the edges to give it a firmer connection. Tape is a little more difficult but could also work.
For an even better seal and overall better hit, consider using a glass bowl and rubber grommet from a real bong.
An easier way to make a bowl is to shape it out using tin foil and just put it over the hole where the cap should go. Poke holes in the tin foil for the smoke to go through.
 The carb is a small hole in a smoking device that you hold shut while you light the herb. When you are ready to take your hit you release your finger from the carb and the pressure change causes all the smoke to rush into your lungs. Examine the bottom of your 1 liter bottle. You should notice a bunch of small notches at the bottom of the bottle that serves as it base. Cut or burn a small hole directly above one of these notches. You don’t need the hole to be very big - just big enough to allow some airflow. This hole serves as your carb. The hole will be on the side of the bottle toward the bottom.


Excessive use of lighter to melt the plastic can makes holes too big and/or plastic too weak.
 Take the cap off and fill your bottle with water. You should fill it to about an inch from the top while holding the carb closed with your finger. This will stop the water from leaking out.


Don’t let go if you are holding the carb with your finger. If you plan to smoke immediately you should fill the socket bowl with weed and get a lighter before you fill the bottle with water.

