 Your dog should be vaccinated before she gets pregnant. This will protect your dog and your dog’s puppies. Newborn puppies have an increased risk getting serious (and even fatal) diseases if their mother is not vaccinated.


Most experts advise against vaccinating pregnant dogs, so vaccines should be given ahead of time.
Get your dog dewormed. Internal parasites (such as roundworms and hookworms) can pass from a mother to her puppies. Your dog’s veterinarian will prescribe an appropriate medication that will protect both your dog and her puppies.
Have a heartworm test performed by your vet and start an appropriate heartworm preventative. Heartworm microfilaria can pass from a dog to her unborn puppies through the placenta.
 Your veterinarian can help you verify the pregnancy, determine the due date, discuss any medication changes, and even estimate the number of expected puppies. Your veterinarian can also help you determine if your dog is having a false pregnancy, a condition in which she looks and acts pregnant when she’s not.


Ultrasound machines can visualize puppy embryos approximately 3 weeks into the pregnancy. Your veterinarian may be able to feel the puppies inside your dog’s belly 20-30 days into the pregnancy. Unborn puppies can be seen on x-rays after 45 days (5 weeks) of pregnancy.
Your veterinarian will count the fetal skeletons to determine the number of expected puppies. This way, you will know if all the puppies have been delivered successfully when your dog gives birth. If you are expecting 6 puppies but only 4 are born, you will know to take your dog in for emergency medical care.
 Some medications can be dangerous to the unborn puppies and can cause birth defects and even death. For instance, veterinarians typically recommend that you keep your dog on their monthly heartworm preventatives, but talk to your veterinarian to be certain.


Talk to your veterinarian about your dog’s flea and tick treatments and her risk for these parasites. Your veterinarian will recommend an appropriate product if treatment is indicated. Examples of products that your veterinarian may recommend for your pregnant dog include FrontlineⓇ Plus Topspot (but not FrontlineⓇ Spray), RevolutionⓇ, ProgramⓇ, and CapstarⓇ.Your veterinarian may recommend a dewormer during the last third of your dog’s pregnancy. Fenbendazole is typically considered safe for pregnant dogs and can treat worms that can be passed from a dog to her puppies.
Do not give any over-the-counter medications, treatments, or supplements to your dog without asking your veterinarian whether they are safe during pregnancy.
Do not vaccinate your pregnant dog. Talk to your veterinarian about vaccinations if your dog is pregnant and is overdue on vaccines.
If your dog is on long-term medications for a chronic disease, talk to your veterinarian immediately to determine if you should continue or stop the medications.
 This should be a 24 hr clinic, not your regular vet office. It is best to be prepared for an emergency, just in case your dog is giving birth in the evening and she has serious complications.

