 Recovering from gaslighting will be much easier if you have a support team to assist you. Therapists and counselors are an important part of your support team because they can help you recover from gaslighting by supporting you and listening to you. They can also help you address the depression, anxiety, and other stress you may be feeling as a result of being gaslighted.For example, if the gaslighting happened during a long-term relationship, seeking professional help can assist you in identifying and dealing with effects of the abuse.
Even if it was a short-lived relationship, adding a professional to your support team can help teach you coping strategies.
Talk to a counselor about what you have been through. You can ask your physician, human resources representative, or school counselor for a referral to a counselor.
If you are experiencing anxiety or depressive symptoms or other significant problems coping, a counselor can discuss treatment options with you.
 When someone gaslights you, they often isolate you from other people in your life that care about you.They convince you that they are the only person that knows what is right for you. Rebuilding your relationship with family, friends, and other people in your life and relying on them as a part of your support team will help you recover from gaslighting.


Ask someone close to you to just spend time with you. You all don’t have to go anywhere or do anything. Try saying, “Can we spend a little time together just chilling?”
Accept their invitations when friends and family members ask you to go places with them.
Start out spending small amounts of time together. For example, go for a frozen yogurt or a cup of coffee.
 One way to recover from gaslighting is to connect with people that have been through similar experiences. Hearing their stories and how they recovered from gaslighting can provide you with strategies and tips that will help you overcome it as well. Being a part of a support group can also help boost your self-esteem from the positive interactions and create new social relationships for you.


Check with organizations in your community for victims of domestic abuse, your religious leader, or a mental health professional for suggestions on finding a support group near you.
Consider joining an online forum or support group if you aren’t able to attend an in-person support group.

