 The illustration should include a compass indicating which way is north. This is often located near the legend, or separately in a corner of the illustration. A good survey will distinguish between magnetic north and astronomical north. If the survey does not distinguish between the two, it's probably based on magnetic north, but you should check with your surveyor to be sure., Property boundaries are denoted with both bearing and distance. The bearing is a series of degrees, minutes, and seconds with compass point letters before and after each element. The distance indicates how far from a given point a boundary line extends.


The bearing represents the angle between north or south and east or west. You can measure this angle from a central point with a protractor. For instance, you might have a bearing of N 38° 03' 09" E. If you measured an angle of 38° 03' 09" from the north to the east on the survey illustration, you could then trace that northeasterly line to identify one of your property's boundaries.Degrees, minutes, and seconds are the units of measure for property survey bearings. For example, N 38° 03' 09" E would translate as 38 degrees, 3 minutes, 9 seconds from the north to the east.
The boundary lines, or "legs," are often denoted in feet and listed directly below or after the bearing.
 The illustration and accompanying written report should include the following, where present:


Physical and overlapping boundaries
Water structures such as a lake or stream
Shared fencing, driveways or sidewalks with a neighboring property
Roadways or driveways that are nearby
Existing property points of entry or egress
Buildings, repairs, modifications or structural improvements on the property
Locations of utilities, including water pipes and other plumbing, electrical, cable and/or telephone lines, gas lines, and utility poles , There should be a scale near the legend which indicates how distances are represented on the survey illustration. The scale will help you gauge distances on the property in question, including distances between it and nearby landmarks. For instance, one inch might correspond to one mile on the land survey illustration.The illustration might also orient the reader by providing a vicinity map -- also called a location map -- to indicate where the property lies in relation to the larger locality. The vicinity map is a small square inset usually located in a corner of the survey illustration.

