 Many people choose to lose weight to improve their health and to prevent serious diseases down the road. Some diseases that have a strong correlation with obesity include:


Heart disease. Being overweight increases your chances of having high blood pressure, which can lead to stroke, plus abnormal levels of blood cholesterol. Heart disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women in the United States.
Type 2 Diabetes. Carrying excess weight and having a sedentary lifestyle can lead to the development of Type 2 Diabetes. Left uncontrolled, this disorder can lead to heart disease, kidney disease and blindness.
Cancer. Overweight men have a 33 percent greater risk of dying from cancer, and overweight women have a 55 percent greater risk of dying from cancer. Overweight men have more prostate and colorectal cancer, while overweight women have more cancers of the gallbladder, breast and reproductive system.
Osteoarthritis. Being overweight can increase the wear and tear on your joints, which exacerbates the pain and debilitation associated with osteoarthritis.
Sleep apnea. In addition to causing poor sleep and daytime fatigue, sleep apnea is a risk factor for other more serious diseases.;
, Losing weight will help you to improve the way that you look, but you also need to accept the way your body looks now. Different clothes, an updated hairstyle and makeup can help you to start feeling attractive today.
 Being overweight limits your options for fashionable clothing. When you are thinner, you will wear clothes like a bathing suit, a negligee or a designer sports jacket with more confidence.
 When you are more fit, you will feel athletic, and your body will more efficiently burn fat and build muscle. Your self-confidence and self-esteem will improve because you feel confident in your appearance.
 Instead of using food to medicate yourself against stress and emotions, you will develop healthier habits. When you overindulge occasionally, you’ll be able to exercise to work off the weight.
 When you feel confident about your appearance, you can feel more confident about dating and intimacy. You may also feel more comfortable in social settings, which will help you to be happier and more socially active.
 Looking good will help you to feel positive about yourself, which will help you to accomplish more of your goals in life.

