 Brainstorm and write down memories or words that come to mind when you think of this teacher. Use this time to organize your thoughts and really get to the heart of what you want to thank this teacher for, and why. Think about:


Your child’s experience in this class and any positive things they told you about this teacher.
Your own interactions with this teacher. What positive experiences have you had?
What you know about this teacher. What is this person like?
What words would you use to describe this person to someone else?
What might this teacher write in a Thank You Note to you, if they were to?

, Hand written notes add a personal touch that is often more treasured than a computer typed document. Office supply stores are a great way to find cheap stationary. Some stores also sell packs that include decorated cards and matching envelopes.


You can also use blank paper! This gives you and your child an opportunity to add artwork later. Personal art work is just as appreciated, if not more so, than stationary.
 Start with “Dear _____,” It is always better to err on the side of professionalism when writing to a teacher. Address the teacher by the same name that students use.


Say “Dear Mrs. Smith,” instead of “Hey, Diane!”

, Look back at the notes you made in step one to help you write your letter. Use words you are comfortable with and keep your sentences short. There is no need to feel like you should use flowery language. Say what’s on your mind. Try things like:


Thank you for an incredible year!
My son/daughter learned so much from you (you can include specific examples here if you have any)
We really appreciate (give a specific example of something the teacher did, or a fun memory you share)

, Think about ways you can customize this letter so that it couldn’t be for anyone else besides this specific teacher. Take the opportunity to be gracious. Even if you didn’t particularly get along with this teacher, there must be something specific you can praise them for.


If you and your student loved this teacher, sum up your positive experiences into just a few sentences like, “James really enjoyed the board game project. He still plays the board game he made in your class, even today.”
If you and your student had a frustrating year with this teacher, strive to find the things they did well, and thank them for those things specifically. You may be able to say something like, “Thank-you for all the extra time you spent with Maria on her math homework. She has always struggled with math and she has learned a lot from your class.”

, Thank the teacher again and sign your name. Add a formality to your signature like:


Sincerely
With Kind regards
Warmest regards
Yours truly
Best regards
Our deepest thanks

, No matter what grade your child is in, they can help add an additional personal touch to your letter. Individual drawings or artwork are great suggestions. A separate Thank You Note or phrase written by your child is also great. You can also help your child gather some cut outs from classroom received material to color, decorate, sign and include.


If your child is in Elementary School, help them write a short thank you (about ½ a page) at the best of their writing abilities. Or, if you’ve got an artist on your hands, help inspire them. Suggest they draw a portrait of their teacher, or pictures of things they remember from the class. Doodles are great too!
If your student is in Middle school or High school, help them write ½ to 1 page about their favorite memory from that class.
If your child has special needs, help them write notes or draw pictures to the best of their ability.Decorate the card with them using stickers or glitter. You can also draw a picture for them to decorate.
 If you decide to include a gift, make sure to keep it small. Don’t spend a lot of money. There are a lot of great gift ideas for Thank You cards that don’t cost very much. Try:


Flowers. If you know a great place to pick wildflowers, you can arrange a bouquet with your child and present them to the teacher. Or, you can go to a local nursery and select a plant. You may want to consider a plant that thrives indoors. You may also want to include a self-watering pot or a small vase with your plant.
A goodie bag. Find a high quality tote bag from a bookstore or office supply store and work together with your child to fill the bag with goodies. You can include highlighters, post-its, etc.
Gift cards. What teacher wouldn’t appreciate a gift card to Starbucks? Make sure to keep the card value reasonable. $10-$20 is good.
 You can send the card in the mail, but delivering it by hand is great too!

