 Regular use of a moisturizer keeps your skin supple and flexible, avoiding wrinkles. Try to use natural moisturizers instead of synthetic chemicals., These help in producing natural collagen that help in tightening your skin and produces elasticity as well., They offer temporary, limited solutions, but often prove just as effective as natural treatments and sometimes even more effective.


Read the instructions on the wrinkle cream before use. Usually, you will need to rub a generous amount of the cream into your skin until it disappears. Some creams may need to be rinsed off, however.
Look for creams with an active ingredient like retinol, alpha hydroxy acids, kinetin, coenzyme Q10, copper peptides, or antioxidants.
 A doctor may be willing to prescribe a product with a higher concentration of retinoids. The higher concentration will reduce wrinkles more effectively.


Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how to apply the retinoid.
Tretinoin and tazarotene are two common examples of prescription retinoids.
Note that retinoids are a product derived from vitamin A.
 Primer is a cosmetic that temporarily and immediately reduces the appearance of wrinkles.Always apply primer before applying any other makeup, especially foundation.
Apply the primer immediately after you apply moisturizer.
Do not attempt to mask wrinkles with foundation or concealer alone.
Primer contains pieces of mica. This mineral sinks into the wrinkles along your face, reflecting light away from them and reducing their appearance.
 These proteins temporarily paralyze your skin, causing your skin to tighten as a result. Your wrinkles will be smoothed out as a result.


The biggest benefit of these serums is that they work almost instantly.
 This molecule moisturizes and plumps up your skin, reducing the appearance of wrinkles over a period of several weeks.


Apply over your wrinkles sparingly, following it with a moisturizer.
After three weeks, the skin should be firmer and the wrinkles should be greatly minimized.

