 The process by which you access your medical records will depend upon the specific type of record you are searching for. If you are seeking a vaccination record (which may be required for travel purposes, certain job applications, or other purposes), you may ask for a copy of this through your local public health authority or your family doctor. They may or may not have it on file; you can also check with your parents if they have your childhood vaccination records. If you are seeking your dental records, these can be obtained through your dentist.Hospital records may be obtained through hospital administration, or perhaps even through your family doctor as she is normally faxed copies of the hospital reports following your discharge. Your primary care records can be obtained via your family physician.


Once you have decided which record(s) you need or want to obtain, you can inquire with the receptionist at your physician or dentist's office, with hospital administration staff, or with public health staff (if it's regarding vaccines), to determine how to submit a formal request for your desired healthcare records.There may or may not be a cost associated with getting a copy of the records to you; if there is a cost, it should be low (around $15-$20 normally).
In the case of most larger hospitals/clinics, a release of information form must be signed and submitted to their medical records department.
Note that you always have the right to receive copies of your healthcare records. The timeframe in which you receive your records is variable, however, and it may require some waiting on your part.
If the reason that you wish to receive a copy of your medical records is because you are now working with a new practitioner (such as if your doctor or dentist has retired, or if you have moved cities), the new practitioner may be able to request a copy of your old records directly and you may not have to worry about doing it yourself. It is worth inquiring with your new practitioner if this is the case for you.
Some dentists and physicians offer a written explanation of key points alongside your records for an additional fee, but the availability of this service varies on a physician-to-physician basis.;
, It is generally advised to keep personal records of all vaccines you have received, as well as the physician (or healthcare facility) that administered them, so that official records can be tracked down more easily if and when they are needed. To put together your vaccine records, combine your personal records with the records you are able to obtain from healthcare facilities where you were vaccinated. You may also be able to combine this information with your local (state or provincial) "immunization registry," if there is one in your area. (Note that the purpose of an "immunization registry" is to have all of your vaccine information located in one place.)


For each vaccine in your records, note the date the vaccine was received, the dose, the facility where it was administered, and any repeat or booster shots that were given following the initial vaccination.
You will want to include all shots related to a specific vaccine, as some come in "series" of multiple shots and you are required to have all of the shots to have full immunity.
The date is also important because the effectiveness of certain vaccines expire after a certain period of time.
If your vaccine records are incomplete (lacking the date, the number of vaccines given, or lacking evidence of you having received key vaccinations), your doctor will likely advise that you be vaccinated with any missing shots in order to err on the side of caution.
 Your dental record will also contain images (such as x-rays), tests (such as blood work), and any other investigations you have received for your oral health.


Your dental record will most often be arranged by date, with the most recent procedures located in the front of the file and the ones from your most distant past located at the back of the file.
If you are having trouble finding the paperwork for a certain dental procedure of interest, your dentist or the office receptionist may be able to assist you.
 Medical records are often the most lengthy, as they will contain (ideally) all of your medical information from birth through to the present day. As with dental records, they will most frequently be arranged with the most recent documentation at the front of the file, and the oldest documentation at the back of the file. Your medical record may also be organized into sections — such as Progress Notes, Lab Tests, Imaging Tests, Specialist Referrals, etc. - to make things easier to find.
 One of the primary challenges of deciphering your electronic medical records can be understanding all of the medical terms, or jargon, that is used throughout the reports. The reason there is so much jargon is because it is the most efficient and effective way for physicians to communicate with one another regarding your health problems. It provides accurate insight into the nature of the diagnosis using very few words, and it provides valuable information to the doctor looking after you; however, the challenge comes when you are trying to read the medical record yourself and find that there are terms you have never heard of before, or do not fully understand.


The advantage of the Internet is that you can now readily look up medical terms and receive a definition of what it is referring to.
This can help you to understand what the physicians are referring to with the words and terminology used in your medical record.
 Medical records may contain all sorts of documents, from blood tests and other test results (such as imaging tests), to medication lists, to specialist consultations, to general progress notes on the condition at hand, not to mention all previous documentation from prior medical conditions. The documents that tend to be of greatest interest to patients are the progress notes, the test results, and the treatment plans for the condition at hand. When reading the progress notes (the reports generated after each visit by the physician who is in charge of your care), the simplest strategy to make your way through them is to focus on the conclusions more so than the information in the report itself.


This is because all of the important information is summarized at the end in a few sentences, and the rest of the information in the report is usually beyond the level of detail that you will need to know.
If you can decipher the few sentences in the conclusion (often called the "impression and plan"), you will be well ahead of most patients in terms of the level at which you understand your diagnosis.
The rest of the report is intended as back-up documentation should doctors need to look back and remember how they came to the conclusions they did, why they made the treatment decisions they did, or if they need to justify any medical actions or decisions with the legal system.
 This is part of your doctor's job, and he will normally be happy to answer any questions pertaining to your diagnosis, your treatment plan, your test results, or any other inquiries you may have relating to your current health condition.


You can also ask your doctor to print a copy of the latest updates on your health condition while you are in the office with him, if these documents are available.
Most doctors have access to a printer and can easily do this upon request.
You can then go over the latest paperwork with your physician by your side, who will most likely focus on the conclusions (the important information), and explain the impact this will have on your prognosis and course of treatment moving forwards.
 CPT codes are like a universal "language" (although the code is numerical) used to detail the specific medical treatments and procedures you received; it is standardized so that the codes can be easily applied and utilized for billing purposes and insurance claims.


A CPT code is a number (often a 5-digit number) that is normally circled by your healthcare provider and represents the specific service you received. It is a fairly complex system — there are roughly 7,800 CPT codes.It should be attached to your medical record; if it is not, contact the person who provided you with the record to inquire about the CPT code, as this is expected to come alongside it.
 Of course, it depends on what disease you have, because for many diseases the treatment choices are fairly straight-forward and do not require a lot of thought; however, for some diagnoses such as cancer, there are a myriad of options available, some that are well-proven and others that are more experimental and still in the clinical trial phase.


In order to make the best decisions possible for yourself moving forwards, it is important to have a good grasp of your condition. The best way to do so is by understanding your medical records and asking clarifying questions as needed.
From this solid grounding of understanding, you can then fully comprehend the risks and benefits of various treatment options, as well as the toll they may take on your lifestyle. You can then determine for yourself which one best serves your needs.
 Although patients normally receive the same physician for ongoing treatment, there are times - such as when your normal physician is away, or when you unexpectedly develop a complication and need to visit the Emergency Room - when you will be cared for by another doctor.


This is where it can make the world of difference if you are able to accurately explain your relevant medical history and your current diagnosis, as well as describing any new symptoms or complaints.
There are many occasions when precious time is wasted in the Emergency Room trying to sift through your medical records and figure out what is relevant and what is not.
If you can provide this information upfront, and demonstrate a level of understanding about your disease, it will greatly help the new doctors in the moment and allow you to receive the best (and fastest) care possible.
 In short, being informed and taking the time to review your medical records has many benefits.
 Having an error corrected may be minor with no significant impact for you moving forward, or it may be major, resulting in improved coverage and insurance benefits following correction of the documentation.


All errors found in medical records must be corrected according to specific guidelines.
The old documentation cannot be erased or "obscured" in any way (such as with whiteout on a paper document, or deleted on an electronic record).Rather, the error must be crossed out in such a way that it is still legible, with a note inserted into the medical record explaining the correction and being open and upfront about how the error occurred.If the patient does not like what a doctor reported, but the doctor feels it is a sound diagnosis, the medical records do not have to be changed. They may make note that you disagree with the diagnosis.

