 Developing relationships in any kind of family system can be stressful and put additional stress on you, your own children, step-children, or your significant other/spouse. For instance, your child, stepchildren, ex, or extended family members may not be too keen on your new blended family situation or your new partner. Maybe your new partner does not understand the type of closeness and bond that you share with your own children. Some family members (stepchildren and/or partner) may feel undervalued or left out of the family. Yet again, it could be that as a new step-parent you are unsure about your role in this new family setting. To develop great relationships in any family dynamic, recognize and acknowledge the key relationships involved. In a blended family the following are some of the key relationships you may see:

The relationship you have with your new partner.
The relationship you have with your own biological children.
The relationship your partner has with his/her own children.
The relationship you and your partner have with each other’s children.
The relationship you and your partner may have with your ex partners.
The relationship of extended families with you and all your children combined.
Finally, the relationship you all have when together in your family unit.;
, If you have kids from multiple partners, the relationships may differ significantly. One child may see their other parent frequently while the other may not. Recognize how their other relationships may affect them. While there’s nothing you can do to change the other parent’s involvement, assure each child that they are loved.


All children want and need their parent’s love, support, care, and gentle guidance. Realize that when families are blended, some children may feel scared of losing their special bond with their primary parents. They may be frightened that there could be a lack of attention and love, or feel that they are just not that important to you anymore. This is the time for each parent to emphasize to all children that no one is forgotten, and everyone will be loved and cared for regardless of any changes within the family.
Consider how the children relate as half-siblings. Children can become competitive amongst each other if one child sees both parents and the other does not.
If the other parent is less involved, say, “I know you see your other parent less frequently, but know that they still love you very much.”

, If your child lives with their other parent most of the time, make the time you spend with them really count. Treat them just as you do your other children. Give them the same affection and tell them they must follow the same rules. Avoid making your child feel special when they visit, as this can make them feel outside the family and not part of it.Tell them that they must show respect, kindness, and help out just like the other kids do.
While you may assign the children chores, they might have fewer chores if they also complete chores at their other home.
 If you’re upset at the child’s other parent, don’t take it out on the child. Even if the child resembles the parent, remember that the child is a separate being. The child deserves to be loved and not held accountable for another person’s actions. Your children are equally deserving of love.


Remind yourself that the child deserves your love regardless of any estranged relationship you and your ex may have.
For example, if you have a child from a previous relationship and a child in your current relationship, don’t hurt your first child as a way to get back at your ex or hold a resentment toward your ex through your child.
 If you have children of different races, make sure that each child feels included. If one child experiences discrimination, talk to all children about discrimination and how it can affect your family. If even one child is a different race than the others, talk about how discrimination can hurt everyone in the family and that it’s important for all children to stick up for one another.


If you notice tensions in your family, make sure you are giving each child attention and love. Be an example for your children to follow by loving each child individually.
 Tune into your children’s needs and respond accordingly. Your children are likely different from each other and that means you will likely love them differently. For example, one child may struggle with missing their other parent more than another child. You may need to give more comfort to this child while their sibling may not be affected at all. Be aware of each child’s needs and meet them.Sometimes, one child will be needier than another. While you may give help or assistance to the one, make sure you give reassurance to the other.
You may go to one child’s soccer games and the other child’s chess tournaments. Whatever you do, show your support for your child’s interests and love them for their own uniqueness., Parents can sometimes instigate sibling rivalry without even realizing it. This can be magnified when children are step-siblings or half-siblings and can affect their feelings of self-worth. Praise each child’s efforts and successes equally. If you find yourself comparing your children, stop yourself and find another way to say it.Avoid saying things like, “Be more like your sister” and instead say, “Who has their seatbelt on? I see Alice has hers on, good job. Do you have yours, Jason? Good job.”

, Realize that you and your stepchildren did not choose each other. Perhaps you have clicked with one another naturally, or perhaps there is still an uncomfortable tensions that neither of you know how to respond to. Spending quality time to develop a strong and healthy relationship with your stepchild will help lead to better relationships overall within the entire family and with your new partner. Have a special relationship with each child. Do different activities together separately from other children. Spending one-on-one time with each child can help increase your bond together and show each child that you love and care for them.A step-child may be more resistant to warming up to you, but stick with it and show them that you are willing to create a relationship together.Show interest in your stepchild’s life and spend time asking how their day was. Help your stepchild out in practical ways, such as by driving them to meet up with friends or to an after-school activity, helping them with their homework, or teaching them how to cook dinner with you.
Choose one-on-one activities based on the child’s interests. For one child, you may want to go to a museum while you may want to attend a sports game with the other.
Support your partner's approach towards disciplining his/her own children, but do your best to let your partner be primarily responsible for managing the rules and boundaries. This is something that you and your partner and all of the kids should discuss before blending your families so that everyone is fully aware of how things will function in this new family unit. Finally, be consistent with any set rules and boundaries.
 Understand that stepsiblings may not feel as close to one another as biological siblings do, but this depends upon their ages, their personalities, how long they have known each other prior to the family blending, and their current and prior environmental experiences. Realize that it is perfectly normal (blended or not) for children to feel jealous, have arguments, and to compete with one another. Conflicts will arise, and it is quite normal for these conflicts to be more intense in a blended family. Children often fight, especially half-siblings and step-siblings. They may come straight to you to solve a problem. Instead of being the judge, jury, and executioner, tell them to solve the problem on their own. This way, no child will feel like they are being treated unfairly or unjustly by you. It also helps them to build problem-solving skills on their own.Say, “I know you are upset at each other. What do you think should happen? Figure out a solution together.”
It is important for everyone in the blended family to work together and develop expectations and rules about respecting one another. Keep this in a place where it is visible to everyone at all times, such as on the refrigerator.
Express fairness across the board. For instance, the rules and expectations should be consistently the same, and appropriate for each age group.
Ensure that all children within the home have their own beds and spaces to go to if they need time to themselves, but also encourage them to have fun together as well (i.e., playing games together).
 Kids are often concerned with what’s fair, whether it be splitting the candy bar exactly in half or getting the same amount of time watching television. It’s almost impossible to treat two unique individuals entirely equally and fairly at all times. When you interact with your children together, pay close attention to the amount of attention you give each one. Notice how you speak to them: do you praise one more than the other or favor discipline toward one? Be aware of your own actions and how they may affect your children.If you notice unfair treatment, take note and correct it. Hold your tongue when you want to give criticism or focus on balancing the praise you give to each child.
Whether your decisions are equal or fair, it’s up to you, not your children, to decide., If you have a relationship with a child that is much more difficult than the others, therapy may be beneficial. Some parents feel deeply upset about differing feelings for different children, especially if one child is much more difficult than the others. If you’re struggling to be fully loving to all children, a therapist can help. You may wish to attend individual sessions, family sessions, or sessions with you and your difficult child.Find a therapist by calling a local mental health clinic or your insurance provider. You can also get a referral from your physician or a recommendation from family and friends.
 Look forward to spending time with your children. If you need to improve a relationship with a child, bring some fun and enjoyment in. this can help you have nice experiences together and build memories both of you look back on fondly. Whether it’s your biological child or a step-child, find time to play together or read a book together. Make sure you do fun activities with each child.Think about what kind of play each child enjoys. One child may enjoy playing with blocks, so get down on their level and build with them. Another child may enjoy coloring, so grab a coloring book and join them.

