 There are a variety of vital nutrients you need to reduce the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. Many people take dietary supplement, like fish oil pills, to gain essential nutrients. However, the effectiveness of substitutes is unclear. You should get your nutrition primarily from real foods rather than supplements and oils.You do not have to unnecessarily complicate a diet plan for rheumatoid arthritis. A healthy overall diet will help you get you the nutrients you need.
Stick to a variety of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and healthy proteins.;
, Omega-3 fatty acids can help ease the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis by reducing inflammation and pain. They are also good for your health overall. Strive to eat fish for a few meals a week. You may notice a reduction in symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The following fish are particularly good sources of Omega-3 fatty acids:Anchovies
Salmon
Sardines
Eel
Tuna
Trout
Mackerel
Herring
Whitebait

, Many people with arthritis develop issues with anemia (the inability to incorporate iron into your blood) due to certain chronic diseases. Upping your iron intake can help offset anemia, so strive to get a variety of iron rich foods into your diet. If you decide to take an iron supplement, then you may also need to take a stool softener because iron supplements can cause constipation. The following foods are rich in iron:Dark green vegetables such as spinach and kale
Red meat
Lentils
Haricot beans

, Calcium strengthens bones, which can help reduce symptoms of arthritis. You are at a greater risk for developing osteoporosis if you have arthritis, and a calcium-rich diet can help reduce your risk.Low-fat dairy products such as low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese can be a great source of calcium.
Calcium-enriched milks, including non-dairy milks like soy milk, can be an excellent source of calcium.
Fish eaten with the bones still intact, like sardines, can also help you get more calcium. In addition to providing calcium, you can also get more Omega-3 fatty acids with such fish.
Osteoporosis of the hip or spine is common in arthritis.
 Certain foods have not been shown to increase symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. If you experience an arthritis flare up, you should opt for these foods until your pain passes. This will prevent your diet from worsening arthritis pain. The following should be safe to eat during a flare-up:Brown rice
Cooked and dry fruits
Cooked vegetables, such as artichoke, broccoli, chards, asparagus, collards, sweet potatoes, and spinach

, If you're still experiencing arthritis pain after adjusting your diet, supplements may help. However, you should never simply start taking supplements on your own. Without medical testing, you will not know if you have vitamin deficiencies. You also want to make sure vitamins do not interfere with any existing medication.If you want to try supplements, make an appointment with your doctor. Your doctor may want to run blood tests to see if supplements would help you.
You should also ask your doctor any questions you have about when and how to take dietary supplements.
You may want to take fish oil, omega-3 fatty acids, calcium, or iron supplements.
 Fruits and vegetables are great for your overall health. A healthy diet overall can reduce the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, so work on incorporating a lot of fruits and vegetables into your diet.Strive to have at least 1 1/2 to 2 cups of fruits for each meal, as well as 2 to 3 cups of vegetables.
Another idea is to fill half of your plate with vegetables at each meal.
The antioxidants in fruits and vegetables greatly help the immune system. As rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease, plenty of fruits and vegetables can help counteract its effects.
 Beans also have antioxidants. In addition to this, they have anti-inflammatory compounds. Try to eat a variety of beans in your diet. They are also heart healthy overall, so they can improve your health in addition to fighting arthritis pain.As beans are a good source of protein, try swapping out the meat in some meals for something like black beans. For example, have a black bean burrito for lunch instead of a chicken burrito. This is an excellent, low-fat healthy alternative.
 Broccoli may slow the progress of arthritis, so incorporating broccoli into your meals is a good idea. Opt for broccoli as your serving of vegetables for a meal. Add broccoli to salads, casseroles, and stir-fries. When eating out, see if steamed or boiled broccoli is an option for a side dish., High fiber foods can be helpful for your overall diet. For best results, get fiber from real foods over supplements.The following foods are rich in fiber:Fruits like raspberries, pears, apples, and oranges.
Grains like whole wheat pasta, barley, oatmeal, and whole wheat bread.
Legumes, like lentils, black beans, and split peas.
Vegetables such as broccoli, artichokes, Brussels sprouts, and potatoes.
 If you drink at all, stick to only a couple of drinks a day. This is especially important if you're taking medications that interact with alcohol. While some studies indicate red wine has anti-inflammatory properties, alcohol has a negative overall effect on arthritis so do not attempt to use red wine to treat your pain.Talk to your doctor about alcohol consumption for you. In some cases, you may need to eliminate alcohol altogether.
 Saturated fat is found in foods like meat, butter, and cheese. It can raise cholesterol levels, increasing your risk for heart disease. As people with arthritis are already at risk for developing heart disease, you should limit saturated fat in your diet.On a 2,000 calorie a day diet, you should not have more than 20 grams (0.71 oz) of saturated fat. However, you may need less than that depending on your current health. Talk to your doctor about a safe level of saturated fat for you.
Try to consume meats, cheeses, butter, and other foods loaded in saturated fat in moderation. Fast foods and processed foods tend to be high in saturated fat.
 Sat causes your body to retain more water, which may affect arthritis. Work on lowering the overall amount of salt in your diet. Keep in mind, salt is added to many foods. Just staying away from the salt shaker may not adequately lower your consumption of salt.Read foods labels carefully. Avoid foods that are very high in sodium. When possible, go for no-sodium or low-sodium foods.
When seasoning foods, rely more on herbs and spices than salt.
Do not eat out too much, as restaurant foods are often high in added salt.
 Foods high in sugar are bad for your overall health and can also lead to weight gain. Weight can put extra strain on your joints, making arthritis worse.Go for artificial, calorie-free sweeteners when possible.
You can also try things like maple syrup and agave nectar. While you should not overdo it on such sweeteners, as they are high in calories, they also contain certain nutrients that can help your overall health.
Read nutritional labels at the store, even for products like bread and pasta. Such products are often surprisingly high in added sugars.
Incorporate more zero calorie drinks instead of high calorie sugary drinks.
 Coffee can be a major trigger for arthritis pain. Try to wean yourself off coffee if you have arthritis. This can help reduce symptoms.As it can be hard to quit coffee cold turkey, try reducing your coffee intake by about 1/4 a cup a day until you eliminate it from your diet.