 Like any medical issue, the best place to start is to make sure your dog is strong and healthy. This means you need to ensure your dog is eating the right amount of good food, getting the right amount of exercise, having the least amount of stress, and getting lots and lots of love.Fleas seems to know which dogs are sick and which are healthy, and prefer the sick dogs (they taste better). Keeping your dog healthy will give your dog a better chance of not getting fleas or being able to fight them off.
 A mixture of 10 drops of certain essential oils in 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil can be used as a spray to help repel fleas from your dog. As with other treatments, this may not work for all dogs. If you don’t notice any changes in your dog after three to four weeks of treatment, it’s not likely working.The following essential oils can be used: cedar, tea tree, citronella, lavender, eucalyptus, and pennyroyal.
Note that both eucalyptus and pennyroyal are both toxic to cats. If you have cats in your home, use one of the other options.
 If your dog is already infested with fleas, and you’re working to remove them, give him a bath at least once every week. For washing, use either a non-insecticidal shampoo or soap, or use an unscented hypoallergenic shampoo. Shampoos and soaps with fewer additives will help prevent your dog’s skin from drying out due to the frequent baths. And make sure to completely rinse off any shampoo or soap residue from your dog.If you aren’t sure which shampoo or soap to use, consult with your veterinarian or vet tech for a recommendation. They may even sell some shampoos at the vet clinic.
 Use a flea comb on your dog as often as possible to check how effective your flea removal efforts have been. Focus on combing around your dog’s tail, stomach, and face. Don’t just look for adult fleas, but also look for eggs (which are tiny white dots) and feces (which are tiny black dots).If you find anything on your dog, you can comb it off and drop it in a glass of water. The water will kill the fleas and the eggs.
Note — Flea feces is composed mostly of your dog’s blood. When you drop this into water, it may turn the water a dark brown or even red colour. Do not be alarmed. This is actually a good way to confirm what you found was really flea feces.
 If your dog is infested with fleas, you will want to limit the areas of the house he is allowed to go. Flea eggs can very easily make their way onto fabrics and into carpets and become dormant until the perfect environment (i.e. your dog) comes along in the future. If possible, keep your dog in areas of your house with the least amount of fabrics and fibres (e.g. kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, mud room, etc.) until the flea problem is resolved.