 If you are using an envelope that has a see-through “window" where the recipient’s name and address will show through, it is very important that you have the letter formatted so that this information lines up correctly.To format a business letter, you should first ensure that your margins are set at 1 inch (2.5 cm) on all sides in your word processor. Make sure that you have the text aligned to the left hand side of the page while you are typing the date and the recipient’s address.
The letter should be single spaced except for in-between paragraphs. Between paragraphs there should be two spaces. The entire letter should be left aligned.
There should be approximately 2 inches (5.1 cm) of blank space from the top of the page to the place where you type the first line of text (the date).
Type the date out in full (e.g. April 1, 2016 instead of 4/1/16).
Hit enter two times so that you have a blank space between the date and where you will type the recipient’s information.
Type the full name of the recipient (e.g. Mr. John Doe), hit enter and type the address of the recipient, hit enter again and type the city, state, and zip code of the recipient.
Be sure to include a space between the recipient’s contact information and the salutation.

If the letter contains sensitive information, it may be best to use a standard envelope with no window.
 Having the text facing down will make it easier to see where the name and address are when you fold it.If you have done this right, you will not be able to read the text of the letter.
 The letter should be text-side down, but make sure that it is also arranged so that the recipient’s name and address are closest to you.If you have done this right, when you peek underneath the paper, the name and address of the recipient will be the closest thing to you.
 Take the upper third of the paper and fold it down towards you.


If you aren’t sure how far that is, you can also align the envelope under the center of the paper to use as a guide.
 Take the bottom third of the paper and fold it up and away from you.The name and address of the recipient should now be visible to you.
 Take the letter so that the recipient’s information faces the front of the envelope. Insert the letter so that the information shows through the window.If you can’t see the recipient’s information, you might have inserted the letter upside down. Remove the letter and turn it around (the recipient’s information should still face the window).

