 Exercise is a great way to make a positive change for yourself. Not only does exercise make you look and feel good, but it also increases your overall health. Exercise reduces stress and anxiety and helps you relax. Plus, exercise releases endorphins, which boost your mood.Start by getting out of the house and walking for 30 minutes 3 times a week.
Go for a hike in a state park you've never been to.
Join a gym and go to a spin, weightlifting, zumba, or crossfit class.
Sign up for that 5k you've always wanted to and start training to run it.
 Another way to take control of your life is to change your eating habits. By adopting a healthy lifestyle, you will lose weight, feel better, and improve your health. Start small and add new things every week or two. Even making small changes can yield huge benefits on your body and mind.


Cut out processed food. That includes boxed meals, take out, and prepackaged snacks. These things are not good for your body.
Replace processed, artificial foods with natural foods. Eat fruits and vegetables. Eat usable carbs, like quinoa and oatmeal. Eat lean meats, such as fish and chicken. Eating healthy doesn't mean starving yourself. Simply make better choices for meals and snacks.For breakfast, try an omelette with tomato, spinach, ham, and avocado. Or try oatmeal with fruit, like strawberries, pineapple, or banana, nuts, and dark chocolate chips.
For lunch, eat a kale bowl with sauteed vegetables such as kale, asparagus, carrots, or broccoli, avocado, tomato, chickpeas, beans such as cannellini or black beans, protein such as chicken, tilapia, or salmon, and feta cheese.
For dinner, cook a lean protein and an array of vegetables.
 Another way to get your life together is to try to get rid of unhealthy and harmful vices. Try to cut back on alcohol if you drink too much. Quit smoking. Look at your unhealthy, damaging habits and start trying to change them.Remember to start slow, and don't try to do everything at once. Some unhealthy habits, like smoking, can be extremely hard to break.
 When making positive changes in the way you eat and exercise, start slowly. Don't try to do everything at once - that is a recipe for failure. Think about it as a layered process. Each time you adopt one new habit, you build on that to change another habit. Each small success is one step towards a better you, and eventually, these small changes will add up to a big change.


Start by writing down what you want to change. Then, think about how you can change it. Look at the list. What is something you feel you can accomplish this week? Maybe you're not ready to give up sugar, but you can eat a healthier breakfast. Start there. Leave the harder habits - giving up sugar, carbs, or sodas, or weightlifting - for another week. Once you gain some momentum and feel successful in what you've accomplished so far, the other habits will not seem so impossible.
Make a point to cook all your meals at home this week. If you eat out almost every day, start by saying you will cook your dinners at home, or you will not eat out 4-5 days a week.
Promise yourself that you will do something active every day. Look at your schedule and decide how it will fit in. Remember, "I don't have time" is not an excuse! Instead, find days when you can go running at the park. On days when you are too busy to go to the gym or the park, load up a 30 minute exercise routine on Youtube.