 Perspiring is your body’s natural way of cooling itself in a number of situations. While sweat alone is normal and indeed healthy, there may still be situations where you would prefer not to sweat, such as during a date or during an important presentation. The aluminum-based compounds in antiperspirants actually block the pores to prevent sweating.If you feel as though you produce more sweat than your over-the-counter antiperspirant can handle, you can speak with your doctor about prescription-strength antiperspirants.Use this nightly; it may take up to a week to notice a difference.
If you would prefer a natural alternative to chemical-laden antiperspirants, then try rubbing a raw potato under your arms. The starch contained in a potato can similarly block pores to reduce the amount that you sweat.Dusting your armpits with cornstarch can also help.;
, Individuals who are obese will often sweat more because it requires more energy to move. Skin folds will also trap moisture and increase body odor with an increase in bacterial growth., Synthetic fabrics that do not allow your armpits to breathe will increase your sweat response. Natural fabrics — cotton, wool, and silk — are better at letting your skin breathe.As an exception, certain synthetic fabrics, especially those meant for exercise wear, have been developed to absorb or wick moisture from your skin.Purchase active wear made from these materials to help reduce sweat.
 Emotionally and physically stressful situations will increase the sweat response in your body. Learn stress-reduction techniques such as yoga, meditation, affirmations, listening to music, getting enough sleep, and eating a balanced diet.


This also includes trying to disarm emotionally stressful situations in your life, such as those surrounding work or relationships.
 Caffeine, alcohol, spicy foods, garlic, curries, and onions can all increase the amount that you sweat.Try cutting back on dishes and beverages that contain these ingredients.
 Women going through menopause often have particular hot flash triggers—such as caffeine and lack of sleep—that lead to increased sweating.Avoid these triggers to help reduce your sweat response.
 Increased sweating can be a symptom of a larger medical condition. See your physician to rule out:Diabetes (or general blood sugar imbalances)
Endocarditis
Generalized anxiety disorder
HIV
Hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating)
Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
Tuberculosis
Leukemia
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Some medications can also be responsible for your increased sweat response. If you developed the symptoms in association with a new medication, then ask your doctor about similar medications that may not induce sweating.
 If none of these steps seem to have helped with your sweating, then you can consult a dermatologist for medical options. Your doctor and dermatologist will likely only consider medical options if you have actually been diagnosed with hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating). Options available include:Botox injections, which use botulinum toxin to help reduce the amount of sweating produced by the body under the arms. This works by blocking the release of acetylcholine, thereby temporarily reducing sweat production. This can be an effective, but expensive, treatment.
Surgical removal of the sweat glands, which is an outpatient procedure performed using local anesthesia.
Microwave thermolysis, which is used to destroy the sweat glands with microwave energy. It is usually administered in two 20–30 minute sessions, separated by three months.
Iontophoresis, which uses electrical currents to decrease sweating.
Oral prescription medications that systematically limit sweating. These include anticholinergics such as glycopyrrolate, oxybutynin, benztropine, propantheline, and others.
Sympathectomy, which is where your surgeon attempts to stop the nerve signals that your body sends to sweat glands. It is a major surgery, requiring hospitalization. Possible side effects include loss of feeling under the arm, low blood pressure, inability to tolerate heat, and even an irregular heartbeat.

