 If you want to offer a sincere apology, you'll need to own up to your mistake. Whether you said or did something hurtful, made someone feel bad, or let someone down, you need to address the fact that what you did was wrong and it hurt someone's feelings.If you cannot understand why someone's feelings were hurt, try putting yourself in his shoes. Think about how your words or actions might have affected that person, and also consider how his life experiences may have made that person more sensitive to the issue at hand.
Even if you still cannot understand why the other person's feelings were hurt, try to accept the fact that it happened, and that your words or actions caused it.
Accept responsibility for your mistake. Don't try to blame it on someone else. A sincere apology requires an honest admission of guilt.
Start by saying something like, "I recognize that I hurt your feelings with my behavior."

, It may go without saying, but part of any apology requires you to actually say the words, "I'm sorry." Let the other person know that you understand that you've hurt him, and that you feel remorse.Don't give a false apology, like saying "Sorry you took it the wrong way." Be genuine and apologetic for your mistake.
Research shows that sincerity can make or break an apology. If you cannot give an honest, sincere apology, take some time to cool down and reflect on how you've hurt someone. Then apologize when you're ready.
Say something like, "I'm truly sorry for hurting you. I don't know what I was thinking."

, Once you've acknowledged your mistake and given a genuine apology, offer to make it up to the other person somehow. If there is any way you can correct or repair the mistake, do so. If not, you may want to make an offer to make it up to them somehow.If you joined in on making fun of someone, you can atone for your actions by telling others to stop when you see them making fun of that person in the future.
If you let someone down by your actions or inactions, correct the mistake. For example, if you promised to give someone a ride and then forgot, you could give them a free ride for a week to make it up to them.
End your apology by telling the other person something like, "I will do whatever I can to fix this, and I promise it will never happen again."

