 Once you've found the prisoner in a database, use the contact information to find the prisoner. The database may tell you:


The prisoner's I.D. number
The name and location of the prison facility
A phone number or email address for contacting the facility
The prisoner's release date

, Conduct a basic background search using the person's name and birth date. You can use one of these websites:


E-Verify: Sign up for a trial period of 5 days for $1. Be aware that searching for one inmate or multiple inmates costs $19.95 after the trial period.Background Report 360: This subscription service costs $29.95 per year, but it is one of the most comprehensive inmate searches.Verispy: A one month subscription costs $29. 95, but that you can often find someone on this website by just searching for the person’s name. , There are a variety of ways to communicate with the inmate. You can call the prison facility and speak to the inmate, although the inmate will usually have to pay for the call and it is monitored. Or, you can email the prisoner, using a secured application that is also monitored.While you can send mail to the inmate, you can't send packages.Keep in mind that most mail sent to inmates marked "general" is read and inspected. Only mail that is marked as "special" will be inspected with the inmate present.
 If the person is still being held in a facility, read the rules about visiting. For example, most facilities have guidelines about what clothing and behavior is appropriate for your visit. You can only visit a prisoner if you're on the pre-approved visiting list that the inmate created. You don't need to make an appointment to visit, but you should check the facility's visiting hours.In addition to family, approved visitors might include friends, attorneys, employers, clergy, or parole advisors.
 If you're trying to contact or learn more about a family member who was incarcerated, consider visiting the National Archives in Washington, D.C. to look at records that haven't been digitized. One of their genealogists or archivists should be able to assist you in your search without charging a fee (if you're an American citizen).If you're looking for an ancestor who was in a military prison, you can see their military record at the National Archives.


You can also search prison records on genealogy sites like Ancestry.com and Ancestor Hunt's County Jail Inmate Search.Be aware that you can also use this website to search prison records in other countries.

