 The worst mistake you can make is to walk into a comedy set completely cold. This sets you up for nervously laughing at your own jokes! Even the best comedians need to spend some time preparing what they are going to say. Create a set list for yourself. Make a list of each joke you will tell.
Think about transitions. How does one joke flow into the next? Is there some kind of logical progression?
Keep in mind what kind of people you expect to see in the audience. Certain demographics will be more or less likely to enjoy certain types of jokes. An open mic at a church, for example, may not be the best place to try out very dirty material.;
, Whether you’re the type of comic who follows a script or one who tends to free-style, rehearsal will always make your set better. Plus, it is the most effective way to stop yourself from laughing at your own jokes. Set aside time to run through your entire set 2-3 times before you take the stage.

The more times you rehearse your jokes, the more normalized they become, and the less likely you are to laugh.
Be sure to time yourself. This way you’ll ensure that you have the right amount of material, and you can move through your set without concerning yourself with time.
 Taking the stage cold sets you up for nervous laughter. Before you take the stage, find a way to warm yourself up, and release any “silly energy.”


Put on your favorite song and dance around making funny noises and goofy faces in the mirror.
Laugh at yourself.
Move your body, use your voice, and wiggle the muscles in your face.
All of these actions dispel nervous energy and prepare you to tell jokes on stage effectively, without bursting into laughter.
 If you do a good job of making the people around you laugh, you won’t need to laugh to fill the silence. Prevent yourself from laughing at your own jokes by making other people laugh.

Use vocal variation. Don’t fall into a monotone delivery.
Signal the punchline. Pause for a moment to let the audience know it’s coming.
Use a call-back. Reference something funny you said near the beginning of your set near the end. Audiences love this.
 If you really want to strengthen your comedy and prevent yourself from laughing at your own jokes, the only true remedy is spending as much time as you can telling jokes on stage. You can’t perform once a month (or less) and expect to improve at your craft. Try to make it out 1-3 times per week.Begin by seeking out comedy open mics. You can find these advertised at coffee shops or bars, or in a local entertainment paper.
Open mics are where you can practice, connect with other comics, and gain exposure.
If you do well at open mics, you will be invited to perform at more regular gigs.

