 When in conversation, few people simply talk in a stream of similar words. They use pauses, their voices go up and down, and use other bits of phrasing to make the words unique. Singers, who must stop to catch their breath, are particularly adept at phrasing. Note when they use silence and vary tempo to give just a few words or lines great meaning.









The big jazz singers -- like Cab Calloway, Etta James, Billie Holiday, and more -- have some of the best phrasing in music, no matter what the instrument.;
, Every guitarist dreams of playing more notes, and faster, than any other player out there, but the best guitarists know this is a fool's errand. From Jimmy Page's shredding on "Heartbreaker" to the soulful, slow playing of Muddy Waters, well-placed silences are essential to well-phrased solos. A silence builds suspense, letting the audience catch its breath so they can fully appreciate the barrage of notes coming afterwards.









Silences can be used to build a solo from calm and collected to face-melting power.
Thinking of your solo like a conversation, with pauses and waiting, is a good way to get used to this.
 This can lead to parallel phrasing, where you use similar licks in different parts of the solo, but change them slightly to keep things interesting. Thinking again of your solo as a conversation, this is like the "thesis." The theme is the 4-5 note riff that you keep coming back to, adjust, modulating, and playing with to make a coherent, well-composed solo.
 Throw in hammer-ons and pull-offs, use the whammy bar, or put a slide on your finger. Using different types of notes and tones will vary your phrasing considerably, like opening up a whole new vocabulary of notes. Good phrasing uses these unique accent notes to punctuate licks or pierce through temporary silence.









A big bend or well-held vibrato is a great way to create space in a solo without using silence.
 This is difficult but essential for burgeoning guitarists. How can your whole solo sound great, not just the individual bits? The answer is through phrasing -- building tension and excitement through variation. You could start with lots of silence and build to big notes. You might begin in single notes, then start adding triads and chords to the solo. You might even start loud, then lower the volume before bringing it back up. Whatever your plan, having this sort of structure is the difference between random noodling and killer phrasing.







