 Films Rated G have content in which the board believes is suitable for general audiences. Films Rated G are extremely mild in nature of their content and contain nothing that would offend parents for viewing by children. Although because the content is very mild, films rated G are not designed for children, its designed for everyone.


These films may not contain rude language and no serious cursing. As with violence it must be mild and minimal.;
, Films Rated PG have content in which the board believes is suitable for general audiences but there are some materials that may NOT be suitable for younger children. Films Rated PG are often mild but some parents may find the film unsuitable for younger children and it's up to them to decide whether their kids should watch the film or not.


These films may be generally inappropriate for younger children and may contain milder swear words, crude or suggestive humor, short and infrequent horror moments and/or mild violence.
 Films Rated PG-13 have content in which the board believes is suitable for viewers aged 13 and older. Films Rated PG-13 are between the PG and R rating. PG-13 may go beyond the PG rating, but does not go higher than R.


These films may contain sex references, up to four uses of strong language, drug innuendo, strong crude/suggestive humor, mature/suggestive themes, moderately long horror moments, blood, and/or moderate action violence.
 Films Rated R have content in which the board believes is suitable for viewers aged 17 and older. Films Rated R contain SOME adult material. Children under the age of 17 are not allowed to see the film unless he or she is accompanied by a parent or guardian.


These films may contain mild or implied sex scenes, prolonged nudity, intense violence often with blood and gore, strong horror scenes and brief/illegal/prolonged drug use.
In some states (e.g.Tennessee), you must be 18 or older to be admitted to an R rated film. Those under 18 must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
 Films Rated NC-17 have content in which the board believes is suitable only for viewers aged 18 and older. NC-17 rated movies are CLEARLY adult material. Children under 18 are not legally admitted to NC-17 films even if they are accompanied by a parent or adult guardian.


These films may contain strong and extreme graphic violence with bloodshed, pain, dismemberment, death and a very large amount of blood and gore, sex scenes, explicit content, rape or sexual assault, depraved, aberrational behavior, graphic sexual nudity, explicit language or any other elements which that are not suitable for children and strictly prohibited from viewing by minors.

