 You may be considering a summer job to earn some extra money. In this case, your main focus can be finding a summer job with a high wage.


Once you have found the types of jobs that pay the best you can then look to see if you have any skills and experience relevant to these positions.
You may have a minimum wage that you cannot go below. Establishing this minimum income threshold will help you sift though the many summer jobs available.;
, If you are looking to change careers and/or pick up new skills a summer job is perfect option. It will allow you to test out a new line of work without feeling like you have to stick with it permanently, especially if it turns not to be for you.
 Summer jobs also provide the opportunity to work abroad. This is due to the fact that there are many businesses that are dependent on the tourist industry, and these businesses require additional staff to work for them during the busy summer months.


If you want to experience a different language, culture and people then a summer job working abroad may be for you.
 You may be looking to get back into work after a period of unemployment. A summer jobs can be a great way to get back into the world of work - even if it is unrelated to your previous field. A summer job can also provide multiple new opportunities to network and test the waters in a new company or industry.


A summer job can act as a trial period, giving both the employer and the employee time to see if they are compatible it may even lead to a more permanent position if you both decide you are a good match.
Being amongst the employed gives you a better chance to network, which can lead to better job opportunities. This is very important, as being unemployed can make you feel out of the loop.
 Traditionally it was younger people and students that would fill summer jobs, but that has now changed. There are a lot of officially retired people who are not ready to give up work just yet.


People who are retired may want to take a summer job to earn a little extra money or simply because they enjoy the line of work in question.
People who have spent their whole lives working can greatly enjoy the new-found freedom and relaxation a temporary summer job can provide.
 If you want to work locally, start off at your local job center. They will be up to date with opportunities available in your area and will have a special section devoted to summer work.


The staff members are experts in finding suitable jobs for individuals in many different circumstances. They will take into consideration your age, current circumstances, career goals and skills to help you find the right summer job.
For example, if you are retired and looking for a relaxing summer job, you may prefer to avoid certain positions that are busy and where all applicants are under 25 such as working in an amusement park.
 One of the best resources for finding a summer job is the internet. The internet is full of helpful information about all types of jobs. All the main job search engines have filters and sections especially for summer and temporary jobs. You can also search based on industry, wages and location.


For example if you wanted to look for a summer job abroad in a ski resort you can filter summer jobs and location and be left with a list of jobs you can apply for.
Don’t forget to set up a profile for yourself on the best jobs sites (e.g. CareerBuilder, Glassdoor, Indeed) where you can show your skills and say what you are looking for; this way an employer can contact you!

, Once you have found the names of professionals you can connect with in your chosen field, it’s now time to start putting this information in action.


Arrange appointments to meet with people. Ask them for advice with regards to your job search and let them know that you are interested to learn.
Always be prepared to deliver your sales pitch and introduce yourself as professionally as you can. You never know when a simple conversation may lead to a job opportunity or professional introduction.
 Utilize online platforms to connect with as many people as you can. You can easily obtain and share information in order to shape up your career.


This includes tapping contacts at sites such as: Linkedin, Facebook, Plaxo, Twitter etc.
These connection points could potentially be very important avenues for networking with professionals in your field and generating successful job opportunities for yourself.
 Many businesses experience a boom during the summer season. Therefore, you are more likely to find a summer job in one of the following areas:


Summer Camps
Doctor’s offices & pharmacies, medical or dental clinics
Farms
Lifeguards at community camps, pools etc.
Customer services and call centers
Software testing i.e. Quality assurance projects at a number of technology companies
Companies offering internship programs
Restaurants and fast food stores
Bars and clubs
Annual festivals.
 Apply for a summer job as far in advance as possible in order to avoid disappointment.


If you know you only have 3 months to work make the most of it by applying 6 weeks to 2 months in advance. This gives you time to apply for multiple jobs, attend interviews and be ready to start.
If you are applying for a job working abroad you will have to apply as early as possible, as there may be other issues involved such as work visas which you'll need time to organize.
 Once you have found some possible summer jobs, you will need to apply with an application form, resume and cover letter. If these things impress the employer, you will be called for an interview.


When hiring for summer jobs, employers are looking for different criteria than they are when hiring for full time jobs. Employers will be impressed if you show hard work and initiative.
 You may not have much direct work experience to include in your resume, but that’s okay. Employers of summer jobs are not necessarily looking for you to have done this before.


Focus your resume on transferable skills you have gained from past study and indirect work experience. For example, further education will give you transferable skills in communication and administration.
If you are applying for a summer job at a beach resort, the employer will be pleased to know that you have gained valuable customer service skills from a previous job you had in sales, even if you never worked at a beach resort before.
For more information on writing a resume when you haven't had much previous work experience, see this article.
 Don’t worry about applying if you are not currently in employment. Just tell them employer about relevant skills from your previous job roles and education.


Again, if this is a job you don’t have direct work experience in, then focus your resume on transferable skills. Also mention any productive things you have been doing since being unemployed, e.g., volunteer work or hobbies.
In terms of length, try to keep your resume no longer than 2 sides of paper (letter/ A4 size). You do not have to include your entire education and work history, just the most recent and most relevant.
 Nowadays most jobs will accept applications and resumes online. While is may be possible (and even preferable) to apply online, if the job is local to you, you may find that it is more appropriate to apply in person.


Make a good first impressing by introducing yourself, dressing in appropriate clothes and presenting your application form and resume neatly.

