 After completing the “Glory of the Dead” quest, talk to either Farkas or Vilkas (both can be found in their quarters, which are located in the basement floor of Jorrvaskr) as you normally would to receive work. They will seem a bit out of sorts. Be empathetic and ask what’s troubling them.


They will reveal that they want to make the same choice that Kodlak did, and cure themselves of their lycanthropy. Offer to help them.
Radiant quests are given by Vilkas or Farkas when your character asks about work for the Companions, and most of them can be repeated any number of times to make a profit. However, after the final quest of the main Companions storyline is completed, you will be able to receive the “Purity” quest.;
, If you already have a Glenmoril witch head in your inventory leftover from the previous quest, they will urge you on to Ysgramor’s Tomb (skip to the next step); otherwise, they will offer to help you get one.


Fast travel to the Glenmoril Coven. After completing the “Blood’s Honor” quest, it should be an accessible location on the world map. It is located northwest of Falkreath.
Enter the coven and you will find five Glenmoril witches there. Kill them and loot their bodies to gather at least two heads (one for the quest giver, and one for you).
 Journey to Ysgramor’s tomb with the quest giver. You can either fast travel there or follow the active quest marker on your compass. Ysgramor’s tomb is in the far northern region of Skyrim; the major hold that it is nearest to is Winterhold, whose icon on the map looks like a 3-pointed crown within a shield.


To reach Ysgramor’s Tomb from Winterhold, head north and pass over the water. The tomb is located right on the bank of a small island.
To reach Ysgramor’s Tomb from Whiterun is a much longer journey. The tomb is located northeast of Whiterun. After exiting Whiterun, go past the town walls in the north and continue heading north. You will pass many mountains along the way, but do not stop until you reach Dawnstar. After reaching Dawnstar, head northeast and cross the water to reach the banks of the island where the tomb is located.
 Open the doors to the tomb and descend the stone steps. Head straight past the torches until you reach the set of wooden spiral stairs leading down further into the tomb.


Descend the stairs, which will lead you to a large open room with a blue flame, called the Flame of the Harbinger, burning in the center.
 Approach the Flame of the Harbinger and activate it with the appropriate button prompt on the screen.
 After activating the flame, a spectral wolf will leap out from the altar and begin attacking you. Defeat it to cleanse your quest giver of his lycanthropy.


The spirit behaves like a wolf you might run into in the wild; simply keep it at a distance by casting fireball spells or using arrows to easily bring it down.
This wolf is not a particularly difficult enemy. It’s most challenging feature is it’s speed, hence the need to keep a distance. However if you favor close combat, heavy hitters will quickly be able to kill the wolf with a few swings of a warhammer.
 After defeating the wolf, you will be prompted to talk to your quest giver. He’ll ask if it’s over, and explain how he feels like a proper warrior now.


After talking to your quest giver, the Purity radiant quest will be marked as completed.
 Approach the flame, and activate it again by pressing the button displayed on the screen. A text box will appear asking, “Cast the witch’s head into the flames to cure your lycanthropy forever” Select yes (note that this is a permanent decision).


Another wolf spirit will emerge from the flame, which you must vanquish to cure yourself. Use the same methods for killing this wolf as you killed the first one.
Once you have defeated the wolf, you will be cured from your lycanthropy

