

Because the relationship is new, you all need to talk about what you want and are okay with in terms of intimacy.It might be a little awkward at first, but talking about it eliminates any confusion and misunderstandings that may arise later.

Discuss what types of intimacy you are okay with; For example, holding hands, hugging, kissing, cuddling, etc.
You might try saying, “This is a little weird, but I want to talk about what I’m okay with. I like holding hands a lot, but I’m not all right with…”
Talk about how fast or slow you want to move as well as being safe at each step.
For example, you could say, “I want to take things slowly and enjoy the process of getting to know each other.”

, There is no reason to rush. Sure you may want to get physical, but if this is the start of the relationship there's plenty of time for that.Get to know each other in other ways before you get intimate. Taking it one step at a time allows you to enjoy each step of getting to know each other this way.


Consider your emotional attachment as the benchmark by which to measure if you are ready for physical intimacy. Do you feel emotionally close, safe, and open enough to match those feelings through physical intimacy?
Remember that neither of you have to do anything or move any faster than you are ready to.
Just because you all have talked about your limits doesn’t mean you should go straight to those limits.
For example, if you both agree that the limit is kissing, then don’t start with kissing. Start with holding hands for a bit and enjoy that closeness. Then move to hugging, then to kissing.


When the relationship is new, both people can be a little nervous about making the first move. Once you have talked about your physical boundaries, you may have to (or want to) be the one to make the first romantic move.If you are nervous, then take a few deep breaths.
You can ask them if it’s okay. It can be really sweet to say, “Can I hold your hand?” or “Can I kiss you?”.
Don’t be worried if it’s a little awkward at first, just remember that the relationship is new and you are still getting to know each other.

