 The sooner you can talk to your agent, the sooner your claim will be filed and an adjuster will be assigned to review your damage. Your agent may also be able to give you advice about where to get help with cleanup and repairs.


You may have as many as three separate insurance policies: homeowner’s, flood, and wind and hail. Call your flood insurance agent to report your damage as soon as possible after the flood. If you are unable to contact the local agent, in the United States you can call the National Flood Insurance Program at 1- 800-638-6620.
 List the damage and take pictures or videotapes as you clean up so you'll have a complete and thorough record. If you have flood insurance, you'll need to file a "Proof of Loss" form within 60 days of the flood. Completing your own inventory form will make this form easier to complete and will also help the adjuster determine the costs to repair the damage to your home and belongings.
 Is there evidence of broken or cracked basement or foundation walls? Are there broken pilings, shifted stairs, or slanted floors or walls? Any of these things could mean that the foundation, floors, or walls will have to be totally rebuilt.
 Get organized with a recovery plan. A recovery plan is simply a list of jobs that need to be done. Planning can help you save time and money. To develop a recovery plan, follow these steps:


Make sure it is safe to work in your home.
Decide what repair work you can and can’t do.
Decide if you need financial assistance.
Check with your mortgage holder.
Think before you use credit cards.
Keep talking openly with your family about what's happening and where things are headed.
 Voluntary agencies, businesses, insurance, and government disaster programs can help you through recovery. Private voluntary agencies such as the American (or other country) Red Cross, Salvation Army, non-profit organizations, and church or charity groups are usually on the scene during or right after a flood. These groups provide for immediate needs such as clothing, groceries, shelter, medical aid, and counseling.


Your local TV, radio and newspapers will usually publicize how businesses are contributing to the recovery process. Some businesses may offer reduced prices, but be wary of “flood sales” that are selling flood damaged items.
 If the flooding was widespread and caused a lot of damage, your community might be eligible for state, provincial, or federal aid. If the flood is severe enough for your area to be declared a disaster area by the federal or national government, funds will often be freed up to assist victims. Each country has different processes in place, so look online for the relevant government department, or contact your local representative.


In the United States, the Federal Emergency Management Agency may open “tele-registration”, which provides a toll-free number for you to call to request assistance. Or, it may open one or more Disaster Application Centers. This program may provide a safe place to live until repairs to damaged homes are completed. Home and business owners, farmers, and others with real or personal property losses may be eligible for low interest loans. This program may provide funds for necessary expenses and serious needs. If a federal disaster declaration was made, you might quality to file an amended tax return for the past year and get a partial refund for your uninsured casualty losses.
Note that many programs now encourage “flood proofing,” that is, modifying the structure to help it withstand damage from the next flood.
A variety of programs give advice on recovering from a disaster. These include help with unemployment, food stamps, income taxes, insurance claims, legal issues, veterans benefits, and crisis counseling.

