 Before you begin baking, make sure that you have the following ingredients: 1 cup flour, ¾ teaspoon baking powder, ½ teaspoon baking soda, ½ teaspoon salt, 14 tablespoons of butter, 1 cup granulated sugar, ¼ cup light brown sugar, 1 large egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, 2 ½ cups old-fashioned rolled oats.This recipe will make about 24 cookies.
Make sure that the butter is room temperature.
 Make sure that the oven is preheated to the right temperature. The correct amount of heat is essential to ensure that you have crispy cookies., In medium-sized bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set this mixture aside until you have creamed your butter., In a large bowl, mix the butter, granulated sugar and brown sugar. If you are using a stand mixer or handheld electric mixer, begin on a low setting for about 30 seconds, to get the mixture started, and then increase the speed to medium and mix for about a minute, or until the mixture is light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla and continue to mix on medium until well incorporated.Remember to mix slowly at first and increase the speed gradually so that you do not create a mess.
You can also mix by hand. However, that will take more time.
 Once your butter mixture is good and whipped, add the flour mixture and stir until well-mixed. After that, gradually add the oats and mix until they are well-combined. Incorporating all of the dry ingredients should take about two minutes.You can also stir the mixture with a wooden spoon to make sure that no flour pockets remain and that the dough is fully incorporated.
 Use a spoon or ice cream scoop to scoop out two tablespoon-sized chunks of dough and form them into balls. Place each ball of dough about 2 ½ inches apart on a baking sheet. If you like a thinner cookie, you can also squish the dough. However, the cookies should melt enough on their own and become rather thin.You should be able to put about 8 dough balls on a baking sheet. However, that number may change depending on the size of your sheet.
 Place the sheet with cookies in the preheated oven and let them bake until golden brown. This should take about 15 minutes. However, it may take longer depending on your taste. When they are done, the edges should be crisp and the centers still slightly soft.Let the cookies cool completely on the sheet for a crispier texture.
Depending on your oven, cooking time may vary.

