 Paris is bustling with tourists in July and August – in fact, it boasts 27 million visitors, making it the most visited city in the world. Actual residents tend to flee during this time, meaning you'll just be surrounded by other tourists. It's better to go April through June or September through November. Christmas is beautiful with the city all lit up, but November through February is their cold, rainy season.That being said, most fashion shows are in September and October, making it more difficult to get a hotel, and at an off-season price (slightly lower than normal). Your best bet, if it works for your schedule, may be the spring.;
, Apart from early-in-the-week flights being cheaper, there are a couple of things to consider:


Aim to arrive in Paris on a Sunday or Monday if you'll be using the Metro a lot. This way you'll be able to take advantage of purchasing a Metro (Paris metropolitan subway) Navigo Découverte pass – a weekly pass in the form of a reloadable "smart card." The Navigo Week pass price, valid only from Monday at 00:00 to Sunday 23:59:59, does not go on-sale until Monday and is not sold during the weekend. If you purchase on Thursday, then your week is already half-gone.
If you're museum-focused, arrive on a Saturday, a day before the first Sunday of the month. Most Paris museums (there are over 3,800 museums in Paris) are free on the first Sunday of the month., When possible, try to choose the same airline on all flights (as opposed to flying one portion with one airline to a connecting airport, then flying with an affiliate airline). It's also best to book your flight around two to three months in advance. Research shows that it's during this time that flights are at their lowest prices.Be aware that almost all international flights from the United States to Paris’s Charles de Gaulle airport will be incoming into Terminal 1. You may want to visit the CDG website for more information.Call your airline in advance and ask for assistance at the airport if you have suffered any injury or need assistance in any way. Travelers needing assistance receive red-carpet, first-class treatment with a team of handlers at each airport who whisk you away to bypass long lines, through secret passageways and directly to the gate.
 There are several things to consider when it comes to finding and choosing a place to stay. Here are the factors you should be weighing:


Consider check-in time. A common problem is that many international flights arrive in the early morning – yet many hotels will not let you check-in until after 3:00 pm. So what does one do for six hours, with all of luggage in-tow? Plus, after an international flight, people are tired, want to take a shower and relax. Anticipate this situation in-advance and request early check-in at the hotel or apartment.
Consider an apartment in order to have a kitchen/kitchenette and cook meals. Restaurants in Paris are very expensive and a week of three meals per day could easily go over a thousand dollars or more per person. For a shorter stay of three days or less, then a regular hotel might be a good choice. However much longer, and renting an apartment makes sense – especially if you want to have a midnight snack, keep a bottle of wine cold or keep your restaurant’s to-go box refrigerated to eat for breakfast tomorrow morning.
Choose a place that is near a Metro station. Accommodations on or around Rue Cler are in a very prime location. Other parts of Paris have their own flavor. If you want to stay out and go to nightclubs, then the Marais area might be a good choice, too.
 Purchase washcloths in advance and bring them with you. Do not expect too much from your hotel or apartment. Paris accommodations are going to be much smaller than hotels in the United States. They typically do not supply washcloths and can be sparse on supplying toilet paper.


Bring your own adapters and power-strips that turn one electrical outlet into six. Electrical outlets are sometimes sparse at hotels and apartments. Purchase a grounded adapter, not just a regular electrical adapter before your trip.
 The most iconic experience in all of Paris may just have to be on a postcard for you if you don't book in advance. Either that or the line will be hours long or the top will be booked. To avoid this disappointment, purchase your tickets to the Eiffel tower around a month in advance. Print out the tickets upon purchase and don’t forget to take them on your trip.


Do not wait until you arrive at the Eiffel Tower to buy tickets! It can be very crowded on the Eiffel tower. You'll have to wait in line to buy tickets and then wait in line to get up into the Eiffel tower. It could eat up an entire day.
 You can purchase Museum Passes upon arrival at Charles de Gaulle Airport from French Tourist Information Desks in Arrivals (Terminals 1, 2C, 2D and 2F) and at Orly Airport (Terminals South and West). As an alternative to free admission, the Paris Museum Pass provides unlimited access during its period of validity to more than 60 museums and monuments in and around Paris. Besides its convenience, it can save considerable amounts of time by permitting you to by-pass long ticket lines.


Paris Museum Passes are for two, four or six consecutive days, costing €39, €54 and €69 respectively. Whether the Museum Pass makes sense is a function both of the number of museums you intend to visit and of the value you place on the time you can save by using the Pass to bypass sometimes lengthy ticket lines.
Understand that another benefit is that the Pass permits multiple visits to any covered museum, as well as permitting you to just duck into a museum for a quick look round (or to use the facilities) without having to pay the entrance fee., The sooner you do this, the easier it will be to plan. As you survey the rich field of activities, target those of interest. The sheer volume and variety of potential activities and venues might seem quite daunting, so take your time getting to know what is available before you set foot on a plane, which are the easiest to get to, and which fit your budget. Do not finalize your thoughts; just survey the field. Later you will be able to pick judiciously so that you leverage your money to good effect.


Explore the architecture, public sculptures, public art displays, history museums, art museums, sports facilities, and other activities of interest online. Just get an idea of what is going on or is available. What do you and the rest of your party definitely want to do and see?

, Get a feel for the variety and extent of what might be had. You might come up with several "must dos," things you will not be able to leave undone. Great! Your itinerary is starting to shape up.


The best section of town to find a good restaurant is Rue Cler street, which is East of the Eiffel Tower and West of Invalides and South of the Seine River.
Picnics are a wonderful way to save money, in-style. There is nothing like a picnic on the Eiffel Tower grounds or sharing a bottle of wine on the banks of the river Seine. Potential picnic spots to consider are Bois de Boulogne, Bois de Vincennes, Jardin du Luxembourg, Les Champs de Mars (overlooks the Eiffel Tower), Parc de Belleville, Parc de la Villette, and Le Square de Vert Galant – one of the most romantic parks in Paris, especially at sunset.
 There's far more to Paris than great wine, baguettes, museums, and the Eiffel Tower. Here's a short list (a comprehensive list would take all day) of a few other notable attractions you may want to check out:


Arc de Triomphe
Notre Dame
Champs Elysees
Versailles (a 30-40 minute ride on RER line C – the last stop)
Pont Neuf
Sacre Coeur
Pere Lachaise (cemetery with remains of notable people like Oscar Wilde and Jim Morrison)
Folies Bergere
Moulin Rouge
Place de La Bastille

, Paris is full of public (that is, free and beautiful places to check out) parks, and green spaces. Here are some you may want to look into:


Bois de Boulogne (has a lake with rowboats for rent on the West Side)
Bois de Vincennes (East Side)
Japanese Gardes on Jardins Albert Kahn
Versailles has a big lake and more boating via rowboat
Parc de la Villette (includes bamboo garden)
Parc de Buttes Chaumont (includes a suspension bridge, waterfall, lake and cave)
Monets Gardens at Giverny
Luxembourg Gardens or Champ de Mars or Canal St-Martin

, This can be heaven on earth with the right individual on the right night, and the cruises are almost always enchanting. Dinner cruises usually start at 8:30 pm and last for three hours. Do some shopping around to know that you're getting the best deal and that it starts or ends somewhere you can manage to get back to where you need to be.


Many are about 75 minutes length, with runs every 30 minutes from 10 am – 11:30 pm.
 The Metro and RER are two separate sets of train tracks; however, they share many of the same stations for easy transfers. The Metro is within Paris and the RER goes to outlying areas, including the airports, Disneyland and Versailles.


Be aware that Metro Stations and RER Stations typically do not have public bathrooms (toilets). Never turn down an opportunity to use a toilet in Paris, as they are difficult to find and are for "paying customers only" (in fact, like in the Louvre, you have to pay specifically for the toilets to use them).
After you determine which Metro or RER Line to take, then to determine the direction of travel (i.e., the correct platform) you need to know the terminus or endpoint of the line. For example, Metro Line 8 terminuses are Ballard and Creteil Pointe de Lac. Even if you figured out which Metro Line to take, if you do not know your end-points of travel, you could end up going in the wrong direction.
The RER is the same situation: in this case (especially with the Red A line) the RER line forks, and certain trains are set to go to specific destinations. It is good to pay attention to each stop while you are on the subways.
 Do they offer a shuttle service? They probably do not. Take the RER as the most economical choice (and the quickest) at 10 Euros per person. To get into Paris, take the RER Blue Line B to Chatelet/Les Halles station.


Air France also operates a couple of buses out of the airport and into the city center. Each way costs 15 Euros a person. They take about an hour to get there, and leave every 30 minutes.
You could take a taxi, but it's a pretty expensive option. It'll be at least 50 Euros and there's also a luggage fee., You'll quickly find that the only way to really get around is the Metro. Zone 1 encompasses enough of main Paris where nearly all of the sights and attractions are, that it is usually not necessary to purchase the pass to include zones 2-6. Purchase a map if you'd like and you'll be able to see all the routes sprawled out in front of you.Use the Navigo Découverte pass beyond the cost-savings mentioned above to not have to fuss with paper tickets. While purchasing a carnet (a ten pack) still saves a ton of money and hassle (as opposed to purchasing one Metro pass at a time – which is ridiculous), still, a carnet is nothing more than ten loose tickets – not even held together with perforation. It's easy to mix up used and unused tickets.
Hold on to the ticket to prove that you have valid admission. That being said, rarely does the train conductor ever check.
 Paris is divided into 20 arrondissements, or neighborhoods, which are like distinct sections of town. The first arrondissement is in the center of Paris, and each subsequent arrondissement spirals outward like a seashell.


Paris is divided into two parts by the Seine River (la rive gauche (left) and la rive droite (right)). On the West side (la rive gauche) are the Arc de Triomphe and the Eiffel Tower.
In the center is the Louvre and the Musee d'Orsay.
Slightly East (though also central) is Notre Dame. The university and student areas for young people are also on the East side.
Just north of center is the Opera shopping area, where a single name brand product might be represented by a single store that takes an entire city block.
 If you are just taking a short trip to Paris for leisure, you likely do not need a visa. If you are from the US or Canada, just a passport is fine unless you're on a job assignment. You can also transit into France through a number of other countries without problems.However, if you are on job assignment or if you come from a nation not included in the EU, the US, or Canada, you may need a visa. Check out the French consular website for more information.
 Before traveling to Paris, notify your mobile phone carrier and discuss your options. If you do not have a SIM card in your phone, it may be useless to you on your trip. If you do, make sure it is compatible on a European network if you plan to use it.


Consider alternatives like include purchasing a European disposable phone, a SIM card, Viber, WhatsApp, Skype and other online options.
 About 95% of all businesses, restaurants and sightseeing companies take standard credit cards. There are credit cards with zero international transaction fees and can make for smooth transactions that charge a very fair and legitimate conversion rate in US dollars, without any international transactions fees or costs of any kind. This is by far the way to get the best foreign exchange currency rate, which also happens to be the most convenient and safest. Every place (including taxicabs) takes credit cards – except the Metro subway station machines can be temperamental. In this situation, a bit of Euro currency with you.


Get 100 Euros in cash before a trip to Paris (about $150 USD), especially if you are going to stay a week or more. Avoid the touristy bureaux de change.In most cases, your local bank branch will have to order the funds from one of their main banks to be sent to your bank branch, and it can take 3-5 business days. So do not get your foreign currency at the last minute; try to get it 2-4 weeks before your trip.
 Call your bank at least two months before your trip to notify them of your travel. Let them know that you are traveling and give them the dates of your travels for fraud purposes – you don't want them blocking your card, not knowing you're in Paris. It's a good idea to call again a week before you leave for your travels. Here's a few other things you can do:


Learn the policies, transaction fees and charges of all of your credit cards and ATM card
Request a second (backup) credit card
Request that your daily ATM withdrawal limit be temporarily raised
Request a second ATM card (extra client card) be sent to you in case that your current ATM card is accidentally consumed by an ATM machine. In many cases, if you try unsuccessfully three times to get cash from an ATM, on the third unsuccessful attempt, the machine will confiscate the card.
Gather and write down all bank, credit union or credit card company telephone numbers in case there is a problem
Find out which ATMs are affiliated with your bank, credit union or credit card companies and learn where the ATMs are located in Paris and print a map., Go to a local bookstore or travel agency and purchase a map of Paris and a map of the Metro/RER Subway system. Spend some time getting familiar with the Metro and RER Subway systems so when the moment comes, you'll know what to do.


Once you have booked your hotel/apartment, then, using your maps, figure out how to get from the airport to your hotel/apartment, from your hotel to the Eiffel Tower, from your hotel to catch a bus tour of Paris, and/or from your hotel to the Louvre, for example.
Not sure how to get from point A to point B? France has a great website that tells you how to do just that, figuring it all out for you automatically. You can select the fastest route or the one with the least walking., Avoid drawing attention to yourself. Having your wallet exposed and within easy reach invites pickpockets, further compounded by future identity theft. Losing your wallet, passport, cash and having all of your credit cards maxed-out can be an expensive and time-consuming mess to unravel and can ruin a vacation with spending time at the US Consult to get a replacement passport - instead of seeing the sights and relaxing.Purchase a money belt. There is an entire assortment of arm wallets, chest wallets, leg wallets, belt wallets, sock and underwear wallets available online.
Purchase an RFID protective sleeve for your passport and any chipped-credit cards to prevent electronic theft.
Security wallets can be reused for future trips or shared with family and friends on their trips. They provide peace of mind knowing that it would be difficult, if not nearly-impossible, to lose something as a result of a pickpocket, if you had your things stashed to where they are not easily visible or accessible except by you.
Avoid these areas in Paris after dark: Les Halles, Bois de Boulogne, Vincennes, Gare du Nord, Chatelet-Les Halles, Barbes Rochechouart, Strasbourg St.-Denis

, In Paris, everyone dresses up a little. Nearly all men wear a dark sports coat or blazer, with a collared shirt (typically an oxford button-down), with or without a tie. Knit collared type shirts are okay. Dress pants or khaki pants are the best, but even nice jeans are okay. For women, don't shy away from packing a couple of nice dresses.


Try to select neutral colors, such as white, off-white, gray, blue, or beige.
Avoid wearing shorts. Shorts never caught on in much of Europe, especially Paris. Regardless of the time of year, few to no one wears shorts.
Wear dress shoes or at least nice walking shoes that are dark and blend in with dress clothes. Very few locals wear athletic shoes, unless they are actually participating in a sporting event. Avoid sandals or flip flops, too. Sandals do not go well with a sport coat and collared shirt.
Being in Paris means a lot of walking. Seriously consider purchasing walking shoes and/or insoles. Also make sure that you pack moleskin and antibiotic ointment if you are prone to blisters.
 Make sure you bring everything you need but also follow baggage restrictions and travel requirements. A lot of air carriers are scrutinizing passengers taking oversized carry-on or luggage over 50 lbs. As you pack, be sure to visit your airlines website to make sure that your luggage is not oversize or overweight. In many cases:


Carry-on luggage is limited to 9 x 14 x 22,
One personal item is limited to 9 x 10 x 17
Checked baggage is limited to 62 linear inches (height + width + length).
 Place your identification both inside and outside on each bag as well as try to make your luggage distinctive for easy identification. Have a carry-on bag with a day or two's worth of clothing in case your luggage gets lost.


Realize that the value of your things adds up quicker than you might realize. Laptops, iPods, tablets, a few nice clothes would easily take thousands of dollars to replace. If you can, just don't bring them. They're not worth the hassle and worry.
It is easy for the value of one adult's luggage to value at over $5,000.00 to replace the contents. Take pictures of every single valuable item; just in case of the unforeseen event if your luggage were to be lost, you are in a better position to be reimbursed a more accurate value.
 Be aware that there are pickpockets everywhere in every city. If traveling to or through any area anywhere, in which you are concerned for personal safety, consider constructing a “mugger's wallet” – an old wallet with expired credit cards that you can surrender to a mugger and safely get out of the situation before the robber discovers that you just gave him a bunch of worthless plastic.


Do not have the false sense of security that carrying your wallet is safe in a front pocket. The best thing to do is to not carry a wallet at all – carry only what you need: one credit card, one ATM card, and 20-50 Euros. There is no need to carry your passport or driver’s license (unless you are renting a car).
Scan and make photocopies of your passport, driver's license, credit cards, and insurance cards and email the scanned copies to yourself before your trip, in case you need to access them in an emergency.
 Understand that the French see their place of business like their home: the public are invited guests. When you come into a Parisian business, it is important to greet the owner or employees with a simple, polite, “Bonjour” and a gentle smile. This one single French word, Bonjour, is the most important French word to know.


The second most-important word to know is “Merci”, which means “thank you." These two words can get you surprisingly far.
 The French are very pleasant and exceptionally friendly - and in many cases, the French will go out of their way to be as helpful as possible, almost as citizen ambassadors on behalf of France. Overall, most French people are very nice, helpful and understanding, even if you know very little French. Before you go, brush up on your manners. There are ways of nearly-guaranteeing getting bad service, rudeness, or stares or glares from local Parisians:


Being rude to them first
Not saying "bonjour" immediately upon entering a place of business
Being loud or obnoxious
Dressing too casually or sloppy
Not making any attempt at all with French and expecting everyone else to speak in English
Broadcasting the perception that you feel that your country/culture is superior to theirs

, At the end of the day, Paris is a world-class, wonderful, delightful, top-tier international city and is the quintessential epicenter of the pinnacle of art, museums, sculpture, fashion, architecture, wine and food. The trip will be what you make of it. Set out to have fun and you will. It'll be hard not to!

