 Istanbul, Turkey is home to two large airports, both of which offer inexpensive flights to the capital of Georgia, Tbilisi.  You can choose either Ataturk Airport on the European side, easily reachable by mass transportation or Sabiha Gokcen on the Asian side of Istanbul.  Turkish Airlines, Pegasus, and Atlas Jet are usually the best options.  The flight is approximately 2 hours and can usually be found for around $100-150 USD roundtrip.


The most inexpensive flight times depart Istanbul late in the evenings and return from Tbilisi early in the mornings. Many nationalities require no visa or visa on arrival for both Georgia and Armenia.;
, Once you arrive in Tbilisi, you have a few options to make the 5 hour journey to the capital of Armenia, Yerevan.  Though, if time allows, Tbilisi is a fascinating city to visit as well and has both Turkish and Armenian influences.  Assuming you want to begin your journey from Tbilisi to Yerevan as soon as possible, you can rent a car (Naniko Car Rental www.naniko.com is familiar with the paperwork necessary to drive the car across the Armenian border and back for approximately $70 USD per day as of May, 2015).  


Make sure that you inform the rental agency of your plans to cross the border at least a week in advance so the proper paperwork can be prepared.  
Once you are at the border, you will pay an additional $10-15 USD to the Armenian border officials to take your rental car across.
  Leaving baggage claim at the Tbilisi Airport, you can take a taxi to Freedom Square or Envoy Hostel directly for 25 GEL (approx. $11 USD)  For first time visitors to Armenia, this is a highly recommended way to travel that includes a traditional Armenian BBQ lunch, a snack, and two UNESCO world heritage listed sites on the way down to Yerevan.  It's approximately 11 hours, but well worth it for the excellent price of approximately $60 USD per person (as at May 2015).
 The train to Armenia from Tbilisi is much cheaper and includes an overnight sleeper train that takes approximately 9 hours. It costs approximately 31 GEL (approx. $13 USD).
 The ticket prices are from approx. $10-20 USD depending on how fast you want to go, with matruskas being the usually shortest time option.


There are other options, such as hitchhiking (though language barriers will probably be an issue, or even individually arranging with a taxi driver to drive you down to Yerevan or vice versa to Tbilisi.
  There are many important tourist sites located just outside the city that you will not want to miss.  Within Yerevan, there are many art exhibits, a great artists' market, and museums.  Just relaxing with a cool drink in a themed cafe within a Yerevan park is an experience in of itself.  


Airbnb is a great, inexpensive option for both Tbilisi and Yerevan, as well as Envoy Hostel, because they have locations in both cities, offer tours, and are well-versed in the local history and cultures of both countries.  
Bear in mind that there are not many 4 and 5 star hotels in either city.  If you happen to visit during important events like the April 24th commemorations in Yerevan, airbnb.com is your best option for finding well appointed, reasonably priced accommodations for approx. $50USD per night.
 Five days will do for the short trip to Armenia via Tbilisi, Georgia.  You won't regret it.

