 Exercise can help you calm down after a stressful experience. Exercise helps reduce adrenaline while releasing endorphins that can make you feel better. Exercise may also be able to help your nervous system move from the stressed out state into a more calm one. Try exercise that works your whole body.Walking, running, swimming, team sports, or dancing are good choices. You may want to try activities where you have to focus your mind on the activity, like boxing, weight training, or rock climbing.
Try to focus all of your mental energy on your body and the activity. This can help your body let go of tension and stress. Think about your feet touching the ground, your breathing, and the sun on your body.
 Sometimes, all you need to calm down is a bit of relaxing down time. After a stressful experience, you may want to take some time for yourself. Play some soothing music, watch a favorite television program, or read a book. Put on comfortable clothes and curl up with your favorite blanket.Light some candles and take a bubble bath.
Play with your pets, cook, drink a cup of tea, or even clean. Do whatever will calm your mind and body.
 To relieve stress and calm down quickly, you should try using your senses. Engage your sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch, or movement. Look or smell something soothing. Taste something that you like, or touch something comforting. Doing this can ground you and help calm your mind and body.For example, look at a photo or picture that makes you happy. Sniff your favorite scent. Listen to a soothing sound like rain falling or waves crashing. Have a piece of your favorite candy, hug your favorite stuffed animal, or put on your favorite comfortably sweater.
 Yoga is a common practice to calm the body and mind. It can help you relax and center your body. Yoga focuses on deep breathing, mind focus, and body poses. After a stressful experience, you can take some time to go through some poses to help calm down.You can take yoga classes at a gym or a yoga studio.
There are many yoga videos available to buy and for free online. You can search specifically for yoga to calm down or relax.
If you’ve never done yoga before, you may want to try beginners yoga or watch some videos on the fundamentals that teach you how to do the poses.
If you feel any discomfort, stop or modify the pose.
 Being connected to social media can increase stress levels and keep you from being able to calm down. If you have had a stressful experience, don’t go straight to Facebook or Twitter. Instead, put your phone, tablet, or laptop aside and focus on where you are.Constantly seeing news coverage of stress-causing events or reading negative posts from others can cause you to feel more stressed and interfere with your efforts to calm down.

