 Even if a solution seems unrealistic, write it down. You will decide which solutions are good options later.This list will help you ease your anxiety in a couple of ways. It will occupy your mind so that anxiety-producing thoughts can’t enter and it will show you that you can overcome your problem.


For example, if your problem is that you’re anxious about speaking at a meeting, you might write: ask someone else to talk, hide, and practice and prepare.
Or, for instance, if the problem is that you forgot your presentation at home, you could write: ask mom to bring it, ask to reschedule the presentation, or wing it.
 Once you have a list of everything that you can do to solve your problem, you can evaluate each one to find solutions that can actually work.Doing this will be another step toward solving your problem and it will help ease your anxiety by keeping your thoughts focused on solutions.


Don’t just look at each solution you’ve listed and find reasons why it won’t work. This will let anxiety take over. For example, don’t say to yourself, “That won’t work because I’ll embarrass myself, people will laugh, my reputation will suffer.”
Ask yourself how effective the solution is. For example, you might ask yourself, “Will hiding actually solve the problem? No, I’ll still be expected to speak when they find me.”
Ask yourself whether you have the resources you need to try that solution. For example, you might think, “Tina is a great public speaker. I can ask her to help me prepare and practice.”
Cross any solutions that won’t work off of the list.
 Although many of your solutions may be likely to work, you probably won’t be able to try all of them. You can ease your anxiety by focusing on the 2 or 3 solutions that are most likely to work and that will be easiest for you to do.


Look at the solutions that are left on your list. Ask yourself, “Which one do I want to try first? Which one will be easiest to try and work best?”
Think about things like how much time it will take you to try each solution. For example, it might take two weeks to send your mom’s tablet to the manufacturer, but only one week to take it to a repair shop.

