 If your dog is extremely nervous every time you leave, it might feel more comfortable in a crate while you are gone.Depending on your dog, you don’t necessarily have to lock it in the crate. It can be comforting just having the crate as a safe place for the dog to take refuge when you’re out.


For more details about crate training, read Crate Train Your Dog or Puppy.
 Even the smallest dogs need daily exercise. Since your pup no longer has its own yard to run and play in every day, you’ll need to schedule daily walks. A walk first thing in the morning and another one late afternoon will keep your dog healthy and happy.Walk your dog for at least 20-30 minutes each time.Getting your dog outdoors daily prevents your pet from being cooped up in the apartment for too long, which can lead to unwanted behaviors such as chewing on furniture.
 Your dog will probably need to go to the bathroom at least three times during the day. If you don’t plan to use indoor training pads, take your dog out to use the bathroom once each in the morning, afternoon, and evening.
 In addition to daily walks, your pooch will benefit from more extensive exercise at least one day each week.A walk in any park is great, but parks designated specifically for dogs are excellent places for allowing your pup to stretch its legs and run around freely.


Exercising your dog regularly will keep it happy in your new, smaller home, and your dog will look forward to weekly trips to the park.
 If you are away at work all day, having someone else stop by your apartment can be reassuring to your dog. Family members, friends, or neighbors are all people to ask. If they aren’t able to check on the dog, you can hire a pet sitter to stop in and visit your pup or take it for a walk., Keep up with the indoor playtime you introduced your dog to before moving. The routine will help your dog remain comfortable in its new home. It’s also a great time for the two of you to bond and the activity will give your dog additional exercise.
 Your dog can benefit from playtime with other dogs. Find a neighbor in your apartment building who also has a dog and plan time to let the dogs play together.


Since your dog is small, it would be best to find another small dog to play with it. A larger dog can quickly overwhelm your smaller one.
Find another dog owner and walk your dogs together.
Get to know other small dog owners at your local park or dog park and plan to meet up at the same time each week. 