 It can be easy to fall into a rut with your schedule and feel like every day resembles the one before. Just because many of your daily activities are the same, though, doesn’t mean that your routine has to be unchanging and boring. On the contrary, even little variations in your routine can make a big difference in your life, making you pay sharper attention to what you’re doing and think more creatively about your work and life.Simply trying a new cuisine for dinner can inject variety into your life while motivating you through the less exciting, mandatory segments of your schedule. For example, schedule dinner with some friends at a new restaurant so that you have this exciting prospect to look forward to after school or soccer practice.
If you’re feeling bored with your daily jog or workout routine at the gym, try something different like a pilates class or try a new weight machine! You’ll work new muscles, re-engage your mind, and maybe even meet some new friends., Studies have shown that new hobbies and skills can elevate your self-esteem, amp up your energy levels, and make you feel more satisfied with life. And, while you might think your day is already jam-packed with class, sports, and other extracurricular activities, you’d be surprised how little time a new hobby can demand from you and how much it can add to your life.For example, if you have work or club commitments until dinner time, think about trying out a low-key hobby that you can do at home, either alone or with other family members. Jigsaw puzzles, complicated card games like bridge, knitting, and cooking are all rewarding, affordable hobbies which are easy to fit into the evening.
If you’re already overextended in your evenings, think about whether or not you could fit something into the morning hours before school. For example, swimming, jogging, and reading are all beneficial health-wise, and they can also have a positive influence on your mood and performance throughout the rest of the day.
 It might seem like your daily routine is monotonous through no choice of your own—that is, it seems like you’re required to do the same things every day and given little opportunity to do something different. You’d be surprised, though, how many opportunities you turn down in favor of maintaining your routine. Saying ‘yes’ more often can relieve pent-up stress, broaden your horizons, and bolster your self-esteem and interest in life.Just because you take your friend up on their last-minute invite to a concert or hockey game, doesn’t mean you have to slack on your other responsibilities. Make a deal with yourself to do your homework in the car on the way to the concert, or ask a family member to cover your afternoon babysitting gig.
 Many activities are too expensive or impractical to turn into regular hobbies—for example, hot air ballooning, white-water rafting, or skydiving—but there are also plenty more affordable options, such as hiking, camping, geocaching, and laser tag. These kinds of exciting, outdoorsy activities have been shown to have long-lasting impacts on people’s lives and perspectives, making them feel more appreciative about what they have, less bothered by petty concerns, and more self-confident about their abilities.If money is an issue, save up over time for big recreational treats like helicopter rides or rafting. Tell your parents about your goal and ask if they’d be willing to contribute to your savings if you consider it a birthday or holiday present.

