 It is best if you major in history. But, if you don’t, then take as many history classes as you can. Vary your classes so that they cover a wide variety of topics and time periods. Take classes that require you to write substantial research papers.


Make sure to take a handful of your history classes with the same professors so that they will get to know you well and be able to write strong recommendation letters for you. On that note, it is also best to start taking history courses early in your undergraduate career. Don’t wait until junior year, if possible.
Many Ph.D, programs also admit M.A. graduates as well.
Whether at the undergraduate or M.A. level, try to publish prior to applying for a Ph.D. program. It may be difficult to find an publication venue, so encyclopedias are often a good option. Ask your professors for publication advice and assistance.;
, You need to have a general idea of what areas of history intrigue you upon entering a Ph.D. program. Prior to applying reflect on what you enjoy learning about the most. Consider what types of historical questions intrigue you and which ones bore you. You also need to be very clear that history in general is the graduate subject for you.Don’t go overboard on specifics. While some people come in to graduate programs with a dissertation topic in hand, that is not necessary. You will spend a good deal of your first year exploring various topics in consultation with your advising professors.
 Take a moment to look online and you will discover that the job market for Ph.D.s in history is extraordinarily competitive. There are many Ph.D.s graduating and not many of them will land full-time tenure track positions. Be realistic about whether you would be okay taking an adjunct or part-time teaching position for a period of time. Start to think about other career options as well.With a history Ph.D. a wide variety of jobs beyond academia are available to you. Some use their writing skills in the private sector as editors. Others work in historic preservation. Some find places in museums or in other educational outreach organizations.
 All of your professors attended graduate school at one time or another and, odds are, they’ve stayed in touch with their universities and programs. Make an appointment with your history professors to solicit their advice on applying and on your program choices. Come to this meeting prepared with your curriculum vitae or resume, your test scores, and a potential writing sample.


If one of your undergraduate professors offers to reach out to a graduate professor or program for you, let them do it. Nothing beats having a professional connection built in advance of your application.
Remember, however, that your professor’s opinions are just opinions. If you are set on a particular school, be sure to check it out before dismissing it outright.
 Start by going online to find programs that are strong in your particular area of historical interest. Certain programs specialize in particular types or categories of history. Then, narrow it down depending on location, financial aid packages available, size of the program, etc.


Spend a good amount of time on each department’s website. They usually give a program profile that will tell you how many students are currently enrolled, how many are accepted each year, and how many faculty are involved. They usually also contain previews or complete lists of courses offered.Given the competitiveness of the current job market, pay particular attention to any information regarding the placement of graduates. Many programs will post placements rates and/or provide lists of recent graduates and their positions.Two examples of departmental specialization are Rutgers University, which has a very strong women’s and gender history element, and University of New Mexico, which emphasizes the study of the American West. The points of emphasis can and do change so make sure to look for recent information as you research., Most departmental websites will list faculty names and contact information, usually alongside their specialties, publications, courses taught, etc. Once you’ve narrowed down your list to around 15 schools, reach out to these professors via email. This is best to do before you submit your application so that you can develop a potential ally on the admissions committee.Make sure to reach out, in particular, to the faculty member who you are considering working with. Graduate school, unlike undergraduate studies, is very focused on the mentor relationship. You are essentially applying to the university, the program, and the faculty members in your area of interest.You might introduce yourself in the emailing by stating, “Dear Professor Stevens, I’m Michael Smith, a junior currently enrolled at the University of Alabama, and I plan to apply to your doctoral program for the fall of 2017.” Go on to tell them what interests you about their work in particular and the program in general.
Don’t be surprised if they put you in contact with a few current graduate students. These are great contacts to ask about housing, the culture on campus, etc., At least two weeks prior to the deadline mail or e-submit all of your completed application materials. Most programs require that you send in the application fee, a letter of intent, a writing sample, three letters of reference, and GRE or other test scores. Some schools require more or less documentation, especially if you are applying for assistantships.Be aware that students entering a doctoral program with a M.A. in hand may need to submit additional documents. They may also be able to move into an accelerated graduation path, perhaps ‘skipping’ a few hours of coursework., You will start to receive acceptance or rejection letters mid-spring and then you will need to make your final admission decision. Some schools will invite you to come visit their campus. If they pay for it or you can afford to do so, this is always a good idea. Talk to the faculty or graduate students again if that might help as well.This is also the time to carefully consider your financial situation. Your admission offer may come with funding in the form of an assistantship or fellowship. Look over the details and be realistic about what you want and need. Be aware that while some programs offer full funding it is often still well below real standard living costs (i.e. $18,000/year in an urban environment).