 Winding down in the evening is equivalent to telling your body that it’s time to call it quits for the day. You can’t expect it to go from 100 to 0 simply by getting in bed and pulling up the covers. So spend about 30-45 minutes slowly shutting down your brain and body.


You might do this by taking a hot shower or bath. When you get out, your core body temperature drops, which is a signal to your brain to produce melatonin, your body’s natural sleep hormone.Other ways to prepare for sleep are by putting away the electronic gadgets and gaming systems and, instead, reading a book, listening to classical or relaxing music or by doing easy stretches., Caffeine is a stimulant, and while most people associate it with coffee, it’s also in tea, chocolate, soda and some pain relievers. Sleep experts recommend avoiding these things for 6 hours before going to sleep.


This may seem like a really long time, but that’s how long it takes for caffeine to leave your bloodstream., When you exercise vigorously, your body temperature goes up, and it takes several hours for it to drop to normal levels again. Because lower body temperature is needed for better sleep, don’t exercise for 3-4 hours before going to sleep.On the flip side, exercising regularly promotes good sleep. The precise mechanism between regular exercise and sleep is still uncertain, but numerous studies on various populations have shown that it works., Turn off the TV, and put away your cell phones, computers and tablets once you’re in bed. They not only prevent you from winding down because you’re so busy clicking, scrolling, typing, chatting and so forth, but they also trick your body into thinking it’s daytime and, therefore, not time to go to bed.


Here’s how it works. These devices emit a type of blue light that mimics natural light, thereby suppressing melatonin levels. When this occurs, your brain tells your body it’s not time to sleep; it disrupts your circadian rhythm.TVs also emit this light, but the problem is amplified with cell phones, laptops and tablets because they are closer to your face.
 Turn off all lights while you sleep. Your circadian rhythm, or inner clock, is largely regulated by exposure to light and dark, with melatonin secreted in darkness and suppressed in light. Since melatonin induces sleep, the darker your room the better.You might also want to dim the lights during those 30-45 minutes that you are powering down before bedtime as a cue to your brain that it’s almost time to go to sleep.
If you live with a roommate or there are lights that you just can’t avoid, try wearing an eye mask to block out the light.
 Make sure you stick to your bedtime each night of the week. While it will be tempting to stay up late on the weekends, doing so will really throw a wrench in your internal clock and make Monday mornings rather unpleasant.

