 If, after interviewing a drug abuse counselor, you still want to become one, it is now time to address your schooling. Typically a Drug Abuse Counselor needs a master's degree in Counseling or closely related field.


To find a locale accredited counseling program near you visit the the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs site, www.cacrep.or . Once you identify the master's degree program you would like to attend, figure out what pre-requisites you need to get in, and get them.
Depending on your current level of schooling, and the standing of your credits, you may need to go back and complete a bachelor's degree first, or go back as a post-baccalaureate and take the pre-requisites need to enter your desired master's degree program.
 Most who become counselors choose an undergraduate degree in psychology. Such a degree usually includes the prerequisites needed for a Master of Counseling, but it is always important to double check.


After completing your bachelors, because of the demand for drug counselors, you can often start working in a social service setting or as a counselor aide .
You may also decide to get an undergraduate degree in something else, but make sure you have the prerequisites needed to attend your desired master's degree program, if you choose.
 If you want to become a licensed drug abuse counselor in most states, you must complete a master's degree . Counselors usually pursue a master's degree in Counseling, with a concentration in substance abuse.
 After completing formal education, many drug abuse counselors also need to complete a 1-2 year internship in a hospital or mental health clinic to be competitive. Often your master's degree school will provide you with the connections needed to obtain this experience. Other times you may need to be proactive.
 It may or may not be required depending on the job you are after. To check your state's licensing requirement check here. http://www.allpsychologyschools.com/psychology-careers/counseling/counseling-states. Depending on where you live, or what job you are after, get certified by the National Board for Certified Counselors, Inc., or the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselors.

