 Don't back this up with any facts that can be debated. Just tell him he is wrong and refuse to provide any further explanation. Nothing will anger an argumentative person more than hearing they are wrong, especially if they are right.
 Even if the other person's argument seems to be valid, demand proof for any claims that they make. Refuse to debate the issue further until he proves his claim to you. Try to create as much legwork as possible for your antagonist. Make it too exhausting and time consuming to continue to have an argument with you.
 If your opponent happens to use words incorrectly while arguing, be sure to stop him and point it out. This will not only disrupt his momentum while speaking, but make him feel intellectually inferior as well.
 Be as condescending as possible to make yourself seem superior. For example, you can offer to use smaller words so he can understand you better.


Roll your eyes. Look up and to one side and slowly move your eyes until you see the opposite side of the room. It helps to shake your head slightly while rolling the eyes. This expression will show that you find your opponent ridiculous and stupid.
 Cite movies, television shows, or other completely unrelated figures as authoritative voices.Quoting song lyrics also works great. This method is very difficult to combat as he will first have to figure out whether you are serious or not before he can come up with a response.


For example, if someone is trying to start an argument of American foreign policy, a possible response could be, "Well, as Billy Joel said, 'We didn't start the fire.'"

, If the argument is over something that is not important, be sure to point out that your antagonist is blowing it out of proportion due to their mean nature. Argumentative people like to act as though every argument is important because it is really just about being right. If you show your opponent how their arguing can be viewed as a fault in their character, it may make them more reluctant to engage you further.
 Forget whatever topic the argument might be about and focus on becoming insulting and rude.For example, if you begin to lose a debate about poverty you could say, "You should spend less time worrying about poverty and more time figuring out a new hair style." This kind of attack does nothing for winning the actual argument, but hurling insults can often quiet down and humiliate aggressive opponent. Of course, it could also end up turning into a physical fight, so watch out.

