 In order to know how to best calm your nervous stomach, it is a good idea to evaluate your symptoms. This will help you understand what kind of nervous stomach you have and focus on finding the best ways to calm yourself down. The most common nervous stomach symptoms include:Feeling a knot in the pit of your stomach.
A fluttering, butterfly feeling.
A rolling, churning feeling.
Feeling nauseous, queasy, or bloated.
A tight, warm feeling in your stomach.;
, Sometimes you can relieve some nerves by simply feeling more confident in a given situation. Whether you are giving a presentation, going on a first date, or interviewing for a job, practicing beforehand can you feel less anxious.Try to imagine the situation you are nervous about and see yourself successfully and confidently meeting your goals. Do some research so that you feel knowledgeable about the topic, and be sure to go over any talking points you have. Just don't plan everything super specifically as this will give you even more to worry about.
 Before an activity that gives you a nervous stomach, many people also experience racing thoughts. These thoughts are usually negative and only cause even more anxiety and cramping. Stopping these thoughts completely with techniques like meditation can take a lot of time to master. A quick, effective fix for racing, negative thoughts is to turn them into positive affirmations.For example, try repeating to yourself:


“I am enough and I can handle this."
“I am the best candidate for this job. I am qualified and professional.”
“I want to succeed, and I am going to succeed.”

, Feeling rushed will only make you feel more panicked and anxious. If you give yourself enough time to gather your materials and get to a place early, this can help you feel on top of things and in control. This extra time will also give you longer to calm down and use the restroom, which will help your nervous stomach. Just keep in mind that if you get to a place more than 15 minutes early, you should plan on waiting outside the venue because arriving too early can be an inconvenience.
 Caffeine is a type of stimulant and will amplify the effects of adrenaline in a stressful situation, as it activates your sympathetic nerve system and can induce a "fight-or-flight" response.Certain sources of caffeine, like coffee and energy drinks, are also known to cause stomach irritation. Cutting back on caffeine before any stressful situation will not only put less stress on your nervous stomach, it will also help to eliminate any nervous adrenaline jitters. Try drinking an ice-cold glass of water instead; ice water will help you feel refreshed, wake you up, and keep you hydrated.

