 Some of the most common sleep disorders suffered by adults are insomnia, sleep apnea, narcolepsy, restless leg syndrome, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Many of these symptoms may appear to have nothing to do with sleep, such as high blood pressure or irritability; however, if you have three or more symptoms within one symptom group, you may have a sleep disorder.You can start by getting an unofficial self-diagnosis. Take a sleep test, designed to identify common sleep disorders, at a hospital or on a sleep clinic website, such as the following: http://uapclinic.com/take-the-sleep-test

Visit a doctor and share your suspicions. Your doctor may follow up with a more intensive examination of your sleep.;
, Sleep apnea is a breathing disorder which causes you to stop breathing while you sleep. It can have serious consequences for your health and wellbeing, and is most common in older men and in smokers; however, women, children, and people with no family history of sleep apnea can also have it.Some common symptoms of sleep apnea are:Snoring.
Irregular breathing at night. It may sound like you are holding your breath.
High blood pressure.
Irritability.
Low energy.
Waking up with a headache.
Waking up with a dry mouth.
Waking up struggling to breathe.
Being overweight.
Feeling sleepy and out of it during the day.
 Insomnia is a difficulty falling or staying asleep, despite the practice of good sleep hygiene. Most people experience temporary insomnia, especially during times of illness or stress, at some point, but insomnia that does not go away is called chronic insomnia and can have a detrimental effect on your energy, health, and ability to work.The following are common symptoms of insomnia:Difficulty falling asleep.
Inability to calm your thoughts at bedtime.
Inability to stop worrying at bedtime.
Difficulty sleeping several times a week.
Waking in the night and having difficulty getting back to sleep.
Waking earlier than you wish.
Lying in bed awake for an hour or more at bedtime.
Feelings of sadness or depression due to difficulty sleeping.
 Narcolepsy is a chronic disorder that causes overwhelming sleepiness during the day, regardless of the quality of your nighttime sleep. Narcolepsy is sometimes accompanied by cataplexy, a condition where the muscles lose control and tone.If you have three or more common symptoms of narcolepsy, you should get tested:


Difficulty concentrating at work or at school.
Muscle limpness when strong emotion or surprise occurs.
Falling asleep while driving.
Falling asleep in social settings.
Feeling dazed.
Vivid dreams or hallucinations.
Vivid dreams during naps or immediately upon falling asleep or waking.
Uncontrollable sleep during the day, even when you try to stay awake.
Sleep paralysis.
 Gastroesophageal reflux disease is a digestive condition, but sleep experts consider it within the realm of sleep disorders because it can interfere with sleep.The common symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux are:Waking up at night with a sour or acidic taste in your mouth.
Waking up coughing or wheezing.
Waking up choking.
Recurring sore throats.
Nighttime heartburn.
 If you have any of the following symptoms, you may have periodic limb movement disorder or restless leg syndrome:Body parts jerking or kicking during sleep.
A sense of crawling or aching in the legs when trying to go to sleep.
Pain or cramps in your legs at night.
Feeling like you can't keep your legs comfortably still at night.
Feeling sleepy during the day.

