 If you live next to an abandoned house with a lawn that has gotten out of control, don’t try to mow it yourself. This could be considered trespassing. Instead call the local municipality or county. If notified, they should clean up the lawn for you.This contact information should be available on the town’s website.
 The doctrine of “adverse possession” allows you to take ownership of a property after occupying it for an extended period of time.This, however, is extremely difficult legally and requires that the owner be all but entirely absent. That is because, to be legally valid, you must occupy the property in a way that is public and noticeable, but, should the owner discover you, she has a clear right to have you removed.Research local and state laws. In some places, five years of squatting is sufficient to establish ownership, in others thirty years is required.Detroit now bans it altogether, even though the state of Michigan permits it.In short, the law varies considerably depending upon where you are.
Although many specifics vary from place to place, everywhere exercising the right of adverse possession requires that your ownership be continuous, hostile, open, notorious, actual, and exclusive. That means that you cannot leave the property or permit access to the owner and other squatters. You must also be public in your claim of ownership, making your presence noticeable to the community.In order to publicly occupy a property, you will probably need to take steps like having mail sent to the property, making physical improvements, and paying property taxes. Unfortunately, you will generally not be able to claim any of your investments in the property, though some municipalities might be willing to pay back property taxes., Because of property damage and the distressed financial status of the owners, you can often purchase abandoned properties for very low rates and make a good profit off of the deal. To do this successfully you will need to collect information about the property. When contacting the owner, sound confident that you know how dire her situation is and cite some of the facts you have found in your research


If, for example, you found that property taxes have gone unpaid, you can tell the owner that she is bound to lose the property shortly and by paying off the property taxes and debts you can save her from going into bankruptcy. Instead of paying a fair market price, you will only need to pay what is necessary to save the place.
Alternatively, emphasize that you know that the house needs serious repairs and no one else will want to take the risk of buying such a dilapidated property. You are willing to step in, however, and save them the expense of a property that will otherwise cost them money in property taxes, debt, and upkeep.
To emphasize that you hold all the cards, mention the neighbors or the tenant by name to convince her that you have the inside scoop. Furthermore, cite exact figures about taxes or liens as well as specific repairs that are required., Some cities, including Detroit, Atlanta, and Cleveland, have passed laws making it easy for owners to acquire abandoned property adjacent to their own for a low price.Similarly, www.buildingdetroit.org is a website on which the city of Detroit auctions off abandoned properties at very low rates.If you live in an area where abandoned properties are common, it is more likely that you will be able to find special legal provisions that make their acquisition easier.

