 When forced to stop, use the silhouettes of your surroundings to blend into and conceal yourself. The objects can be anything – trees, rocks, furniture, shrubs, etc. Simply freeze in place in a position that blends you into the natural contours and shadows of the elements around you.Blending in and hiding behind objects were common tactics, along with hiding inside objects, such as ditches and holes.Make use of any natural or many-made objects in your environment in any way that you can., Occasionally you will be forced to stop moving to avoid being seen, so you will need to learn to hold yourself perfectly still for long periods of time. By freezing in place, you are attempting to make yourself invisible to the eyes of the enemy.One method the ninja used was called “Uzura-gakure” (hiding like a quail). It involved crouching very low to the ground with your arms in front of your face and being absolutely still.When there was nothing to hide behind, the ninja would employ “Uzura-gakure” to try to blend into the darkness and be as still as a stone.
This skill takes a lot of practice and muscle control, so yoga would be an extremely way to train for this.
 Water concealment was a large part of ninja training and they would hide in lakes, ponds and streams whenever forced to. Be prepared to control your breathing to the point that you can stay underwater for longer than usual amounts of time.


Make use of reeds, bamboo shoots or any other devices on hand to help you breathe when forced to be in the water for long periods of time., The art of concealment calls for extreme patience. Speed of travel was not emphasized unless the mission specifically called for it. Take as much time as you can. Impatience and hasty movements are two of the greatest dangers to anyone trying to conceal themselves.


Wait for the perfect moment before trying to move, advance or escape.
The ninja also used controlled breathing to help them maintain patience and composure in stressful hiding situations.

