 Before trying herbs and amino acids you should investigate a possible vitamin or mineral deficiency. This is because a poor diet (malnutrition) can lower mood by depriving the brain of important nutrients needed to function properly.B Vitamins. These include Vitamin B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B12 as well as folic acid and other associated names for them. B Vitamins are often sold separately or in a B-Complex, which combine the vitamins to support the nervous system and relieve stress, helping mild depression.

Vitamin C. Vitamin C is a health all-rounder and is most commonly referred to as reducing the severity of colds and the flu. Vitamin C is very cheap in its chewable form and is an essential addition to the formation of a depression diet.

Vitamin D. Many people get all the Vitamin D they need from sunlight, which helps the body to synthesize this vitamin. However for people with limited sun exposure particularly during the winter months, depressed mood can take its toll. Supplementing with Vitamin D3 has been proven to elevate mood where a deficiency exists and even for those who already get adequate levels from the sun. As well as being found in foods in small amounts, Vitamin D3 can be readily bought in differing strengths such as 4000IU.

Multivitamins. Take a multivitamin for a general overlay of important nutrients you may not be getting from your diet.
 The omega-3 in fish oil helps regulate not only healthy hearts but also healthy brains. Look for fish oil brands with a higher ratio of DHA (mental health) to EPA (heart health) - fatty acids found in fish oil. For example, 1g capsules of fish oil with 300mg DHA and 200mg EPA.
 Some such as St John's wort have been clinically proven to treat depression. However, St. John's wort can interact with popular prescription antidepressants such as Zoloft and Celexa. . Some supplements can be bought over the counter in pharmacies and health food stores, but your country's physician may also prescribe it. Other herbs like kava root may be an effective option, but take care to ask a shop assistant what their suggestion is for depression. Herbs can be a win-or-miss affair when treating depression, as unlike vitamins, minerals and fatty acids (omega-3s) no deficiencies exist in the human diet.
 Tryptophan is an important amino acid found naturally in the body and in a variety of food sources, include poultry, nuts and seeds. Tryptophan helps induce sleep and is also made into niacin (Vitamin B3) and serotonin inside the body. These products can reduce anxiety and elevate mood. If you don't want to take the tablet or capsule form of tryptophan, a great source of it is from lecithin granules found at a health food store. Sprinkle some in your smoothie or over your breakfast cereal for a daily supplement of this amino acid.
 Many studies have looked at SAM-e (pronounced "Sammy"), and the results have showed it is quick in elevating mood. This important biological agent increases serotonin levels and performs other actions similar to conventional anti-depressants. However it comes at a high price (about $50-70 USD for 60 capsules). Try SAM-e for depression if you can afford it. It can be found in most health food stores.

