 The icon looks like a small white bag with a play symbol in the middle.;
, Tap the magnifying glass in the upper right-hand side of the screen. Type in “ADW Launcher,” with no quotes, and hit the magnifying glass at the bottom right-hand side of the on-screen keyboard to proceed with the search.
 The first search result at the top of the page should be a light-blue icon with a small white icon inside it, inside of a white box. In the upper right-hand corner of the box should be 3 dots placed vertically. Tap the 3 dots, and a small box will appear that says “Install”; tap it, and a Permissions page will appear. Tap on “Accept,” and the installation process will begin.
 From the top of the screen, slide a finger down to bring out the notification bar. Under the section titled “Notifications,” there should be the ADW Launcher icon. It should say “ADW Launcher” and under it “Successfully installed.” Tap this to open the downloaded app.
 Tapping the “Home” button on the Android device should bring up a menu that asks to set a default location to go to when button is tapped in the future. Select “ADW.Launcher” to assign it as default for this key, and press “OK” when finished.


Once this default is selected, it can be removed in the Settings >> Applications menu.
 From the home screen, or app drawer, press and hold on an app icon. The phone should vibrate after a moment, and return to the home screen. While still holding the icon, drag it down to the bottom of the screen on either side of the app drawer icon, and remove finger. The app is now added to the dockbar.


There is no limit to the number of apps that can be added to this dockbar.
 As more apps are added the dockbar, scrolling right and left will become available. Scroll through the apps, and tap its icon to open.
 If you want to remove apps, just press and hold on the app icon until you see a trash bin or delete option on the screen. Drag this icon to the trash bin or delete option then release.


This action will only delete the app icon from the dockbar, not remove it from the device.
 Go to the main home screen, and press and hold on any open spot on the screen to open the context menu. From this menu tap “ADWSettings.” Select “App Dock” from the new menu.
 On this menu there are two different subheadings. “Dock Layout” and “Advanced Settings.” Under Dock Layout you’ll find the following options you can adjust:



Dock style. This option is set by default to the current device type, either phone or tablet. Tap the option to open a small menu and choose from “Phone,” “Tablet,” or “Disabled.” Tapping anyone one of these will change the manner that the dockbar is displayed. However, the changes between phone and tablet amount to a few icons moving around, so there isn’t much difference. The Disabled option will completely remove the dockbar altogether.

Auto close. Checking this option will cause the dockbar to disappear when an app is opened. It also can cause the dockbar to remain hidden and unusable.

Dock size (Portrait & Landscape). Tapping on either one of these options will open a small menu with a slider. Sliding this right or left will increase and decrease the value respectively. As few as 1 icon and as many as 7 can be chosen to be displayed.

Reflections. Checking this box will add little half reflections to the bottom of the icons that have been added to the dockbar. (Note: Removing the checkmark from this box while the advanced option “Dock Icons Tint” is checked will cause all icons to change to one solid color.)

, Under the Advanced Settings subheading, you’ll be able to set the following:



Auto Size. Checking the box to the right of this option will cause the dockbar to shrink if less icons are displayed that the dockbar is expecting. This feature keeps the dockbar from displaying improper graphics and maintaining the look and feel of the dockbar.

Dock icons scale. Tapping the option will open a small menu with a slider options. Moving the slider right or left will increase or decrease the display size of the dockbar icons, making them bigger or smaller.

Auto scroll. When this box is checked, the dockbar will auto scroll to its home position after an app has been selected. Without this selected, the dockbar will remain at the same menu location that it was at before the selection.

Dock icons tint. When this box is checked, the reflections on each of the icons in the dockbar will change to the selected color chosen by the following “Tint Color” menu option below.

Tint color. Tapping this option will open a small menu box where a color pallet will be displayed. Tapping a basic color from the vertical pallet on the right will open a more detailed pallet inside the square to the left. Slide around the small white circle to select a specific tint. The horizontal bar beneath controls the level of transparency of the color being chosen. Below this, displayed in two rectangles, is the previous color (on the left) and the newly chosen color (on the right). Tap the desired color when finished.

