 A kitten with cerebellar hypoplasia will display symptoms within six months of birth. It may bob or weave its head and torso when it sits up or stands. It may also sway its head or torso around as a result of the virus., A kitten with the virus may have a difficult time standing upright without weaving or bobbing around. It may stumble from side to side when it stands, almost as if it is drunk.Kittens with the virus also have difficulty jumping or leaping to high spots. Notice if the kitten does not seem to be able to jump up on furniture or shelves on its own.
 The kitten may have a difficult time walking and running properly if it has cerebellar hypoplasia. It may stumble around when it tries to walk or run. It may also have tremors in its legs when it walks or runs, causing it to shake and sway around., The vet will be able to give you an official diagnosis on the kitten’s condition. At the appointment, start by telling the vet about the kitten’s medical history. Note if the kitten’s mother has a genetic predisposition to cerebellar hypoplasia. Discuss any other medical problems the kitten has had or currently has.You can also tell the vet if you notice any physical symptoms or issues the kitten is displaying, especially if you notice them within six months of the kitten’s birth.
 The vet will exam the kitten’s head, torso, and legs. They will note if the kitten has tremors in these areas as well as difficulty standing, walking, or jumping. They may have the kitten try to stand, walk, or jump to observe it., The vet will take a blood sample and a urine sample from the kitten. They may also do X-rays of the kitten’s abdomen and chest, as well as an MRI of the kitten’s brain. These tests will help the vet confirm the kitten’s diagnosis., Once the vet has completed the necessary exams and tests, they will confirm the kitten has cerebellar hypoplasia. They may outline how severe the kitten’s condition is as well as how the virus is affecting the kitten’s motor functions.

There is no cure for cerebellar hypoplasia in kittens. However, the virus is not painful for kittens, and many kittens with this condition live a long life. Discuss ways that you can make life easier for the kitten with the vet.
 To help the kitten live successfully with this condition, keep it indoors at all times. Do not leave the kitten outdoors unattended, as it is at risk of injury., A kitten with cerebellar hypoplasia will have difficulty with climbing stairs and doing strenuous activities like running or jumping. Create a home environment for the kitten that is accessible and calming.For example, you could place the kitten’s bed and feeding area on the same level so the kitten does not have to climb stairs. You may also avoid playing too much with the kitten, or only in ways that don't require it to run, jump, or leap.
 Kittens who have this condition and cannot perform basic functions like standing, sitting, or walking may need to be euthanized. Discuss this decision with your vet. Often this is only recommended if the kitten is very impaired by the virus.