 Ball dates are usually set well in advance of Christmas and will take place any time from late November to just before Christmas. The Mess will advise members of the ball date. If you cannot attend, decline following Mess Rules. All Mess Members may take one guest or attend alone. Tickets may be available for additional guests, you'll need to check with a member of the committee. Tickets will be paid for via the member's Mess Bill. Guests cannot pay for their own tickets though you can of course give the money for your ticket to the Mess Member. Expect to pay a minimum of around £70.00 per person.
 Different categories of ball goers will need to obey different rules regarding appropriate dress.


Mess Members.
Male and Female members of the Mess must, without exception, wear full Mess Uniform. The only concessions to individuality for gentlemen being shirt studs, pocket watches and cuff links. Lady Mess Members are limited to a dash of special occasion perfume or scent and some modest jewellery in terms of being original! It is best practice to have your "funny drinking suit" ready well in advance and make sure you are aware of any local quirks such a a senior officer's aversion to patent leather George Boots.

Military Guests. Any active members of any armed forces may wear their dress uniform to an NCOs Mess Christmas Ball.

Civilian lady guests. Full length, reaching to the ankle at least, Ball Gowns should be worn and shoulders should be covered.
Strapless gowns are permitted but wear a shawl, stole or bolero jacket to comply with Mess etiquette. Long dresses of cotton, Jersey or lycra mix fabrics are NOT suitable. Gowns should be silk, satin, taffeta etc, or at least give the appearance of such. This is a ball, wear your very best jewellery if the fancy takes you! Diamonds, pearls, rubies, sapphires can all be used to adorn! Elegant and sophisticated costume jewellery is appropriate too as are evening gloves, vintage clutch bags, silk evening purses, tiaras and similar! Lady Guests may wish to wear an evening version of a form of national dress, for example a Sari.

Civilian Gentlemen Guests. Dinner Jackets or Tuxedos, basically a black suit, two piece or three piece, that is appropriately worn with a bow tie. Gentleman may wear a plaid kilt with a dinner jacket if desired, underwear optional obviously! Waistcoats do not have to match the suit. Cummerbunds can be worn if desired.
 Transport, usually in the form of a mini bus may be provided but it's unlikely to be door to door. You may need to walk to where you'll be picked up from and walk home from there at the end of the night. If you live close enough to the Mess or other Ball location, feel free to make your way on foot. You can take your evening shoes with you and walk in something more comfortable or appropriate for walking if you like., If you have responsibilities at the ball as a Mess Member on no account arrive late for duty. Have a plan for what your guests will do while you are busy with your duties., Change into your ball shoes if required. Put your cloak room ticket somewhere safe. Use a mirror to check everything is in place before you make your entrance if you like., You will almost certainly be served a drink at this point. It may be wine, champagne, punch or something else. Non-alcoholic alternatives will be available. In the foyer will be displayed the seating plan. Drink in hand, figure out what table you are sitting at., You may be seated with other people you are friends with if you have requested this or you may be seated at random. Say hello to the other guests and be sociable. There will probably be some bottles of wine on the table for you all to share. Open these straight away if you like or save the wine to accompany the meal later on. There will be an order of events on the table advising you what will be happening when throughout the event., There will be papers on the table possibly with popular drinks listed. Indicate how many of each beverage you require on the paper with a pen or pencil. Add in writing any drinks you want that aren't listed and fill in the Mess Member's Mess Number in the appropriate place. A member of staff who is "waiting on" will take your order to the bar and return with your drinks. Guests may not go to the bar and get their own drinks, especially ladies! Drink bills will be settled through Mess Bills after the event., You'll be told what to do in an emergency, for example where to evacuate to and you'll be advised where smoking is permitted. There may also be a briefing regarding what will be occurring during the evening and you may be welcomed to the event and asked to show your appreciation for the organisers with a round of applause., At this stage in the proceedings there is often some form of entertainment, frequently a cabaret act of one sort or another. By now you should of taken in your surroundings and been impressed, or not, by any themed decorations at the venue. Relax, chat to the other people, admire the uniforms and gowns and take it all in. Not everyone gets to attend balls!, The Mess will almost certainly have arranged a photographer to take photos of individuals, couples and small groups. There will be an area set aside with an appropriate background or setting for the occasion., There will be adequate washroom facilities at the ball. They may be hired, portable toilets or you may use the facilities in the main mess building. It is recommended that you don't wait too long to do anything you need to do in the restroom, bathroom or lavatory as the condition of these facilities has a tendency to deteriorate as the night goes on. A small supply of lavatory paper in one's pocket or evening bag can be a blessing., Your ticket may have automatically entered you into a raffle or you might be invited to buy raffle tickets during the evening. A Money Tree Competition is where players are invited to buy the right to be selected to be eligible to pick a sealed envelope containing an undisclosed amount of cash from many attached to a Money Tree - usually a tree branch in a pot!, It's almost certainly going to be a buffet meal. Tables will be invited to select from the buffet one by one. There will be a wide range of hot and cold dishes. Usually roast meat, poached fish and vegetarian options will be available accompanied by a potato side dish, vegetable side dishes and various salads. After everyone has selected their main courses and the majority of people have finished eating their main course, the plates will begin to be cleared away and tables will be invited to select from the dessert buffet. It's polite to only make one trip to each buffet. Remember you or your partner works with, or even for, these people so consider playing it safe and being on your best behaviour., After the meal a band may play dance music or there might be a disco or both, one after the other. It is a ball but don't worry, you won't need to waltz or tango or cha-cha-cha or any of that ballroom stuff. The Squaddie Two Step will be fine. If you do have moves, feel free to show them off. Couples may dance together, groups of friends, a bunch of girls or a load of lads. Dance how you want with who you like but keep decorum in mind. The majority of people will be married or in committed relationships so don't be causing any drama flirting or behaving inappropriately., Don't lose control of your faculties through intoxication. Your behaviour will be noted by those in authority so don't do anything that could jeopardize your career, and partners and guests, your behaviour will reflect on the Mess Member that invited you., Mingle, chat, make new friends and get to know acquaintances better. You have something in common with everyone in the room so small-talk should be easy. Balls are a safe and friendly environment where it's okay to approach people to compliment their outfit, comment on the décor or just ask if they are having fun. Don't gossip though and don't discuss work or your partner's complaints about work. The Mess Ball is not the place to air your grievances regarding the long hours your partner has been working lately with their boss, for example!, Often a full English Breakfast is served an hour or two or three before the end of the night. You have paid for your ticket so you may as well sample all the fayre! Also, if you have over indulged on the alcohol front, breakfast will help soak some of it up., Hopefully there's transport laid on to get you home. Don't forget to collect your coat and if you are a lucky lady guest, there may be a goody bag.