 You can do so by typing "keylogger" into a search engine and reviewing the results. A keylogger is a hidden application that runs in the background of a computer's operating system. While doing so, it makes a note of every single time they type a key, meaning you'll have a log of their usernames and passwords if they visit the pertinent sites., If you don't know where to start, Best Free Keylogger and Revealer Keylogger Free are both safe options.Before downloading software to your computer, try to make sure the website isn't a scam.
For around $100, you can buy a critically reviewed keylogger.
 You'll want to do this on computer from which you need the password if you can. If you've chosen a paid option instead of a free one, enter your payment information.



Use PayPal for this transaction if at all possible.
If you don't download the keylogger directly to the computer on which you need it, you'll end up having to move it to said computer on a USB drive.
 To do this, you'll double-click the keylogger setup file and follow the on-screen instructions. More so than most programs, it's very important to read the details of software use and the licensing agreement in your keylogger's installation window when it comes up. You need to make sure you aren't accidentally signing up to have the contents of your keylogger distributed online (or something similarly undesirable).
 After the application is running, you'll probably have the option of "hiding" it from view. If you can, hide the application and let it do its job in the background.
 Depending on how much use the computer in question gets, you may want to give it up to a week before checking back.


Depending on the keylogger you choose, you may not have to dig through the data that much--some keyloggers list sites' names as they're visited.
If you download a simple keylogger that just logs keystrokes, you'll need to search through the data until you find recognizable login information (e.g., a username or phone number).

