 Ask local authorities about evacuation routes and if your community has disaster/emergency plans. Ask for a hard copy of the plan and also inquire how often the plan is updated, what hazards it covers, and any other details you may think of.;
, Discuss with your employer and school and/or daycare center the policies regarding disasters and emergencies, such as how warning information will be provided and disaster procedures followed.


Know the following about your children’s school emergency plans: how the school will communicate during a crisis; if the school has adequate food, water, and other basic supplies; if the school is prepared to shelter-in-place if need be and where they plan to go if they must get away.
 Draw a floor plan of your home. Use a blank sheet of paper for each floor. Mark two escape routes from each room. Make sure children understand the drawings. Post a copy of the drawings at eye level in each child’s room. Establish a place to meet in the event of an emergency, such as a fire.
 Complete a contact card for each family member and have family members keep these cards handy in a wallet, purse, backpack, etc. You may want to send one to school with each child to keep on file. Pick a friend or relative who lives out-of-state for household members to notify they are safe.
 Review existing policies for the amount and extent of coverage to ensure that what you have in place is what is required for you and your family for all possible hazards. Consider purchasing insurance specifically for certain disasters such as flooding, hurricanes, or tornadoes. Make a record of your personal property, for insurance purposes. Take photos or a video of the interior and exterior of your home. Include personal belongings in your inventory.
 The hearing impaired will need special arrangements to receive warnings; the mobility impaired may require special assistance to reach shelter; and people with certain dietary needs must have appropriate food supplies.


Create a network of neighbors, relatives, friends, and coworkers to aid you in an emergency. Discuss your needs and make sure everyone knows how to operate necessary equipment.
If you live in an apartment building, ask the management to mark accessible exits clearly and to make arrangements to help you leave the building.
Keep specialized items ready, including extra wheelchair batteries, oxygen, catheters, medication, food for service animals, and any other items you might need.
Be sure to make provisions for medications that require refrigeration and keep a list of the type and model numbers of the medical devices anyone requires.
 With the exception of service animals, pets are not typically permitted in emergency shelters as they may affect the health and safety of other occupants. Find out which local hotels and motels allow pets and where pet boarding facilities are located. Be sure to research some outside your local area in case local facilities close. For more advice and information, call your local emergency management office, animal shelter, or animal control office.
 To begin this process, gather all family members and review the information you gained about local emergency plans and warning systems. Your family plan should address how the previous steps will be addressed in case of a disaster.

