 Each manufacturer may size clothing differently, so you cannot rely on a standard small/medium/large scale or numeric size scales. Since you cannot try on clothes before you buy them when shopping online, accurate measurements are essential.


At minimum, women should know their bust, waist, and hip measurements. Additional measurements, such as height, inseam, and arm length, may also be needed depending on the garment being purchased.
Men should know their chest, neck, waist, and inseam measurements. Additional measurements, including arm length, shoulder width, and height may also be needed.
For children's clothing, parents should know their child's height, waist, and hips. Girls also need a bust measurement, and boys need a chest measurement.
For newborns and toddlers, parents should know their child's height and weight.
Also, know the season you're shopping for. For many of us, summer time is all about living easy and enthralling in the warm weather. Whenever warm weather is upon us, women decide to mix things up a bit and go out wearing shorts. In the fall, long blue jeans make your body warmer. So know the season you're shopping for.;
, Most manufacturers have a standard sizing chart they use for all their clothing, but many online stores sell items from a range of manufacturers. Check the product description of each garment you consider purchasing to double-check how the sizes are measured. You may discover that you are a small by one manufacturer’s standard, but a medium by another’s standard.
 If you decide to shop for multiple items of clothing at once, write down everything you need before you get started. Doing so will help you stay on track and may help prevent you from feeling overwhelmed by choices. Depending on where you're located, many seem to flock to Amazon or Walmart because the price meets the demand. If in Europe or the Middle East, the Amazon alternative is Jumia. In Russia, it's completely different than Middle Eastern or South American countries, and so forth. So really narrow your search down after finding which sites will offer your clothing based off location.
 Only look at the clothes you know you need. If you only intend to buy a new dress, avoid looking at tops and accessories. Otherwise, you risk wasting time looking at clothes you don’t really need, and may end up buying something extra and out of budget.
 Many online stores accept returns, but only within a limited time frame. Try on your clothes as soon as they arrive at your door. Do not remove any tags or stickers, since doing so may hinder your ability to return the item if it does not fit.

