 Wire wreath bases are circular shape and have bendable prongs that are used to hold wreath materials in place. They are perfect for making fall foliage wreaths, since you can twist the prongs around small leaf branches, bunches of flowers, and other items you may want to use. Wire wreath bases are available at craft stores.;
, To find gorgeous materials for crafting a fall wreath, all you have to do is step outside and look around. If you live in an urban place without many trees, go to your local nursery or craft store to look for supplies like these:


Bright fall leaves. Choose leaves that represent fall in your region, whether they're bright red maple leaves, yellow birch or hickory, or purple black gum leaves.
Evergreen foliage. Evergreen branches from firs, pines and other green trees will give your wreath a lovely scent.
Stalks of wheat or golden-hued grasses. Fall is harvest time, and stalks of wheat and other wheat-colored plants are a pleasant reminder that the seasons are changing.
Fall flowers. Chrysanthemums are a good choice in many regions, especially those that come in fall hues like red, maroon, orange and yellow.
Other regional foliage. Don't limit yourself to traditional symbols of fall; choose plants that are special to you. In some places fall comes with a burst of pink and blue nettles, and in other places it is characterized by evergreen branches dripping with rain. If something has meaning to you and you think it would look good on a wreath, bring it home.
 Now that you have an array of materials to choose from, lay out your wreath design. Arrange the materials in a circular shape to determine how your wreath will look. Consider the following arrangements:


Go for a wild, natural look. Alternate leaves, flowers, grasses, and branches using no particular pattern. Try to contrast colors and textures; for example, consider placing few strands of grass behind a bunch of red leaves to offset the colors.
Create an ordered look. Alternate leaves with flowers in a circular pattern, or arrange the items in threes: maple leaf bunch, chrysanthemum bunch, and wheat stalks, for example.
Make a color wheel design. Place all the red foliage together, then the orange, then the yellow, then the purple.
 Begin inserting the stems of the plants at an angle into the wreath base. Use the wire fasteners to hold the stems in place. Continue until your entire design is fastened to the base.


Hide the wire prongs by wrapping foliage around them and tucking it in behind other pieces that have already been fastened.
Use extra wire or string to make more fasteners if necessary; simply twist or tie it to the wreath base.
 Wrap a ribbon in circles around the wreath, or tie one in a bow and fasten it at the bottom of the wreath. Add decorative fake birds, pine cones, corn husks, and other fall items to fill out the spaces between the foliage you collected.
 The wire wreath base may have come with a hook or loop on the back to be used for hanging. If it didn't, make a hanging loop by twisting a piece of wire or tying a piece of string to the back of the wreath. Hang the wreath on your door or the side of your house.

