 Many charities and nonprofit organizations rely heavily on work done by volunteers. Your time is just as valuable as a monetary donation. Ask about volunteer opportunities available at a charity you want to support.You typically don't need any special skills to volunteer. Most charities have simple tasks that anyone can do, such as stuffing envelopes for a membership drive or serving food at a soup kitchen.
Make your volunteering a part of your regular weekly schedule. For example, you might decide you want to walk the dogs at your local animal shelter. Commit to doing this two or three days a week, either on your way to work or on your way home.;
, There are many nonprofit organizations that take donated items and sell them in a thrift store. You also may be able to donate gently used items for use by the charity or nonprofit itself.For example, if you want to support your local homeless shelter you might donate old pots and pans, or sheets and blankets. Contact the shelter to find out what their donation needs and requirements are.
You also may be able to donate food or other perishables. While you'll have to buy these things separately, you are helping people more directly than if you donated cash.
 If you have long hair, you may be able to donate it to a charity that creates wigs for cancer patients who've lost their hair after undergoing chemotherapy treatment. This is a way to donate to charity without spending a dime (other than the cost of the haircut.)These charities have a minimum length of hair they will accept, and they may have other guidelines. For example, they may not accept hair that has been color-treated. Check these rules before you start growing your hair so you can donate it.
 Donating blood is a good way to give to charity when you have debt. You typically must be in good health and over the age of 16 or 18. Keep in mind they also may not accept your blood if you are involved in risky activities, such as unprotected sex or use of intravenous drugs.You can set up regular blood donations. Organizations such as the Red Cross also have blood drives whenever there is a natural disaster or other emergency.
 Especially if you live in a colder climate, you may be able to make simple items such as scarves for people in need. Generally, buying materials and making something yourself is cheaper than buying new items.If you don't know how to knit or sew and want to learn, find out if there are free classes available in your community. For example, your local community center may have a class you can take or a group you can join.
You also might consider befriending an older person who can teach you how to sew or knit. This way you can make a new friend and help improve your local community.
 You don't necessarily have to go through an established charity or nonprofit organization to improve people's lives and your community as a whole. Find someone who lives near you that could use some help, and volunteer.For example, suppose your next-door neighbor is a single mother. You could volunteer to watch her kids a couple nights a week. That would enable her to go out and do something nice for herself, or maybe pick up a couple of extra shifts at work.
For just a little money, you can buy the ingredients for simple sandwiches. Make sandwiches and wrap them up to give to people who are homeless and in need.
Never disregard the power of simply talking to someone. Visiting a nursing home and talking to some of the patients there will make them feel loved and cared for.
 If you have strong planning and organization skills and a lot of connections in your community, you can set up an event. Even if you don't have the resources to create your own event, there may be others in which you can participate.For example, many charities and nonprofit organizations have walks or runs to raise money. You typically don't have to pay anything yourself to participate, you simply get friends, family, and others to sponsor you by pledging a certain amount of money per mile you complete.
When you organize or participate in a benefit, you can give to charity without necessarily having to contribute any of your own funds.

