 S-corporations usually don't pay their own taxes. Rather, they pass income and deductions to the shareholders.


If you are in charge of taxes for an S-corporation, you must file a Form 1120S, which includes Schedules K-1 for each shareholder.
The shareholders use the information on their individual Schedules K-1 to complete their individual returns., In Part I of each K-1, enter the name, address, and tax identification number of the corporation., You must fill out a separate K-1 for each shareholder. In Part II, enter that shareholder's name, address, and tax identification or Social Security number.


You can truncate the shareholder's tax identification or Social Security number in the K-1 you send to that shareholder by using asterisks or Xs for the first five digits. However, you are not allowed to truncate the corporation's tax identification number on any documents., This is ordinary business income (or loss), calculated as the pro rata share for each shareholder.For example, if the corporation earned $10,000 in ordinary business income, and had five shareholders with equal shares, you would report $2,000 in ordinary business income on Line 1 of Part III of each shareholder's K-1.
Use the amount on Line 21 of your Form 1120S as your total income or loss, and calculate shares from there. It shouldn't include any rental or portfolio income or loss, as those will be entered later. The amount also should be entered without reference to a particular shareholder's basis in the stock of the corporation, or their at-risk or passive activity limitations., Other income is separated out from ordinary business income because it retains its character and must be reported separately on the shareholder's return as well.


For example, rental income is considered passive income except in certain situations. Passive income or loss can only be used to offset other passive income or loss, and must be reported separately., Beginning on Line 11, enter any deductions and credits the S-corporation made that shareholders may be eligible to use.


For example, if the corporation made any charitable contributions, you can include that pro rata amount on Line 12a of each K-1., If there is any other information not entered elsewhere, such as recaptures of credits, list them with the appropriate classification code beginning on Line 17., Because the shareholders will need the information on the K-1 to complete their own tax returns, it must be sent to them before tax day., You must file the tax return for the corporation by April 15th of each year. You may file your return electronically, or look to the instructions for Form 1120S, which identify the appropriate IRS service center to file paper returns by mail.