 Probably the easiest way to get someone to stop liking you, especially if you haven’t known them for long, is to just stop responding to them. You can choose to slowly stop responding to their texts and calls, or you can do it all at once. Either way, ignore them.
 Avoid sharing anything intimate about yourself. This will be a huge turn-off, because people need to feel like they can trust you and mutually share important things.Good communication is key to a good relationship, so the more you avoid sharing the more they’ll get the hint you’re not interested in starting an intimate relationship with them., Good relationships are about sacrifices and making time for each other. If you want to get them to stop liking you, stop making them a priority in your life. Don’t allow them to think you want a relationship with them. Focus on yourself, your friends, and the activities you want to do. Say “no” to any plans they want to make., Once you’ve tried to get them to stop liking you, they may try even harder to do nice things for you or flirt with you. Don’t acknowledge when they compliment you, buy you gifts, hold the door open for you, or check in on you. Don't encourage any flirting. Appreciation, gratitude, and kind words are essential for healthy relationships, so you should avoid them because otherwise you'll send mixed signals to the other person., If you've got an online presence, the person who likes you will still have access to you. By adjusting your privacy settings on social media, you'll be able to prevent them from seeing everything about your life. You can change your social media settings (particularly on Facebook) in several different ways, sometimes without the other person even knowing:

Block them, which will prevent them from trying to "friend" you in the future.
Unfriend them.
Unfollow them, which will still allow you to remain friends, but will hide them from your newsfeed.
Customize your sharing settings, which will allow you to block them from seeing whatever you don't want them to see.
Edit your timeline settings, which will allow you to block them from seeing anything posted to your timeline.
Turn on the setting that allows you to review posts friends tag you in before they're posted to your timeline.

