 These clear liquids (and foods) include:


Water
Tea
Broth, such as chicken or vegetable broth
Things like cranberry juice, Jell-O, and even popsicles.;
, According to doctors, drinks with ginger in them can be calming to the stomach.At the same time, avoid drinks with excessive acidity, such as grapefruit juice or orange juice.
 Place a cool, damp cloth on your forehead.This may cool down your suddenly-warm body and send signals to your brain that vomiting is unnecessary. Other parts of your body that may benefit from a cold compress include:


The back of your neck
The inside joint of your elbows (where your forearm meets your bicep)
Behind your knees
The inside of your wrists

, In several trials, receiving a ginger supplement has proven to be more effective at reducing nausea and the need for vomiting.Doctors are even beginning to prescribe ginger syrup to women who experience nausea in the first trimester of their pregnancy.All told, ginger is a great anti-emetic that's cheap and readily available. Here are some ways to enjoy ginger at home, even when you're feeling less than well:


Ginger chews and ginger cough drops. Ginger chews are more like ginger candy, while ginger cough drops are more often sucked on (and may double as an effective throat coating if you happen to have a cold).
Ginger tea. Grind up 12 slices of ginger with a mortar and pestle until grains begin to show. Place ginger and 3 cups of water into a pot and bring to boil. Turn burner down to a simmer and cook for 20-25 minutes. After steeped, strain away ginger and add 1 tablespoon or honey, stirring to dissolve. Serve warm.Ginger syrup. Place 2 cups of roughly chopped ginger in a food processor and pulse until finely chopped. Place in large pot. Add 2 cups of sugar and 6 cups of water to pot and bring to boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook for approximately 1 hour, until syrup has reduced by two-thirds. Strain syrup through cheesecloth.Add syrup to water or take straight.
 If you begin to feel nauseous, try to lie down immediately. Prop your head up on pillows so that it's at a higher elevation than your feet. This helps your body maintain its sense of balance better, leading to less nausea.
 Teas contain herbal remedies that can calm the stomach, line the intestines, and otherwise help reduce the need to vomit. When drinking, remember always to sip in small quantities. However, not just any tea will do. Try these teas as a precautionary stopgap when you feel the nausea coming on:


Chamomile. Laced with a little bit of organic honey, this trusted sleepytime tea soothes the stomach. Calming, light, and comforting.
Licorice root. A very mild laxative, licorice root can help you relieve any constipation that may be causing nausea or vomiting.It also contains an enzyme (called glycyrrhizin) treats a host of ailments, but also makes for a very sweet tea.
Red raspberry leaf. Many women use red raspberry leaf tea to help treat morning sickness and to ease muscles going into labor.Although it can relax muscles, red raspberry leaf has been shown to cause uterine contractions. Be sure to talk to your doctor about recommended doses if you are currently pregnant, as it can bring on early labor in some women.
Slippery elm. Slippery elm tea helps produce mucous secretions which line the stomach. This stomach lining can be beneficial in treating upset stomach and helping to allay the need to vomit., In small amounts, eating dry crackers may decrease nausea. If this solution works, you may have been hungry, not ill. This may or may not work, depending on what is causing you to want to throw up.
 If you suspect food is the culprit in vomiting, that's good, because there's a good chance that you can reduce the urge to vomit simply by modifying the way that you eat:


Eat cold foods or meals if the smell of hot foods makes you nauseous.
Avoid hard-to-digest foods. Fried foods, spicy foods, beans, high-fat and dairy foods, chocolate, and nutrient- and fiber-rich veggies are all especially difficult for your body to digest.Eat smaller meals more often instead of bigger meals less often. Try shooting for 6 small meals per day instead of 3 larger ones. You'll make it easier for your body to digest its food.
Drink plenty of fluids during the day, just not very much with meals.Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water a day, but don't drink very much during meals.
If you experience morning sickness, keep a box of crackers by your bed and eat a few first thing the morning before you get out of bed. This may help quash morning sickness.
 Available, in tablet, liquid, and suppository form, dramamine is a good way to prevent nausea and vomiting for something like motion sickness. If you know you're going to be driving in a fast car up windy hills, or go out whale-watching on choppy seas, pop some dramamine. Dramamine can be purchased over-the-counter.
 Scopolamine is a powerful motion sickness drug that's derived from a family of plants. Although often used as a potent street drug on its own, scopolamine in very small doses can be used to counteract motion sickness and upset stomach.


See your doctor if nausea and vomiting is a persistent trouble in your life and ask about motion sickness patches that contain scopolamine. If placed 4 to 12 hours before expected motion sickness, the patch can be very effective. It does produce some side-effects, including drowsiness, blurred vision, and dry mouth., If you're still getting used to the persistent morning sickness caused by early stages of pregnancy, doctors recommend taking the over-the-counter drug doxylamine. Doxylamine is a sedative that is often used as a cold and allergy relief medicine.


At high doses, withdrawal symptoms may appear if you stop taking this drug suddenly. It can cause insomnia, sometimes lasting for up to a week. For this reason, avoid relying solely on this drug to prevent morning sickness.

