 Boredom, unlike most other emotions, is a choice. When you view boredom as a choice you suddenly realize that you have the ability to entertain yourself. At the bare minimum, you have a human brain at your disposal, an incredible organ that can invent, imagine, and think about the world around you. Don’t let yourself feel bored because there is no one around to tell you what to do – take matters into your own hands.Take a moment to think about why you are bored. Is it the world around you? Or have you just not chosen to do anything that stimulates your interest?
Some people find the history of volcanoes interesting, while others fall asleep at the thought of it. Everything has the power to be interesting—it is up to you to show interest.;
, No matter how few things you have to do, your brain is always around to entertain you. Try creating an imaginary world or a new animal. This can be a silly project for an afternoon, or the beginning of a new story or series of art pieces.
 A curious mind finds everything interesting, and thus avoids boredom at every turn. Wonder about the architecture around your town. How was that building designed? Who painted the graffiti down the street? What techniques went into making the clothes in the window? Curiosity stimulates the brain and leads to ideas for new activities, like looking up the producer of your favorite albums or taking a cooking class.
 There is no bigger block to getting over boredom than overthinking the situation. Trying to find the “perfect” activity is a sure-fire way to do no activity at all, so stop thinking and do something. Call a friend you haven’t spoken with, put on shoes and go walking, or turn into the café you’ve always wanted to try. Being spontaneous lends your life an air of surprise that makes everything less boring.
 A small notepad and pencil costs a little more than $1, but it can provide endless entertainment on the go. Simply slip it into your purse or back pocket and pull it out when you feel restless to draw or write on the go. Simple activities to try include:


Write a novel
Doodle or Draw
Writing songs, poetry, or short stories
Recording funny bits of conversation from strangers
Making shopping lists, studying for school, or journaling

, If you're interested in writing, but can't think of anything to write, try a freewrite or a stream of consciousness exercise. These might lead you to an idea for a more structured story, play, or poem. If you're stuck for ideas, try looking up writing prompts online. It may also help to challenge yourself to write a story with an artificial constraint, such as only using one syllable words., Depending on where you are, meeting someone new may be the best way to avoid boredom. Pay them a compliment, make a comment about your surroundings (the weather, the train, a street musician, anything), or simply introduce yourself. You never know what you will learn from a stranger, but it will certainly not be boring.


Always be careful talking to strangers in dark, private, or unsafe areas.
 This is a great way to meet new people and get out of the house, and it’s completely free. Call your local SPCA, American Cancer Society, or college campus and ask about volunteering opportunities, or look some up online.
 If you become bored or restless when standing in line, waiting for a friend, or during other short periods of time when you can't find an activity, finding a distraction in a book or cell phone may not cure this problem. Meditation is the art of focusing on your thoughts and mind, enjoying the little things around your instead of feeling restless or bored.The Buddhist tradition of mindfulness stresses being in the moment, thinking about the life you are living instead of the life you wish you had.

