 Make sure to moisturize your skin, focusing on the areas that most often get calluses like the hands and feet. Moisturize at least twice a day, perhaps once in the morning and once before bed. The lotion will soften existing calluses and help to prevent more cracking.Try a powerful lotion like Gold Bond with shea butter. You can find products like this at any pharmacy for as little as $5.
Udder cream like “Udderly Smooth” is another option. These creams were designed to prevent chapping on dairy cow udders, but are now sold as super moisturizing lotions. It’s perfectly safe for human use, greaseless, and will prevent chapped skin.Apply lotion regularly. Well-moisturized hands and feet will be more resistant to new calluses.;
, It seems counter-intuitive, but too much water can actually dry out your hands, leading to cracking and chapping and making them more prone to callusing. Limit the time you spend in the bath and shower, don’t over-wash your hands, and avoid hot water.Try to keep your time in the water to 15 minutes or less. Salt water will also dry the skin.
Bathe in warm rather than hot water. Also consider wearing rubber gloves when washing dishes to protect your hands from the hot, soapy water.
Always moisturize after washing your hands, and pat them dry rather than rubbing them on a towel.
 There is a persistent rumor in some sports like baseball that urine therapy, i.e. peeing on your hands, can help to harden the skin and prevent calluses. The idea is championed by former players like Moises Alou and Jorge Posada.Human urine may in fact offer some skin protection. It contains urea, an active ingredient in many hand lotions, and will soften instead of hardening the skin.
Before you experiment with this method, keep in mind that lotion is simply more efficient (and less gross). You’d have to soak your hands in urine for about 15 minutes to get a noticeable effect, for example.As for hygiene, recent studies debunk the idea that urine is sterile and show that it may actually contain bacteria.In short, while urine therapy may have some benefit, you’d be better to stick with more effective and more hygienic hand lotion.
 Soaking your calluses in the bathtub or foot bath in warm water for 20 minutes or so will soften the tissue even further and help you to exfoliate it. The object is to moisten the tissue and prepare the callus, so that you can slough off dead skin cells.


Fill up the tub or a smaller basin with warm water. It shouldn’t be uncomfortably hot, but it should not be tepid either.
Some home remedies suggest adding baking soda, Epsom salt, chamomile tea, or apple cider vinegar to the bath.The medical benefits of these ingredients are not clear, but they will not harm you.
Epsom salts are available at many health stores or pharmacies at low cost. You can buy them in small amounts or in bulk.
 Once you have softened the calluses, you can begin to reduce them by exfoliating the thickened skin. With a pumice stone, nail file, washcloth, or emery board, rub the affected area for several minutes. Be gentle. Do not overdo it.Do not use a pumice stone if you have diabetes. Doing so can increase your risk of infection.Follow up with another application of lotion to moisturize the skin.
Repeat this procedure as necessary. You can do so once or twice per week until the callus is gone., If you get calluses on your feet, consider buying some common foot care products. These are inexpensive and can be purchased at most any pharmacy, and they will keep your skin softer.Feet often get calluses and corns (very like a callus) because they bear a lot of weight and rub against the shoes. Insoles will give your feet added padding.Toe caps and toe sleeves fit over individual toes. The idea is to reduce friction on an individual toe and prevent the formation of calluses there.Both of these products are be bought for a reasonable price, usually between $10–$20.
You can also wear thicker socks, apply petroleum jelly to corns and calluses, or pad them with cotton, lamb’s wool, or mole skin.