 Simply search online for Photo Booth effects and comb through the examples until you find ones you like. Most effects come bundled up, meaning you download 10-20 effects at the same time. You can always delete effects you don't want later, but it is hard to find single effects for download. While there are tons of effects out there, some of the most reputable include:


The ever-popular CatEye suite offers real-time effects while in iChat and static effects for Photo Booth, and works on multiple versions of OS X.
The other popular option, More iChat Effects, adds a whopping 56 new tweaks to your Photo Booth sessions, including scenes and overlays in addition to some nifty distortion effects.;
, Click on the download link to on the website to get your effect. The should load quickly, and will then be found in your "Downloads" folder.


In some cases, the effects will come in a ZIP file. If so, simply right click on the file and choose "Extract ZIP" to get the files.
 This is usually as easy as clicking on the download link (in the upper right corner of the screen) and double-clicking the folder. You'll see all of your new effects, ready to be brought into Finder.


The effects will be .QTZ files. If you can't find them, search for ".QTZ" in finder to reveal the new effects.
 If you are sure the file is a .QTZ file, you will most likely be fine. However, if you have any doubts about the file, you should find another site and download it there instead. Use your computers virus scanner, or get a free one like AVG or Sophos, to check the file before opening it. You can usually do this by right clicking the file in Finder and choosing "Scan for Viruses."


If the website has a ton of pop-ups, odd or unfamiliar addresses (that don't end in .com, for example) or seems at all fishy, you should move on to another site.
 You can use the search bar in the top corner, or click on "System" → "Libraries" → "Compositions."


Make sure Photo Booth is closed before trying this.
 This will tell Photo Booth where to find the effects, allowing you to use them all.Start by doing only a few effects at a time, then checking to make sure that they work.
 The program will automatically find the new effects and put them to use. If Photo Booth crashes, it means that the effect did not download correctly, but there are no major problems. Simply delete the effect that caused the problem and move on to other effects.


This is why it is helpful to only copy over a few effects at a time -- this way you can see which one was causing any problems.
These crashes are not serious. For some reason, due to the age of Photobooth and the process of making custom effects, some effects will not work with certain people's computers.