 As with the majority of fantasy sports, fantasy hockey is presented in several different forms:


In rotisserie fantasy hockey, stat categories award points based on the number of teams in the league (for example, in a 10-team league, categories award points from 1 to 10 depending on where teams rank in that category). If you rank fifth in assists, that would be worth 6 points to your team. The owner with the highest point total at the end of the season is declared the winner.

Points-based is the simplest style of fantasy hockey, awarding different point totals for various achievements (goals, penalty minutes, goalie wins, and others). The team that collects the most points wins.

Head-to-head pits one team owner against another on a weekly basis. Their rosters compete against one another in various statistical categories, with each team earning a “win” for finishing ahead of the opponent in a category. Rather than accumulate points, team owners aim to finish with the best “win-loss record” at season’s end.

Salary-based is a fantasy game in which owners are given a fixed amount of fictional money and must use it to build a team. Each player in the NHL is tagged with a predetermined “salary.” Users are not allowed to exceed the “salary cap.”;
, It is important to establish how much commitment you’re willing to put into playing fantasy hockey before deciding on what kind of league you’re interested in entering:



Single-year leagues are the simplest form of fantasy hockey. You draft a team, make roster moves throughout the season and go for the championship. The following year, you start completely from scratch. This style of league is ideal for anyone looking for something easy to track and requiring the minimum amount of commitment.

Keeper leagues allow fantasy players to keep a maximum number of NHL players on their roster from one season to the next. Some leagues mandate that each team keep the same number of players, while others set a range of players per team. The following year’s draft includes any player not retained.
In dynasty leagues, teams remain the same from year to year, with the only roster changes coming in the form of player adds, player drops and trades. Each year, the annual draft consists exclusively of rookies. This league requires a great deal of attention and commitment.
 While each league varies, most use some variation of 10 categories—six devoted to forwards and defenseman and four geared toward goaltenders:



Goals refer to any instance in which a player directs the puck into the net.

Assists are given to a maximum of 2 players who touch the puck prior to a teammate scoring a goal. Possession must be uninterrupted for an assist to be awarded.

Power play points are rewarded any time a player records a goal or an assist while his team has a man advantage.

Shorthanded points refer to any goals or assists accumulated while a player’s team is short a man.

Penalty minutes are accumulated whenever a player is given an infraction.

Plus-minus is a category that tracks which players are on the ice for goals in even-man situations (5-on-5, 4-on-4, or 3-on-3). A player on the ice when his team scores an even-man goal is given a plus-1, while opposing players are given a minus-1.

Goalie wins are awarded whenever a netminder is on the ice when his team scores the eventual winning goal.

Goals-against average is a stat tracking how many goals the netminder allows per 60 minutes of action.

Save percentage measures a goaltender’s success rate when it comes to stopping the puck; a perfect save percentage is 1.000.

Shutouts refer to any game in which a goaltender does not allow a goal.
 The type of draft you conduct will shape how you conduct your research and ultimately decide on a strategy:



Straight drafts can be conducted either online or in person. In a straight draft, the order is established, and users select NHL players one at a time. The order can either be regular (people own the same pick in every round) or serpentine (straight draft order is used for odd-numbered rounds, while the opposite is used for even-numbered rounds). Players are selected until all teams’ empty slots are filled.

Auto drafts are conducted online, with teams selected automatically rather than by the competing team owners. The drafting program makes selections based either by the site’s player rankings, or by pre-rankings established by the team owner. This type of draft is ideal for those who are unable to agree on a mutual date for a live draft.

Auction drafts do not follow a specific draft order. Instead, a player is offered up for bid by one team owner, and everyone then bids on the player until a final price is established. Teams are limited to predetermined budgets and must fill every spot on their roster without running out of money.

