 The Ericsson Albumin method is a technique used to separate male sperm from female sperm. The method's defenders claim that it has a roughly 75% success rate, though many doctors and researchers question its effectiveness.Nevertheless, the method remains attractive to some expectant parents because of its relative cheapness (at $600-$1200 per attempt) compared to other techniques. If you wish to use this method, your first step is to find and contact a clinic licensed to perform the Ericsson method.


A list of Ericsson-licensed clinics can be found on the website of Gametrics Ltd., a company founded by the method's developer and lead proponent, Dr. Ronald Ericsson. Six clinics in the U.S. are licensed to perform the procedure, as well as five clinics outside the U.S. These five are in Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Colombia, and Egypt.
 The Ericsson method involves the father giving a sperm sample, that sample being processed, and the mother being artificially inseminated in a single appointment. To ensure the best possible chance of pregnancy, the appointment must be made on the day that the mother is scheduled to be ovulating. You will be asked to provide this information when scheduling an appointment.


The Ericsson method takes about four hours to complete, so ensure that both the mother and the father have reserved plenty of free time on the day of ovulation and can attend the appointment together.
 Upon arriving at the clinic on the day of the woman's ovulation, the man gives a sperm sample. This sperm is used to inseminate the mother. Generally, a man's sperm count is highest after 2-5 days without ejaculation,so you may be asked by the clinic to abstain from any sexual activity for about 48 hours before your appointment.
 Once the father provides his sperm sample, the sperm is placed in a vial of a type of protein called albumin. Sperm can swim through albumin, but the Ericsson method assumes that male sperm, which are smaller, weaker, and faster than female sperm, can pass through the albumin quicker. This means that, after waiting for the sperm to swim from the top of the vial to the bottom of the vial, the sperm near the bottom will (supposedly) be mostly male, while the sperm near the top will be mostly female.


However, the effectiveness of this process has been called into question many times.Some studies have found that albumin produces no noticeable separation of male and female sperm. Other studies (whose results have sometimes been called into question) purport about a 75% success rate., To try for a male child, staff at the clinic will take a sample of sperm from the bottom of the vial of albumin and artificially inseminate the mother with this sperm. At this, point, hopefully, the woman conceives. As with normal sexual intercourse, however, pregnancy is not guaranteed from a single exposure to sperm.


There are several different methods of artificial insemination in use, but the most common is Intra Uterine Insemination (IUI). In this method, sperm are injected via a catheter directly into the uterus.
 Just like it can be difficult for a woman to achieve pregnancy through ordinary sex, it can also be difficult for a woman to become pregnant from artificial insemination. Though the chances of pregnancy naturally vary with a woman's age and health, in general, most sources rate the success rate of Intra Uterine Insemination at about 5-20% per cycle.Because of this, it is a very real possibility that multiple attempts may be needed to achieve pregnancy.


Note that the use of fertility medications can increase the chance of pregnancy.
Though the Ericsson method is generally cheaper than many other fertility-related procedures at $600-$1200 per attempt,the fact that success is not guaranteed from a few attempts means that the total cost may be significantly higher. Be aware of this before scheduling this treatment.
 Before pursing the Ericsson method as a way to improve your chances of conceiving a boy, it's important to make sure that you have reasonable expectations to avoid serious disappointment. As discussed above, the process can take multiple attempts to produce a pregnancy. In addition, the actual effectiveness of this method is a subject of debate — many researchers question its ability to reliably produce children of the desired sex. Finally, even when taking the most charitable attitude towards the Ericsson method possible, it's worth noting that even the method's supporters acknowledge that it won't work all of the time. Generally, proponents of the method suggest about a 75% success rate.


It's also important to know that some clinics offering the Ericsson method have been found to have made deceptive claims regarding the method's effectiveness, although this is not necessarily true at all locations.