 No one can live without stress but the key is to live comfortably with stress without letting it overwhelm you.


If you don’t sweat the small stuff, practice mindfulness, and stay healthy, you will be stronger to deal with hard days.
 Look at what you can improve. People who respond positively to constructive feedback tend to learn, grow, and be more successful.Practice asking for constructive feedback from friends or trusted coworkers. Provide them with an aspect of your life that you feel safe using as a topic, and ask them to constructively critique you, so that you can become accustomed to receiving and using feedback to your advantage.
For example, have a colleague look over a spreadsheet you create at work and ask for input on how to improve it to make your work more efficient. Or, cook your favorite dish for a trusted friend and ask for his thoughts on your presentation and plating.
 Be sure to not make excuses for your life situation. Instead, adapt, be confident and stop making excuses.


Develop your problem solving abilities. Write out what is bothering you, brainstorm how many different ways you can approach the problem, assess the pros and cons of each approach, implement an approach, and evaluate the outcome.
 Take away useful lessons from negative events and situations without becoming fixated on the problems. Disregard any unhelpful additional information.For example, if you arrived late for work one morning and your boss made a sarcastic comment, focus on the concrete aspects you can work on, such as punctuality, and ignore any hot-headed remarks.
 Being mindful is being aware of the present moment and it distances you from the immediacy of your emotions. To practice mindfulness is to more fully appreciate the present and reduce feelings of pain and past hurts.


An excellent way to practice becoming mindful is to sit quietly with a raisin in the palm of your hand. Feel the raisin’s weight. Roll it between your fingers and feel the texture and ridges. Smell the raisin. By focusing on the raisin, you are becoming truly mindful in the present. Apply this practice to everything you approach in life. If you don’t have a raisin, focus on your surroundings, your breath, and you physical sensations.
 Shift your perspective to being more open to possibilities and reduce automatic negative thoughts.If you can shift your perspective and view things at face value, you may realize that someone who missed a coffee date may not be trying to hurt your feelings but maybe had an unexpected emergency arise and forgot to phone you.
 Studies have shown that the key factor to happiness is gratitude, or being thankful. Gratitude increases resilience and improves your immunity so you’ll feel much stronger to deal with life’s curveballs.Keep a gratitude journal. Every night before bed, write down three things for which you are thankful. Review this list whenever life feels hard., Examine whether that grudge or sadness is serving a positive function in your present life. If it is not, let go of the past and live more purposefully in the present.List the reasons you might be angry at yourself, then read the list as if you are observer and let the feelings come and go. Be kind to yourself.Develop empathy for others. If you are feeling hurt by something someone else says or does, try to put yourself in that person's shoes. It can be difficult to empathize with someone who's just hurt your feelings, but considering his point of view and what he might be going through can be a calming, reasonable exercise., Even young children can learn how to deal with the tough times in life. Give them problem-solving opportunities. Teach them that mistakes are normal and are opportunities to learn.Teach your children empathy. Increased empathy toward others decreases negative automatic thoughts and increases resilience.