 Use a small saucepan, and dump the butter and water in together. Turn on the heat, stirring until bubbles start to rise to the surface but the mixture isn't boiling.


This recipe uses a ratio of 1 oz. of marijuana to 1 lb. of butter. Adjust accordingly if you have less weed.
If you have a candy thermometer, this moment is at roughly 190°F, Take your pre-ground cannabis and mix it in thoroughly, lowering the heat a few notches to low. The key to great cannabutter is "slow and steady," which will release the essential oils and compounds without denaturing them.
 Depending on your desired strength of the butter, you can leave it in for longer or shorter. If you leave it in for closer to 5 hours you'll get the strongest butter, but you'll have to be diligent about adding more warm water occasionally if it starts to evaporate out.









Three hours is the most common cooking time, but two hours will be enough for usable butter, too.
If you know you want to cook the butter for 4-5 hours, add the extra water in advance, roughly 1-2 cups total instead of a 1/4 cup of water.
 Use the bowl you plan to store the butter in when finished. The strainer and cheesecloth together will get rid of any useless chunks of plant matter left in the butter when it is done cooking.
 Pour slowly, and don't wait for the butter to cool off. Use the back of a wooden spoon or spatula to press excess butter out of the solids remaining.









Feeling extra fancy? You can also use a French press to simply strain and mash your buttery liquid.
 Make sure you get every last drop out of the cheesecloth to avoid wasting any weed. When done, you can throw the cheesecloth and remaining solids out.
 As the butter cools, the water will separate from the butter. Simply pour or scrape this off and then return the butter to the fridge.
 You can spread cannabutter on toast or use it to make your classic chocolate chip cookies. It will keep in the refrigerator just as long as normal butter, and can be substituted into just about any recipe.

