 You choose pretty much whatever you like to make the heating pad, but you will want to use a cotton fabric, such as a T-shirt or a pillowcase. Cotton is able to withstand high heats so this is the best choice for your fabric. Ask yourself if what you have chosen would handle being ironed a high heat as a basic guide to it's suitability.Make sure nobody is going to miss whatever you decide to use.
 In theory you could make your heating pad in whatever size or shape you like, providing it will fit in the microwave when you're done. The obvious shape to use would be a rectangle, but the same basic methods apply to whichever shape you opt for. Cut two pieces of fabric to your desired shape that are the same size.








If you using a rectangle something like a book can be a handy template.
You can use a plate for a circular one.
You can also use a sleeve from an old shirt., Once you have your two equal size and shape pieces of fabric you need to pin them together in preparation for sewing. You should have the side of the fabric you want to be displayed on the finished article facing inward now. When you sew it together it will be inside out.








Doing it this way means that the stitching will be more hidden and neater.
 Now you need to sew the two pieces of fabric together. You can do this either on a machine or by hand, whichever is best for you. Sew along the sides, but be sure to leave a gap of an inch or two on one side. You will need this to turn it the right way out, and to add the rice.








Push the fabric through this gap to turn it the right way out.
This might be a bit tricky, so be fairly careful, especially if your sewing isn't the best and could come loose.
 Now pour in the rice so it is around three quarters full. You might find it helpful to use a funnel to get the rice in, especially if the hole is small. Go ahead and sew shut the gap you left. Now your pad is full of rice it could be tricky to manoeuvre with a sewing machine, so you might find it easier to sew this bit by hand.







