 This is a special Poke Ball that sets the base Friendship stat for the Pokémon caught in it to 200, instead of the usual 70. Since Pichu evolves at 220 Friendship, you don't have much to do to get it to that level if you capture the Pichu in a Friend Ball.


You can get Friend Balls from Kurt in Azalea Town if you bring him Green Apricorns.;
, You'll gain 1 Friendship point for every 512 steps that you walk in game. This is one of the easier ways to passively earn Friendship.
 You can find the Haircut Brothers in Goldenrod Tunnel. The younger brother gives the biggest boost; up to 10 Friendship per haircut. You can only get a haircut once every 24 hours.
 You can find Daisy Oak at Pallet Town between 3 and 4 PM. Getting Pichu groomed by Daisy will gain 3 Friendship.
 There are several items in the game that are considered "Vitamins". Every time you give Pichu one of these, you'll gain between 3 to 5 Friendship:


HP Up
Protein
Iron
Calcium
Carbos
PP Up
Rare Candy

, Pichu will gain Friendship every time it levels up. if Pichu has less than 100 Friendship, it will gain 5 per level. If it has between 100 and 200, it will gain 3. Above 200, you'll gain 2 Friendship per level.
 Challenging a Gym Leader or Elite Four member while Pichu is in your party will give it a small boost of 1-3 Friendship.
 If Pichu faints during battle, you'll lose 1 Friendship. Make sure to switch Pichu out if it looks like it's going to faint. Don't use healing items, though (more on that in the next step).
 If Pichu's health is low, try not to give it any healing items, including Energy Powder (-5 Friendship), Heal Powder (-5 Friendship), Energy Root (-10 Friendship), or Revival Herb (-15 Friendship).


Do all of your healing and reviving at a Pokémon Center, which will not affect your Friendship.
 You won't be able to find a number for Pichu's Friendship. Make sure Pichu is the first Pokémon in your party. You can find the Friendship checker lady in the house to the east of the Goldenrod City Department Store. She'll say a different phrase depending on Pichu's Friendship level:50 - 99: "You should treat it better. It's not used to you."
100 - 149: "It's quite cute."
150 - 199: "It's friendly toward you. Sort of happy."
200 - 249: "I get the feeling it really trusts you."
250 - 255: "It looks really happy! It must love you a lot."

, Pichu's Friendship must be at 220 or higher in order to evolve. The Friendship checker will not tell you exactly when you hit 220, so you'll have to do a bit of guesswork. You can level Pichu up by battling or by giving it a Rare Candy.


If Pichu doesn't evolve, it's Friendship is not 220. Remember, the Friendship checker says the same phrase from 200 - 249, so you'll have to do a little bit of estimating as to your actual Friendship level.

