 Head lice are unwanted and unpleasant, but they’re easy to get rid of. Have somebody check your head for bugs or their eggs—called nits—attached near the base of the hair shaft. The itching that people feel when infested with lice is due to your skin reacting to the saliva of the lice.To get rid of lice, use a medicated shampoo as directed, and wash all bedding and clothes you’ve worn.
Have any non-washable items dry-cleaned (including plush toys).
Vacuum carpets and upholstered furniture.
Soak hair-care products (combs, brushes, scrunchies, barrettes, etc.) in rubbing alcohol or medicated shampoo for an hour.
 In the summer, especially the first bright days of summer, it’s easy to get sunburned on your scalp. As your sunburned skin begins to heal, it will often start to feel itchy. Use an aloe vera shampoo or conditioner to alleviate the itching.If you know you’re going to be in the sun for over an hour, wear a hat or apply a layer of sunscreen to your scalp.
 If you wear your hair long, don’t put it up while it’s still wet. Let your hair fully dry out before putting it up—otherwise, having wet hair pressed against your scalp all day will cause the skin to itch.Similarly, you may need to dry your hair and scalp after having been out in the sun for hours. If you’re in the sun long enough to start sweating on your scalp, the excess sweat production can also cause your scalp to itch.
 Psoriasis is a chronic condition in which skin cells grow at an unnatural rate and become red, raised patches. The buildup of extra skin cells can cause itching and discomfort. Psoriasis can typically be treated with a topical ointment or medicated shampoo. Look for a medicated shampoo that contains salicylic acid, which removes excess skin cells from your scalp.If you can’t find a medicated shampoo with salicylic acid over the counter, as your doctor to write you a prescription.
 If itching continues unabated, it could be a sign of a more serious medical skin condition including: shingles, fungal infections like Tinea Amiantacea or Lichen Planopilaris, dermatitis, and ringworm. Nearly all of these conditions will be accompanied by a flaky or oozing scalp or visible rash.In any of these cases, your doctor will be able to prescribe a medicated cream, a topical ointment, or an oral pill to fix your skin condition.

