 This is similar to “cashing in” in poker or craps. At the end of each round, a player will put an agreed-upon portion of that money into the pot each time he or she loses.
 Each player rolls one die; whoever rolls highest starts, with play passing to the left. The player who rolls lowest pays into the pot.


Having a table or surface with a backstop to roll the dice against and keep them from rolling off the table is recommended.
 The lead player for the round determines how many times the other players may roll by the number of times he or she rolls the dice. The other players may roll fewer times than the lead player, but not more times. The results are ranked, high to low, according to the following system:


A roll of 2 – 1, read as “21.” (The higher face value is read as the tens digit of a two-digit number and the lower face value as the ones digit.) This is called “Mexico,” from which the game takes its name.
A roll of doubles, ranked downward from 6-6, or “66,” to 1-1, or “11.”
Another mixed roll, ranked first by the higher face value, or tens digit, and then by the lower face value, or ones digit. Thus, 3-1, or “31,” is the lowest possible roll.
Roll values are not cumulative; if a player rolls 34 on the first roll and 31 on the second, they are not added to make 65.
If the lead roller rolls Mexico in any of his or her allotted rolls, the dice immediately pass to the next player, who may make up to three rolls (and so determine how many rolls subsequent players may make if he or she chooses not to make all three). If that player rolls Mexico, the next player gets the dice to make up to three rolls, and so on.
The leader’s roll of Mexico also doubles the stakes for the losing player. Players should decide before starting play if additional rolls of Mexico during a round further increase the stakes and by what method. However, if any player other than the lead player for a round rolls the first 2 – 1 combination, it is not treated as Mexico and the stakes are not increased.
If two or more players tie for lowest score after everyone has played, they play a round of Mexico among themselves to determine who is the loser.
 If the loser loses his or her stake on paying into the pot, that player is eliminated from the game.
 Play continues as before, with the person with the lowest roll paying into the pot and eliminated if his or her stake is wiped out. The last player remaining with stake money wins the pot.