 You should transport your bags of pebbles to the garden spot first, so you know how many bags you will need for the task. Place the bags next to the spot where they will go, so you have a good idea of how many bags you will need.


Open the bags and fill out the pebble path with loose pebbles. Cut the pebble bags and shake them out onto the garden path.
If you are creating pebble mosaic, you'll likely want to be cautious when moving the pebbles onto the garden space at first.
 After they are spilled out into the space, carefully move to cover the space. You should not be able to see the weed mat underneath, so layer the pebbles if necessary.Use a rake or similar garden tool to spread the pebbles. Try not to damage the pebbles when spreading them.
Your pebbles should totally cover the area. It's better to have too many pebbles than too little, since that will make your pebble garden look untidy.
 Spread them evenly around larger areas. Try to balance out the level of the pebble garden as much as possible. You can probably eyeball the level, but try to get down to the ground level to check it out.


Be careful not to damage any plants of flowers in pebble gardens. They should still be able to get plenty of water and sunlight as well.
Level out the pebbles as much as possible. You can try to eyeball it, but it may also be useful to use a gardening tool to smooth them out, even around plants and flowers.
 Depending on your pebble pattern, it may be necessary to cement the pebbles down. In areas where people will be walking over the pebbles often, you may want to use cement to guarantee they don't become dislodged from the path.Mix a 4:1 ratio from cement to sand when you're preparing the cement mixture. Ideally, the texture should resemble bread crumbs.
Pour the cement onto the path. Fill in pebbles into the path way. Don't use too much cement, since this will overwhelm your pebble path. Ideally, try to calculate the amount of cement needed and the amount of pebbles needed. In general, one 80 pound bag of cement will fill in a 4-inch thick slab of 2 square feet., The pebbles should give the garden a clean, decorative appearance. A pebble garden can make a garden look well decorated and take your breath away.


Ideally, the colors should be pleasing to your eye and fit in well with your plants and flowers.
Keep in mind the sharp lines and angles in designing the pebble garden. This will help you have a balance in your pebble garden.
 Buying extra bags of pebbles are useful now, since you will not have to head back to the store to get more pebbles.


Add pebbles to any low spots. Uniformity makes a pebble garden look at its best.
Check on your pebble garden on a regular basis. Keep up with how it looks on a regular basis, in case you need to fix anything or add additional pebbles.

