 The oldest tried and true method of softening jeans is simply wearing them and letting the fibers stretch and soften. When you first buy jeans, wear them every day or at least as often as you can. They’ll soften up faster if you wear them for a week straight than if you wear them once a week., While the jeans will soften with normal wear, biking achieves an exaggerated effect. The constant bending and stretching motion that riding a bike requires puts extra stress on the jeans, breaking them in faster.Spend a half hour or more riding in your new jeans to jump start their softening.
 Put the jeans on and stretch one of your legs out in front of you as far as you can. Then lower your other knee to the ground. Stand back up and do the same thing with the opposite leg. Repeat this process at least a handful of times to break the jeans in quickly., Washing denim tends to tighten up the fibers that you’ve stretched out with wear. For occasions when you don’t get the jeans filthy, washing them every 5-10 times of wearing them is sufficient. You’ll have to judge for yourself if they are actually dirty and ready to be washed., Check the tag of your jeans to confirm this, but most jeans are supposed to be washed inside out. Since washing distresses the color and look of the jeans, turning them inside out reduces this a bit.
 Although denim isn’t going to shrink all that much, it’s still best to wash new jeans with cold water. Set the washer on a small load cycle and turn the agitation to high if you have the option. Let the basin fill before you put the jeans in it.For front-load washing machines, you won't have the option to fill the machine first. If you have a front-load washer, add the jeans as you normally would.
 Choose whichever softener you prefer. Measure out ½ to 1 capful of the fabric softener and pour it into the water. Swirl the water around with your hand or a hanger so the softener mixes into the water.








Don’t add any detergent the first time washing the jeans. Only add fabric softener.
For front-load washers, you may have to put the softener in the detergent compartment so it adds to the water during the wash cycle.
 Put the jeans into the washing machine and press them down under the water. Hold them there long enough that they soak up the water. You want to make sure they soak up the water rather than sit on the top of it. Close the lid and start the washer., If the jeans are especially stiff, stop the machine after it finishes the wash cycle and before the water drains. Add a bit more softener and start the wash cycle over again. It’s okay to do this three or four times for extra-stiff, new jeans., If the jeans aren't super stiff, let the washing machine run as normal the first time through. Also, if you run the wash cycle with softener additional times, let the machine run through the whole cycle (including rinse and spin) on the last time., Pull the jeans from the washer and leave them inside out. Also make sure the zipper is up and the jeans are buttoned., High heat puts extra and unnecessary stress on the material of the jeans, so stick to the low setting. Permanent press or delicate are both good options. It’s best to dry only a few pairs of jeans at a time or they will take a lot longer to dry., Dryer balls are rubber or wool balls that beat against the jeans during the dry cycle. They loosen the fibers of the jeans, which provides extra softening. Dryer balls are especially helpful with stiff fabrics like denim.Look for dryer balls in the laundry sector of the grocery or big-box store. Dollar stores may even have a cheap version.
Tennis balls are a cheap alternative which accomplish the same effect.
 Pull the jeans out of the dryer and roll them up while they are still hot. Fold the legs on top of each other. Then start rolling from the bottom of the pants until you get to the top. Leave them rolled up at least until they cool off from drying.








