 It’s very important that your child or teenager understands what your expectations are as well as why you are asking her to do it. Also, asking children to give input about why it’s important to follow directions is important so that they feel included. Here are some things that you could say:“Vanessa, I think that it’s important to follow directions so that everyone can stay safe. Why do you think it’s important to follow directions?” You could also ask older children and teens, "Why do you think it's important for you to do this?"
“When I ask you to do something I want you to look at me.”
“Then I want you to say "Okay" so that I know that you heard me.”
“Start immediately and finish the task that I asked you to do.”
Keep in mind that the instructions may be modified based upon the age of the child or teen. For example, you might want to also practice conflict resolution with older children and teens. You could add:

"If you do not agree with me or would like to negotiate then you should say, "Okay" so that I know that you heard me."
"Then you should say in a calm speaking voice, "Mom, I have a suggestion. Can you hear me out?"



, Switch roles with the child so that you are acting as the child and she is the mother or father. Say “Give me something to do” and then allow her to give you directions to follow. Model the desired behavior for your child by looking at her, saying okay, and immediately beginning and completing the task.If you are practicing with an older child or teen be sure to model appropriate negotiation.


There can be limits on this the demonstration. For example, the child may say “Go clean my room,” which of course you would not do. You could say to her, “Cleaning your room is not my responsibility. Let’s try practicing with a different set of instructions. We could try things like putting the glass in the sink or putting away the cell phone.”
The demonstrations should be age appropriate. What you demonstrate with your preschooler will be different from what you demonstrate with a Freshman in high school.
 After you have demonstrated the desired response for your child, it’s time for her to practice. Look at your child and say, “It’s your turn. Please bring me the remote control from the coffee table.” Or you could say to an older child, "Okay. Let's practice. Please put away your cell phone for the rest of the night." Then let your child practice following those directions.


You can use role play for children and teens of all ages. In fact, role play is often used with adults to teach new behavior. It is a very effective way to teach children and teens a new skill.
It takes practice to master a new skill. If she doesn’t get it right immediately, use gentle reminders and correction to reinforce the behavior. Eventually she will remember on her own. A good reminder might be to say, “Remember, you’re supposed to look at me and say "okay" so that I know that you heard me.”You could also ask an older child, "What can you say when you want to negotiate?"

, When it is time to actually put the skills to use, be sure to praise your child when she responds appropriately to what you asked her to doAlso be sure to praise older children when they disagree in an appropriate manner. You could say things like, “God job Vanessa for clearing the table” or “Thank you for sharing your ideas and frustrations in a calm tone.” Continue to use gentle reminders as your child masters these skills.
 Your child may try to test the new boundaries that are being implemented. Be sure that you allow your child the opportunity to ask questions if she does not understand a task and to present alternative options if she wants to negotiate; however, be sure to avoid getting into unnecessary arguments. If your decision stands and she becomes argumentative, you could say something like, “I would be glad to discuss this with you, Vanessa, after your room is clean.”

