 Combat homesickness when you travel by bringing pictures of friends, pets, and loved ones in your luggage. If you start to feel lonely or homesick, just take a moment to look at the pictures you brought. Remember how much your family and friends mean to you and think about how happy you will be to see each other when you return.Make copies of your favorite photographs and take them with you. This way you won't lose the original copies if your luggage gets lost or stolen.;
, Furnishing the place you're staying when you travel with things you like to have around you at home will make it seem a little less foreign. Pack a favorite blanket, comfortable slippers, or even your daily coffee cup to take a little piece of home with you.Even if you plan on packing light, consider bringing some small comfort items that will make your travel experience more comfortable, and remind you of home at the same time.
 Sometimes having a tangible thing to touch and feel can be very reassuring when you’re lonely or homesick. Take this item out and hold it or wear it whenever you start to feel homesick. The texture, the smell – all of the physical attributes of the thing – will remind you of home and, hopefully, begin to make you feel a little less homesick.Take a small stuffed animal, or a favorite t-shirt that reminds you of a good experience. Or maybe you should bring your lucky keychain or a favorite bracelet. Maybe it’s your favorite pillow to sleep with at night.
 Keeping up certain routines while you’re away can often help alleviate feelings of homesickness. This can make you feel like you brought a piece of home with you.

This includes things like exercising daily, listening to music, taking a yoga class, keeping up with a book club at home, writing in your journal, or taking a morning stroll.
 Cheer yourself up by buying souvenirs and gifts for the people you miss. Looking for the perfect gift will help occupy your free time and, when you find something that reminds you of them, you can anticipate seeing them again.Try to buy thoughtful gifts that show your loved ones you were thinking of them while you were gone. Spending time to find a thoughtful present is a great way to alleviate homesickness.
But remember to stay within your budget. Your loved ones wouldn’t want you overspending on your trip because you bought too many expensive gifts.
 Hearing the voices of loved ones will make them seem less far away. Take time to call home and tell the ones you miss that you love them. Staying in contact will help you feel less homesick while you’re traveling.In today’s technologically advanced world, keeping in touch is easier than ever. You can call or text your loved ones, or you can video message with them using apps like Skype or FaceTime. You can also send international texts through online messaging apps like WhatsApp or Viber.
 Do some of the things you like to do at home while you are traveling in a new location. Find a good bookstore to browse if you miss your favorite one or find a local eatery that makes a great burger that resembles burgers you get at home.Experiencing new things is one of the most exciting parts of traveling. But if you mix in a few reminders of home as well, this can help you enjoy the experience more overall.
 One of the best ways to acclimate to a new location is to go exploring. Familiarize yourself with your new surroundings so that it doesn’t seem so foreign. This will help you feel more at home while you’re traveling.

Try taking a walk each day to a new part of town. Even if you stay in your own neighborhood, this can still be a very grounding exercise.
 Document your travels by taking a lot of pictures. You’ll want to remember your time away once you return home, and photos are great mementos for you to bring home with you.

Additionally, you can post the photos on your social media accounts to stay connected to friends and family at home while you are traveling.
 Create some semblance of a routine for yourself to avoid homesickness if you're staying somewhere for a long period. Activities such as going to the same coffee shop every morning will give you a sense of familiarity with your surroundings that will comfort you.People will begin to recognize you if you start frequenting the same places. Once starts to happen, you will feel more of a sense of community with the new location, like you belong.
 Talking with other people from your native country or home state will make you feel a little less out of place when you travel. Seek out a pub or bar that televises your favorite sport and enjoy some camaraderie with some new friends to forget that you're far from home.Spending time with other travelers will help you feel less lonely and give you an outlet to vent about any problems you may encounter or homesickness you might be feeling.
 Splurge on a fancy restaurant meal, an exotic new coat, or a pair of boots when you travel. You'll feel good about yourself and will appreciate the area where you're traveling more by enjoying some of the nicer things the region has to offer.This can help you focus more on creating a positive experience for yourself, rather than focusing on how much you miss home.
 Create a list of all of the things you want to do, see, or experience while you are traveling. Make an effort to do each thing and then cross them off as you work your way through the list. This will give you something to focus on and create goals for you to achieve while you’re away from home.

Include things like restaurants you want to eat at, local tourist sites you want to visit, various local cuisines you want to try, or any other local experience you can’t get at home.

