 Never go in through an email link or via another website to reach it because it could be a trap to get your account name and password.
 This is an indication that the site is authenticated and encrypted, protected by means of Transport Layer Security (TLS)., Less than benign uses are being made of software all the time:


Consider whether any software you're downloading that can access your social media profile is legit. Many people use programs which will "add friends" for you, or update your status automatically in some way. If the software isn't benign, these can bog down your computer speed and at worst, can share all of your private information back to the originators of the software.
Scare ware - programs that say they are checking your computer for viruses but actually return a false infected return, leading to the victim being persuaded to hand over credit card information to have the computer "cleaned".While you won't usually find such "Warnings!" on social media sites themselves, you may if you click on a bad link (such as if your friend's account got hijacked by a virus or spammer, and is putting out updates with suspicious links).
 Don't base passwords on personal information that can be easily accessed or guessed, don't use words that can be found in any dictionary of any language, develop a mnemonic for remembering complex passwords, use both lowercase and capital letters, use a combination of letters, numbers, and special characters, use pass phrases when you can, and use different passwords on different systems.Don't confuse being well-known online with being protected. If anything, the more you're known, the more you're exposed.
 This user-friendliness increases the ways that people can find out more about you and that is not always a good thing. Think before:


Posting photos that identify you, your family members and where you live.
Posting photos of the state of your desk. It could be that the bank account number you just keyed in is still obviously scrawled on a note pad square in the middle of the photo!
Telling people what you're about to do if it involves leaving the house.
Adding your child's name to any pictures.
 Don't just assume that they will do it, but know that they will and how it is done. This means reading their terms and conditions and the "frequently asked questions". If you still don't know, send their help team a question, or leave your questions on the forums or other communication channels for general answers.


Hide your personal information from others. Did you know that the things social networking sites ask for (age, date of birth, email address, phone number, mother's maiden name), are all that a hacker needs to impersonate you or to impersonate being someone that you know to get information from you?Don't ever give personal information to someone you've just met online. They could be up to no good and you have no way of knowing.
 To do so opens you up to the possibility of an identity thief getting as much information about you as possible. Be discerning and do some background research first. If you do want to have a lot of friends (such as is commonplace on sites like Twitter and Facebook), be very careful if any of the ones who are not well known to you start asking lots of personal questions or even want to "meet you" for real. Trust your instincts.

