 When you want clumpy lashes, it’s important to start with the right mascara formula. Opt for a thick, wet mascara because it makes it easier for the lashes to stick together.Mascaras that are advertised as having a volumizing or thickening formula tend to be thicker and wetter than lengthening formulas.
Mascara tends to dry out as you use it because air gets inside the tube. When you want a clumpy lash look, you’re better off working with a new mascara that’s only been only for a month or so.;
, Instead of a traditional brush that features bristles that are all the same length and positioned at the same angle, use a mascara brush with both short and long bristles and a combination of straight and slanted bristles. That will ensure that the mascara coats every lash for maximum clumping.Some mascaras also feature brush heads that are slightly curved to make it easier to get mascara on every lash.
You can also find mascaras with spikes at the edge of the brush that allow you to get mascara even on shorter lashes or any lashes that you may have missed.
 Black is the classic mascara option, but some people like to use black brown or brown mascaras for a more natural look. When you want clumpy eyelashes, though, use the blackest mascara that you can find to make sure that the spider-y look of your lashes really stands out., To ensure that your clumpy lashes stand out, you need to choose the right eyeshadow shades to pair with it. Choose a light lid shade so that your clumpy lashes will stand out against it.Depending on your skintone, ivory, cream, beige, tan, and peach can all work. Even a light pink or lilac can work.
If you really want your clumpy lashes to make a statement, consider skipping eyeshadow completely. When mascara is the only eye makeup that you’re wearing, your lashes are usually the first thing that people will notice.
 When you go for a clumpy lash look, it can create gaps at your lashline that look strange if you don’t fill them in. To avoid any gaps, apply a black, waterproof liner in a thin line to help thicken up the look of your lashes.You can use your favorite eyeliner formula, such as a pencil, liquid, or gel. Liquid liner tends to offer the most precision, though.
Be sure to apply your eyeliner before your mascara. It can be difficult to get it right at the lashline if your lashes are already clumped together.
 A lash primer isn’t necessary for everyday wear, but when you want clumpy lashes, it coats them so they appear thicker when you apply your mascara over it. Choose a conditioning lash primer and apply one coat of it before you put on your mascara.Some mascaras come in double-ended tubes with the mascara on one side and a primer on the other, which makes it easier to find your primer when you need it.
 When you apply your first coat of mascara, hold the brush horizontally as you normally would. Comb through your lashes starting at the base and ending at the tips to ensure that you cover all of them.There’s no need to wipe off your mascara brush as you might normally to do to avoid clumps. Applying more product than usual actually helps the clumpy lash look.
 When you go in for your second coat, continue to hold the brush horizontally. Start at the base of your lashes again, but this time, wiggle the brush back and forth at the roots so you can be sure that your lashes aren’t just clumpy at the ends.Make sure to dip the mascara brush back into the tube before your second coat so there’s plenty of mascara on the bristles.
 When you go in for the third coat of mascara, turn the brush so you’re holding it vertically. Use the brush to push the mascara onto the ends of your lashes and form noticeable clumps.Dip the brush back into the mascara before your third coat too, so you have enough product to clump your lashes together.
 After three coats, check to see if you’re happy with how clumpy your lashes are. If you’re not, apply a fourth coat, holding the wand vertically as you did for the third coat. Focus on the ends of your lashes to maximize clumpiness.