 The only way to effectively handle your fiancé’s anxiety level is to understand the source of the tension and meet it head-on. Perhaps your partner is freaking out about specific details surrounding your big day; maybe he/she is having doubts about marriage, period.No matter the problem: confront it with honesty and empathy. You must acknowledge these feelings in order to move forward.;
, Only address the issue when both of you have privacy, no obligations, and at least an hour of free time. Provide a safe place for your fiancé to talk about his or her fears. When the time feels right, invite your fiance to confide in you.


It might take some time to get to the root of the issue. Your fiancé may not yet know how to put these feelings into words. He or she may need a safe space to explore these feelings with you.
The time will not always feel right. If the wedding is drawing near, you can't always wait for a good moment. Better to bring it up at the wrong time than to let the wedding happen without ever resolving the problem.
 It is not always easy to hear that someone you love is unsure about getting married, or even unsure whether you are the right person for them. You may have to work hard to uproot your partner's true emotions: he or she may not yet have confronted these feelings, and may not be able to express the origin of the tension. Be patient and kind. It is essential to the future of your relationship that you get to the root of this.If your fiancé is nervous because of he or she is unsure in your relationship, think about whether it makes sense to back off from the wedding and re-focus on the relationship.Consider talking to a third party to seek out the source of the anxiety. This person could be a trusted counselor from your community or place of worship; it could also be a professional relationship counselor.
 Don't just write off your fiancé's feelings – try to truly understand them. Search for common ground. There is a good chance that you yourself are at least a little nervous about the big day! Indeed, it is natural to be nervous before a wedding.You do not need to give in to your fears, but they may help you better understand why your fiancé is so nervous.


Even if you are sure in your emotional commitment to your partner, you might be anxious about various details: guests, band, venue, everything going smoothly.
You might even have your own doubts about when and whether to have the wedding. Consider whether this is something that you truly want.
 Notice which words and situations make him or her act especially nervous, and try to mitigate those things. Pick up on both verbal and non-verbal cues. He/she may be biting nails, picking up nervous tics, or freaking out about things that never seemed to be an issue before. Look for any new ways that anxiety might be manifesting., Meet your fiancé’s concerns with understanding and patience. You may be angry that he or she is nervous, and you may feel insecure about the situation. This is completely normal. Resist the urge, however, to tell your partner to “snap out of it.” This is the person with whom you plan to spend the rest of your life – so be open and understanding with regard to any of your finance’s concerns.


You may not understand why someone would get nervous about whether the wedding theme colors match or whether Aunt Janet is going to get loaded. However, this doesn't mean that you should wave away your partner's worries.
 Remember that while your fiancé's fears may impact your own life, they are not your fears. They do not need to reflect upon you, and they are not necessarily your fault. People get nervous for many reasons, and the prospect of such a huge life decision is enough to make anyone feel a bit anxious. Your fiancé may well still love you and want to be with you, even if he or she is wary about the wedding itself.


Don't ignore the problem, but do find ways to clear your head. Get out of the house for a long walk outdoors. Watch an exciting new movie, or attend an interesting lecture, or go out drinking with your friends. Meditate.Remind yourself that there is only so much that you can control. You cannot force your fiancé's fears away, but you can rise to meet the problem with grace. If your partner is unstable in your relationship, then you will need to be a stable force – both for yourself and for the relationship.
 Don’t try to talk your partner out of his or her doubts, especially if he/she is pushing you to cancel or reschedule the wedding. Be patient and caring, and do not push. Putting undue pressure onto your partner might make the situation even worse!It can be a huge mistake to talk your fiancé out of postponing or canceling a wedding. Remember: if he/she wants to back out now, there is a reason for it. This might come up again in a week, in a year, or even ten years down the road.
 Think of this as an early test for your prospective marriage. How you handle it will matter now, for the foreseeable future, and beyond. Do not expect to easily change your fiancé's feelings – certainly not without a deep mutual understanding of their true causes, nor without deep self-reflection. If you naturally tend to alternate between a concern for your feelings and your fiancé's, then you are off to a good start. If you are mostly concerned with the impact of your fiancé's feelings on your own, this does not bode well for the prospects of your marriage.
 Look for a wedding planner/coordinator to relieve some of the burden that planning a wedding can bring. Contrary to popular belief, wedding planners are not reserved for only the rich and famous. Some consultants are reasonably priced, and they may be well worth this price if their work prevents your fiancé from having a mental breakdown. Bear in mind that watching someone else plan the wedding might make some fiancés feel even more anxious!Some venues actually include wedding coordination in the booking price. Ask your venue if this is an option, or consider finding another venue where it is an option.
Consider getting more involved in planning the wedding and reception. If your honey is simply overwhelmed with the details, but you’ve done nothing, it may be time to step up your game. Offer to take over some of the “to do” items on his/her list.
 Your fiancé may be having trouble dealing with the relationship, or with events that have occurred in the relationship. If this is the case, consider reaching out to a professional for assistance. There are relationship counselors that specialize in handling this sort of intense emotional conflict. A neutral third party might be able to help your partner come to terms with his/her nervousness and help both of you cope with the stress.
 Your fiancé is presumably worrying about the wedding, whether he/she is obsessing over the details or feeling anxious about the whole thing. If you can't talk through the anxiety, consider whether there is a way to change your wedding plans and preserve your relationship. If your partner has opened up to you about why he/she is nervous, then you're already on the same page – so try to work in harmony to find a solution that works for both of you.Practice getting married. Hold a dress rehearsal, and go through the ceremony together before the big day so that you know what to expect. Have your partner try out his/her lines on a trusted friend or family member. Try to make everyone involved feel as comfortable and prepared as possible.Reduce wedding expenses by having the ceremony and reception at home or at another venue that won’t be as expensive. This might help alleviate If you are paying for the wedding yourself, consider asking your parents to chip in or take out a low interest personal loan.

Elope. This is not a parental favorite, but in some cases it might be the only way to reduce your fiancé’s stress. If you decide to go with this plan, consider telling your families before you run away to get married. This way, your parents and a few close loved ones can be present – or at least understand why you are eloping.
 This solution might ease the situation if your fiancé is experiencing anxiety due to external circumstances, such as a sudden illness or a death in the family. Consider rescheduling the wedding so your partner can enjoy the day instead of feeling upset or stressed. You will remember this day for the rest of your lives – so make sure that the timing is right!

, Ultimately, if your fiancé is extremely uncomfortable with the situation, you may have no choice but to postpone or cancel the wedding. In some cases, postponing the wedding may be the best move you can make. Try to get your money back, even if you’ve put a non-refundable down payment on the venue or event.


If you lose money on the cancelled wedding, consider the expense of a potential future divorce. Losing a few bucks on a security deposit could save you both years of heartache and attorney’s fees.

