 While it can be hard to be understanding in regards to racist beliefs, try to get inside your parents' heads. Racism is a systemic issue very prevalent in many societies. It is often subtle and many people are unaware their actions and words have racist undertones.


The way people of color are portrayed in the media is often subtly racist. Words used to describe people of color, for example, are often riddled with outdated and offensive terminology. This is a phenomenon that does not just occur in hate speech but in well-known publications such as The New York Times. Over time, a person's perspective can be skewed without their knowing it by the perpetuation of stereotypes in the media. While this does not excuse racism, it can help you better understand your parents.Oftentimes, people are blind to their own racism. As already discussed, people get very defensive when it comes to discussions of race. Therefore, subtle racism often goes unchecked. Your parents may be unable to see their own racist viewpoints. You can work your best to point out your parents' racism, but try to understand how subtle racism really is and why it's so difficult to get people who harbor racist beliefs to change.For instance, the media often demonizes black victims and can actually appear sympathetic to whites suspected of serious crimes, including mass shootings., At a certain point, you have to accept the fact that racism is a deep-seated belief system that's difficult to change. You should seek to develop a no-tolerance policy regarding racist comments, especially if discussing them with your parents takes an emotional toll on you.


If your parents try to bait you into an argument, do not engage. Acknowledge their feelings, and promptly move on to another topic.
It is very difficult for people to change their ingrained beliefs. Sometimes the best thing you can hope for is that they will eventually evolve to become less racist. Angry words, incrimination, accusations, and withdrawal will be of no avail and will only fuel more resentment. Instead, if you simply tell your parents how much you love them and how much you appreciate everything they’ve done for you, they are more likely to reconsider their beliefs after they’ve had more time. After all, they love you as much as you love them. Also, try to recruit other family members who are more sympathetic to your beliefs, and have a conversation with them to see how they may be able to lend their support., Keep in mind it is very rare that people change their viewpoints, especially if they're set in age. It is very likely approaching your parents about their racism will do nothing to change the problem. However, addressing certain behaviors is still important. Racism is able to sustain itself because people often remain silent and do not want to force uncomfortable discussions. Silence is sometimes seen as an endorsement or acceptance of racist viewpoints. Make sure you make it clear to your parents that you do not agree with their point of view. While the conversation may end poorly, you still need to have it.