 There are a lot of nobody bands out there and anyone can hire one to play a few Katy Perry covers at their baby shower for four bucks an hour. If you want your band to be sought out for gigs, you need to be worthy of that.;
, Sorry, but wait till the record deal to play your own songs.
 For example, you can use an electric guitar to play Taylor Swift songs, you can go on YouTube and search for Mash Ups or Remixes for your popular songs, or you can use the power of harmony to make Beyonce's Halo something angels cry about.
 Good dancing can make anyone book you for a gig. Another way you can put a twist on popular songs is by playing pop songs with a piano, use DJ equipment to put special effects on your songs, or mash the song up with a song with a similar beat. For example, Adele's Rolling in the Deep played to Avril Lavigne's Smile (instrumental) sounds unforgettable. Search Smile and Rolling in the Deep mash-up on YouTube. Today, DJ effects can be found for download, free, online.
 You can create a website where you play original songs and covers. Domain names cost about 5 bucks to 30 bucks a month. You can also host a radio show where you play covers and original songs. You can do this on websites like Spreaker. You can decorate fliers and tape them in places where music is played often, like Radio Shack or parks where free concerts are hosted.
 Yes, there will be "Oh my god, why did I book my band there?" gigs you will play. All of theses will promote your band's popularity. You can ask you parents and your friend's parents if they or there friends are having a wedding, a baby shower, a party, a birthday or any event that might need music. You can hand out CDs where you play music for every occasion, just so they know that you're capable of playing music that fits their event. Make sure you charge a small amount, nothing over eighty dollars. Its not like you'll lose money. This way, you'll have a little pocket money for everyone and your band gets free advertising.
 Search for talent competitions. If you win, there might be cash prizes or even a record deal involved. See if any local schools are having dances, assemblies, or sports days where they might need any budget music. Go around to local parks that get a lot of people, and ask them if there are any upcoming events where they need free music. Sorry, but you can't go up to people, ask to play at their park, ask them to pay you, and expect them to do so., See if any of your relatives own restaurants or businesses that might need live music. Put up a low price and as they get to know you, you may increase your price.
 School is cool. Go to your school or college and ask them if there are any upcoming events that need a good band. If not, request that they start a talent show. Then, you can play your music, give students your websites and get free advertising. You can also go to colleges. Colleges often have their own radio shows students listen to, and you can ask them to listen to your demo. You can also see if they have any events that need music.
 Search Music Needed in Talent Gigs. You can also search band needed, musician needed, singer needed or similar options in the same category.

