 Most of the country guidelines can be found on their respective websites. Don't go overboard and risk getting your items confiscated!;
, Tape a list of items you are bringing to your suitcase to avoid lost items.
 For example, on a trip to a non-English speaking country, it might be wise to bring a foreign language dictionary.
 You can borrow one from a family member, friend, or borrow it from the library.
 Check the weather forecast for your destination and determine what they weather will be like.

If it will be very cold, or snowing, bring a heavy jacket, mittens or gloves, a hat, and waterproofed boots or shoes.






If the weather will be moderate (spring or fall-like temperatures), bring a light jacket and clothing to layer.






If the weather should be hot and sunny, pack light pants and short sleeve shirts. Also consider packing a light jacket for evenings.
 Ask your teacher or chaperon if you will be able to do laundry on your trip. If so, bring a few foreign coins to pay for it.
 It is recommended to bring a collapsible umbrella and a light waterproof jacket, so they can fit in your suitcase or backpack.
 You can also buy one at your location. Remember to bring any phone numbers you might need to remember.

If you have access to WiFi at your destination, you can also catch up with them via video calling or instant messaging,







, Even people who have never been homesick can feel homesick when in a different country.
 If you are bringing a diary, it is best to find a place to hide it, if you are sharing a room with other people. Bonus points if your diary has a lock

, You may find yourself taking as many as 50 photos a day.
 Your trip won't cover that, so you will need traveler's checks or something like a debit card which can be used to get cash from an ATM machine. You might also want to get some money from your local bank in your destination's currency before you leave, or trade them at a currency exchange.
 Many hotels provide soap and shampoo for free. Try to get travel sized toiletries or transfer your existing toiletries into a travel sized bottle.
 You might want to include snacks, a book, a music player, or even small travel games. If you can, check the website of the airplane your class is going on so you can know what they offer.
