 Some online banks also offer walk-in locations where you can deposit cash. If you’re near enough to this physical location, depositing cash is similar to the process by which you’d deposit it at a traditional bank., Money orders are like checks, but they are guaranteed by a public or private service like Western Union or the Indian Postal Service. Visit the money order service of your choice, then pay for the money order. From there, deposit it according to the instructions prescribed by your bank.The specific process by which you can deposit a money order vary depending on the online bank you use.
Generally, you can scan or take a photo of the money order, then send the image to your online bank. In some cases, you might need to mail the money order to the bank.
Check your online bank’s policy regarding money orders before you get a money order.
 If you use an online bank as well as a traditional bank, make a deposit at your local branch of the traditional bank. Then, transfer the funds to your online bank over the internet. The specific method by which you can accomplish this varies depending on the banks you use.Generally, however, you’ll have to set up an account online with your traditional bank, then select an “electronic funds transfer” or some similar formulation. You will then be prompted to provide the routing number for the online bank you wish to transfer the funds to.
If you exclusively use an online bank, open a bank account at a local bank. Look for one with the lowest monthly fees.
 Wire transfer services allow you to move money electronically from one account to another. They are provided by most major traditional banks. To deposit cash into your online account using wire transfer services, deposit the cash at your traditional bank. Request a wire transfer and fill out the bank’s transfer form.Requirements for using wire transfer services vary from bank to bank.
Depositing cash in your online bank via wire transfer may result in a brief hold time before the money is available.
There are often fees involved in using a wire transfer service. Ask about these fees before depositing cash using a wire transfer.
If you exclusively use an online bank, the only way to move cash from the physical bank to your online bank is to open an account with a traditional bank. Look for one with the lowest monthly fees.

