 If you’re not planning a complete remodel, you’ll need to partition an area for your office. By partitioning an area, you’ll create a dedicated and delineated work space for yourself. Its boundaries will be clear to you and your family. To partition an area for your office:


Measure the area you want to use. You’ll probably want to use a corner of your garage, so you should only have to take two measurements.
Purchase standing blinds or partitions to cover about 2/3rds to 3/4ths of the perimeter of your new office space.
Position your partitions on two lines so you create a square between them and the garage wall.
Leave a hole or two for walkways.
Your partitions don’t need to be flush with each other. You’re not keeping anything in or out, but rather delineating the boundaries of your office., Whether you’re doing a medium-sized garage conversion or a small project, you’ll want to address the numerous garage fixtures that are likely present in your garage.


Clean the garage door track. If you’ve removed the garage door, remove the track.
Remove the garage door button if you’ve removed the garage door.
Hide or disguise your hot water heater. This could be as simple as setting up some standing blinds. Remember, make sure they’re at least a few feet from your water heater., You should also add some artwork to brighten up your office space and give it character. Ultimately, the addition of artwork is a simple way that you can transform your garage into an inviting workspace.


Put up your framed diploma, if you want.
Pick a few pieces of art that will give some character to your office area. This is important, as having a bare wall will remind you that this is still (or was, in the case of a remodel) a garage.
Artwork is known to increase productivity and create a better work environment., Another basic requirement of a home office is storage space. Without storage space, you won't have room to store files, important documents, and more.


Purchase file cabinets for your new office space.
Build a custom storage solution to meet your own needs. For example, install shelving that straddles both walls of your new office space.
Move or rearrange any existing storage. For example, you may need to remove any shelving that runs the length of the garage walls.