 You can kill some insects to loot their wonderful restorative items. Butterflies, Bees, Mosquitos and Spiders all have one thing in common: They drop items that can heal your health, and the items from the Bees and Spiders can be used to create more successful healing items., While your axe and pickaxe can be serviceable for minor slaying ventures, you’re better off making a Spear and some armor for prolonged and more efficient hunts. You can make these necessities through the Fight tab, represented by a crossed sword and spear icon.

Spears cost 1 Rope, 1 Flint, and 2 Twigs, and are first crafted through the Science Machine. This is the first true weapon of the game and is rather efficient when it comes to killing early-game mobs. Equipping it is identical to equipping your tools. Select your item then equip it with right click or the right direction button.
Grass Suits can be crafted at the very beginning of the game and costs 10 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs. You equip them the same way you did with your tools and spear.
Log Suits require the Science Machine to make the first time, and costs 8 Logs and 2 Ropes.
 Aside from Spiders, you can catch bugs of any kind with a Bug Net. This would actually save you some time if you don’t want to bother killing but need some bug-related resources. You can make a Bug Net through your Science Machine’s Survival tab for 4 Twigs, 2 Silk, and 1 Rope. Afterwards, equip it, and swing it at the first bug (that isn’t a spider) you see., While one of the more dangerous creatures you can encounter in the surface, killing spiders can yield lucrative amounts of loot, including the ever-useful Silk and the restorative Spider Glands. By itself, it won’t heal much, but it can be used to craft the Healing Salve, which heals a decent amount of Health. Simply step on the “web” of a Spider Den, which resembles silk-wrapped, cobweb-covered mounds, and wait until a Spider emerges to chase you. You can then keep hitting it with your spear until it dies!

You can also set up traps around the Den and lure them into it if you feel extra cautious. The traps would drop the Spider’s loot instead of the Spider itself in your inventory.
Healing Salves cost 2 Ashes (obtained from extinguished Campfires), 1 Rock, and 1 Spider Gland and heals for 20 Health, compared to the 8 Health healed by the Spider Gland.
 While dusk is the most hazardous time to be in the Swamp, you’ll find that killing the Mosquitos will yield the healing Mosquito Sac item. It heals the same amount of health as a plain Spider Gland, but cannot be used to make more effective healing items. In a pinch, though, it’s very useful.

Mosquitos spawn from Ponds in Swamps, and immediately become aggressive towards you. Whenever they hit you, their bellies will grow more bulbous until they explode. As long as you kill them before they explode, they will drop a Mosquito Sac.
You’re actually better off trying to catch them with a Bug Net than killing them with your Spear.
 Butterflies are plentiful and adorable, but you can murder them and take their wings to heal yourself with. Like with Spider Glands and Mosquito Sacs, the Butterfly Wings heal you for about 8 Health. Unlike the other two, they lose freshness and eventually rot, reducing their effectiveness. But you can cook the Butterfly Wings into a Butter Muffin in your Crockpot for 1 Wing and 1 Vegetable, which heals you for 20 points. While Butterflies normally tend to fly away from you, when they land on a Flower they are vulnerable for a couple seconds. Use these precious seconds to smash it to bits and gather those precious wings!

Occasionally, instead of Butterfly Wings, a dead Butterfly drops Butter instead. It heals you for 40 points and can be used to cook Waffles in your Crock Pot for 1 egg, 1 berry and 1 butter. Waffles are one of the best healing food in the game, giving you a whopping 60 points of health, but plain butter lasts longer (40 days) without spoiling.
If you catch a butterfly instead of killing it, when you place it on the ground a new Flower grows. This would be useful if you plan on starting a Bee farm instead of killing Bees, or if you need some Flowers and more Butterflies, since they spawn from Flowers.
 Bees are pesky things and come in two variations in this game. Normal bees don’t do much except hover around flowers and return to their hives unless attacked, but Killer Bees tend to be hyper-aggressive, come out in droves, and try to kill everything in their path. While that sounds too bothersome to deal with, they drop useful things like Stingers and Honey. While Stingers are more common and can be used for other items, what you’re after is the delicious golden Honey. Honey can be used to cook specific Crock Pot dishes and is used to craft Honey Poultices, which heal for 30 health!

Honey Poultices are crafted through your Alchemy Engine for 2 Honey and 1 Papyrus. Papyrus is crafted from 2 Reeds, which are found in the Marsh, in your Science Machine through the Refine tab.
You can make a Beekeeper Hat for 8 Silk and 1 Rope through your Alchemy Engine’s Dress tab, and it will reduce all damage taken from bees by 80%, making this vital if you need to go bee hunting.
If you don’t feel like killing Bees all the time, you can catch just destroy a Hive, take the Honeycomb, and make a Bee Box. It can be crafted through your Science Machine’s Food tab for 2 Boards, 1 Honeycomb, and 4 Bees. This way, you have regular Honey production with less stinging and pain.

