 It’s very important to leave the green foliage on the plant after the flowering ends. This is because the plant draws energy into its roots through the foliage, and stores this energy to help it survive the winter.


Leave the foliage on the plant until it withers away of its own accord. It’s okay to trim off any brown tips but leave as much healthy green growth as possible.
 Once the foliage has withered in the fall, you can cut back the foliage to about six inches from the ground. If possible, wait to do this until after the first hard frosts.


Try to pull off the dead foliage, rather than cutting the plant if at all possible. Cutting the plant can make the it more susceptible to disease.
 Irises generally don’t need much fertilizer. However, if the foliage isn’t a green healthy color then consider giving your Irises some fertilizer after they finish blooming.


A granular fertilizer can be gently raked into the soil around the plant. Make sure it mixes into the top few inches of soil.
 Dividing your Iris rhizome will boost your plant’s health and performance. Wait until six weeks after the plant’s blooms die to divide your rhizome. To divide your Iris:


Dig up the rhizome and cut it into four to six pieces, each with a healthy bit of leaf and root attached. Replant each rhizome so that they are about 18 inches (45.7 cm) apart.
 When blooming is about to begin again, give your Iris some fertilizer to help it produce healthy blooms.


Choose a fertilizer that is low in nitrogen relative to potash (potassium) and phosphorus. Fertilizers that have high amounts of nitrogen can make Irises more prone to rot.
 Try to avoid putting mulch directly over your rhizomes, as this can cause them to rot. However, you can surround the plant with about two inches of mulch, so long as the rhizomes aren’t buried.


Try to avoid using manure when mulching your Irises.
 While Irises are pretty independent plants, they still may need some water in very dry weather. However, try to avoid over watering these plants, as they are very prone to rot.

