 No matter which meet you choose, ask your butcher to cut them thin, if possible. You can also thin them yourself at home, but this step will save some time and effort.


Scaloppine is also known as a veal cutlet, just with a more specific name.
Both chicken and veal are used for saltimbocca, but the more traditional recipes are veal-based.;
, Flatten the cuts evenly with a meat mallet or rolling pin. If the cutlets were cut thin by a butcher you should still take this step to lightly tenderize the meat.
 Fresh sage is always best. If the leaves are large, about the size of your index finger, then one leaf is fine. You can use 2-3 smaller leaves as well.
 Pound the cutlets a few more times to secure the prosciutto and sage to the cut of meat.
 The best way to do this is by weaving the toothpick up and down through the prosciutto and veal/chicken. Note that some chefs skip this step, opting to be careful flipping and turning the meat as it cooks. For restaurant-quality looks, however, the toothpick is a must., A tablespoon of each is a decent start, but you can season the flour with as much salt and pepper as you prefer. Use a fork to mix it evenly into the flour.
 Simply dip both sides of the meat into the flour, aiming for a light, even coat on the entire thing. Make sure the prosciutto is covered as well.
 You can replace the butter with olive oil, but the traditional dish uses butter. Save one tablespoon of butter for later when making the sauce.
 When you flip the meat over the prosciutto should be browned and crisp.


Do not crowd the pan, as this rapidly decreases the heat and prevents crisping. 1-2 pieces at a time is enough.
 If you're cooking multiple pieces separately, set aside the finished pieces and tent with foil to keep it warm. Then repeat with the next batch of saltimbocca.
 Use a wooden spoon or spatula to scrape up all the browned and cooked bits on the bottom of the pan. They'll be loosened from the pan once the white wine hits. This is called deglazing., Simmering the sauce develops the flavors and thickens it up, making it easier to serve and eat., This will add a light creaminess to the sauce, but you can skip the step if you're feeling health conscience. Alternatively, add a dash of olive oil., The dish is perfect right off the stovetop, as it doesn't take long to cook and gets a splash of heat from the fresh sauce. Enjoy with sprinkled parsley, Parmesan, or both.Be sure to remove the toothpicks before serving!
Pair with pasta, gnocchi, or fresh bread to complete a simple meal.
 This will keep your meat warm as you're working through multiple batches of browning. It also allows you to quickly crisp the prosciutto later on., If the butcher hasn't already cut them thin for you, use a meat pounder or rolling pin to flatten the meat. It needs to be thin in order to cook quickly and crisply.To prevent messes and splatter, cover your meat in plastic wrap before flattening it.
 Once it's completely melted and starting to froth, move on. You do not want to cook six pieces of chicken in the same pan, so save the rest for your second batch., It shoudln't take long, especially since your meat is so thin. Flip the cutlets once so that both sides are equally cooked., This will keep the meat hot as you finish the second batch., Remember, it only needs about 2 minutes on each side to get browned. When the chicken is all done, leave the stove on -- you'll need it for the sauce., Remove the other half of chicken from the oven and place 1-3 sage leaves over the meat. Cover with prosciutto as well., While waiting for the oven to heat you can get started on your pan sauce., Once the cold wine hits the pan it will loosen any burned or browned bits. Stir them into the sauce and let everything simmer.

The oven should still be heating up.
 Keep your eye on it -- broiling shouldn't take too long. Don't worry yet if the oven isn't quite up to temperature. The point here is to brown the prosciutto, not cook the chicken or veal, so it doesn't have to be broil temperature just yet., Once the butter is melted, simply let the sauce keep cooking until it is ready to serve. You should have about one-third of the liquid you started with when you added the wine., This is mostly up to you. Note that broiling is very, very quick, so keep your eyes peeled.

Meanwhile, the sauce should still be simmering, the liquid slowly reducing. If it is almost dry, add a little more wine to the pan.
 Once the broiler is off, pour some sauce over the meat and serve hot. You can garnish with fresh parsley or Parmesan, if desired. Lemon wedges are also common., This works particularly well for the quick recipe, as it already uses the broiler. Either way, this is an easy variation. Once the cooking is done and before pouring the sauce on top of each saltimbocca, top each cutlet with a piece of fontina cheese. Place each cutlet on a baking sheet and broil for 2-3 minutes, until cheese is melted. Top with one more piece of sage and enjoy., After flipping the final cutlet of meat, toss in 2-3 minced shallots, 1/2 pound of sliced mushrooms, and/or 2-3 minced garlic cloves into the pan. Let them cook for one minute, until fragrant, then add the wine, proceeding like normal from here to create your sauce.

Remember to take the chicken or veal out, too! If timed right, it should finish cooking right before your add the wine.
 This is a classic Italian paring, and it is easy to accomplish. Simply heat up 2 tablespoons butter or olive oil in a pan. If desired, add half of a finely chopped onion and 2-3 minced cloves of garlic, cooking for 1 minute. Then add a large bunch of spinach, enough to fill up the whole pan. Cook for 1-2 minutes, until soft and about half it's original size, stirring regularly., Veal is naturally flavorful, and needs little more than a bit of salt and pepper to truly shine. Chicken, on the other hand, often needs a little more "oomph." To marinate it, massage the following ingredients into the chicken and let it sit at room temperature for an hour, or 2-3 hours in the fridge.

Salt and pepper, to taste
1/4 (60ml) cup olive oil
1 tablespoon (30ml) chopped or dried sage
1 teaspoon (5ml) red pepper flakes
2 cloves garlic pieces, smashed into a paste., This is a classic Italian touch for professional dishes. Have a slotted spoon handy and heat up 1 cup (240ml) olive oil in a small pan on medium heat. Once the oil is shimmering, add the sage and cook for only 30 seconds. Remove and pat dry with paper towels, then place 1-2 leaves on the finished saltimbocca when it is done.