 In order to raise a well-rounded child you should foster and encourage the development of empathy. Studies have shown that well-liked kids have higher levels of empathy and can better understand the perspectives of other children. Empathy is the ability to value, respect, and understand the views of another person, even if you disagree. Here are a few suggestions for developing empathy in your child:Model empathy: Demonstrate that you empathize with your child. When you treat other people like they matter, your kids will pick up on this and mimic your actions.
Spend time caring for others. Demonstrate that you are caring and compassionate on a daily basis.
Allow your child to practice being empathetic. For example, provide them with opportunities to listen to others, ask them about conflicts at school and have them think about the experiences of their classmates.
Apologize when you are wrong. Your child should learn how to take responsibility if they have done something wrong. Show them how to apologize and admit when they have wronged someone else.
 Eating dinner each night is an excellent way to demonstrate the importance of strong communication, and it provides a perfect opportunity to learn about your child’s day. You can show an interest in their life by asking: “How was your day?”, “Do you have any assignments coming up?”, “What was your favourite part of your day?” etc.


These types of conversations can help teach your child how to ask questions and show interest in the lives of other people and will help develop their social skills.
 It is important to foster the development of peer groups and friendships. Ask their friends to come over for dinner or for a sleepover. This will help them with forming close friendships with peers and will demonstrate that you value social interactions.Allow your child to have unstructured play time with their friends so that they can use their imaginations and creativity to come up with activities.
You could also take your child and their friend to see a movie or go to the mall.
Ask your child prior to inviting a friend over what they would like to do with their friend. If they are unsure, you might encourage them to do an activity where they have to work together, such as a puzzle, a group craft project, or an imaginative game.
Do not pressure your child to invite people over if they are shy. As long as they have a few friends, it is ok if they are introverted.
 Take your child out to interact with a wide range of people, cultures, lifestyles, places, and environments. This will help teach your child how to work with people who are different from them as well as how to be flexible and open-minded. You can:

Travel to different parts of the country and world
Take them to cultural festivals
Visit museums, libraries, and zoos
Volunteer as a family for an important cause
Try new foods and cuisines together
Go to the theater, a concert, or the ballet

