 There are many diets out there that like to paint carbs as the enemy; however, if you're engaging in strenuous exercise on a regular basis, your muscles need carbs to recover.Your body stores carbs for your muscles to use as fuel. Casual exercise, such as brief walks, typically don't deplete these stores significantly.
However, intense strength training or long-distance running or biking will burn through your carbohydrate stores, particularly if you're on a low-carb diet.
Speak with a doctor or a nutritionist if you're on a low-carb diet and want to begin intense training or endurance activities. They can help you tweak your diet to ensure you're consuming the carbs you need.
 While you typically shouldn't exercise less than two hours after eating a larger meal, a small snack rich in carbohydrates a half-hour or so before you start your workout provides sufficient fuel for your muscles.A banana is a good snack to have before exercising. Bananas not only have a sufficient amount of carbohydrates, they also are high in potassium. Potassium reduces inflammation and can help prevent muscle cramps during exercise.
Yogurt or dried fruit also provides the nutrition you need in a pre-workout snack.
A number of companies market energy or nutrition bars for pre-workout snacks. If you decide to go this route, check the ingredient list carefully and make sure the bar has what you need. Avoid energy bars that have a lot of added sugar or fat, which you don't need.
 Particularly if you're engaging in an endurance sport such as marathon running or long-distance biking, you should ingest carbs between the 60- and 90-minute mark of your race or training session.Generally your body will wipe out its carbohydrate stores within an hour of intense or strenuous exercise. Failure to replenish these stores can result in muscle cramps.
To prevent muscle cramps, have a banana or a carb-rich energy bar during your exercise. If solid food is difficult for you to consume in the midst of your workout, bring along a carb-rich shake or sports drink that you can have.

