 Pay attention to current events. Know when potential threats are coming to the area. You may have no warning when another country invades yours.However, you may know if a hurricane or tornado is coming your way. Websites like www.ready.gov are devoted to disaster preparedness.


Stock your home with supplies.Before martial law is enacted, you may be on your own during a breakdown of civil authority. Be ready to survive at least 72 hourswithout help.
Protect your home and business. After civil authority has broken down, people may become opportunistic. Homes and businesses may be looted.Secure your home and business in advance. Board up windows and barricade doors. Stay in your home with your own supplies until military help arrives.;
, For whatever reason, martial law has been declared and you are one of the citizens functioning under it. If your country has been invaded (i.e., your area is still under the protection of your country's military) or a major natural disaster has occurred you should recognize that martial law might be best for moment. The soldiers are there to maintain order and keep you safe until civilian authority can be re-established., The best thing you can do is assist and obey. Keep your head down and don't draw attention to yourself. This isn't the time for political activism if you want to survive.


Keep everything you can't live without on your person. If you are being moved there may be no time to go back for your things. Have everything you need on you at all times in case you have to move immediately. Anything you might be tempted to go back for, keep on you. If there is some object too big to carry around you may have to leave it.
In rare situations you may be able to hide something special until you are able to come back for it. You may want to consider burying a "time capsule" in a waterproof container to retrieve when you return.
 No matter how odd or strange it is best to do as you are told. If a curfew is set, be in your quarters by then. If you are given a meal time, don't think you will be served if you show up late even if you are hungry. If certain areas are off-limits, do not go exploring beyond the boundary. Your rights are greatly limited until civil order is re-established so don't push your boundaries if you want to survive.


If you are under martial law in a country that you know intends to do you harm (e.g., Jewish Germansor Japanese-Americansduring World War II) you may want to consider hiding from the government instead of being a good citizen.
You may want to learn military time.Some watches and phones can be adjusted to show military time automatically. In general, times are written out differently such that 9:00AM ("nine o'clock AM) becomes 0900 ("zero nine hundred) and 3:30PM ("three-thirty PM) becomes 1530 ("fifteen thirty). In other words, PM times are 12 greater than normal and times are described as if they are four-digit whole numbers without the colon with the hour always represented as two numbers (don't drop leading zeros). Hours may be referred to in "hundreds" but never "thousands".
 Resisting or forcing an explanation may be dangerous. Military personnel may be given orders they don't even understand. They expect you to follow orders just as they are doing. Time sensitive orders they may not have time to explain or their explanation may cause a panic. Trust that their goal is to protect you and any failure they would take personally.
 The military personnel may be short staffed. Offer to help as much as you can. You will garner their respect this way. You may then learn more about what's going on and why things are happening as they are. If you find out important information that you have permission to share, spread the word. Make sure other people know what's going on and hopefully everyone will be able to survive the event.

