 The Start Menu lets you open programs or documents and do other tasks like customizing your user account. To open the Start Menu, click or tap the Start button. The Start button can be found in the lower left-hand corner of the screen.;
, You will notice that in the upper-left corner of the Start menu is a tile with your user account name and picture. Click/tap this tile, and a drop-down menu will appear.
 You will then be redirected to a new window in which you will see the Account Settings menu.


On the Account Settings window is a placeholder labeled “Your Picture,” where your User Account picture will be placed. You have two choices: you can either put in a picture you already have on file or you can take a new photo to place as your User Account picture.
, When you click the “Browse” button, the Open dialog box appears in a separate window.


By default, the Open dialog box opens to the This PC >> Pictures folder. If your pictures are in this folder, locate and pick the picture you want. If the picture you want is not in this folder, navigate to the folder where the picture you want is located by clicking the folders in the left pane and/or double-clicking the folders in the right pane.
 When you have located the folder where your pictures are stored, choose the picture you want and click the “Choose Picture” at the bottom of the Open dialog box. After you click “Choose Picture,” the picture you chose will be put in the space labeled “Your Picture” in the Account Settings menu. This indicates that the picture you have chosen is now the current user account picture.
 Do this by clicking the Close button (✕) at the upper right-hand corner of the Account Settings window. You have now successfully changed your User Profile picture for a picture stored in your computer.


To the right of the current user account picture is a smaller picture. If you have changed your user account picture several times, the last two most recent pictures used in your user account picture will appear. Clicking on one of the smaller pictures will make this picture the current user account picture.
 If instead of a picture on file you want a new photo to be placed as your user account picture, you can use your computer’s webcam or the front-facing camera of your tablet for this purpose. To take a new photo with your webcam or tablet camera, click or tap the Camera button located in the space labeled “Create your picture” at the bottom part of the Accounts Settings window.
 After you click the the “Camera” button, the camera window will pop up. Strike a pose, smile, and click or tap the “Take Picture” button, represented by a camera icon in a blue circle.
 After you capture your image, another window will pop up with your photo overlaid with grid lines. You can drag the grid to determine which part of the picture you want included in the user account picture. You can also resize the grid by dragging one of the corners of the square.
 After you have customized your photo to your satisfaction, click or tap the checkmark (✓) above the photo. Your photo will then be set as your user account picture.