 No matter what steps you ultimately take to discover if the person is a sex offender, you will need to have some identifying information about him or her. Some things you may need to know about the person you intend to investigate include his or her:


Address or basic geographic location. Many state and county databases allow users to search for sex offenders by address or to view a map of all sex offenders who are located in a specific geographic area.
Name. Local sheriff’s departments or local court records can generally give you information about a specific person if enough information can be provided. The subject’s full name is a good start to finding out if he or she is a sex offender.
License plate number. Some states allow users to run a search of the sex offender database based upon just a license plate number.
Birthdate. While having a name and address is important, a birth date will allow you to be more specific about the person whose record you wish to check. Having this information also can prevent confusion when related, or even unrelated people, happen to have the same name. This is particularly the case if the person has a relatively common name. If you cannot get a birthdate, even having an approximate age is helpful in ensuring that you have the right person.
Social security number. If you wish to determine whether a potential spouse or employee is a sex offender, you may have access to a social security number, which can help you get more accurate results.
Other Identifying information. Whether or not you have a name, address, or birth date, you also may need to provide other identifying information such as height, weight, and a description of any distinguishing marks, such as scars or tattoos.;
, Most Sheriff’s Departments maintain a database of all registered sex offenders in the county. Contact your local Sheriff’s Department in person, online, or by telephone to see what resources are available to the public. Many departments have a specific person in charge of the sex offenders in the area who can provide you with detailed information about each offender and answer any questions you may have about the offenders in your area.


Search the local Sheriff’s Department sex offender database online.
Request a list of all outstanding criminal warrants in the county for sex-related crimes.
Ask for a copy of the county’s “Most Wanted” list, if it maintains such a list.
 Many state police and county sheriff’s departments offer criminal history reports, which can provide you with a list of any felony arrests that a particular person has in that state. Check with your state police or local sheriff’s department to determine if it offers this service.Some law enforcement agencies maintain various databases of information about local criminal activity. For instance, many county jails and state prisons maintain a database showing who is currently incarcerated and the crimes of which an individual was convicted. Other agencies publish a list of warrants that have been issued each day by the local court system. You also may be able to access all arrests made by local law enforcement agencies on a given day.
Law enforcement agencies may charge a small fee to provide this information for you.
You may need to have certain identifying information about the person in order to request a criminal history check.
Be sure to check with law enforcement agencies in every state and local jurisdiction in which the individual has lived.
 There are various state and federal laws that restrict what an employer or a financial institution can do with information about one's criminal history. These laws place limits on how this information can affect one's eligibility for housing, credit, and employment. The state laws that apply in a particular situation can vary widely from state to state.


If you are just using the information that you obtain for your own personal knowledge, you generally will not violate any federal or state laws.
Typically, if you derive your information from accurate public sources, there is nothing to prevent you from repeating the information, telling other people, or even publicizing it by, for example, posting it online. It is only when you repeat false information or confidential information that you have obtained illegally that you may run afoul of the law.

