 But what if they played musical chairs for a moment – what if the TV would face the couch and look at it a little differently. Maybe then, the couch, and whoever relaxes on it will be able to see the TV in a different light. Maybe, or maybe not, but either way, making seemingly small switches to your furniture can really change your home’s image.;
, They need nutrients, they need care, but it’s all worth the time and effort to see the blossoming of the fruit—or plant of your labor.
 Just make sure that if you’re renting your residence, to speak with the management team, or the owner, before you go back to elementary school and try finger painting all over again.
 True, balloons and streamers were made for parties, but who said everyday can’t be a party? Life’s too short to miss the opportunity of giving your deco a higher rating.
 It can be just a small mat that welcomes people and says “Please wipe your shoes on me”, They could use a new knob. Plus, noticeably new knobs are known to make you noticeably happier.
 But just think for a moment: According to Timothy Morgenthaler, M.D. of the Mayo Clinic, adults are supposed to – emphasis on “supposed to” – get between seven to nine hours of sleep a night. There are 24 hours in a day, and you’re sleeping during about 8 of them. That’s a third of your life. Bed is probably the single place where you spend the most amount of time in your life. So go ahead, pamper yourself; change the sheets.
 It’s very simple, but like with the plant (#2), you’re taking on the responsibility of caring for a very important life. But remember, it’s a fish, and there’s more in the sea.
 There are plenty of inexpensive, yet delightful paintings that can be framed and hung in your home to make the difference that you (and your friends) have been waiting for.
 One of my favorite fridge magnets says “I’ve been on a diet for two weeks and all I’ve lost is 14 days”. You don’t have to be my mom to put up funny magnets, but you and your friends will appreciate a good laugh or an inspirational quote to contemplate, while contemplating what to eat.

