 The average age for a flight attendant is between 21 and 55.


Complete the employment application form. The process can be completed in two formats.
The applicant can complete the application form on line via the airline website.
Airlines also offer "open house interviews." These interviews are similar to a casting call for actors.
Open house ads are published in local newspapers indicating time and place. Appointments are not required for this type of interview.;
, The first selection of candidates that will be interviewed are from the top applicants that exceed the general requirements.
 The assessment is a face-to-face interview with an airline representative. The interviewer will listen and visually evaluate the applicant's strengths and weaknesses. Some of the general assessment factors are:


Weight – Due to the limit in aisle space, size is important and must be in proportion to height.
Height – Most airlines have specific height requirements. The average height for a flight attendant is between 5 feet, 2 inches (1.5748 meters), and 5 feet, 9 inches (1.8034 meters).
College credits - British Airways focuses on portraying its staff as professional, efficient and intelligent.
Communication skills – Flight attendants will interact with diverse ethnicities, cultures, age groups and races.
Good physical condition – The position will require constant lifting, pushing and long periods of standing.
Free from chronic conditions - The recycled air can be harmful to a weak immune system.
 The follow-up consists of:


Personality test.
Written and video tests.
Skills, experience and training questions.
Role play or scenario test.



The check will be required for employees that will have direct contact with children or adults who are deemed vulnerable.
The background check will include a criminal history of the applicant.
Employment and references will be confirmed.
Accept or reject the salary offer. The average flight attendant salary starts at $39,000 annually.
The pay is based on actual flight time.
Flight time starts when the airplane leaves the gate.
Personality test.

