 Cleats are screwed into the mirror frame, as well as the wall itself. Your mirror needs to have a strong, thick frame to make sure the screws don't damage the glass.
 Most cleats can hold a lot of weight, but you'll want to check the packaging to be certain. A bathroom scale should be enough to get a good weight., Make sure you have enough space on the wall for the mirror, and otherwise decide how you want it positioned relative to other items on the wall and in the room. Hold your mirror up to the wall to see how much space it will take up. Finding a stud can be useful, but not necessary if you have a strong enough hanger.Once you have a good place, mark where the top of your mirror will go with a pencil or some painters tape so you'll be able to measure for the hangers. You can also use those pencil marks and a level to make sure your mirror will be straight.
If your mirror is too large to hold up easily and mark at the same time, measure it with some measuring tape or a yardstick, and see how those dimensions fit.
 Different cleats can be stronger in different places, but in general, it is best to position the braces at the top and bottom edges of the mirror. You may want to use an awl to start the holes.


Once you have them in, measure how far apart the cleats are from one another, and from the edges of the mirror.
 Using your measurements, position the other part of the cleats based on where they need to be to hold the mirror. If your screw is into a stud, you should be fine as is, but if not, you may want to include a wall anchor with your hangers.If you are hanging the mirror onto a wall of brick or thick plaster, you'll need larger screws and a stronger drill bit to get into the wall, and make sure it holds on., Line up the two sets of cleats, and place your mirror down and into the space to hold it in place. If your mirror is too heavy or large for you to lift easily, get someone else to help. You may also want another person to help look in the back to make sure you are placing the cleats together in the right place.
 Now that it is in place, polish or wipe down the mirror so your surface is clean and reflective. Enjoy its new place on your wall.

