 A spice rack is a kitchen fixture consisting of outward-facing rows of bottles or small containers, each of which contains a different spice. These bottles might be empty and ready for labeling, or they might come pre-packed with various spices and include the name of each on the container. You can refill the pre-packed spice rack containers when you exhaust the initial supply.The spice rack will typically stand 24’’ x 12’’ x 5’’ (61 x 30 x 12.5 centimeters).
The main downside of the spice rack is that it has a limited number of slots.However, few people will use more than the standard 20 spices the spice rack allows. Think about your spice usage before investing in a spice rack.
 Storing spices in a stackable shelf is another option. This allows you to easily arrange spices according to freshness or usage. For instance, using shelves, you could place the spices you use most often (or which are closest to expiration) on top and those you use least often (or those which are furthest from expiration) on bottom.Many spice cabinets are stackable. If you get more spices, you can just get another cabinet and add it to the stack.
On the downside, spice shelves are unable to accommodate jumbo-sized prepackaged spices. They are geared instead toward standard spice bottles of the variety that come bundled with spice racks.
 A spice drawer insert is a kitchen product of flimsy plastic that fits in a deeper kitchen drawer. It has parallel rows angled upward slightly so that your spice containers are easily accessible. It’s essentially a larger and non-stackable version of the stackable shelf system, with neat rows of spices lined up across whichever drawer you choose to place it in.You can cut the spice drawer insert carefully with scissors to ensure it fits in your drawer. Just remember, once you cut it, there’s no going back, so choose a drawer that is large enough to accommodate all your spices and accommodate future growth (if you believe you’ll be adding more spices to your repertoire).
When using a spice drawer insert, you might want to use an alphabetical system. In other words, line your spices up by name, starting with the spices starting with (or closest to) “A” at the top left, then moving across the rows and continuing onto the next row when one is full.
 A pullout spice cabinet is a fixture in many kitchens. To organize your spices with this storage method, you’ll have to determine how many shelves you have. Based on the number of shelves, you’ll be able to organize your spices in a number of ways.You could use one of the two most common methods of organization (expiration date and frequency of use).
Additionally, assuming you have just two shelves and a larger recess below for cooking oil or other essentials, you could place very spicy spices on the bottom shelf and more mild spices (basil, cilantro, celery seed) in the upper shelf.
 Light destroys the flavor molecules that gives spices their potency. Keep them in a kitchen cabinet, in your pantry, or somewhere away from light.If you’re using a freestanding spice rack, stash it in the pantry or somewhere it won’t be exposed to constant direct light.

