 Eat more foods that contain vitamins C and K or talk to your doctor about taking supplements.


Examples of foods high in vitamin K are kale, spinach, broccoli, liver, and eggs.Good sources of vitamin C are strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, sweet potatoes, and red peppers.It's usually easier and better for you to up your intake of certain foods than switch to supplements; however, you can ask your doctor about supplements. You can also talk to your parents about taking vitamins. If you don't want to explain the reason, you can say something like, "We learned about the importance of vitamins in my health class, and I think it might be good for me to take some."

, If you smoke or use other tobacco products, stop using them while you have a hickey. Smoking decreases your blood supply and may delay healing of the hickey.Speak to your doctor if you want to quit smoking. There are medications and smoking cessation programs available that may make it easier for you to quit.
If you are underage, it's an especially bad idea to smoke. Your body is still developing and smoking can interfere with this process. Talk to your parents, trusted family member, or a school counselor if you've started smoking. Explain to them that you would like to take steps to be healthier and want help quitting. While you may get in some trouble, the benefits to your health will outweigh this.
 Although you may be tempted to massage the area around your hickey, avoid doing so.This may make matters worse, as you can bruise the skin and make the appearance more apparent. You should never try to drain the blood in the hickey with a needle. This can cause more damage and can also seriously hurt you.
 While some treatments may speed healing and reduce the appearance of your hickey, it will take some time to heal. If giving and receiving hickeys is a regular part of your make out sessions, then you may want to ask your partner to focus on another region of your body that is not visible or injured.A hickey—a bruise or hematoma—is an injury. You should rest the area just like you would any other type of bruise.