 Sometimes, the area around your toilet needs a good cleaning. This can help remove set-in odors that are causing a bad smell. A mixture of baking soda, lemon juice, and vinegar may work well. These products are often effective at reducing odor.


Make a paste of equal parts lemon juice and baking soda. Fresh lemon juice is best. Mix the substances together until your paste has the consistency of pancake batter.Spread this paste along the bottom of the toilet and the toilet seat using a damp rag. Let sit for 10 to 15 minutes.Place some vinegar in a spray bottle. After 10 or 15 minutes, spray the vinegar along the paste. Let it fizzle for a moment and then wipe off using your rag., Essential oils provide a powerful and pleasant odor. If your bathroom smell is an issue, consider adding a few drops of essential oils to a spray bottle of rubbing alcohol. Use this to clean areas like your sink and toilet bowl. Some essential oils, like cedar oil, have anti-fungal properties that can help neutralize and remove unwanted scents., Toilet tanks, if not cleaned regularly, can retain a urine smell. Many people neglect the toilet tank when engaging in routine bathroom cleaning. You can easily clean the toilet tank with white vinegar.


Open the toilet tank. Pour a half cup of vinegar in the tank. Then, put on some rubber gloves.Use a scrub brush to wash the sides of the tank. Then, flush the toilet. Add more vinegar and repeat the process a few times., Simply cleaning your bathroom on a regular basis can help with odors. You should do a routine cleaning once a week. Clean the toilet bowl, lid, and the sides of the toilet. Mop the floor. Clean the bathtub and shower, as well as the sink. You can use over-the-counter cleaning products or your own mixture of baking soda, lemon juice, and vinegar. Regular cleaning prevents odors from building up and causing problems.


Use high-quality commercial products when cleaning. Look for products that are specifically designed to target odor. It can help to know what kind of materials things like your sink, tub, and tiles are made out of, as certain cleaners may work best on certain surfaces.
 Clogs in drains are frequently the cause of bathroom odor. Make sure to clean out drains if you notice water backing up frequently. You should also take measures to prevent drains each month.


Remove the drain stopper and clean off any hair, dirt, or debris on the stopper. You can use white vinegar and water to clean a drain stopper.You can use a straightened coat hanger to reach down the drain. You can either push the clog through or pull it out using the hanger. You can also use a plunger, plunging the drain 5 to 6 times, if a coat hanger fails to address a clogged drain.Flush the drain. Use hot water, leaving the tap running for several minutes. This will help flush out any dirt and debris that may be causing bathroom odor.Once a month, mix half a cup of vinegar with a half a cup of baking soda. Pour this down your drain. This will clean out the drain, help remove clogs, and neutralize any odor caused by your bathroom's drain., Mold is a common cause of odor in a bathroom. It can also be a health concern. Make a point of periodically checking your bathroom for signs of mold.


While you may think spotting mold is easy, mold can often be subtle. It may be overlooked or mistaken for soot or dirt. You may notice speckles of black along your bathroom ceiling, for example. If these marks resurface after cleaning, and seem to expand, you may have a mold problem.
Look under the sink. Mold commonly begins to grow around the pipes under the sink, especially if water sometimes leaks out.
Recognize the symptoms of mold exposure. If you don't see any mold, but have any of the following symptoms, consider having a professional mold inspection done in your bathroom. Symptoms include wheezing, rashes, watering eyes, red eyes, itchy eyes, and a runny nose.