 In order to tell if you experience frustration that falls outside the normal range, answer these questions. You might find that your frustration is extreme, and if that’s the case, seeking therapy or anger management classes might be a valuable option.Are you usually irritable?
Do you normally respond to frustration by blaming or snapping at others?
Do you self-medicate letdowns with alcohol, drugs and excessive eating?
Do you often hurt others’ feelings when you are responding to frustration?
Do you tend to feel misunderstood after a bout of frustration has passed?
Do you often lose your cool in the middle of a hard day of work or school?
When you get disappointed, do you feel as though life is impossible or that you are unworthy?;
, Spend some time thinking or writing about the potential sources of frustration in your life. Be as specific as possible about what triggers your frustration--maybe it's a co-worker or classmate you find frustrating, or even the way that someone says or does something. Try to consider whether or not this source of frustration is something that you want to control and cannot. For example, you cannot control another person's point of view. But, you can control whether or not you engage this person in conversation.


Doing this will help you understand and accept these things in the long-term, making you more capable of handling them with patience.
Alternately, you might find that you can avoid certain frustrations entirely. For example, if you take a slow, traffic heavy route home from work, you could opt for a slightly longer route that allows you to avoid the

, Frustration is not always misplaced, and it may be a reasonable response to a very real and difficult issue or issues in your life. However, frustration can build if you believe that every problem has a clear solution and there's something wrong with you or with your life for not being able to arrive at it. Instead of trying to solve a difficulty once and for all, try to focus on cultivating a helpful attitude toward it.Understand why it exists in your life and be open to facing and learning from it.


Understanding that the source of frustration may not be clear-cut will keep you open to handling your frustration without acting from it. For example, you might think twice before quitting your office job just because the printer keeps jamming.
 Timing is everything, especially when it comes to warding off frustration. It’s often the case that we are faced with something that you’re totally capable of handling—just not right now. Spend time noticing your energetic shifts throughout the day. You might notice, for example, that mornings tend to be a great time to handle serious issues, but in the afternoons you feel too tired to face bills or make big decisions. Avoid frustration by only doing these things when you know you have the energy level to conquer the task.
 Having a number of routines that you can use to make daily life less impacted with in-the-moment decisions. This reduces frustration by eliminating how much newness you must cope with regularly. Especially if your usual sources of frustration are managing daily tasks, running late, or not having enough time in your day, try sticking to a schedule.


Use the things that you must "show up" for, like coming into the office or picking up your child from school as anchors. Then, you can plan things like paying bills, buying groceries, and enjoying a morning workout routine around these commitments.
Don't stress yourself out trying to schedule everything. Instead, organize few hour blocks of the day that are normally unstructured to make these times run more smoothly. You will be less frustrated by little inconveniences like traffic or hassle at the bank knowing that you are making efforts to allot time for these duties.
 When you are about to fly off the handle or request or make a change to get things a little more “how you prefer it”, ask yourself if it will matter tomorrow (or next week, or next year). Chances are the situation is something you can let go of and forget about.


You may want to also ask yourself if you care deeply about the frustrating situation. If it is not somehow linked to your deeper values, you may be trying to get your way just for the sake of it. When this is the case, have a little laugh at yourself and let it go.
 In moments of frustration it is not just you who bears the brunt of the negative thoughts and judgments; those around you also risk getting caught in the middle of your mood. If you're in a conversation in a moment of frustration, try slowing down and thinking through your words. Ask yourself if the first thing that comes to mind, for example, "why are you so incompetent?", is really a helpful thing to say. Remarks like these only make frustration mount and spread.


Listen closely to what the other person is saying, and try to get a sense for where they are coming from. Take this into account when you answer, choosing to be understanding rather than making a quick judgment.
For example, if you are frustrated that your roommates never wash the dishes, approach them wondering, without judgment, whether or not they are aware of this shared responsibility and whether or not there is something blocking their ability to help. This will make negotiation much more peaceful than accusing them of being lazy slobs (as your frustration may tell you they are).
 If the peace of acceptance does not come easily—and this does take time to cultivate—go ahead and release your frustration in a way that will not harm yourself or others. Yell into your pillow or punch it until you get tired. Sometimes frustration is more effectively dealt with by expressing anger instead of trying to soothe it. So, trust that your frustration will pass by simply letting it out rather than trying to manipulate or intervene on the frustrating situation itself.


Do this when the frustration is ongoing, or there's little you can do to change the frustrating situation. Make sure that you are in a place where others won't be intimidated or frightened by your release.
 Frustration builds and molehills tend to become mountains when we become frustrated at frustration itself. When you feel frustrated, try to simply observe your frustration without judging it as "bad" or a feeling you "shouldn't" have. Instead of judging, accept these feelings rather than trying to avoid or change them. Exercising acceptance means letting go of your instinctual responses to frustration and learning to accept whatever you experience.Once you accept your feelings of frustration, you have the self-control to know what (if any) course of action to take toward the source of frustration.
If you try to ignore your frustration, it will only make it worse. Then you’re caught in the vicious cycle of the source of frustration becoming more magnified and feeling all the more important. Tell yourself that unleashing your frustration upon yourself and others will not fix anything, but that it can actually make you feel worse. Anger is like an adult tantrum—instead of making solutions it only works to suggest to others that you’re bothered. This won’t do when it is you who is responsible for soothing yourself.
 We often get frustrated when we are trying to meet unrealistic expectations we have of ourselves and others.There is a strong tendency to have a certain vision of how situations should play out, and then to get frustrated when, time and time again, reality does not or cannot match up. Ask yourself if you are expecting too much or have perfectionist tendencies. This is likely the case if your frustration is tied to feeling let down or dissatisfied with outcomes.


Ask yourself if something is “good enough”. Frustration usually dissipates once you make the conscious decision to stop pushing for things. Let the situation run its course rather than trying to control it, remembering that you can only change your responses and not others' behavior.
Then, change your thinking from expectations to reality by focusing on the good that is happening rather than the things you expected to come to pass that have not.
If there is a specific expectation you’re hung up on, like “the person I date should always be more focused on me than on work”, remind yourself that this is your expectation that might not be realistic for everyone to conform to. Then, you can make the decision to either accept the person as she is or act on your frustration and look for another fish in the sea.
 People who are very frustrated tend to swear or speak in highly intense ways. This reflects exaggerated, catastrophic thoughts that don’t quite match up with the reality of the situation.Try replacing these thoughts with more rational ones that can help you contain and manage feelings of frustration.


For instance, if you're tempted to say, "oh, this is horrible, now everything is ruined, I must be doomed to fail" counter this thought by telling yourself, "this is a frustrating and difficult experience that upsets me now but won't matter much later."
As much as it sometimes feels true, remember that the world is not out to get you—in fact, the frustrating problem may even stems from the fact that the world seems pretty unconcerned with your expectations and ideals. This can be cause for celebration if you realize that, when things go in different directions, you get the opportunity to learn (or even just stretch yourself in unexpected ways)., The funny thing about frustration is that once you zoom out and get some perspective it’s just that…funny! While you are in the process of accepting the situation as is, perhaps noticing that the issue is not as important as it seems in your mind, take a moment to laugh at yourself. Think about how funny it is that just moments ago you were so concerned with something that now seems pretty trivial.
 Because frustration usually causes you to find fault in everything and focus on what isn’t going your way, gratitude can be a great antidote. When you feel yourself get frustrated, refocus to reminding yourself of everything you appreciate about the person or different aspects of the situation you’re in. This is a very potent way of reducing frustration toward others you care about, because they are presumably in your life because of good qualities that you appreciate already.


With less intimate frustrations, like a long line at the grocery store, focus on how close the store is to your house, what a great selection there is, and that you have access to nourishing food in the first place.
To become gracious, vividly imagine the worst consequences of your frustration. If you want to put the grocery store out of business or permanently part ways with the person frustrating you, you will immediately start to think of all the reasons why you don’t really want either of those things to happen. These reasons are precisely those qualities that you are grateful for.
 It’s difficult to get frustrated if you are amused by all of life’s sweet little offerings instead. Because of how quickly frustration passes when we relinquish control, spend time in the interim appreciating nature, eating a great meal, or listening to relaxing music. Use your favorite sources of distraction to boost your mood as you edge your way out of frustration and into appreciation of the moment.
 Instead of breathing from your chest—taking a breath where your shoulders shrug—try breathing from your diaphragm.Imagine that your breath is coming up from your gut and expanding little air pockets all around your waist. Breathing like this with regularity, and especially in times of stress, can reduce frustration by giving you the calm to help you deal with the actual source of frustration.


Taking up yoga, a practice dedicated to deep breathing and non-strenuous exercise, can be a great way to ensure that you are always able to get a good fix of muscle relaxation and serenity.
 A large factor in becoming easily frustrated is having lots of energy in your body that is practically seeking an opportunity to be released. If your frustration is much greater than whatever triggered it, you may want to adopt an exercise routine. Regular exercise is helpful for boosting your mood and for regulating your body’s energy so that you can broach situations appropriately rather than with too much “charge” from all your pent-up fervor for activity.


Try cardiovascular exercise, like running, swimming, or biking, in addition to light weight lifting.
 Visualization is a relaxation technique that involves forming mental images to induce feelings of journeying to a calm, peaceful place.The key to a relaxing visualization is to involve as many of your senses as possible (sight, sound, touch, and smell). To be able to do this, get into a quiet spot where you won’t be disturbed. Your body should also be in a relaxed position, as if you are meditating.


For example, if you are imagining an open meadow, try to feel the grass underneath your feet, smell the lush woods, and hear the sound of birds chirping as they fly from tree to tree.
 This technique has you gently tensing and then relaxing each of your muscle groups. One way to do progressive muscle relaxation is to work your way up your body, tensing and relaxing all of your muscles from your toes and feet to your head and neck. Tense a muscle group for about 5 seconds and then relax those muscles for about 30 seconds. Repeat this pattern until you’ve moved all the way up your body (or down, depending on your preference).


Doing this will make you able to recognize when your muscles are tensed and when they are relaxed. This is an added bonus because you’ll be able to notice times when you are especially tense and take measures to either relax or rearrange your activities accordingly.
 Much of our frustration in modern life comes from the fact that we spend so much time interfacing with machines that are unable to respond empathically to how we’re feeling.If your life has you on the computer constantly, try to take breaks and reduce your usage where possible.


Especially when it comes to socializing, being face to face rather than online can make communication easier and gratitude almost effortless in comparison. Balance your busy life on social media with some good, old-fashioned togetherness.
 Another source of frustration that can get taken for granted is not having enough time to yourself. At the very least, scheduling some alone time will give you a chance to learn and use relaxation techniques. Look at your agenda and try to find a window of time that will allow you to settle in with yourself. A couple hours is ideal. Spend this time pursuing activities that really feed you—things that you don’t get much of a chance to do within the normal work week.


If you have any artistic or creative hobbies, like drawing, sculpting, making music, or cooking, try to spend this time doing these activities. Creative pursuit help you get in touch with yourself more deeply.

