 Less can be more as you age, so it’s important to use the right amount of product on your face., Just as it’s important to initially learn how to apply makeup when you’re a teenager, re-learning the right technique for your age range is important for looking and feeling age appropriate at all times. If you think you still look great with the makeup you wore earlier in life, stick with it.
 Or, try mixing your foundation with your favorite moisturizer for a sheerer, more modern look. Look for tinted moisturizers and products developed for older skin, if you want. Products with built in Sun screen are good for all ages. Obviously, you don't have to wear foundation at all if you don't want to.


Blend your foundation right down your neck so that you look as if you’re wearing no makeup at all.
 Choose those that are non-drying. As you mature, your skin requires more moisture.By using a foundation rich in moisture, this will help your skin to look softer.
 Add a very small amount and blend well so that the product does not pool in your lines and wrinkles, if you have them.
 Toss out the eyeshadows that have shimmer, frost or glitter in them if you think they are no longer appropriate. These products look great used appropriately on any skin.For some, aged 40-plus, these types of eyeshadows can get into your fine lines and wrinkles.In turn, this may accentuate the wrinkles. Instead, look into purchasing matte eyeshadows in soft natural colors.
 Many women continue to use the same lipstick that looked great on them 20 years ago. In fact, most often that color is no longer suitable for your lip size and skin tone.Opt for colors that brighten your face and complement your facial physique.
 This creates a more youthful look, apparently.However, don’t overdo it. One or two coats of mascara should be enough to create an opened eye effect


Purchase mascara in brown or black-brown and stay away from colored mascaras unless you love them. These are great for 20 year olds but not always appropriate for those in their forties at business meetings, for a casual lunch or shopping trip. Grey mascara makes a nice change from brown and black yet is pleasantly less vivid than purple of blue., Eyeliner is a great asset to your makeup routine. However, like much in life, too much eyeliner isn’t good! Use soft kohl pencils that blend easily and create softer more natural looks.
 It’s important to create a natural look through blending well. Use professional brushes and soft sponges to create seamless makeup looks.
 Choose those with peach or pink undertones.Stay away from blushes with too much frost, as these may age your skin.Opt for matte blushes and blend in well.

