 The process for starting a small batch of microgreens like wheatgrass, pea shoots, or sunflower greens is remarkably similar, though slightly more equipment-intensive, than sprouting in your kitchen. You'll be able to trim multiple high-yield crops of sprouting greens from these projects, however, making them a good investment, especially if you're into wheatgrass shots or fresh shoots on your salad.


Start your sprouts like normal, soaking wheat seeds, green peas, or sunflowers in a jar and letting them sprout for about before rinsing them thoroughly and moving them to a seeding tray.
Sprouts need to have about quarter-inch roots showing before you move them to the seeding tray. Depending on what you're going to plant, this may take a varying amount of time, possibly 3 or 4 days., An outdoor sprouting system usually consists of trays for the sprouts to sprout and grow in, with mesh or holes on the bottom to drain from regular waterings. These are commonly available at gardening outlets, or you can make your own by punching some drain holes in the bottom of any sort of tray large enough to hold about a foot-square of soil.
 Line your seeding tray with a generous amount of soil. You don't need much, since the sprouts will be mostly growing on top and not producing substantial root systems, but it's better to have enough to trap moisture so you don't need to worry about your starts drying out.


Moisten the soil thoroughly with water and let any puddles dissipate before translating your sprouts onto the soil.
It's also common to line the bottom of plating or sprouting trays with small sections of blanket to keep the soil moist from underneath, and to mix in a small amount of vermiculite--about a cup for a 10 x 10 tray--to promote growth.
 Sprinkle your sprouts evenly on the top of the soil, spreading them out so none are piled on top of one another, which can cause molding. Use a covering tray, or a simple blanket or some sort, to cover the tray. Push down slightly on the seeds to seat them in the soil, but be gentle. You don't need to "plant" them.
 A few times a day, mist your sprouts and keep a close eye on them. Make sure they're getting enough water and air circulation to promote growth, and Try to keep them around room temperature, if possible. Growing sprouts in a shed with plenty of cool shade can be a nice place to keep your starts, like this.
 Wheatgrass will be tall and verdurous after about a week, but give it a few more days to reach it's full nutritional peak. Pea shoots will fill out and turn a lovely shade of green, and will be at their peak of tender deliciousness around the 10 day mark. Harvest the tops and let them continue growing, if you wish, or consider planting them to start your own crop.

