 So, you’re down to your last lesson. Good job. All that you have learned will be put to test in the final lesson. You will be flying a course that flies you over Los Santos and back to the airport, but you will be performing stunts at certain checkpoints.

Yes; you will be flying around doing while knife and invert maneuvers, so hopefully you have gotten the hang of it by now.
 There are three kinds of checkpoints in this flight.

The Yellow checkpoints are standard checkpoints that will indicate the direction of the next marker.
The Green checkpoints are those that will require you to perform a knife maneuver while passing through them. If you don’t manage to do that, you fail. The center of the checkpoint will indicate whether it’s a left knife maneuver or a right one, but you can do either one – it only shows it as a recommendation to make the following checkpoint easier.
The Blue checkpoints are ones which will require you to fly inverted through them. If you can’t do that, you will fail.
 The challenging part of the lesson starts at the first green checkpoint, which is the third checkpoint overall. You will need to make a hard left knife, which should allow you to take the sharp turn required to go through the fourth checkpoint in a leveled manner., The fifth checkpoint is a blue one, so you will need to quickly invert your aircraft. Level off through checkpoint six, and then perform another knife through the seventh one.

The checkpoint recommends a rightward knife, which is true because the next checkpoint is slightly to the right, but you can still get away with a left knife maneuver as well.
 The left knife through the tenth checkpoint will allow you to make the sharp turn to the next checkpoint easily. You’ll be flying in between the set of buildings now., The next difficult challenge comes with the fourteenth checkpoint, which will require a left knife and a hard turn to checkpoint fifteen. The rest of the checkpoints aren’t as difficult – just make sure you do the maneuvers properly., The last checkpoint is the finish line and you won’t need to land the aircraft. Congratulations, you just finished your final lesson!