 Generally speaking, you'll be safer if you plan your trips ahead of time and call and schedule a cab to pick you up at a set time rather than hailing a cab on the street. This is particularly important if you are a woman or if you are young.Licensed taxi services have dispatch numbers you can call to schedule your cab in advance. Ask the operator for the name or car number of the car that is scheduled to pick you up. This is especially important at airports, where there often are unlicensed cabs waiting outside to pick up desperate travelers.
You might also give your destination to the operator and ask about fares and traditional tips so you can get a reliable estimate of how much your trip will cost.
When the cab arrives, make sure it is the car you ordered.;
, If you're out in public and need to call a cab to come and pick you up, try to make your call from a relatively private place to avoid being overheard. Someone might overhear you and take advantage of the situation.For example, someone who works for an unscrupulous or illegal taxi service could call a car to come pick you up. You could mistakenly get into that car, thinking it was the one you just called.
Generally, avoid talking on the phone on a busy sidewalk. This not only increases the odds that you could be picked up by an illegal taxi, but also makes you vulnerable to muggers because you are distracted.
 When you call ahead to order your taxi, make sure you understand how much the trip will cost, whether you'll pay a metered fare or a flat rate, and what tip is customary in the area where you're traveling.Once you enter the cab, explain to the driver that you already know how much the trip will cost. For example, if the taxi company charges a flat rate for trips to the airport, let the cab driver know that you're expecting that flat rate and not a metered fare.
If the driver disagrees or insists on charging you something different than what you were told in advance, get out of the car and call the taxi service immediately to report the discrepancy.
 In most countries, taxi cab drivers must have a badge or identification card in their car and available for your inspection. Look at it carefully and, if there's a photo, compare that photo to the driver to make sure it is the same person.If the badge looks damaged, or as though it has been tampered with, get out of the cab and call the taxi service immediately. While there may be no issue, you are better safe than sorry. The badge could have been stolen by an imposter who is posing as a legitimate cab driver.
A legitimate cab driver should have no qualms about showing you their identification. If they refuse to do so, get out of the cab and call the taxi service immediately.
 Most countries, particularly in North America and Europe, require licensed cab drivers to keep their cars in good condition with routine maintenance up to date. If the cab looks beat-up or doesn't run properly, it may not be legitimate.Keep in mind that if something turns you off or just doesn't "feel right" about the cab itself, or the driver, you don't have to get into the car. Simply call the taxi service and tell them that you had a bad feeling, or otherwise explain your concerns. If you're embarrassed to do this, you might want to call a different cab company.
In less developed countries, taxis may not be as well maintained as they are in North America and Europe. Take some time to look around the area and get a feel for the average condition of cabs so you know what to expect.
 Ride-sharing can save you some money, but to stay safe when traveling by taxi you need to make sure no one that you don't know gets into the cab with you. A stranger could put your safety and security at risk.Sometimes this is a ploy between an unscrupulous cab driver and a friend to rob or assault passengers. You get in the car, then the other person gets in the car. When you are robbed, the cab driver and the other person split the loot.
If you've gone out at night, you may meet somebody who offers to share a cab with you, saying they are staying in the same hotel as you are, or that they live close by and you would be going in the same direction. This too can be a ploy to rob, assault, or otherwise take advantage of you. Don't do it. Your safety is worth spending a little more for your ride.

