 Really. Just be nice to them. Writing a novel in a month is tough, so be the first to understand and help others to do the same.
 Writing a novel in a month is hard enough without someone asking "Why is there a ninja in medieval Europe?" They're probably just trying to generate words. Chances are it's going to be edited out later. Either that or they are writing the most awesome historical fiction/historical fantasy ever. Whichever one it is, they're doing their best.


This might also be the one time where you don't want to offer constructive criticism. You might be able to if asked, but avoid it at all necessary costs. NaNoWriMo is meant for frantically writing a whole lot of words and motivating you to write. Nano authors don't have time to edit! The ones that do edit usually don't meet the word count on time. They just need to write and get out each and every idea for whatever it is that they're writing. Then, if they're so inclined, they'll edit it after November is over and turn it into something amazing. Only then may you offer constructive criticism... but still wait for permission.
 If your friend does not have earphones, you might want to prepare yourself for hearing the same playlist, or playlists, played repeatedly throughout the rest of the month. Chances are, your friend has at least one playlist or artist that they listen to while writing. You've probably heard it before. Perhaps use your own earphones to block it out when/if you get tired of it.
 Unless it's of the utmost urgency, it's best to leave them alone while they write. Writers don't usually appreciate being interrupted while they're in the zone, and they are definitely going to be in the zone several times this month. So, unless they tell you that it's okay to interrupt them for something that isn't urgent, don't do it. Just don't. Even if they do tell you that, think before you try to talk to them.
 For now their story is probably making a lot of sense. This is a good time. It's safer to ask them how the writing is going, and they may be willing to go out to the town or take a tea break or something. This is good. It's very, very good. This is also the safest time to ask them if you can read it, if they've ever let you read their writing before. This is not a certain thing, though, so unless if you have been allowed to read their work before, don't ask. In some cases you would have to pry the book from their cold, dead fingers to be able to read it before they're done.;
, They will appreciate it, and maybe remember it later in the month.
 Don't let it lead you into a false sense of security and think that it's going to be like this all night long. It won't be. If there is something that you can be completely sure of, it's that it is going to get harder.
 The first week will not necessarily be easy all the way through. Writer's block comes without warning, at any time it wants to, and your writer friend is always in danger of it. If they get writer's block in the first week, it's still better than if they get it in later weeks, though.


Let them bounce ideas off you.
Talk to them about ideas and their stories, if they want to.
Do what you can to help them get their muse back. For all you know, you might become their next muse. This is a scary responsibility, but it also means you are an extremely important person to them. So be afraid, be very afraid, but take it in stride and be happy.
 Continue being nice and leaving them to their writing when you see them typing or handwriting away. For now, it's still kind of all right. There's a possibility that they might be behind in their word count, but so far they can still convince themselves that they're fine, and they will be fine.
 Perhaps even have some parts already done, though this depends on the drink.
 It is getting closer to the end, and things are beginning to get more stressful. Depending on the writer, you can either just continue acting like it's week two, or you might have to start following the week four steps already.
 This is not an easy time for your writer friend. They might be done, they might be close to being done, or they might not. If they are behind on their word count, they may actually be insane and typing whatever they can to get the count.
 If it's coffee, have a big jug of coffee that you can just pour into a cup and zap in the microwave (and add anything else they like in their coffee). If it's tea, have a line-up of cups with bags of their favorite tea (or teas) and anything they like in their tea ready, and have the teapot constantly full. If it's some type of alcohol, have lots of bottles of it and a bottle opener, or if it's something that's mixed just have a fridge full of it.
 You should know not to disturb them by this time, but other people might not. On that note, don't disturb them unless if it is truly urgent.
 On the off chance that they don't go insane and actually say yes, they will not be very talkative. You might see them writing on napkins, popcorn buckets, etc. If this does happen, just let them do it.
 When the last day/night rolls around, if they aren't yet done, they might be insane. You might see them typing the same word over and over about ten or twenty times just to reach the word count in time. This will be edited out later if they plan to edit their nano novel. They might be seen nailing their door shut to avoid any disturbances. Remove the nails if you are so inclined, but do it quietly so they don't catch you in the act. Perhaps just stand outside of their door holding a cup of their favorite drink for when they need it.
 Let there be hugs and snacks and maybe a celebratory party, if they aren't too tired.
If they didn't, console them. They might be depressed for a while, so just support them. Encourage them to keep writing it anyway. Remind them that they can edit now if they want to. They will be just as proud if they meet the word count the week after, or in the middle of December.
They might start editing soon, or they might not. When they do, though, be more ready than ever to let them bounce ideas off of you, if that's what they want. They might be less stressed, but that isn't guaranteed. Just remember: Be nice. Critique, don't criticise. Don't read their work without permission.

