 Doing nice things for someone creates more positive feelings in the person who does those nice things than it does for the person who benefits from them. For example, if you buy coffee for someone, you will have more positive feelings towards that person than s/he will towards you. Therefore, you should allow your love interest to do nice things for you to increase feelings of affection. Just make sure that you do not take advantage of his or her kindness or forget to repay the favor now and then.For example, you can let your love interest open doors for you and give you gifts for a while without reciprocating. Or, ask your love interest for a favor, like giving you a ride home or helping you with a problem.
 Research has shown that putting yourself into a thrilling situation can increase your feelings of attraction for someone.Use this to your benefit and plan a thrilling date with the person you want to fall in love with you. Keep in mind that this strategy may not work if the person is not fond of thrilling activities.


For example, you could go to see a scary or action movie together, spend a day together at an amusement park, or go bungee jumping. Of course, respect the person’s fears and don’t try to force him or her into doing something that s/he is not comfortable with.
 Some research has shown that people may be more likely to find others desirable if they have to work harder to spend time with them. Try spending some good quality time with your love interest while you are just getting to know each other, then make yourself unavailable for a few days. Or, you could try acting a bit distracted on one of your dates to increase the other person’s desire for you.Keep in mind that this strategy can backfire if you don’t know the person very well. This strategy is best used on someone that knows you fairly well and likes you., A dimly lit environment may increase the chances of someone falling in love with you because research has shown that large pupils make people seem more attractive. Our pupils react to things that we are interested in, so it may also be a good indicator of how much your love interest likes you.Ask your love interest to go for an evening stroll with you or pick a restaurant that uses dim lighting and candlelight.
 If the person you are dating is willing, you could try Arthur Aron’s intimacy enhancement questions. These questions have led to love matches and feelings of intimacy for some people who were perfect strangers when they met. Just make sure that the other person is willing to try the activity with you. Don’t trick or coerce them.Try saying something like, “Hey, I read this weird article the other day about these 36 questions that are supposed to make any two people fall in love. Do you want to answer them with me, just for fun?”

