 To ensure you have enough time and a good chance to get infractions recorded onto your rap sheet in the game, it is best to only seek the attention of the cops when you are in Free Roam mode and not on a race. Free Roam is a mode that allows you to tour the city and cause trouble without the pressure and distraction of being on a race.


Using the Right and Left Arrow keys to scroll and Enter to select, choose “Career” on the game’s Main menu.
On the Career menu, press Enter to choose “Resume Career.” This is the first option on the menu.
On the next menu, scroll rightwards and select the second option, “Free Roam.” You will immediately be taken to the streets of the game’s fictional city, Palmont.;
, To do this, keep committing traffic violations like driving on the wrong side of the road, crashing into property, and colliding with other cars (use the Up Arrow key to accelerate, Down Arrow key to brake/reverse, Left Arrow key to steer left, and Right Arrow key to steer right). Before long, the cops will start giving chase.


You will know a pursuit is underway when a bar (called the Pursuit Bar) appears in the top right-hand corner of the screen. The Pursuit Bar is marked “Busted” on one end and “Evade” on the other.
 This means that you have to try not to get caught and also try not to get away too soon. Some tips on how to do this are:


Every time the bar fills up towards the end marked “Evade,” slow down and let the cops catch up with you.
Every time the bar fills up towards the end marked “Busted,” speed up and get away from the cops in your immediate vicinity.
 Some of the violations you can commit are:


Ramming police vehicles.
Ramming other civilian cars.
Overspeeding.
Driving in the oncoming lane.
Knocking down signposts and billboards by driving on the curb.
 No matter how good you are at causing trouble with the police, you must get away from them at the end in order to register the points you have accumulated during the pursuit.


When you have had enough of the pursuit, speed away from the police. Use all the tools available to you for this:

Press the Right Shift key while accelerating (Up Arrow key) to activate Nitrous. This will give your an instantaneous speed boost.
Turn sharply at intersections to increase the distance between you and the cops.
Drive in incoming lanes as the cops will be reluctant to follow you there.


Do not stay in one area of the city for too long as this allows the cops time to call for backup.
Keep ramming civilian cars, forcing the cops to stop and help them.
When you start losing the cops, the pursuit bar will start filling up steadily towards the “Evade” end. Keep moving away from them.
The Pursuit bar will soon be replaced by a blue bar called the CoolDown Bar. Once the CoolDown Bar empties, you will have successfully completed the pursuit and the points you have garnered will register.

