 If you really want to start strong, use some boosters. On the pre-game screen, select the boosters you’d want to equip for the game.


You may have to shell some gold bars if you don’t have a particular booster you want to use.;
, Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Locate the pets. Look for long connected blocks of the same color for huge points, taking into consideration the locked multiplier blocks.
 You won’t know how your board will look like after several moves as new blocks, pets, and boosters will have come into play. However, you have control over your first few moves. Plan them out properly to get huge points.


Target to get the first pet to the bottom as fast as you can, so new pets can come into play.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look of the whole board before each move.
 You start the level with just one pet. Work on getting it to the bottom as fast as you can. New pets come out sporadically when some pets get to the bottom.


You need to rescue 10 pets in this level, so keep your focus on them.
 If you’re able to clear long connected blocks of the same color, you will get huge points. Strive for this in every move.


You can’t beat this level just by rescuing the pets. You also need to meet the target number of points.
 There are 2x multiplier blocks on the board. However, they come locked. Free them by removing blocks adjacent to them.


Form huge clusters of similar colored blocks with these multiplier blocks to get huge points.
 Use the balloons to remove similar color blocks from the board. Use them wisely. The balloons can be useful in unlocking several multiplier blocks at once.
 The bombs in this level appear inside glass cases. They need to be brought to the bottom first for them to shatter and release the bombs inside. If you have some use for the bombs, work on breaking them out of the glass cases.
 When the rocket booster is all fired up, use it on a column that has some pets ready to fall or that has some blocks you’d like to clear out.


You don’t need to use it right away, but better use it still so it can start recharging again.

