 Trying to rush through the process will likely worsen the knot and leave you angry and frustrated. Working out a knot can take time and a lot of patience, and you should go into the process as calmly as possible. Take a few deep breaths, put on some enjoyable music, and get to work.


If you have a friend, sibling, or parent willing to help, you can speed up the process. And if the knot is somewhere that is difficult to reach, they may be necessary.Remember to take breaks. You may need to stop and rest your arms.
If you don't have time to deal with the knot, pull your hair into a bun and wait until you have enough time to dedicate to working it out.;
, When trying to unknot hair, your tools can make all the difference. You absolutely want to use a detangler, conditioner, or other lubricant (like coconut oil). Don't use a brush, as this can lead to more knotting. Instead, find a sturdy medium- or wide-toothed comb. Set up a chair in front of a mirror--you'll want to be sitting, since it may take a while.


There's an abundance of detangling products for curly-haired people. Look for sprays to use after the shower, plus rinses and shampoos that can help when you wash your hair.
Look for gentle, no-tears versions for kids or very fine hair.
If your hair is dry and damaged, look for a product that moisturizes as it detangles.
You can also use a silicone-based de-frizzing gel to work out tangles.Make your own spray by mixing conditioner and water in a clean, empty spray bottle.
 Many experts recommend detangling right after you shower, but it depends on how healthy your hair is to begin with. Wet hair is stretchy and elastic, but also extremely fragile, so it will break very easily.However, damp hair can add lubrication, which can assist in loosening the knot. If your hair is very damaged or fragile, begin with dry hair.The spray or conditioner will add lubrication and "slip" to dry hair, which is often sufficient for working out a knot.
Some experts recommend detangling right before you shower, so you can easily work shampoo and conditioner through your hair and comb it out afterwards.