 Symptoms of gastric ulcers can be nonspecific and hard to notice. Your horse may alter their behavior if they have a stomach ulcer. Their attitude may change and they may become less eager to do things they used to. The horse may act irritably or dazed.The horse may not perform as well or enthusiastically as before, and they may be reluctant to train like they used to. Your horse may seem nervous or not want to do certain moves as before.
Bruxism, or teeth grinding, is one of the most common behavioral changes with ulcers.;
, A symptom of gastric ulcers is poor or reduced appetite. Your horse may be reluctant to eat when presented with food or may graze less. After they begin eating, they may stop and walk away because the food hurts their stomach.Due to this, your horse may lose weight.
 Gastric ulcers can lead to a decline in your horse’s overall condition. Look for any decline or changes in your horse’s health or bodily condition. You may also look for any problems with the horse’s coat.Your horse may feel lethargic, so they may spend more time lying around than usual. They may also lie on their back to try to help relieve the pain from the ulcers.
 If your horse has a gastric ulcer, they may start chewing wood or cribbing. Chewing wood helps the horse produce more saliva, which can help neutralize stomach acid.If you notice this behavior, your horse could potentially have stomach ulcers.
 Stomach ulcers are common in all horses, but they occur more commonly in athletic and active horses. Thoroughbred race horses, endurance horses, and show horses seem to have the highest chances of ulcers. If you have an athletic or extremely physically active horse, your horse may be more prone to gastric ulcers.Exercise moves the acid in the stomach around, which can get it up in the upper and vulnerable part of the stomach. Exercise can also lead to more stomach acid production. These things can cause ulcers.
 Horses that are under certain types of stress can develop gastric ulcers. Stressors include being hauled around or being enclosed in unfamiliar stalls, both of which happen when going to and from horse shows or races. Changes in schedules can also lead to ulcers. It may take up to five days to develop the ulcers.Your performance horse may appear fine and unstressed, but the hauling or shipping can lead to ulcers.
 The way you feed your horse can lead to ulcers. Changing your horse’s diet suddenly may lead to an ulcer. Feeding your horse a diet high in carbohydrates can lead to gastric ulcers or acid reflux due to the fatty acids released by the carbohydrates.Horses that are not allowed to graze throughout the day for food and are instead fed twice a day can develop ulcers. This is due to the stomach’s natural acids and schedule getting off by a non-natural feeding plan.
Horses are grazing animals and having them graze steadily throughout the day will allow them to produce an even amount of stomach acid and natural digestion.

