 How we feel inside is expressed in our eyes and on our faces.Learning to recognize the association between facial expressions and certain types of emotion goes a long way in being able to read emotion.


Don’t be fooled! People can manipulate their facial expressions to appear to look happy when they are angry or sad – actors do this convincingly all the time. Look for other cues as to how they really feel. Note her body language or tone of voice. Make eye contact – open, penetrating “cold” eyes suggests a different emotional state than a “warm” smile.
 A genuine smile uses more muscles than one that is faked or forced. The corners of her mouth and cheeks should be raised. If the muscles around her eyes also tighten and “crow’s feet” form (clusters of wrinkles around the outer corners of eyes), then it is a good indicator of a genuine smile.
 This might seem obvious, but people try to control or cover-up their true emotions by smiling when they are sad. Genuine and spontaneous emotions are hard to fake.Sadness is associated with frowning (lowering the corners of the mouth). It is also associated with raising the inner corners of the eyebrows (near the noise). Additional cues are loose, drooping eyelids that cover part of the eye.
 Anger and disgust are often associated with one another and create similar facial expressions.We wrinkle our noses when we are disgusted, angry, or annoyed.


Anger and resentment can be towards someone or about something.When we are angry, we pull our eyebrows down, purse our lips (tighten them and suck-in the margins), and bulge our eyes.
In contrast to anger, expressing dislike, disgust, or disdain for someone or something is associated with a raised upper lip and loose lower lip. We also pull our eyebrows down, but not as much as when we are angry.
 While fear is a negative and surprise is considered a positive emotion, both activate the sympathetic nervous system and trigger a “fight or flight” response.When something unexpected happens, whether it is good or bad, it stimulates a part of the brain that is outside of our direct control. When this happens, we pull up our eyebrows and eyelids so our eyes are wide open.When we are afraid, we also pull our eyebrows in (towards the nose), our pupils dilate (get bigger) to take in more light, and our mouth is open. We also tense up the muscles in our face, especially around our mouth and cheek.
When we are surprised, we tend to arch our eyebrows and drop our jaw. Our mouth is open, and the muscles around it are relaxed and loose.