 Shortened or contracted ligaments usually occur due to trauma, faulty posture, or general disuse. When the ligaments of a joint contract, they limit that joint's range of movement.Ligaments held in shortened positions tend to shorten over time, which could happen if you have habitually bad posture; for instance, if you always slump forward while sitting, the ligaments at the front of the shoulder may shorten.
Ligament contraction can also occur when joints are immobilized. For instance, if you have your arm in a sling for several weeks, your shoulder joint will be unable to move and the ligaments it contains can shrink.
If you suspect that the ligaments in one or more of your joints have contracted, it's best to confirm your suspicions with a doctor, physical therapist, or other professional before attempting to stress and elongate the those ligaments.;
, Relax your body, then slowly stretch the targeted joint to its end range, stopping before you feel any pain.


Focus on a stretch that targets the joint in question. For example, if you're experiencing a loss of movement in your shoulder and wish to target the ligaments there, you might extend your arm to its end range in the direction of the restriction.
The "end range" refers to the point at which you feel discomfort in the surrounding muscle without feeling any pain. Never push yourself to the point of feeling pain since overworking the area may cause the ligaments to tear.
 Once you reach the end range of your joint, hold the stretched position for a full 30 seconds.As you stretch, your muscles automatically contract and increase their tone. The involved muscles usually hold this contraction for 15 to 20 seconds.
After 15 to 20 seconds pass, the muscles relax, granting you access to the joint and its ligaments. For the remaining 10 to 15 seconds, you'll be able to stretch or stress the ligaments themselves.
 After 30 seconds pass, gradually relax the joint and return it to its resting position.


Avoid sharp or quick motions. Release the position over several seconds instead of instantly dropping the joint to its resting position. When working with ligaments, all involved movements should be slow and steady.

