 You can’t be very interesting if you don’t know much. Whether its current events, politics, history, or the local sports team, learning more about them gives you material to talk about. Immerse yourself in books, newspapers, magazines, and online news to keep you well-informed. Seek out topics you are interested in to learn new things you can share with others.


Forget trying to learn about something that doesn’t strike your fancy. You’re not going to retain the information well and you won’t feel excited about discovering the ins and outs of it. Instead, focus on what you’re interested in and you’ll get much more out of it., Some of the best ways to learn something new is to hear about it from others. Make sure you actually listen to what the person is talking about instead of just waiting for them to finish so that you can interject. Being a good listener during a conversation shows the person that you are genuinely interested in what they have to say, which is a great way to make a new friend or build upon an already existing relationship.


Learning to really listen when in a conversation can take a tremendous amount of willpower. You may want to interrupt so that you make a good impression with your knowledge or humor, but doing so can actually backfire. You may come off as rude or a know-it-all. Instead, give the speaker your full attention and only comment when they are finished and when you can add something meaningful to the conversation., Asking someone questions shows that you are interested in finding out more about them or what they are talking about, and also helps you to learn more information. People who are interesting never stop trying to learn. They are often extremely curious and do what they can to find out about their interests as much as possible.


Get more out of the conversation by asking questions that can’t be answered with a simple “yes” or “no.” For example, instead of asking, “Are you interested in rock climbing,” you could say, “What kind of activities are you interested in?” This gives you the opportunity to learn more and have a deeper conversation with the person., Most people love to listen to stories. Cultivate a knack for telling stories by starting with an engaging hook and making the story simple. The best stories are humorous or reveal a truth about our world. Try to make the stories you share with others fit this model for the most success.