 If you're steaming vegetables in the microwave, you won't need a steaming basket or any special equipment. All you'll need is a microwave-safe bowl, a microwave-safe cover, and some water.However, if you have a special microwave-safe steamer, you can use this the exact same way.









Steaming vegetables in the microwave is fast and easy.
Be aware, though, that cooking vegetables in the microwave may alter their flavor.Cooking in the microwave can also reduce the nutritional value of your vegetables., Steaming, even in the microwave, will require fresh water. However, you won't need very much. Start with about two to three tablespoons of water and see if you need more or less for that dish., You'll want to make sure that whatever you cover the bowl with is also safe to use in the microwave. Some people prefer using a microwave-safe plastic wrap.You can also lay a dish flat on top of the bowl, if the dish is also microwave safe.









Whatever microwave-safe cover you use, make sure one corner of the bowl is left slightly open/uncovered. This will help vent some of the steam so that your veggies do not overcook.
If using a plate that is too big to partially uncover, try laying a microwave-safe object (like a wooden chop stick) across the top of the bowl. This can help raise one small portion of the covering plate so everything steams properly.
 The cook time will vary in the microwave, depending on which vegetables you're steaming and how thick and








Asparagus spears will steam in about four to six minutes, depending on their thickness.
Broccoli will steam in about three to five minutes.
Brussels sprouts should steam in about seven minutes.
Carrots sliced approximately 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) thick will take about five minutes.
Cauliflower will steam in about three to four minutes.
Green beans take about three to four minutes to steam.
Peas only take about one to two minutes to steam.
Zucchini takes six to eight minutes to steam.
 Once your vegetables are steamed, they're ready to serve. If there is any excess water remaining in the bottom of the bowl, carefully drain it out over the sink. You may want to remove the vegetables with a fork before draining the water so that you don't burn yourself or spill veggies into the sink. Serve the vegetables while they're still warm.








