 There is one regular Extractor blade that has four sides, and one Milling blade with only a single blade. The Extractor blade is used to blend all fruits and vegetables into drinks, and the Milling blade is used to turn dry ingredients into powers. You will change this blade depending on what you are making, a drink or a powder.;
, A kitchen counter or table is best. Keep the NutriBullet base away from water when you are using it. Now, plug in the Power Base. This is the part of the NutriBullet you will plug in and will place the cup onto.
 Use fruits and vegetables that you like to make a nutritious drink, or fill the cup with ingredients you want to turn into powder, like nuts or seeds. The Tall Cup NutriBullet has the capacity to hold 24 ounces and the Short Cup has the capacity to hold 18 ounces. Do not fill the cup past the max line.


For nutritious drinks, add 50% fruit and 50% leafy greens. This will make a drink filled with vitamins.
Cut the vegetables or fruits in halves or quarters if they do not fit into the cup.
Fill the cup up with almonds or oats to make a powdery substance you can then eat in yogurt or on top of cereal.
 The amount of liquid you use will determine the consistency of your drink, so use less liquid for a chunkier drink. Never fill the cup past the fill line. You can use water, juice, almond milk, or any liquid of your choice.
 Once you place the ingredients of your drink or powder in the Tall or Short Cup, cap the cup with the Extractor or Milling blade. Press down and twist, screwing the blade on until it is securely attached to the cup.
 There are two notches on either side of the NutriBullet logo on the base. There are also two round protrusions on the cup with your ingredients; line up these notches and protrusions. Then, simply push the cup down, and your ingredients will mix.


Lift the cup up and out to stop it.
Mixing the ingredients should only take a few seconds.
 Sometimes, ingredients will get stuck, especially if you do not put enough liquid in the cup. Tap or shake the cup to loosen these ingredients so everything mixes together.


You can also add more liquid if desired by removing the cup from the Power Base, removing the blade, and then adding more liquid.
Feel free to shake or tap the entire NutriBullet without removing the cup from the base.
 Each NutriBullet comes with two re-sealable lids in case you do not finish your drink. Place them tightly on the cup, then refrigerate for up to 2 days., Do not place the blade or base in the dishwasher, however. Wash the cup and lids on a normal cycle.
 Use regular dish soap and warm water to rinse the cup and blade, but be careful handling the extremely sharp blade.
 Unplug the NutriBullet base before cleaning. Use a damp rag to wipe away any residue.
 Use the Milling Blade for this cleanup. Fill the cup 2/3 of the way with soap, then blend for 30 seconds. Any dry residue should come unstuck. Now, you can clean the NutriBullet in your regular fashion, by hand or in the dishwasher.

