 Kimmy wakes up at 4:00 every morning to finish her homework. If you are busy after school, take this routine into consideration. It may mean to get up early, but at least you won't be yelled at by a teacher for not doing your homework. On one of the episodes she said, "If the doll is not in the right place, I have to move it over at least a centimeter to make it look right!"


Make your room look well-organized. Vacuum the floor, throw away paper or items that aren't needed (with parent's permission if it is important).
Keep your items organized. Kimmy is always organized and makes sure everything is in the right place.;
, Kimmy is kind to everyone and has a good heart. She is never mean to anyone.
 Kimmy is gorgeous, and she takes care of herself. Wash your face, brush your teeth, put your hair in a bun, and wear appropriate clothes. Kimmy would never wear anything inappropriate only if she had to for a dance costume. Always have showers and wash your body.
 Kimmy says that she has never done anything bad in her life, and Angel says that Kimmy doesn't have a bad bone in her body. Always follow rules, do what you are told, and turn in your homework on time.
 Jessi threw a pistachio at Kimmy and Kimmy threw one back. That was her "bad" deed.
 Kimmy does Dance, and participates in a competition every weekend. Try something like dance, gymnastics etc. and try to get a place on a competition team.
 Kimmy has her hair always in a bun, or down. Make sure to have this hairstyle if you want to look like Kimmy as well as behave like her. If you tie your hair up in a high ponytail, then make a bun and tie it again, you'll look like her. Make sure your bun is clean though, Kimmy's buns are always clean and neat. Use some clips if you have to.
 Kimmy wants everything to be perfect in life. So if you are doing a sport, try your hardest to make what you are doing perfect. Whether its netball, gymnastics, basketball, make sure you listen to your coach or teacher and make corrections for it to be perfect. Even if its just schoolwork, listen to your teacher and make corrections.
 Kimmy is always quiet. She doesn't make drama, she's not mean, she doesn't yell or anything like that. Kimmy usually doesn't talk unless someone talks to her, or shes asking a question.

