 Use both on prayer. Now, do the Restless Ghost quest. You get even more prayer xp. Now, finish the beginner section of the Lumbridge and Draynor Achievement Diary. You get a ring and a lamp. Use the lamp on Prayer and wear the ring. NOW!;
, Go to the Stronghold of Security and do the first three floors. You have 10k now. Use it to buy full iron and an iron scimitar.
 Pick up their bones and their feathers. Don't bury the bones yet. The feathers will stack, so we can forget about them for now. Fill up your inventory with bones, then bury them all at once.
 Yes, this will take an immense amount of time, but it's worth it. By now, you should have a lot of feathers. Sell them for 3-4 gp each in Draynor or Varrock. You can use the Grand Exchange too.
 You won't need it anymore. Now with your new found money from all of those feathers, go buy full mithril armor and an adamantite scimitar.
 Pick up the hides and bones. Forget about the beef. Every time your inventory fills up, bury the bones. Keep doing that until your inventory is full of hides. Go to the Lumbridge bank and deposit them. Make a special tab for it.
 WOW! YOU ARE STRONG! Remember, this is REALLY boring and takes a lot of time.
 You must have a lot of money. Sell your mithril an addy scimitar and buy a rune scimitar, rune full helm, rune pl8 legs, and a rune kite. Also get an amulet of power (enchanted diamond amulet) and an addy platebody.
 If you need skill requirements, you can either build your skills or pay for stuff you need. All of the non-member quests can be passed by using only money and combat.
 Hurray! Start Dragon Slayer, finish it, and buy a rune pl8 body. Sell your adamantite one while you're at it. OMG, your character must be BUFF now! Do what you can of the rest of the Lumbridge/Draynor Achievement Diary. Train your skills until you finish it. All the time, use the lamps you get from rewards on Prayer.
 You can do whatever. You can quit, become a member, do nothing, skill, whatever. 43 prayer is the magic level. If you don't, fight hill giants for the big bones. Bury them over and over until you have 43 prayer. Now you're done.

