 Get out a large mixing bowl and measure 1 cup (125 g) of the all-purpose flour into it. Open two 0.25 ounce (7 g) envelopes of instant yeast and pour it into one side of the bowl. Put 3 tablespoons of sugar and 3/4 teaspoon of salt in the other side of the bowl. Whisk the dry ingredients for about 30 seconds to combine them.You don't want the yeast to come into direct contact with the salt. The salt can stop the yeast from activating.
You can use instant or rapid rise yeast. If you'd like to use active dry yeast, you'll need to activate it in a liquid before adding it to the recipe.;
, Pour the wet ingredients into a small saucepan and heat them on low heat. Check the temperature occasionally and turn it off when the mixture reaches 120 to 130 degrees F (50 to 55 C). You'll need:1 cup (236 ml) water
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 tablespoons (57 g) of the butter

, Pour the warm liquid mixture into the bowl with the dry ingredients and stir them on low for about 30 seconds. Use a stand mixer to beat the dough for 2 minutes at medium speed. Gradually add 1/2 cup (62 g) of flour and keep beating the dough for another two minutes. The dough should begin to pull away from the sides of the bowl and form a dough.If the dough is still too sticky, add a little extra flour.
If you don't have a stand mixer, you can beat the dough by hand. Just use a sturdy wooden spoon and beat the dough until a soft ball forms.
 Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and dump the dough onto it. Knead the dough for about 5 to 7 minutes. The dough should become smooth and elastic. Lay a towel over the dough and let it rest for 10 minutes before you shape it.You can knead the dough any way you like. A good starter method is to use the palm of your hand to push the dough away from you. Fold the dough back over and turn the dough 45 degrees. Push it away from you again. Continue pushing, folding, and turning.
 Remove the towel and divide the dough into 12 even pieces. You can use a bench scraper to easily cut the dough into pieces. Take each piece and gently roll it in the palm of your hand to form a ball. Do this for every piece of dough. Spray a 10 to 12-inch (25 to 30-cm) skillet with cooking spray and place all of the balls in the skillet.The rolls will spread into each other slightly as they bake.
 Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C). Lay a towel or greased sheet of plastic wrap over the skillet. Let the rolls prove for about 30 to 45 minutes. They should double in volume.Put the rolls in a warm place to rest while the oven heats up.
 Remove the covering from the skillet. Melt the last 2 tablespoons of butter in a small prep bowl. Dip a pastry brush in the butter and spread it over the rolls once they've risen. Put the skillet in the oven and bake them for 18 to 20 minutes. They should turn a little golden.You can serve the dinner rolls right out of the skillet or transfer them to a serving bowl.

