 Cortisone creams help reduce inflammation of the skin and promote healing.Talk to your doctor to determine which kind of cortisone cream is right for you.


Cortisone creams are available in both prescription and over-the-counter forms. Only apply the cream to the affected skin, and be sure to read the labels for instructions on use.
 Lightening creams that contain ingredients such as kojic acid, arbutin, licorice extract, mulberry extract, and vitamin C can help safely lighten and fade skin hyperpigmentation caused by acne scars without causing damage or irritation.Avoid products that contain hydroquinone, as this popular skin-lightening chemical can irritate your skin and has been labelled a potential carcinogen.If you have darker skin (esp. for black/African people), avoid lightening creams. They may permanently remove melanin from your skin, which can create a worse blemish.
 Glycolic and salicylic acids are found in many skincare products, such as creams, scrubs and ointments, as they are effective exfoliants which help skin to shed layers, bringing hyperpigmented skin to the surface, before helping it to disappear completely.You could also book an appointment with a dermatologist to get a glycolic chemical peel, which work in the same way, but will penetrate deeper layers of skin.
 Retinoids are vitamin A derivatives which are used in a wide array of skin care products treating fine lines and wrinkles, skin discoloration, and acne. Retinoids boost collagen production and speed up cell turnover, making them a great choice for targeting acne scars. These creams can be a little on the pricey side, but they are highly recommended by dermatologists for their fast, effective results.


You can purchase some retinoid creams over-the-counter, such as those produced by major skincare brands. However, stronger creams are available by prescription from your dermatologist.
The ingredients in retinoid creams are sensitive to the UVA rays in sunlight, so these creams should only be applied at night in order to protect your skin., These treatments are not going to fade your acne scars overnight, as they can be quite harsh and the skin will take time to heal. However, they are definitely worth considering if your find that creams and lotions aren't working, or you're more concerned about evening out your skin tone.


A chemical peel involves having a concentrated acidic solution applied to the skin. It will burn away the top layers of skin, leaving fresh, new layers of skin underneath.
Microdermabrasion produces similar results, but it works by exfoliating the skin using a rotating wire brush.

