 Choose clothing that covers most of your chest and waist while still giving you access to your breasts. You may want to wear layers of clothing that you can remove or pull up in order to breastfeed. For example, you can wear shirts with straps that are easy to pull down or shirts that have flaps you can lift away in order to breastfeed. Ensure that you can easily manage your clothing or nursing bra one handed since you may need to hold your baby as well.Many nursing tank tops are great for public breastfeeding since you can simply unclip one side at a time. This will give your baby access to a breast while keeping the other breast covered.;
, If you'd like to cover as much of your baby and breasts as possible while you nurse, you may want to wear a nursing cover. These are usually adjustable cloths that wrap around your shoulders and arms to provide coverage. Keep in mind that these usually work best for small babies since older babies begin to pull them away.If you don't have a cover, you could drape a scarf or baby blanket over your baby and your breasts. Again, these work best for small babies who won't kick them off or pull them away.
 Choose a place to breastfeed based on your comfort level. Some women prefer to nurse in busy, open spaces (such as benches at the park or at the table of a cafe) while others like quieter spaces (like a children's area at a library or museum). Regardless of where you choose, the place should be safe for you to focus on breastfeeding your baby.You can look for a universal breastfeeding symbol to find a location that's designated as breastfeeding friendly. You can usually find these in malls, public parks, and at libraries.
 If you'd like to discreetly feed your baby while you're on the go, learn how to breastfeed your baby while it's in a baby carrier or sling. Follow the manufacturer's instructions that came with the carrier or sling to ensure that your baby is positioned correctly and can easily breathe., If you're concerned about nursing discreetly, practice public nursing in the private space of your home. Use anything you plan to use when nursing in public. Consider nursing in front of a mirror so you can see how exposed you are.

Practicing before you head out will also help you decide if your clothing or nursing cover is comfortable.

