 Get some new eye shadow, a new lipstick or new mascara. Try a different color combination, but make sure you choose colors that still complement your skin tones. Go for an entire new look, such as punk, pin-up or glamorous, or natural. Be adventurous!Even opting for a new lip color can make a huge difference, amping up your whole look.Search online for makeup tutorials if you’re unsure how to achieve a certain look.
 Invite a few friends over and ask everyone to bring their makeup. Give each other facials or mud masks and then do each other’s makeup. Experiment with different looks, using eyeshadows and lipsticks that your friends brought.


Try wild styles and looks, such as styles from “The Hunger Games” or other movies.
Be sure to have clean, unused makeup brushes, cotton balls and cotton swabs so that you don’t swap bacteria among makeup.
 Professional makeup artists at department stores like Macy’s will do your makeup for you at the makeup counter. This is a great way to test a new look without buying a whole bunch of new makeup. It’s technically free to get a makeover here, although you should think about buying something. Usually, lip color is a good product to buy, since you’ll probably want to reapply it throughout the day., Remove any old nail polish. Carefully trim, buff and file your fingernails. Gently push back your cuticle on your nails with a cuticle pushing tool. Moisturize your hands and paint your nails.Choose a color that complements your outfit or choose something really wild.
 Find the best eyebrow shape for your face and shape your eyebrows to match. For example, square faces look good with soft, rounded eyebrows, while rounded faces look good with high angled eyebrows.Only pluck eyebrow hairs from underneath your brow, and avoid plucking too much. Fill in your eyebrows with an eyebrow pencil., If you are looking to give yourself a makeover that you can use on a daily basis, go for a more natural look. Limit the amount of foundation you use. Opt instead for a light powder to tame oily skin. Try more subtle shades of eye shadow that are appropriate for your everyday life.


A night on the town might call for more dramatic makeup, especially if your outfit is dramatic.

