 You can dedicate a part or all of a room of your house as a place of prayer and worship. For example, you are not compelled to go to worship with others. Instead, you might often worship at home, alone or with others. Your worship might include candles, incense, and images or statues of spiritual importance to your faith, if any.


Depending on which faith you are part of, you can substitute items of your faith at this place. Additionally, if you do not have a religion you can choose items of significance or meaning to you to place in your shrine.
Worshiping at home can be a good practice for maintaining a healthy prayer life. You can use your worship space simply for daily prayer or meditation.;
, Invite others to share, and commune with the people in the traditions of your faith. Worshiping with others can enhance your feeling of awe. Awe is a sense of our smallness in the face of a great purpose, being or presence. People who experience more awe in creation may be more likely to help others and engage in working for the good of the group. Many places of worship have beautiful, awe inspiring art and teachings. They often contain and teach symbols of the faith, which represent a prominent doctrine. And, fellowship with the people at the meeting place.
 Prayer and meditation can help you to regulate your negative emotions. Prayer can act like an invisible social support to help reinforce a positive self image. If you practice prayer, pray anywhere, at all times, or find a quiet place and time to talk to God about your concerns and the things in your life you are grateful for.
Consider keeping a prayer journal. When you journal, it allows you to sort through the emotional pain in your life and orient yourself to the things that matter to you. Studies show that patients with life threatening diseases benefited physically and emotionally from regularly keeping journals about their stressful experiences. Practice prayer, meditation, and spiritual mindfulness regularly. These require that you still yourself and concentrate the mind to cease random thoughts and channel a connection with a larger presence. 