 The initial bodily reaction to being dunked under cold water in a high-stress situation like being thrown overboard from your raft is shock and panic. This disrupts your breathing pattern and clouds your judgment which could make it harder to get back onto your raft.Stay calm and aim to reach the surface of the water. Once you do that, you can better assess how to move forward and get yourself out of harm's way.


Try to regulate your breathing and stay concentrated on the task at hand, which is getting back onto the boat, not the fact you've been thrown overboard.
 Once you reach the surface of the water and can breathe, take a second to gather yourself and determine where the raft is. Many times when you're thrown overboard, you'll end up right next to the raft. If you are further from the raft, then you can extend your paddle to the boat and try to get someone else to pull you closer to it.When extending your paddle, make sure you offer the "T" grip to the person pulling you in.
 Grab onto the line that's attached to the perimeter of the raft to give yourself stabilization. If you still have your paddle, hand it to someone inside of the raft so that you can grab onto the raft with both hands. Hang on the side of the raft until someone is ready to pull you in.
 Only one person should be performing a rescue if another person gets thrown overboard. If you are the rescuer, grab onto the shoulder straps of the person's personal flotation device, locking both of your arms and then falling back to pull in the individual who fell overboard.The guide should be the one pulling people out of the water.
 If you can't make your way back to the raft and it's impossible for someone to pull you back in, assume the Whitewater swimming position and ride the current until you can get to shore. The Whitewater swimming position is when your feet are pointed out in front of you over the water while you float down the river on your back. Your knees should be slightly bent so that you can absorb any shock from oncoming rocks or shallow areas of the river. When you are going downstream in this position, try to take breaths when the water is low, not on the crest of the wave.Do not try to stand in the water because your feet and ankles can become stuck in rocks and cause serious injury.
Abandon the Whitewater swimming position when you get safely to shore or can make your way back onto the raft.

