 If you are in high school, sign up for your school's gymnastics team. If you are younger you would have to join classes. If you are more advanced, you may be able to join a competitive gymnastics team.;
, Arrange a good schedule, and make sure you leave a good amount of time to get to your class.
 Not just vault, floor, beam, bars. Also, work hard in the conditioning and stretching. But don't go too far, especially with the stretching.
 If you are in a group like most gymnasts, asks for tips that are most important to you. But if you have a private instructor/coach, ask them help for all skills, learn to deal with criticism, because most coaches don't mean to insult you.


Use the tips. Unless your coach is just a friend's parent, or a P.E. teacher, you should trust their tips. Coaches at gymnastics gyms, are qualified, and most competitive ones, have been through the 10 levels of gymnastics some are even elite gymnasts.
 Think that you can do a skill, that you are afraid to. Try to be positive at every single practice!

, Maybe it's something like getting better at double backs, or something like getting your leg higher in a scorpion. What ever it is, if you have a goal in mind, it makes it easier to achieve it.
 Usually some people practice gymnastics for even four or five hours everyday, without their lessons. Typical gymnasts usually train for three to four hours, three times every week. If you wish to be a competitive gymnast the training hours will increase prior to an event. You must make sure that you are ready to commit to many training sessions that may affect your daily routine.
 If you don't have a lot of energy, exercise 2-3 days a week or on the days that you don't have gymnastics. If you feel stronger, do 6-7 days a week.


Give yourself time to rest and heal when you need it. Remember that if you are sick, skip this routine for about at least a week, unless it's just a cold.
 Warm up with exercises like running 1/2 a mile, or just a few laps, jumping jacks, high knees and butt kickers, or lunges. Practice stretching and warming up at home before you begin. Your coach will usually pick up on who is the best at stretching out beforehand, and gain their respect. Take part in all coach-led exercises to show that you are committed to gymnastics.
 Do different kinds of pushups like basic pushups, fist pushups, pushups with your elbows pointed inwards, knee pushups when you are tired, pushups with your legs higher, handstand pushups, and wall pushups if you are a beginner. You can even add 1-5 pound wrist weights to your pushups. Also try plank holds.
 Jumps, candlestick-jumps, lunges again, v-hold, arch-hold, tuck ups/v ups, and/or candlestick holds could help. There are many healthy variations.
 Try burpees, frog jumps, and basically all exercise where you go to the ground and get back up then jump.
 Do curl/sit ups, and wall sits.
 The only way to work towards mastering all your skills is to try, and practice, and try again. In every new skill you learn, you have to attempt it, so set goals to what skills you want to attempt at each practice.
 Check it off when you think you got the skill down. Example:


back handspring ()
front tuck ()
split jump ()

, If you try your best and practice this all the time, you'll be a dedicated gymnast in no time! If you want to be a good gymnast, you need to commit to the sport. Sometimes you have to realize that you can't always hang out with your friends.
 This is very important. Always have a healthy diet. This does not mean to stop eating, it means to eat less unhealthy junk food. Make sure that you eat a small energy snack before a long training session, otherwise you will find yourself running out of energy before the end of training.
 At your lessons, be kind to your fellow gymnasts. Being kind to others will also make you a better gymnast and person. Do not argue with your coaches. You should respect your coach's position.
 It's just something to improve on, a little tiny thing that you could work on to improve your gymnastics skills. Over-reacting will just make people think negatively of you. Take all points of criticism and use them to improve.
 Showing up on time will help your coach know that you're reliable and that in future tournaments you'll definitely be there to compete. Also, remember your leotard and other equipment. This will prove that you are a commited and serious student

