 Place the swing in its intended permanent location. Mark the placement of each leg using the blade of a shovel.


Nearly any type of soft ground will work for this method, and you can use this method with wooden and metal swing sets. During this process, you'll pour concrete into the ground and anchor the swing set legs to that, which will give the set enough durability regardless of the surrounding ground.;
, Temporarily remove the swing set, then dig holes at each marked anchor point. Each hole should be roughly 22 inches (55 cm) deep and 16 inches (40 cm) in diameter.


For maximum security, dig holes for all four swing set legs.
For heavy swing sets, you might be able to secure the set to the ground using only two anchors. If you choose to go this route, pick two corners that stand diagonally opposite of one another.
 Place the plate of one concrete anchor at the bottom side of each leg, then screw the anchors onto the bottom of each leg using the bolts that come with your anchoring kit.


Note that the bottom bolt of each anchor should be at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the bottom of the leg.
Typically, you'll need to use two large bolts or screws to attach each anchoring plate to the corresponding leg. Slide the bolts into the screw holes of the plate, then use a drill to twist each one into the leg material.
When working with metal swing sets, you may need to pre-drill holes before attaching the anchoring plates. Mark the final placement of each screw and use a drill fitted with a 3/8-inch (9.5-mm) bit to drill holes in the appropriate places. Afterward, attach the anchor as usual.
 Mix a batch of standard concrete, then pour the concrete into each hole, filling the hole within 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the top.


When mixing the concrete, follow the manufacturer's instructions regarding the correct ratio of concrete mix to water. The ideal texture of the finished concrete should be consistent and very thick.
Continue to the next step while the poured concrete remains wet.
 Carefully position the swing set over each filled anchoring hole and press the bottom of each anchor plate into the concrete.


Make sure that the entire bottom half of the anchor rests below the concrete. This bottom portion should not stick out of the ground since it could present a safety hazard if it does.
 Wait 24 hours for the concrete to fully harden before using the swing set.


Note that the total amount of time may vary depending on the concrete formula and current weather conditions. Tap on the concrete to test its hardness before use.
 Pack the previously removed soil around the base of each leg and cover the ground area beneath the swing with soft material.


If using wood mulch or shredded bark mulch, cover the ground beneath the set with at least 9 inches (22.9 cm). When using uniform wood chips, fine sand, or fine gravel, cover the ground with at least 12 inches (30.5 cm).Check the swing set once more after covering the area beneath it. Firmly push on each leg of the set. If you anchored the set properly, the pressure should not be enough to cause any leg movement.

