 If you're going to take the train to Newark Airport, then you'll need to buy your ticket and board at Penn Station – the main intercity railway junction for Manhattan. The station is located on Eighth Avenue between 31st and 34th streets. Walk, taxi, or take public transit, depending on your proximity and preference. Penn Station is notoriously crowded and difficult to navigate, especially at "rush hour." Arrive early so that you have plenty of time.Take a subway or bus transit to Penn Station. Between Penn Station's many subway lines and few bus lines, there's no way you can miss getting there from Manhattan. The A, C, E, and 1, 2, and 3 subway trains will all get you directly to Penn Station. Find a bus or subway map on the MTA website for more information..
If you don't feel like navigating the system, you can always take a taxi or an Uber to the station.
Walk to Penn Station. If you're already nearby, you can simply walk to the train station. The official address is 234 West 31st Street, Pennsylvania Station-8 Av & W 31 St, New York, NY 10001. You can also just find it on Eighth Avenue, between 31st and 34th streets. Find directions using a map app if you aren't sure.
On the side that faces Eighth Avenue, you will see a big sign that says "Madison Square Garden." Enter the station here.
 Look at the times listed, and pick the train that next leaves for Newark Airport. Aim for either the Amtrak Northeast Corridor,the New Jersey Transit (NJT) Northeast Corridor,or the NJT North Jersey Corridor Line.Some Amtrak Northeast Corridor tickets stop at the Newark Airport center, while others arrive at the Newark station, which is a good car-ride away and will still cost a pretty penny if you plan on taking a taxi from one location to the other.
 You can either buy a ticket at an automated machine or talk to a teller. If you're buying an NJ Transit ticket, then you should go to the NJ Transit area to make your purchase. If you're using the machine, then you'll need to type in the station code for Newark Airport. Indicate whether you're buying a round-trip or one-way ticket, and whether you're a child or an adult.


One way to find the NJ Transit area is to take the escalator down from the MSG side of the station, then veer left.
 Look out on the screens by the NJ Transit to await the arrival of your NJ Transit train. Normally the trains arrive at the station approximately 20 minutes before they depart. The trains on each train line run about twice an hour, except in the late hours (after 10 pm or so). If you're taking the Northeast Corridor line to the airport, then look out for the "NEC" sign on the screen when you search for your train.


Double-check that the train stops at Newark Airport. As you board the train, there will be a screen on the wall before you head down the stairs: it lists all of the stops that the train will take.
The train will usually stop at Secaucus and then Newark Penn Station before your stop.Do not make the mistake of getting off at Newark Penn Station instead of Newark Liberty Airport.
 Once you make it to the Newark Airport stop, you'll need to take the Airtrain to complete your journey. This elevated monorail ride is your transport between the Newark Airport train stop and the airport.


Don't bother calling a cab. You'll need to wait around for more than a few minutes. Furthermore, the mess of one-way streets can be confusing to navigate to the airport via the train station.
 Check your plane ticket or reservation for your airline and terminal number. The Airtrain cars and station will have a map of the terminals, so make sure you get off at the right spot. You'll need to walk a bit further to get to the terminal and to begin checking in for your flight.

