 Important - do not cut the ties or the casing. You need to keep them in one piece for later. Smooth out the IBC completely flat and press (heh! now you've no ironing board to press the IBC on; you can use a towel on the table).;
, Measure 1" (2.5cm) from the outer edge of the casing all around the IBC.
 Be careful not to make the first incision from the outer edge of the IBC. Keep the precious margin for later.
 Lay the old IBC (minus the margin you've just cut off) onto your new IBC fabric and using the old IBC as a guide cut out the new IBC plus a 1" (2.5cm) margin. Set aside the old IBC, you're done with it now.
 Bring the right sides (and raw edges) of the margin and the new IBC fabric together. Match the position of the flat edge and pointed ends (of the IBC) on the margin to the new IBC as best as you can - it doesn't have to be exact as all of this will be on the underside.
 Work your way up evenly on both sides (in other words do not pin one side to the pointed end before doing the other side). Stop pinning before you reach the tip (see pic).
 Continue pinning the margin to the new IBC fabric.
 As you pin the margin to the new IBC you'll notice that the new IBC fabric ruffles up. Ruffling up is all right, just keep the ruffles reasonably equal in size and be generous with the pins.
 It is recommended that you have no less than a 1cm (3/8") seam allowance, and stitch on the margin side, it's easier. If you have a stitch on your sewing machine (like the one that the scissors are pointing to in this image), use that because it does a straight stitch and a zig-zag all in one go, which is handy because it stitches fabrics and prevents the raw edges from fraying at the same time. Use a short length stitch for strength (because the margin is going to take a lot of tension from having the ties pulled taut in side the casing) with a wide zig-zag. If you don't have a stitch like this on your sewing machine, just sew using a short length straight stitch and then go over the raw edges with a zig-zag stitch.
 This heavy-ish fabric will bulk up the old ironing board padding and will prevent the grid of the frame coming through on your ironing (which is so annoying!). Use your ironing board as a guide and cut around with approx 2 centimeter (0.8 in) extra.
 Starting from the bottom:


lay the new IBC wrong side up, then the old padding, then the furnishing fabric piece, and finally the ironing board frame on the table.
jiggle the layers around until all is even.
 Bet you can't wait to attack that mountain of ironing now... hmm... perhaps you can.

