 As a general rule, you should remove the top drawer from a piece of furniture first. Gradually work your way down, removing one consecutive drawer after the next, until you finally reach and remove the bottom drawer.


Stabilizer screws are generally used on drawers that are expected to hold plenty of heavy materials, so it's extremely important that you remove the drawers in the proper order. Removing the lower drawers first would cause the piece to become too top-heavy, encouraging it to wobble or tip over as a result.
 Extend the drawer out as far as it naturally goes before reaching its built-in stopping point.


Stand in front of the drawer. Keep enough space in between your body and the drawer for the drawer to fully extend into.
You'll need to pull the drawer out using the front handle or by placing your hands on either side of the drawer front. Keep your fingers away from the metal tracks on the side of the drawer.
 Locate the two stabilizer screws on the inside of the drawer body. Remove both screws using the appropriate screwdriver.Note that most drawers of this variety use #8 screws that will need to be removed with a Phillips screwdriver.
 Locate the catch-and-release tabs on both sides of the drawer. Simultaneously pull upward on both catch mechanisms to release the drawer from the two side tracks.


You'll likely need to pinch the catch between your index finger and thumb to maneuver it.
 Continue pulling the drawer outward, keeping it as straight as possible, until it completely lifts away from the piece of furniture.


Brace yourself when removing the drawer. Regardless of whether it's full or empty, the drawer will likely be heavy.
Check the right interior lip of each drawer you remove for a number decal. These decals indicate which drawer belongs in which cavity, which you'll need to know when you return the drawers to the piece. The top drawer is usually labeled with the number "1."

, Before working with the piece further, push in the center stabilizer track and both side suspension tracks. Push using a straight motion that runs parallel to the tracks.

