 Everyone likes feeling important, so try making a loyalty or VIP program for your best customers. For example, you can offer a discount on purchases, faster shipping, or a free item after a certain number of similar purchases to customers with a special card. Refer to these customers as "VIPs" or "members" to increase their mental connection to your business. You might also include these members in special events like private sales or customer celebrations., Education is the key to selling and can be a creative way to deepen relationships with customers. Think about what knowledge you have that your clients may appreciate. If you carve fishing lures, would your store-owning customers be interested in attending a lure-making demonstration? If you know a lot about local plants, would your landscaping customers be interested in following you on a tour of local plants at a nursery or garden? Try putting on your own mini-seminar.


Work to become a trusted source of information for your customers. Make sure to keep them up on the newest products or technologies in your industry., Customer feedback is key to avoiding losing customers and gives you an opportunity to improve your service and products. Start by asking your employees to report any frequent feedback they receive from customers. Separate this feedback into problems and then work to resolve them. Track feedback for these problems again to see if your solutions are working.


Additionally, ask customers to complete a short survey after a purchase. This can allow them to give suggestions or rate the different aspects of your business.
You can then use this information to improve your operations., Create accounts for your business on social media platforms like Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Instagram if you have not done so already. Fill in each profile with all of the important information about your business such as your location, hours, and primary offerings. Link to these profiles in communications and on your website. Then, use the profiles to post content relevant to your customers and interact with them by responding to comments and complaints.


If you don't know what type of content to post on your pages, try detailing a new offering of yours, posting a positive review of your business or product, or linking to key industry news.You can also include customers in your content, like by reposting customer-submitted pictures of your product in use, for example., Send customers on your email list a coupon for a discount or a free trial of your product or service. This will allow your customers to experience other offerings that they didn't try the first time. This is also effective for new services or products as a way to build interest in them. You may need to offer the new product or service for free or at a reduced cost, but hopefully the customers will like the offering enough to keep using it at the regular rate and recommend it to their friends.