 Speech pathology is not an instant fix. Great speech-language pathologists (SLPs) will work with you or your child to help develop great speaking habits and tricks. The more you can meet, the faster you will get rid of your lisp.Sessions are usually between 20 minutes and an hour.
Some clinics offer group therapy, easing the pressure on you to perform., You need to know the causes of the lisp to find solutions. While some people are born with lisps, some speech problems are rooted in medical history, sometimes going back to birth. Bring a copy of medical records with you. A good professional leaves no stone unturned.

Parents are instrumental in helping their children beat a lisp -- expect the therapist to enlist your help., In order to determine the next course of action, the SLP will want to hear your speak. This generally consists of simple questions or repeated words. You may even do an Oral Motor Exam, which is a series of exercises to see how your mouth moves independently of speaking.

If you've brought your child in, the SLP may want to observe them playing, with other kids, or with you. Seeing them speak naturally, and not under pressure, is important.
You may have your speech recorded for learning and practice., Once the issues are diagnosed, it's time to fix them. This usually consists of copy-catting. The therapist will say a word, and you'll work on copying the physical movements -- mouth, tongue, and breath. You may be given a mirror to help you watch your mouth's movements., Many of these exercises can, and should be, practiced at home. Expect to get a series of handouts helping you work on the lisp later on., Know that you will keep developing new strategies for as long as it takes. Don't get discouraged if he/she says it may take a few weeks or months. Once you've got the skills down to get rid of a lisp, they rarely ever leave you again.

Everyone is different -- some might have weekly sessions for a month, others may need a year or more.
Ask for exercises or ways to practice at home if you're dissatisfied with your progress.

