 Insecurities are a normal part of any relationship and may be more intense if your relationship unfolded quickly. Things like attraction to other people, worrying about getting along with family members, and feeling like you're settling may be normal. Try to accept insecurities as they come and remind yourself every romantic relationship comes with uncertainty.Doubt is to be expected in a relationship. You may occasionally be attracted to other people. Things may be awkward sometimes at family events. You may wonder if made the right choice marrying. It's normal to wonder "What if?" at times, and to recognize flaws and imperfections. No relationship is conflict free.
If fears and insecurities only creep in on occasion, they're probably normal. If, for example, once in awhile you wonder if your partner is right for you, that's fine. However, if it's a thought that occupies the majority of your emotional energy, it may be worth investigating on a deeper level. You may want to see a therapist to talk things over.;
, It can help to figure out the root of insecurities to address them head on. In a whirlwind romance, many insecurities are the result of the speed of the relationship. You may also have past baggage that is hampering your current worldview. Try to spend some time thinking about the root cause of your insecurities.Think about your early relationship models. These can often drive your perception of relationships later in life. Look at your parents relationship and your early relationships.
Try to identify any patterns that could drive insecurity in the present. For example, was your first major romantic relationship a whirlwind romance? Did it end poorly? A quick relationship is not always a bad thing. Many whirlwind romances are successful and positive, but if you had a bad experience with one in the past you may have your guard up.
 If you're feeling insecure in a relationship, you may find yourself looking for red flags everywhere. While it's important to be aware of your feelings in a relationship, do not let this spiral out of control. Avoid overthinking tiny interactions or gestures. Accept your partner is a separate person with a separate mind. There may be differences between the two of you that you have to accept.For example, your partner may phrase things slightly differently than you. While you may ask specific questions about your partner's day ("Did you have fun at work? How did that project turn out?"), your partner may ask more general questions ("How was your day?"). This does not mean your partner does not care about you. They may simply want to give you the option of what you want to discuss during conversation.
If things feel unbalanced in some way, it's okay to talk it out. If small things continue to bother you, there may be something bigger at play. However, if you choose to address small things, consider your partner's perspective first and keep this in mind when bringing it up. For example, "I think we might communicate differently and I just want to clarify some things with you. Can we talk?"

, Seeking constant reassurance in a relationship can lead to a bad pattern. You may need more and more reassurance to feel safe and secure in a relationship, and rely on your partner's perception over your own self-esteem. Try to build yourself up when you feel insecure rather than constantly ask your partner for compliments and reassurances.For example, maybe you're worried your partner is not attracted to you. Examine whether there is any basis for this. Is your partner less interested in sex? Does your partner not see physically affectionate? If not, the insecurity may be in your head.
Take steps to make yourself feel more attractive rather than leaning on your partner for reassurance. For example, try working out more, eating healthier, or buying new clothing. You may find you're able to feel better about yourself on your own.
 Studies suggest that practicing self-love and self-compassion improves your overall well-being and happiness. This can subsequently improve your relationships with others. People who practice self-compassion and self-love are more confident and comfortable asserting their needs and opinions without having to rely on their partner's opinion for constant reassurance.

The more you practice kindness and compassion for yourself, the more able you will be to pass that kindness and compassion on to your partner.
Practice self-love by learning to set limits in your life, such as saying no to pressures that could harm you emotionally or physically. Learn to forgive yourself, and practice good self-care to help you better learn to love yourself., Relationships take work. A whirlwind romance may feel like it has a shelf life, but if you're married you should try to invest in the relationship. Throw yourself into the romance and prioritize working on moving forward with your spouse.Your fear may keep you from investing in a relationship. You may not want to get hurt again, especially if you were hurt in the past. However, your insecurity will only grow if you hold back.
Remind yourself relationships are about learning and changing. Things may not always work out the way you envisioned, and that's okay. It's worth taking the chance to make things work, even if it's scary.
 Strengthening your relationship can make you feel less insecure. After the whirlwind romance passes by, you may find the relationship isn't as exciting as it once was. However, small, everyday things in a relationship can be as meaningful as big, romantic interactions. Invest time in your partner to strengthen your bond after the initial excitement passes.Remember, relationships take work. Be willing to invest time in your relationship. Truly committing to your partner will make you feel more secure, as you'll get to know them on a more significant level.
For example, make a point of spending time together every day. If you, say, eat dinner together every night, you will learn more about each other through talking. The closer you feel, the more insecurities will pass.
 Be willing to talk to your partner. In a whirlwind romance, you may not notice your partner's flaws initially. After the honeymoon phase ends, you may become frustrated or angry at your partner at times. Communicate such things right away to avoid having resentment build up. Remember, even the strongest couples fight at times. You should also communicate positive things. Letting your partner know you value them can help keep your relationship strong.Let your partner know if you want them to do something differently. You may have overlooked their tendency to put off things like paying bills during the early stages of a whirlwind romance. However, if it's becoming a problem, mention it. Say something like, "Can we talk about being more stringent about getting bills paid on time?"
You should also communicate the good. The spark can fade in any relationship, but you may feel it more intensely in a whirlwind romance. You can keep your relationship strong by learning to express positive feelings regularly. For example, "I love it when you take the garbage out in the morning, even though you know it's supposed to be my job. It's so kind of you."

, You can often let past insecurities damage how you interact with your partner. This can make your bond less strong, leading to more insecurities. Try to stay in the present. Remember every relationship is different and negative patterns will not necessarily repeat.Be conscious of when you're pulling away due to past hurts. For example, maybe your old partner used to put you down a lot over your career ambitions. Your new partner suggests you try a different route in regards to your work load.
If you begin to feel angry about this, pause and take a deep breath. Are you bringing past resentments in? Try to think about how your new relationship differs from your past one. Just because your previous partner was critical does not mean your current partner will be. They may simply be trying to help you.
 During a whirlwind romance, you may forget the outside world early on. You may find you and your partner spend all your time together. After this phase passes, it's important you maintain outside interests. In healthy relationships, both parties maintain their individuality.No one person can meet all your emotional needs. You should be able to maintain relationships with friends and family members. If certain relationships fell to the wayside during the early phases of your whirlwind romance, rekindle them.
You should also have your own hobbies and interests. Do not be afraid to take an afternoon to yourself now and again to do something you enjoy.
 Conflict is a natural part of a relationship. Conflict may be rare in early stages of a whirlwind romance, so it can be frustrating and stressful when it occurs later. Try to look at conflict in a positive light. Conflict can help show you where the relationship needs improvement. You can figure out how to interact effectively and get along better.When conflicts come up, try to have an open mind. Do not be on the defense. Your partner's perception of a situation or an event may differ from yours. Keep this in mind and see this as a chance to learn what your partner values and how they communicate.
For example, maybe you don't care for public displays of affection and this hurts your partner's feelings. Try to listen to their side. Maybe they feel more secure in a relationship where there is a lot of touch and physical contact.
 Doubt will creep in over time in any relationship. In the long term, be aware of your feelings. Keep in mind feelings are not always based on facts. If you're feeling a certain way, it may help to try to see the situation more objectively.During conflicts, certain things may trigger negative feelings. For example, when your partner gets frustrated you went out without them, you may get very angry. Pause and ask yourself where this anger comes from.
Maybe in a past relationship you had a very controlling partner who wouldn't let you go out. Maybe that's influencing how you're seeing the present situation.
Ask yourself whether your current partner is really being control or if they simply want to spend time with you. If it is the latter, this can help you feel more secure that your relationship is happy and healthy. You simply bring past hurt into the situation on occasion, which you can work on.
 Learn to see your partner without judgment. This will help you get close to them, and remain close long term. This will help prevent insecurity.In conflicts and day-to-day situations, stop and think about how your partner may be feeling. Do they see a given situation the same way you do? Why or why not?
Think about what you can do if you suspect your partner is feeling something negative. What kind of reassurance makes your partner feel most valued? How can you provide the reassurance?

, Unfortunately, sometimes insecurities exist for a reason. In a whirlwind romance, you may find you're not really compatible with someone long term. Passion may not translate to a sustainable romance. If you identify any major deal breakers, you may want to rethink the relationship.Do you see eye-to-eye on major issues, such as finances and children? Do you see similar futures? No one is 100% on the same page all the time, but if your views completely differ this can be an issue.
Oftentimes, a whirlwind romance started for the wrong reason. Consider whether one or both of you was going through something major, like a big loss or a major breakup. If so, the relationship may have been a rebound without you realizing it.
If you feel you're not compatible long term, the two of you may need to see a couples counselor together. This can help you decide whether staying together is the right thing. A therapist cannot tell you whether to dissolve your partnership, but they can help you each better express your need, thoughts, and emotions, as well as help you to better listen to your partner.

