 Before you submit an article to a magazine, it is important to ensure that you are meeting all of the magazine’s requirements. Find this information before you start your article to ensure that you do not end up wasting your time writing something that will not be accepted.Some magazines (both print and online) will not look at submissions from outsiders contributors. Check to see if your chosen publication accepts unsolicited submissions before you send anything. You may also need to pitch your story to the magazine first.;
, Reading other articles that have been featured by the magazine is a good way to see what the editors consider good writing.Read at least a few featured articles, if not a few issues of the magazine, to get a feel for what qualities your article will need to have.


For example, do the editors seem to feature articles that include wit and humor? Or do they favor pieces that incorporate lots of quotes from experts? What kinds of stories seem to get featured more often?

, Considering your audience is a crucial part of any writing project, and it is especially important to consider your audience for a magazine article. Take some time to consider who reads this magazine, why they read it, and how you can best meet the readers’ needs in your article.


You might ask yourself about how old your readers are, what they do for a living, what interests them, and what they are looking for when they read this magazine. You might determine that the readers are mostly women their 20s and 30s who are looking for information about fashion.
The way that you identify your audience will also have an effect on how you should present your information. For example, if you are writing about how to transition a summer wardrobe into fall, then what kinds of tips and suggestions would be the most helpful? What experts can you consult for helpful information? What would be the best way to organize the information?

, Identify topics that interest you and that would fit well within this magazine’s focus. A topic for a magazine article should not be too broad or too narrow. It should be something that you can provide adequate coverage for in the space that you are allotted.For example, a topic about “men” would be too broad, while a topic about how to introduce yourself to a man at a coffee shop might be too narrow. Something in between, such as how to break the ice with a guy you just met, would be a good topic to get you started.
Try making a list of things that you are interested in writing about. As you make your list, think about whether a not a topic is too broad or too narrow. Could you write a book about it? If so, then it is probably too broad. Could you write more than a paragraph about it? If not, then it is probably too narrow.
 A good magazine article often has a unique angle on a subject that goes beyond a basic version of that topic.Having an interesting angle is part of what will set your writing apart from other authors who stick to basic topics.


For example, your topic might be staying hydrated while exercising, but an interesting angle on that topic might be something like, ways that staying hydrated improves your exercise results, or how to make hydrating post-workout snacks.
Think about what questions readers might have about the topic. For example is there anything that readers might find hard about staying hydrated? Some readers might find it hard because they dislike water or because they don’t see why it matters so much. These are the kinds of questions that may help you to choose an angle.
 Next, you will need to conduct some research on your topic. Depending on the length of your article and your topic, you may need to consult some experts on your subject.For example, if you are writing about a new diet craze, then it would be good idea to include some quotes from a dietician. If you are writing about obsessive compulsive disorder, then your article should include advice and suggestions from a psychiatrist or therapist.
Think about what the most authoritative sources would be for your topic and make sure that you include information from these sources in your article.
 Before you write your magazine article, you may want to pitch it to an editor first. A good pitch letter will be short and to the point. It will describe the main character of your story and include some preliminary research.Try sending a pre-pitch email. A pre-pitch email can help you to gauge the editor’s interest level before you send the actual pitch. A pre-pitch letter might consist of a couple of sentences that introduce you and describe the idea you have. For example, you might write something like, “I have an idea for a story that I think might be a good fit for your publication…” Then, provide a brief (one to two sentence) description of your idea.

Keep your pitch to one page. If the editor seems interested, then you can send your full pitch. However, it is also important to keep your pitch on the short side. Try not to exceed one page for your pitch letter.

Include details the editor will want to know. Open with something interesting, such as an anecdote or shocking fact. Then provide a brief summary of the story you hope to tell. Next, explain why people will care about this story. Then, explain your plan for completing the story and close by reminding the editor why people will care about this story. You can also add a line or two that mentions other publications for which you have written.

Follow up a week or two after you send your pitch letter. If you have not heard back from the editor within a week or two of sending your pitch letter, then it is a good idea to follow up. Try sending an email to the effect of, “We spoke a couple of weeks ago about my story idea. Have you had a chance to think about it any more since we last spoke?”

, Outlining before you write is a great way to determine if you are covering everything you should in your article and it can also help to guide you as you write. This is important whether your article is short or long.You can create a basic tiered outline that lists the sub-topics you will cover, what information you will provide in each section, and the quotes that you will use in each section of your article.
 Starting off your article on an interesting note is a great way to hook your reader. You can lead your story with an interesting anecdote, a shocking fact or statistic, or a thought provoking question.For example, an article about a new diet might begin with a short anecdote about someone who was struggling with her weight and who lost a significant amount of weight on this plan. Or, it might start with a statistic about obesity related-illness.
 Unless you are an expert on the subject you are writing about, then do not claim to be an expert or include opinions.Instead, use your sources to guide your suggestions and support your claims.


For example, if you are writing an article about depression, then don’t make claims about how to treat depression unless they are supported by a trustworthy source, such as a psychiatrist. For an article about how to build table using old barn wood, you would either need to try it yourself to get some good perspective or consult a carpenter for advice that you can offer readers.
 The tone that you use for your article will depend on the topic, your audience’s expectations, and your goals for writing. For example, you would need to adopt a serious, respectful tone for a topic like suicide or cancer. However, if you were writing about a video game, then you might be able to adopt a slightly humorous tone.Keep in mind that the tone of your article will also depend on your angle and the audience to whom you are writing. For example, one angle for an article on a video game that has a cult following might be to provide serious players with advanced tips on how to level a character faster. For this article, you would need to approach your topic with some seriousness and reverence for the game. Readers might feel insulted if you adopt a sarcastic tone or if you mock some aspect of the game or those who play it.
 Your ending is as important as your introduction because it will be your reader’s last impression of the article. Your reader may decide that he or she likes the article more or less depending on the way that it ends. Some good ways to end an article include:Using an anecdote. Close with a little story about something related to your piece. This will build interest for your reader. Sometimes you can even find a way to connect this story to something you said in your lead, such as by setting up a conflict in your lead and then telling readers what happened at the end of your article.

Summarizing. You can summarize the content of the article in a way this not just repeating information you provided. Try saying what the main point of your article was in a slightly different way, such as by putting it into your own words or using analogy.

Inviting your reader to try it out. If you have written a DIY article or something that readers can reasonably try on their own, then you might conclude by inviting readers to try it out and put their own spin on it.
 One of the best ways to get some perspective on what you have written is to take a break from it. After you finish your article, take some time away from it. When you return to the article, it will be easier to identify ways that you can improve what you have written.Try going for a walk, calling up a friend, or watching a movie to get your mind off of the topic. A few hours will help to give you some perspective, but if possible, spend a day or two away from it.
 When you first come back to your article, try to focus on the content. Look for ways that you can make your article more informative and/or entertaining.


What additional details might improve the value of this article for your readers? How can you include this information?
Have you addressed everything that your audience might have questions/concerns about? If not, what can you add to address these questions/concerns?

, Having someone else read your work is also an effective way to determine if you need to add anything else or clarify something. Ask a friend to read your article and make notes in the margins on anything that was confusing or unclear.


If possible, have someone read your article who does not have any special knowledge of the subject. This will help you to determine if you have provided enough information for someone who has not done the research that you have will be able to understand.
 After you have done all that you can to ensure that the content of your article is as good as possible, you will need to proofread your article to ensure that it is polished. Proofreading involves checking for errors in spelling, grammar, punctuation, and other minor issues. This should be the last thing that you do before you submit your work.


Try reading your article backwards one sentence at a time to make it easier to catch these minor errors. Another effective method is to read your article out loud.As you do so, mark any errors that you catch with a pencil and then fix them in your word processor.
Don’t trust your spell checker to fix errors for you. Your spell checker may overlook words that are spelled correctly, but these might not be the word you meant to include. For example, if you type “fold” instead of “food,” then spell checker will not know to correct the word. This may result in a nonsensical sentence, such as, “It is important to eat some fold before you exercise.”

, In some cases, you may be required to format your article in a special way for the magazine. This may include using a special font, columns, or special spacing. Make sure that you read over any special formatting guidelines that the magazine requires writers to use. Apply these formatting changes to your document before you submit it.

