 In order to install and boot Windows on your Mac, you will need to have OS X 10.5 or later with all the available updates, at least 20 GB of free space, and an Intel processor. You will also need a full copy of Windows, either an installation DVD or an .ISO file.You can check if your Mac is using an Intel processor by clicking the Apple menu and selecting "About This Mac". Look at the Processor listed in the window; if it says Intel then you're good to go.
It is possible to install OS X on a Windows PC, but that is outside the scope of this article. See the this guide for detailed instructions for setting up a Hackintosh.;
, You shouldn't lose anything during the process, but it's always a good idea to have backups just in case something goes wrong. Make sure all of your important documents, pictures, and other files are backed up on a separate drive or in the cloud. See this guide for more details on backing up your data.
 You will be restarting your computer multiple times during the installation, so it's a good idea to have access to this guide or your Boot Camp manual before proceeding.
 This program is located in the Utilities subfolder in your Applications folder. Boot Camp Assistant will create a new partition on your drive and start the Windows installation process., If you are installing from a Windows ISO file, you will need to use a USB flash drive to create a Windows Installation Disk. This will copy the ISO to the flash disk and prepare it for booting.


Insert an 8 GB or larger flash drive into your Mac and check the "Create a Windows 7 install disk" box. If you are using a Windows installation DVD, you can leave this box unchecked.
Any data on the flash drive will be deleted when the installation disk is created.
 Check the "Download the latest Windows support software from Apple" box. This software is necessary to allow you to use your hardware in Windows.


If you are creating a Windows install disk, the files will be copied to the same flash drive. If you are using an installation DVD, you will need to insert a blank flash drive or blank CD/DVD.
 This will start the Windows installation process once you have created your installation disk and support software disk. Click Continue to start the process.
 Before installation begins, you will be asked to create a partition for windows. A partition splits your hard drive up so that it acts as multiple drives. Windows must be installed on a separate partition from OS X. You can use the slider to adjust how big you want the Windows partition to be.


You can only create a partition out of free space on your hard drive.
Make sure that you leave at 20 GB free for Windows, more if you are planning on installing a lot of Windows programs.
Click the Install button when you are satisfied with your partitions. Make sure that any open programs have been saved and closed before proceeding.
 After your disk is partitioned, the computer will reboot and load your Windows installation disk. From here, installation is just like it would be on a PC. See the following guides for detailed instructions for the different versions of Windows:


Install Windows 10
Install Windows 8
Install Windows 7
Install Windows Vista

, When you are prompted to choose a location to install Windows, be sure to choose the one labeled "BOOTCAMP". You will need to format this drive before you can install, as Boot Camp doesn't format it correctly.
 After Windows has finished installing, you will be taken to the Windows desktop. Insert the disk that contains your support software, and navigate to the Setup file that comes with it. Run the file to begin installing all of the necessary drivers.


Make sure that the "Apple Software Update for Windows" box is checked during installation.
 Once all of the drivers have finished being installed for Windows, you're ready to start booting between the two operating systems. When you reboot your computer, hold down the ⌥ Option key until the Boot menu appears. You will be able to choose between your OS X installation or your Windows installation.


If you want your computer to boot up to OS X by default, you can set the default startup disk in the Windows Control Panel. Open the Control Panel from the Start menu and select the Boot Camp option. Select the "Macintosh HD" disk and click Apply to set OS X to start as default.
You will need to reboot your computer each time you want to change operating systems.

