 In palmistry, there is the notion of an active hand and a passive hand. Your active hand is your dominant hand, whereas the passive hand is the non-dominant hand. The passive hand will indicate inherited traits. This should be read as a baseline.
The dominant hand will show any changes from the inherited state from life events etc.
If there is a major difference between the lines of the passive hand and the dominant hand, it means that this person has worked hard to develop themselves.;
, These are the heart line, the head line, the life line, and the fate line (not everyone has this line).1. The heart line runs horizontally across the top of the palm. It reflects the state of your heart on both the physical and emotional level.
2. The head line runs horizontally across the middle of the palm. It reflects the state of your mind and brain.
3. The life line curves around the base of the thumb, starting between the index finger and thumb. Contrary to popular belief, this line does not actually indicate how long you will live but rather aspects such as strength, vitality, and prosperity.
4. The fate line runs vertically from the base of the palm up the middle of the palm (not everybody has this line). It indicates aspects such as success, career path, and vocation.
 This line can be read in either direction (from the pinkie finger to the index finger, or vice versa), depending on the tradition being followed. It is believed to indicate emotional stability, romantic perspectives, depression, and cardiac health. How to read the line and its specific meanings are as follows:If the heart line starts below the index finger it means that you are picky when it comes to love. A heart line that begins below the middle finger indicates a person who is selfish when it comes to love. If it begins in the middle of the palm, the person falls in love easily.
An absent heart line indicates an individual who is ruled by logic rather than emotion. A faint line shows a person who is aloof and places little importance on emotions.
A straight and short heart line indicates an individual who is not particularly concerned with romance. A long and curvy heart line indicates someone who expresses emotions freely. A wavy line indicates many relationships and/or lovers, with an absence of serious relationships.
If the heart line is straight and parallel to the head line, it indicates that the individual has a good handle on their emotions. A heart line that touches the life line means that the heart is broken easily.
A broken heart line or a heart line with smaller lines crossing it can indicate emotional trauma. A chained line can mean depression.
 This represents learning style, communication style, intellectualism, and thirst for knowledge. The specific meanings are as follows:A head absent line indicates a person who is sluggish. A faint line indicates that the individual lacks memory and concentration and is prone to daydreaming. A deep line denotes a good memory, good concentration, and a sensible nature.
A short head line indicates a person who is practical and no nonsense. A long line denotes a person that is focused and very successful with a tendency to be selfish.
A straight head line shows a person that thinks realistically, is logical, organized, and has a great attention to detail. A wavy line indicates a person who is restless with short attention span. A curved or sloping line indicates a highly creative individual.
If the head line begins at the life line, this means that this person is strong-willed. A head line that is separated from the life line indicates someone who has a sense of adventure and enthusiasm for life.
A broken head line indicates inconsistencies in thought. Crosses in the line may mean that vital and crucial decisions have a very important effect on the persons fate. Chains or donuts in the head line indicate personal conflict or emotional difficulty.
 It reflects physical health, general well being, and major life changes (for example, cataclysmic events, physical injuries, and relocation). The specific meanings are as follows:If the life line is absent, the person is said to be high-strung, anxious, and nervous. A faint line indicates an individual who has low energy and a life without adventure. A deep line denotes a person who has a smoother life path.
If the life line is long and deep, this indicates good health stamina and vitality. A short, deep line shows a person who easily overcomes physical problems.
A curvy life line means the person has an abundance of energy. A straight line that is close to the edge of the palm means the person is cautious.
A line that runs close to the thumb shows a person who tires easily. If the line swoops into a semicircle, it shows strength and enthusiasm. Lines that are straight and close to the edge of the palm indicate a cautious individual.See if there are multiple life lines. Multiple life lines indicate extra strength and vitality.
A break in the life line means a sudden change in lifestyle or interruption. If the life line is broken on both hands, this may indicate a serious illness or injury. Circles in the line or a chained line indicates that the person is susceptible to many health problems and that their life may take them in many different directions.
 This is also known as the line of destiny, and it indicates the degree to which a person's life is affected by external circumstances beyond their control.This line begins at the base of the palm. Its principal features are:A deep fate line means that the persons life will be strongly controlled by fate. Remember, not all individuals have this line.
If the fate line starts joined to the life line, this indicates a self-made individual who develops aspirations early on in life. If it joins the life line somewhere in the middle, it indicates a point in mid-life where one's interests must be abandoned if favor of those of others. If the fate line starts at the base of the thumb, this indicates that this person has a strong relationship with family and friends.
Breaks and changes of direction in the fate line indicate many changes in life from external forces.

