 Locate a stainless steel scooping cup that roughly fits your coffeemaker’s podholder. It’s okay if the scooper is not exactly the same size as the podholder. The scooper is just going to act as a mold for part of your pod., Buy some high quality coffee filters to make your pods. If you can locate thicker ones that resemble the material that makes up store-bought pods, then those will work better. If you can’t find them, try to find the thickest filters possible. You don’t want your pod turning upside down inside your coffee maker.


Avoid thin and flimsy coffee filters.
Avoid large filters.
Don’t make your own filters at home, as household materials might include chemicals not suited for consumption., This object needs to be small enough to fit into the stainless steel scooper. Any object will really work. You won’t be using this as part of your pod, but rather, it’ll be used to shape your coffee filters. Consider:


Small glasses.
Empty vitamin bottle.
An old coffee pod.
Small glass jars., This is one of the best parts of the homemade coffee pod – you can pick whatever coffee you want. You can choose between storebought pre-ground coffee or coffee beans.


Feel free to combine flavors.
Feel free to combine caffeinated and decaffeinated.
If you choose beans, make sure you grind them very finely.
Add extra spices and extracts, if you want., Expert coffee makers often comment upon how the quality of water helps determine the quality and taste of coffee. You should take this into account when getting ready to make your coffee pods. If the tap water in your home is has a strong smell or taste, consider the following:


Use filtered water.
Use bottled spring water.
If you must use tap water, run the tap for a few seconds before gathering water for your coffee., Before you get to podmaking, you should try everything out to see if it works without coffee. Take all of your supplies, including the scooper, the cylindrical object, and a filter, and see if they all fit together. This way, if you have some sort of equipment failure, there won’t be much of a mess to clean up.


Place the scooper on a flat surface.
Place the filter in the scooper.
Place the cylindrical object into the filter.
They should all fit snug.
 How much you measure depends on a couple of factors, including the type of coffee, how much coffee you’d like to brew, and how strong you like your coffee. Consider the following:


2 tablespoons for 6 ounces of water (one cup of coffee).
3 tablespoons for 9 ounces of water (a large cup of coffee).
Use more or less if you’d like your coffee weaker or stronger., Making your own pods is the opportunity to save yourself a lot of money and time. Importantly, before you make your pods, you should decide how many you want to make. Plan ahead and make sure to have enough filters and coffee.

