 If your dog is already stressed out by the elevator ride, coming into contact with strange dogs will only cause its anxiety to spike. While you’re training it to ride the elevator, do your best to avoid encounters with your neighbors and their dogs.Try to keep track of when your neighbors walk their dogs. Most dog owners have fairly set walking schedules, so you should be able to identify peak times that you should avoid.
You can also try talking to dog owners in your building or complex. Tell them, “I’m training my pup to stay calm on elevator rides, and it’d be best to steer clear of other dogs for now. Do you mind telling me what times of day you generally take your dog on walks?”
If you take your pup out and hear a dog down the hall, wait at your door or out of visual sight for a minute or so.
 A muzzle will help you avoid a bad situation if your dog is larger or if you’re at all afraid that it might bite a passerby. Until it’s comfortable with elevators, riding them will be an upsetting experience with an increased risk of aggressive behavior.Choose a plastic basket muzzle for your dog. Find one at your local pet store, and ask a sales associate to measure your dog’s snout and help you choose an appropriate size.
Get the dog used to the muzzle by letting it sniff it, touching it to its nose, then putting it on and offering a treat. Try placing a bit of peanut butter inside the muzzle so your dog can lick it after you place it over its snout.
Be sure to only use muzzles in combination with desensitization training. A muzzle is not a replacement for consistent, positive training.
 Commands like ”stay” and ”wait” will come in handy while elevator training your dog. When command training your dog, first say the command and, if necessary, physically guide your dog into the appropriate physical position.As soon as it’s in the correct position, offer a pea-sized treat. Repeat the sequence ten to twenty times per training session to reinforce the behavior.
Try not to let your dog ever enter or exit doors before you. This will help prevent your dog from leaping out of an elevator before you can see who or what is waiting to enter.

