 When it comes to dream interpretation, you are the expert. While some people propose that certain images are universal, most psychiatrists feel your personal connection with a color is more important than what that color symbolizes on a winder scale. When you think of red, what do you think of?

, While your personal connection is the most important, it can help to at least familiarize yourself with some theory on color and dreams. In dreams, red has sometimes been said to symbolize intense feelings. People also tend to associate red with increased activity and intense emotions like anger, passion, determination, and general excitement. Physically, red has a stimulating effect on blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration., Learn to trust yourself. You are the expert in regards to your unconscious mind. As dreams are heavily based in personal associations, memories, and relationships, you're the best judge of what symbols in your dreams mean. Do not rely too heavily on outside opinions and research. Allow yourself to interpret the dream based on your own feelings and experiences., Once you've gone through and recorded the dream and your feelings, put it all together. Considering all factors, what do you think the dream means?


Let's return to the tent example. For the sake of this example, you're a middle-aged divorced man. Say, in this dream, you felt at peace. The cat you were petting was a cat you had in childhood that died. You used to camp in your backyard as a young boy, sometimes with other children and sometimes alone. Lately, you've been having recurring thoughts about aging. You just turned 40 and are becoming more aware of how quickly time passes. You associate red with your wedding day, as the bridesmaids wore red dresses.
Perhaps the red tent dream points to the fact you're missing better times. You may feel you're past your peak in life and long to return to a time of promise and potential. The red in the dream points to your wedding, a time of new beginnings and hope. The dream may be a sign you need to acknowledge and deal with your feelings of depression and regret.