 If it’s gentle enough for your teeth, toothpaste is gentle enough for metal, too. Any toothpaste with a traditional opaque (non-gel) formulation will work for this trick. This is best if there are noticeable dirty patches or smears on the watch.Place a dab of toothpaste onto a cotton ball or cleaning cloth, or even directly onto the dirty areas of the watch. Carefully rub the toothpaste over the spots, gently but firmly cleaning them.
Start with the inside of the wristband. Then move to the outside of the band and finally, being especially careful not to reach the fragile inside, the gold-plated area of the watch itself.
Finally, remove the toothpaste. Moisten a clean cloth or cotton ball and go over the watch, making sure to remove all the toothpaste. Any toothpaste left on the watch can cause corrosion, so make sure the watch is completely rinsed clean.
 Watches contain many small parts and, consequently, crannies that are tricky to clean. Make use of a cotton bud (or Q-tip) for these. The tip will reach inside grooves or other places that are hard to reach with a cloth or cotton ball.For this tactic, you can use just water, or toothpaste and then water.
The bud may start to turn gray. This is the dirt and grime coming off the watch, and means you're cleaning effectively.
 If you’re struggling to use toothpaste, it might be time to level up to an official jewelry cleaner. A good jeweler or watch store can recommend a safe and potent one available in your area. Choose a cleaner marked as safe for gold plate, and use it according to the package directions. These directions are pretty similar to the toothpaste method, usually—buff in, then remove with something soft., If your watch’s band is very dirty all over and you’re in a pinch, you can soak it in an ammonia solution. Mix one part ammonia to six parts water, and place only the band of the watch in it for no more than sixty seconds. After a minute, remove the watch, and immediately dry it off., Using a soft, fine cloth intended for jewelry, rub over the watch, paying special attention to spots where the gold is dull. After you’ve dried it once, you can rub another clean cloth over it to lend it a radiant shine. Now put your beautiful watch on, and wear it with pride!