 Look at the situation through different eyes. Don't perceive it as an obstacle, but think of it as an opportunity to improve. For instance, if you're unhappy with your job, remind yourself that you have the power to change what you don't like. Look at your current job as a training ground and a way to build your resume so that when you do look for another job, you'll be more marketable., Sometimes our emotional triggers are the result of not setting boundaries and letting others know what they are. Boundaries tell people what you will and won't allow. They also set limits on what you will and won't do., Our bodies are like machines. If we drove our cars without gas or changing the oil, we'd eventually break down. When we neglect our bodies, not only can we break down, but doing so can affect us emotionally and not in a good way. Therefore, we must take care of ourselves. We need to:


Treat physical illness. If you’re sick, you may feel sad, angry, or frustrated. Seek medical attention and rest to recover from your illness.
Eat in a balanced way. Don’t overeat, and don’t undereat. A balanced diet contributes to balanced moods. Choosing the right foods can also contribute to more positive moods.Get balance sleep. Keep a regular sleep schedule, and make sure you get enough sleep each night.Exercise. Twenty minutes of vigorous exercise each day can help balance moods., When you experience positive feelings, make sure you take time to slow down and notice the pleasant experiences. Soak in the goodness, joy, and comfort.Do (at least) one thing each day that makes you feel good. You'll build your resilience while increasing your ability to experience more good moods.


Laugh.
Take a walk in the park.
Ride your bike.
Read a book., You'll experience more positive events over the long term. Work toward a dream project, a career change, or self-improvement by taking small steps each day. Do something that helps you feel competent and in control. This helps regulate your emotions and gives positive feedback for your sense of purpose.