 Researching a term that you may apply to yourself in the future is vital. You need to fully understand what you're doing and what exactly makes you that thing. It also helps you make the right choice in what to apply to yourself. This is the step that most people miss out when joining a subculture and in the future, leads to those people learning misinformation and stereotypes. Start by getting the right image of goth, and you have just missed out a large complicated step. Some information about goth to start you off:


Goth is a subculture which holds aspects of music, fashion and aesthetic.
Goth is primarily about listening to goth and similar genres like goth rock, post punk, darkwave, deathrock and new wave. It doesn't really matter what type of music you listen to, we will love you just the same
Goth rock is a sub-genre of post punk which was born in the late 70s / early 80s in the U.K. Typical goth characteristics include baritone vocals (common in men), 4 / 4 post punk drums or a drum machine, flanging guitar used for atmosphere and prominent lead bass.
The goth subculture took inspiration from Gothic literature and horror / b movies. The goth rock genre is a response from the 1931 film Dracula which is a response from the 1897 novel by the same name.;
, By being a genuine scene kid you'll have listened to bands such as Blood on the Dance Floor, Black Veil Brides, Asking Alexandria and Escape The Fate, so you it might be difficult for you to adapt to goth rock straight away. Ease yourself into the music and the bands that started the music genre. As you transition and develop yourself into the subculture, you should be finding more bands to listen to. Your music taste should primarily be made up of goth, deathrock and the listed above bands. Some bands to start out on are:


Bauhaus
Siouxsie and the Banshees
The Cure (only some albums are considered goth, but this is a great band to get into if you're just starting out because they are incredibly popular and liked by many non-goths, too).
Sisters of Mercy
Christian Death
Alien Sex Fiend
The Damned (more punk rock)
Fields of the Nephilim
The Mission
45 Grave
my chemical romance (especially the black parade Felix album

, Goth clothing is worn by members of the goth subculture and by the original goth bands and artists. Considering you were part of the scene subculture, you may have loads of scene garments. You can either DIY some of it to give it a goth turn, or you can sell it to make money to buy some new goth clothes. Fashion can be the biggest thing to change when changing subculture, so just buy basics for now and go gradually. Don't worry about developing yourself because that will come in time. Common goth garments include:


Fishnets, they can be layered and ripped in any colour
Leather jackets (can be DIY with your favourite bands/logos)
Long teased/back combed dyed hair
Boots, platforms or creepers
Accessories of spikes, chains and studs

, Look at the most popular goth icons and take inspiration from them. One of the most recognisable looks is Siouxsie Sioux's makeup. You can find tutorials and pictures on YouTube and online. For men, Johnny Slut's flared eyebrows. Traditional goth make up also features winged eyeliner, straight eyebrows and a solid colour block of eyeshadow. If you're used to using brightly coloured eyeshadow, you don't have to worry about making the colour scheme all dark. Deathrockers tend to use bright colours for their make up so it can work with your everyday outfit. For more inspiration, Some Wear Leather, Some Wear Lace is recommendation.
 As a scene kid you might have read comics or manga. Gradually start collecting Gothic literature / novels. Reading or being a fan of Gothic literature won't make you goth, it would make you Gothic, but plenty of goths enjoy the atmosphere of these particular novels anyway, so give them a try:



The Vampire Kisses series by Ellen Schreiber

A Series of Unfortunate Events by Lemony Snicket

The Spiderwick Chronicles by Holly Black

Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte

Frankenstein by Mary Shelley

Dracula by Bram Stoker

The Castle of Otranto by Horace Walpole

Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde by Robert Louis Stevenson

, As well as music, literature and art, you may watch to enjoy some Gothic or dark themed movies. Having been a former scene kid, you may have been into cartoons and even some Tim Burton films. Don't be afraid to start watching dark cartoons and then even movies, like Mona The Vampire and The Nightmare Before Christmas. The Addams Family and The Addams Family Values are gothic classics.
 Goth is largely celebrated all over the world with festivals, World Goth Day and goth nightclubs and bars. If you're old enough, start enjoying them. There is a lot more to offer in the goth subculture than there is in the scene subculture, as there are official places to hang out. Notable dates and events to watch out for include:

World Goth Dayon the 22th of May every year
Whitby Goth Weekend, a bi-annual weekend in the North Yorkshire seaside town in Whitby, UKWave Gotik Treffen, the largest Goth festival that takes place every year in Leipzig, GermanyNumerous goth clubs all over the world, especially in the U.S