 Sleeping on too many pillows can cause your neck to bend unnaturally or at an awkward position that can cause neck tension. Try to sleep on only one to two pillows or get a cervical pillow, which are contoured to support your head and neck. These pillows also keep your neck aligned with your spine.The best sleeping position for reduced neck tension is on your back, with your entire spine resting comfortably on the bed. If you prefer to sleep on one side or on your stomach, your pillow should be no higher than 4 – 6 inches off the bed.
 Neck tension is often caused by sitting in one position for long periods of time, usually when working on a computer or driving in a car for several hours at a time. Adjusting your posture in these stationary positions can help to reduce neck tension and improve your spinal health.When sitting at a computer, try to adjust your posture so your alignment is correct and you are not putting excessive stress on your neck muscles. Move your computer screen so it is at eye level on your desk. Test the setup of your computer by sitting in your office chair. Make sure your gaze is directly in the center of your computer screen.
You should also try to keep your head in the center of your computer screen, rather than drifting forward over your shoulders or to one side. You can also use a hands-free device, like a headset, if you talk on the phone throughout the day and do not want to have to hold the phone between your ear and your shoulder.
If you are looking at any notebook or notes while typing at your computer, you can use a paper holder next to your computer screen. This will help you avoid keeping your head turned and down to one side while typing.
Take breaks throughout the work day and move around every 30 minutes so your neck does not tense up or get stuck in one position.
 The spinal discs that sit between the vertebrae of your spine contain mostly water. Sipping water throughout the day will ensure your body stays hydrated and your spinal discs remain healthy and fluid. Try to drink at least five to eight glasses of water a day., Getting your body moving through exercise at least once a day can help to alleviate tension in your muscles and strengthen your muscles so they are less likely to tighten up. If you are worried about injuring your neck with intense exercise, try light exercise like a gentle yoga class, swimming, or jogging.Never put undue stress on your neck if it is stressed or tense. Avoid contact sports if you are experiencing neck tension and neck pain, as well as more intense aerobics classes.
 If your neck tension is causing discomfort that cannot be stretched out, you can take regular doses of pain medication like ibuprofen or paracetamol to control the pain.If the neck tension does not alleviate in several days or weeks, despite the use of painkillers and neck stretches, you should see your doctor. Your doctor will examine your neck and ask you questions about your daily routine to determine if your neck tension is the result of a more serious medical issue.

