 Dark Aeons have extremely high stats. You might even get shocked the first time you face one as you miss every single shot and he or she just finishes your party with one flick. With this, you need to max at least all your most important stats (HP, MP, Strength, Defense, Agility, Accuracy). You may not need to upgrade your other skills (Magic, Evasion, etc.) because all Dark Aeons absorb elemental attacks, are still strong even against Ultima, and almost never miss physical attacks.


It is recommended to choose your favorite three characters and focus on maxing them up. This will make the process easier and lessen the spheres you'll be needing
You need EXP for traversing your Sphere grid. A good grinding place would be Omega Ruins, especially the shadowy areas where huge monsters also give huge experiences.
You need +4, +300 HP, and +40 MP spheres. You can get all kinds of spheres at the Monster Arena where special types of monster drop a measly one (or two for overkills) sphere(s) each fight. This takes a lot of patience and strategy since every monster is a boss battle all on his own.
You need all the space on the Sphere grid. There's no space for blank spots on your grid to max your stats. This sounds tedious, but you need to clear out all less nodes, including +1 to +3, +100 to +200 spots). Strictly speaking, you can customise 775 out of 860 nodes (Standard Grid) or 707 out of 792 nodes (Expert Grid).;
, Of course, you can't defeat any Dark Aeon without Break Damage Limit so you need to do the specific tasks to earn each of your party's Celestial Weapons and power them up with crests and sigils.


It's not really recommended to attain BDL by customising since Dark Matter is too rare. You might wanna save them for Ribbon.
Celestial Armors isn't really a thing but most gamers would agree they include the following: Auto-Haste, Auto-Protect, Break HP Limit, and Ribbon.
You can get weapons with automatic BHL or Ribbon from Dark Aeons themselves. A preferred Dark Aeon to drop these is Yojimbo, whom you have to fight five times to finish off. Engage him four times and if you haven't got your desired armor yet, leave and chase him all over again.
Since Ribbon does not protect your party from Death and Breaks, some gamers also prefer Auto-Phoenix to be part of the Armors' abilities. One possible flaw of this is that Phoenix only gives a quarter of a character's total HP, leaving your character alive but weak, and able to induce damage less than the preferred 99,999.
 This is why maxing your MP levels is important. Dark Aeons have really high Agility (especially Dark Shiva) which you must counter by cutting the opponent's turn as much as possible (Haste is just not enough).
 Most Dark Aeons' overdrives kill the entire party (especially Yojimbo) so whenever his or her overdrive fires up in the next turn, summon Yuna to sacrifice one of your Aeons for you. It's for a good cause.
 Yojimbo's Zanmato is one summon (and a lot of gil) away, especially if you treat Yojimbo right (increased compatibility). This works on all Dark Aeons.

