 In some places it is necessary to be licensed or certified before babysitting, either way it is helpful to know basic child-care responsibilities and techniques. Look for child-care, CPR, and first-aid classes in your area so that you are well-prepared and qualified for your first babysitting job. These can often be found at Red Cross, YMCA, and other community centers. You can also read books that cover the subject and answer many common questions about how to handle infants and children in many of the common situations.;
, Being in a home while a parent is there will give you a chance to practice and gain experience you can advertise. Helping out with your own siblings is excellent practice, too.
 As a babysitter, you are likely working for yourself (rather than a company) and therefore, have to make and maintain your own schedule. Although it may seem old-fashioned, fill out a calendar with all your free days and times, so that when a parent calls to schedule you for babysitting you know exactly when you are available.


Creating a color-coding system may be helpful in organizing your ‘busy’ days on the calendar.
Update your schedule frequently so that you don’t accidentally double-book yourself.
 Although some parents have a specific rate in mind when they hire a babysitter, many rely on the sitter to provide their hourly wage. There are two options for selecting a rate: being paid a flat rate per hour, or being paid per child. The former is better for small families while the latter is best if you plan on watching more than two children at once.


Flat rate hourly wages typically range from $7-$12 per hour, but can be significantly more or less depending on the household.
Per child wages range from $4-$6 per child, per hour. However, to get a better idea of the competition and to see what is suitable for the conditions, get an overview of what others in your area are charging for a family the size of the family you are sitting for.
 You will also need personalized information for each child (such as allergy information), but you should have one generalized list of "worst-case-scenario" phone numbers. You may want to include:


Poison control
Police station
Fire department
Nurse hotline
A trusted person who has had children (like an aunt or parent) to contact in case of a minor case of confusion
Any other relevant numbers

, If you're new to babysitting, you'll need to let people know you're interested. Word of mouth is often the easiest way to land a job. Talk to your neighbors, people from your church, or families at your school who have young kids. Ask friends who are babysitters if they know of any openings. If you have an older sibling who is moving on to another job, contact their clients.


It's always best to babysit for someone you know or someone you've heard about from a friend. If you're new to babysitting, you may choose to only babysit for those you know.
If word of mouth doesn't work, consider advertising in your neighborhood. You can put flyers in people's doors or send out an email if your neighborhood provides a list of residents. If you decide to advertise, check with your parents first. They need to know anytime you put out personal information.
Put together a résumé outlining any specific skills and experience you can offer. For example, if you took a babysitting course, put it on your résumé. List any experience you have had caring for kids — even if it's younger brothers, sisters, or cousins. Have you taken a first-aid course in school? Do you drive? These are all things to put on your résumé. Before you start, you also need to know how often or how much you want to work and what you plan to charge.
 It's hard enough to find parents who are looking for babysitters. The next step - perhaps the hardest - is to make yourself seem worthy of the job. It's easier said than done. Now it's time to set up interviews so you can get to know the parents and their children.


Just as you'll be finding out if the job sounds good, the parents will be looking to learn as much as possible about you. Tell them about yourself, your family, your school, and why you want to babysit.
Be prepared with a list of questions so you know what's expected of you. Write them down so you don't forget to ask anything. The answers you get to questions like these will help you decide if it's the right job for you.
If you've interviewed the family and met the kids but still want to learn more, suggest another visit so you can spend more time with the kids. Most parents will be happy that you want to find out as much as you can.
 Before you go, know what you're comfortable with and what you're not. You need to feel in control. If you're unsure about a job, it's better to wait for the next one. Your safety is as important as the safety of the kids you'll be watching. If this is a first babysitting job, make sure you feel comfortable about the family. Trust your instincts, and don't feel like you have to accept the job on the spot. Tell the family you need to talk it over with your parents before committing to the job. When you know what you want and what to expect, babysitting is a better experience for both you and the kids.


If you don't feel like you have the skills to look after a newborn, don't take the job.
If you're allergic to certain animals, you may need to turn down a job if the family has pets.



Do you enjoy spending time with children?
Are you prepared to take care of kids?
Do you have an awareness of young children's needs?
Have you taken a babysitting course?
Do you have experience taking care of younger siblings or relatives?
What can you offer to the kids and their families?
Do you want to babysit occasionally or find a regular babysitting position?
If income is a concern, will the hours and payment meet your needs?
How many kids will you be taking care of?
What are their ages? The amount of care needed differs with age.
Do the kids have any special needs? Special diets?
Does the family have pets? A pool?
What are the hours you're expected to work?
What are you allowed to do in the home (e.g., use their computer, help yourself to food and snacks or bring your own)?
If you have your license, are you expected to drive the kids?

, When you arrive on site for the job, start by getting all the information about the parents’ whereabouts for when they leave. Write down their full names and phone numbers, the address(es) of their destination(s), and their estimated time of arrival back at the house, and an emergency contact. Also take down any information on the child, such as allergies (or other health information). This list will need to be longer and more detailed for longer time periods.


Have the parents show you the location of first aid supplies and medications.
Get a list of medications that each child may need to take, or is able to take in case of injury or illness (such as Tylenol for growing pains or a headache).
Write down the child/children’s schedule. Most families have a general (or sometimes more specific) timetable of events in a child’s day. This typically includes meal times, the times for certain chores/homework periods, and bedtime. Getting this written down in advance will mean that the child (if they’re older) won’t be able to pull the wool over your eyes once their parents are gone.
 Each household you work in will be slightly different, and it is important to find out what activities are allowed in each. Ask about television/video game/computer time, when/where the child may be allowed to play outside, if their friends are allowed over, and any areas of the house that may be off-limits. These rules may vary from child to child in the same household depending on age, so be sure to specify.
 Depending on how long you’ll be babysitting, you may have to feed the child/children a meal or two. Ask the parents about what foods they prefer you cook and serve, and what foods are appropriate for snack time. Clarify about any foods that aren’t allowed; these are typically candy and dessert-related goodies that the kids might ask for when their parents aren’t supervising.
 It is fairly likely that at some point in time, a child you are watching will misbehave. Rather than guessing and either punishing them too little or too much, ask the parents what they typically do for small misbehaviors. Many times this includes having privileges revoked or being put on ‘time-out’. A parent could also say that you are not to punish them, and instead should report all misbehaviors to them. , Babysitting is as much a job as it is an opportunity to enjoy the company of children. The kids will be more receptive to you and your rules if they like you, and they’ll grow to like you faster if you try to develop a relationship with them. Talk with them, ask them questions, and joke around in order to develop a good relationship.
 Although your job is to watch over the children, you should be interacting with them as much as possible by playing with them. Play will vary based on their ages; if you’re watching an infant you may be doing nothing more than making faces and holding up toys. Get creative with the things you come up with for the children to do to keep them interested and out of trouble. Make-believe games are great fun.


Be an entertainer. Parents love babysitters who help kids have fun and learn while still reinforcing rules and keeping discipline. Ask kids to show you their favorite toys. Find out from parents and other babysitters what games kids of different ages like to play. Get the kids outdoors if you can.
Playing with toys, board games, and activity-based games are all good options for older children. Ask what their favorite thing to do is. You can also bring a few of your favorite games and toys from when you were their age.
Monopoly
Life
Candyland
Uno
Card games

, Kids like stories, and they'll be impressed by even the worst storytellers. Come equipped with obscure fairy tales they probably haven't heard, like "The Shoemaker and the Elves" or "The Twelve Dancing Princesses." You can even use stories as rewards.
 If you’re spending a long time watching the children, you can do projects together that are enjoyable for everyone. Consider doing an arts and crafts project or cooking/baking a new recipe (or an old favorite) together. Boxed mixes of brownies, cookies, and cakes taste delicious. Having a finished product will feel productive, pass the time, and give the kids something to be proud of., Simple games like tag and hide and seek get kids active and help them stay fit (a big topic these days). Dancing with them is great exercise, too!

, Kids aren't as good at regulating their time as adults are, and often forget to perform basic bodily necessities. Check once every hour or so to see if they need to go to the bathroom, need water to drink, are tired, or are hungry. Most of the time they won’t think to tell you these things on their own, so always be sure to ask.
 Assuming the parents gave you a basic outline of daily activities, you should be sure you are keeping up with it. Make sure you are feeding the kid(s) at proper meal times, giving them naps, having them do their homework on schedule, etc., If there is time watch a movie with the kids. I suggest you watch a movie towards the end to settle the children down before their parents arrive.

Tarzan
Finding Nemo
Avengers
Barbie Dolls
Cinderella

, Play tag or something to get the children's energy out before their parents get home. Make sure to Calm the children down afterwards.

Tag
Duck, Duck Goose
Hide And Seek

, Make up a simple handshake with the children., No matter what the circumstances are, your job as a babysitter is to watch the kids in their home - so you shouldn’t need to leave them. Make sure you never leave the kids alone in the house. Being in a different room is fine, but running up to the store for ingredients or taking a walk without them is out of the question. This applies even for older children, unless the parents gave you explicit directions stating that they could be home alone for a small period of time.
 Unless the kids have friends who were pre-planned on coming over, no one should enter the home at any point during your stay. You should not have people - friends or family - coming over to spend time hanging out while you should be working. It can be tempting to invite a friend over late at night while the kids are asleep, but even this is off limits.
 With cell-phones, tablets, and laptops more prevalent now than ever, it can be easy to get caught up texting friends or scrolling through Facebook. Just like many jobs - your electronics should be turned off or used only in case of emergency. You are being paid to watch the kids, not to talk to friends.
 Kids will often ask to just watch movies or TV, and while these may be appropriate in short allotments, several hours of them becomes laziness. If the parents haven’t set an electronics maximum, try to keep it at two hours or less. The kids will enjoy having someone to play with, and the parents won’t think that you’re lazy or slacking on the job., Peek out of the peephole or window (do not open the door) first before answering the door. The person at the door may be a stranger. Ask the parents if they are expecting anyone before they leave.
 Although it is sometimes forgotten, a major part of babysitting is cleaning up after the kids. You may not have much of a mess to deal with, but if you cooked or did a project, be sure to put everything back in its place. The parents will appreciate coming home to a clean house and will be more likely to re-hire you again in the future.


Always clean up after yourself. If You and the children make a mess pick it up after you make it. Don't wait until the end to pick everything up. What if the Parents come home unexpectedly. You would want some of it to be clean.
Play cleaning games with the kid. Say whoever picks up the most wins or makeup a silly game that includes cleaning.
Usually there is a mess when you get there, pick it up. Everyone appreciates it when they come home to a house cleaner then they had it.
 It's tempting to be the "cool" babysitter who lets kids get away with things parents never allow. Remember, you're not their parents, so you don't really have much say in how the house rules go. You can't be a child's friend all the time.


Know when to say no and when it's OK to let something small go like letting kids stay up 15 minutes past bedtime on occasion.
Kids will challenge you. Pushing boundaries to see how much they can get away with is a normal way kids (even toddlers) learn and figure out where they stand. But even though kids try to fight rules, they actually need and thrive best on structure and limits. So check in with parents to find out what the rules are, then follow them, even if you don't agree with them! Not only will this help keep things consistent for the kids, you'll gain their respect and trust.
The best babysitters think of the job as a responsibility first, with having fun, or earning money) second. Few things are as rewarding as knowing you've earned a child's trust and affection.
 It is better to be safe than sorry, and most likely the parents will appreciate your concern.
 It will make you feel more safe while babysitting.


Get all relevant information regarding emergencies before the parents/guardians leave. This could be emergency numbers, where the main "Home" phone is kept, where a spare door key is. Try not to come off as nosy, and the adult(s) will realize that you are just attempting to help. In this way you can be sure of what to do in an emergency and get the children out. In the event of an emergency, such as a fire, drop everything and get the child or children and yourself out of the house. Do not reenter the house, do not let go of the children and call your country`s emergency number as soon as possible.
, You should know how to bottle-feed, spoon feed, and keep children safe in the kitchen.


Feed the children healthy food. It is not good babysitting to just allow the children to eat whatever. Tell them before they get crackers they have to eat a piece of fruit.These things include Apples, carrots, grapes, and oranges.

Be sure the child doesn't have something they are not allowed to have (such as a cookie or ice cream) too often.
 Be prepared for a lot of whining and problems. For older kids, you need to know the difference between real problems and stall tactics. For babies, you have to be sure the sleep environment is safe. Here are tips for making bedtime easier.


Give warning before sending kids to bed. You may want to let them stay up 10-15 minutes past what their parents allow- just be sure they know it's a special treat. Other than that, be firm with when it's time to go to sleep.
Know bedtime routines. End-of-day routines help kids wind down and signal their bodies that it's time for sleep. Ask parents what they usually do before bedtime. Maybe they have rules like no TV or computer time for an hour before bedtime. If they typically read, talk quietly, or listen to music before bed, follow the same routine.
Go through the basics. Take a child to the bathroom (or put on a nighttime diaper). Help the child brush their teeth. Find out from parents what else is necessary before the kid hops under the covers.
Always put babies (and children) to bed in their designated sleep space (be it a bed, crib, bassinet, etc.) This is especially important for babies, who can be injured if their sleep space isn't how it should be.
Be sure to lay babies on their back when putting them to sleep. It helps reduce the risk of suffocation.
Before you put the child in the crib, take out all padding along the sides of the crib. Infants should not sleep with anyone else, so don't lie down with a baby who is falling asleep. Don't let babies spend a lot of time sleeping in swing seats or car seats.
Give the child any comfort items, such as pacifiers, stuffed animals, or blankets, that they usually sleep with. Do not give stuffed animals and similar to babies.
If a child calls you/wakes up, wait a minute before going in. They may fall back asleep on their own.
If a baby can't go back to sleep, stroke them gently on the arms or belly. If the baby uses a pacifier, that can also help. Find out what calming tactics the parents use.
Avoid turning on bright lights, talking, playing, etc. once a child is in bed.
Remind the child that it's time to be quiet and sleep. Be firm about that final "goodnight" and tell a child, "Sleep well!"

