 If you are a kidney patient on dialysis, you will most likely need a high protein diet. Your nephrologist will talk to you about your nutrition needs, as will many of the other dialysis staff at your clinic. You will most likely meet with a renal (kidney dialysis) dietitian while you are there and continue to meet with her/him on a monthly basis. The whole team, together, will help formulate a plan that's best for you.;
, You may have lost a lot of weight prior to starting dialysis. It's important to get your weight stabilized once you start treatment. You will also want to increase protein in your diet, as dialysis leads to losses of this very important nutrient. Dialysis can increase a person's calorie needs, so you may find it takes more calories to maintain your weight (or gain weight) than it once did. Many patients find it takes 80-100 grams of protein per day and up to 35 calories per kilogram of body weight to keep themselves healthy.
 Dialysis patients face other dietary issues as well. They usually have to limit fluids and salt. Patients usually have to limit two other minerals in the diet: potassium and phosphorous. This is because while dialysis does help clean the blood, it still cannot do all the work healthy kidneys once did.
 Most dialysis patients are allowed to eat eggs and are encouraged to eat them daily. Eggs are one of the most complete proteins available. Even patients with cholesterol issues are encouraged to eat eggs at least twice a week if they are started on dialysis. Two eggs will provide you with 14 grams of protein, a good start towards that 80-100 grams per day.
 Other protein foods include chicken, beef, pork or fish. Each of these contains 21 grams of protein per 3 ounce serving. Having a daily serving of one of these animal proteins will provide 25-25% of a dialysis patient's daily needs.
 Because milk is high in potassium and phosphorous, many patients are told to limit or avoid it. A solution to this dilemma is to switch to almond milk, which is lower in both these minerals. To add protein to almond milk, you can take 1-2 Tbs of any good protein powder, blend it with a little moisture, then stir into 8 ounces of almond milk. Now you have a high-protein milk alternative that may provide anywhere from 5-10 grams of protein per serving.
 Protein powders vary widely but are often used in other ways to supply extra needed protein. A renal dietitian can provide a list of acceptable protein powder products. It is important to review labels to ensure the protein powder you choose is not too high in potassium or phosphorous, as an overload of these minerals can prove hazardous to a dialysis patient's health. Some brands typically used in dialysis centers are ProCel, Dialyvite Whey Plus, Nectar and Unjury. Again, consult with your renal dietitian to find an appropriate brand for you.


Protein powders can be added to any recipe that utilizes wet or moist ingredients. Adding a scoop or two to muffin, cake, cookie, meatloaf, omelette, quiche or casserole recipes can increase protein significantly. Baking or cooking at high temperatures does not destroy the protein.
A scoop of protein added to a block of cream cheese (one of the lower phosphorous dairy products) in the food processor makes a high protein cream cheese. Add some strawberries and sweetener to the blender for a sweet fruit dip. This can also be a nice, high-protein, high-calorie spread for a toasted bagel.
Make the traditional Rice Krispy treats into a high in protein snack! Melt butter or margarine in the amounts directed in a large pot. Add 2 scoops of protein powder and stir rapidly. Once incorporated, add 1 large bag of marshmallows and stir until melted. Then add 1 box crispy rice cereal. Blend together. Use wetted hands to pat the mixture into a greased casserole dish.
Protein powders can also be blended into shakes. It is recommended that you first wet a scoop of protein powder with some liquid to avoid clumping. Add the wet protein mixture to your blender along with lower potassium fruits (such as frozen blueberries), a sweetener and some almond milk to make a high protein breakfast shake.
 Nepro is a brand of protein shake especially tailored to dialysis patients, in that it is lower in fluid, higher in protein and lower in potassium and phosphorous than some other brands. Some supplemental insurance programs and even Medicaid may pay for Nepro if a patient is determined to be in need. This involves the renal dietitian and social worker reviewing each patient on a case-by-case basis. Paperwork must be completed and submitted to the agencies involved. However, not all insurances will pay for supplements and a lower-priced, affordable option should be investigated if a patient doesn't qualify.


Boost and Ensure are products that can be used by renal patients although labs should be ordered more often to ensure patients are not overloading on potassium or phosphorous. A patient may be instructed to take a medication called a "binder" if using protein shakes as supplements.
 Protein bars are often utilized by dialysis patients who want to increase protein and calories in their diet and these may be preferable for a patient struggling to limit fluids. Again, there are many brands and a renal dietitian should have an approved list. Some protein bars used for supplement programs in dialysis centers include the Zone Perfect bars and Pure Protein brand bars. Protein bars should be eaten between meals to encourage a good appetite at meal times. Any binders prescribed should be written to include one at snack times.
 Peanut butter is a good high-calorie protein food that can be included on a renal diet. Because it is higher in phosphorous, a patient should limit their intake to 1 Tbs per day. Again, if the patient takes binders to help control phosphorous levels, a binder should always be taken with the peanut butter meal or snack.
 Soft, easy-to-eat high calorie snacks can include rice pudding made with almond milk (even better if fortified with protein powder!), tuna salad, macaroni salad, egg custards and egg salads.
 They can be found in some athletic retail stores, online and in clinics. A popular product in some dialysis clinics is called Liquacel. Similar products include Pro-Stat and Pro-Cel. THe product is thick and syrupy in appearance and usually comes in fruit flavors, such as orange, grape or lemon. One shot usually supplies around 15 grams of protein, but some patients find the aftertaste objectionable. An ounce of product can be mixed with 4 oz of ginger ale or grape juice to help make it taste better. Or, can be added to jello mix while still hot, then left to cool and firm before cutting into cubes.

