 If you have a dog, odds are some of your friends do as well. Seek out those who use dog walkers and ask whether they’re satisfied with them and get their numbers.


Ask your friends questions such as, “How long have you worked with your dog walker?” “Are they dependable?” “What kind of coverage do they offer when they are away?” “Is your dog excited to see the dog walker?”
Find out whether their dog walkers are accepting new clients.
Some dog walkers offer financial incentives to clients who recommend them, so be aware of this while soliciting suggestions from your friends.
If the dog walker cannot take on your pet, ask them for recommendations.;
, Many dog walkers work part time at animal hospitals or as veterinary technicians, so those can be good places to start in your search for a qualified dog walker. Additionally, if you choose a dog walker from a business or practice you frequent, you could already have an established relationship with them., Animal shelters are a great resource for finding people who genuinely love and care for dogs. If they’re the type of giving person who volunteers their time, they may be a good choice for walking your dog.


Just because someone volunteers with animals, however, does not mean they are a qualified dog walker. Be sure to ask about their experience with dog walking when approaching them.
 While many dog parents are present at the dog park, dog walkers will be there as well. Frequent a nearby dog park often and strike up conversations with dog walkers whose style you admire.


Ask if they are taking new dogs.
Some possible questions to ask include, “How many dogs do you typically walk in a day?” “Do you specialize in any particular breed or geographic location?” “How long have you been a dog walker?”

, Average rates for dog walkers vary considerably throughout the country, so ask fellow dog owners what they pay in your area.


The rates per walk may vary depending on whether the walker is working only with your dog or with many at the same time.
Find out about whether tipping is expected on top of the agreed-upon rate.

