 If someone close to you, like a friend or family member, has concerns about your career choice, try to put your ego aside for a moment and listen. Then, respond to them in a kind way. When someone feels that they have been truly heard, they are more likely to put their criticisms to rest.Perhaps your parents bring the subject up at dinner, or maybe a close friend broaches the subject over drinks.
May eye contact and nod as they speak.
Then you might say, “I hear you. I understand that there are risks involved with this choice. But this career is making me happy.”
You might say, “I will try keep everything you said in mind as I move forward, but ultimately, I really hope you can respect my choice.”;
, Listening to this criticism once (or maybe twice) is the right thing to do. But you should not have to hear this again and again. If someone in your life will not let up with the criticism, even after you’ve tried to listen and explain, you have every right to ask them to stop.Let's say a family member makes a critical comment every time you see them, or a friend cracks jokes about your career all the time.
You can say, “This is my life. This is my choice. I need you to understand this and stop bringing it up.”
You might add, "It isn't funny."

, Setting healthy boundaries requires you to think about your limits and what you will and will not accept in your interactions with other people. If criticism about your job is causing you discomfort or even resentment, it is important you communicate this to the person and set a boundary — you will not discuss the topic if they continue to criticize you. You can also tell them that there are consequences to violating your boundaries, perhaps that you will need to take a step back from the relationship.For instance, you could say, "I know you are concerned with my choice. I don't mind talking about this, but not if you are going to criticize me. From now on, please keep any critical comments about my career choices to yourself."
It is possible the person doesn't realize they are upsetting you with their comments. Setting a boundary makes it clear to the other person that you will not accept their behavior and gives them the opportunity to change.
Setting boundaries can be scary, but it is an essential skill that will help you have healthy relationships and practice self-care. Be kind, but assertive.
 If someone in your life still cannot let up, you may need to create some distance between you and that person, at least temporarily. If a friend or family member continues to relentlessly criticize your career choice, they may not be a healthy person for you to be around.When someone in your life is not treating you with respect — even if this a family member or longtime friend — you have every right to take some space for yourself.
You can say, “Hearing this constant criticism is not good for me. I need to take a little space for a while.”
You can say, “We can hang out again when you’ve found a way to respect my choices.”
If you’ve already tried to talk to this person with no success, you may not need to say anything else. Simply take the space you need.

