 One simple way to begin spending more time outdoors with friends is to eat outside. Many of your interactions with your friends might involve food so this is a simple way to break your indoor routine. If you go out to a restaurant, ask to be seated outside. If you are eating at home, then take you dinner outside to the porch or patio.If it’s hot, you can sit in the shade.
You can also research local eateries that have nice views of the city or find a rooftop restaurant to go to.;
, Another way to incorporate a simple outdoor activity with your friends is to take your work outdoors. If you are in school, you might already study with your friends on a regular basis. Suggest that you take your work outside instead. If you are completing a work assignment while your friend or coworker is with you, suggest that you take the project outside., If you and your friends enjoy watching movies together, research outdoor movies in your area. Many cities like DC or New York offer these free of charge to its residents. Bring a blanket and some snacks and enjoy the movie with your friends.
 You and your friend might enjoy certain indoor hobbies that can easily be transitioned outdoors. If you and your friends enjoy photography, try taking the camera outdoors to get a few cool shots. Perhaps you and your friends enjoy reading. If so, bring your books outside and read together., If you and your friends enjoy being active and often work out together, then you can try doing so outside. Go for a run around the neighborhood or take a brisk walk after dinner. Do some exercises outdoors like squats, pushups, or situps.


Look into outdoor fitness classes in your area.
 Perhaps the easiest and most simple way to enjoy the outdoors is just to talk. You and your friends are already doing this when you spend time together, so taking the convo outside is simple and easy. Sit on your porch or in your front yard and chat. You can also people watch, which is a fun activity.If it is cold out, consider finding a spot to do a bonfire. Bring some marshmallows to roast.
You might also consider playing cards or another game outside, as well.
 If you and your friends like to shop, go window shopping together. This is a great way to avoid spending money while spending time outdoors with your friends. Go to the shops downtown in your area and browse while chatting with friends., One fun way to get more involved in nature is to spend some time on your local lake or river. Consider fishing with friends or canoeing or kayaking. Many cities offer kayak or canoe rentals so that you don’t have to provide your own., If you and your friends enjoy being active, try playing a sport outdoors. You can go to a local park, ballfield, or even play in your backyard. Some sports that you can play include:Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Frisbee
Volleyball
Soccer

, Gardening is is a great way to improve the aesthetic of your home while spending time outdoors. Ask your friends to come over to help you in their garden or go over to help them in theirs. You can plant flowers or trees, dig up weeds, or trim the hedges.If there is an elderly person in your neighborhood, ask if they would like for you and your friends to tend to their garden.
 Most cities offer outdoor concerts or festivals, particularly in the summer. Visit your town’s website to see what attractions will be in your area soon and see if your friends are interested. Though many concerts are not likely to be free, the festivals or other outdoor events likely are.You can also check apps like Groupon to see if there are discounts on concerts or other events.
 In addition to shopping, your local downtown area likely has many sites to see. Walk around and explore local museums, landmarks, statues and monuments in your town. Take pictures of your downtown adventures.You can also do some research of your town or other local towns to visits sites that may not be downtown but are still historic and worth seeing.
 You and your friends can also enjoy the great outdoors while giving back to your community. Many cities have cleanup days that you can participate in to get outdoors while doing good. Get out of the house and take part in these beautification efforts.If these cleanup events do not exist, consider organizing them with your friends.
 If there is a beach nearby you, take a day trip to spend some time together on the ocean. You can stretch out on a beach chair and tan, surf together, swim, build sandcastles, go for a run on the beach, or play a game like volleyball.


Make sure that you pack a swimsuit and sunscreen.
 Another way to to enjoy the outdoors is to take a camping trip. One positive about these trips is that they tend to be inexpensive. Research camping sites near you and plan a fun trip for you and your friends. Make sure to pack a sleeping bag, flashlight, and other camping necessities.
 One completely free way to get away for a bit is to visit a local park with friends. Look into local parks near you and have a picnic together. Split up the responsibilities of bringing food so that you don’t have to provide everything.Bring some games to play or a ball so that you can have fun at the park.
Bring your dogs and have a doggy playdate.
 One other way to get outdoors is to take a trip to the mountains with friends. If there are mountains near you, take a road trip and rent out a cabin for a few days. You can split the costs so that the trip is inexpensive for you. Go hiking in the mountains or spend some time on the rivers there.
 In addition to landmarks, museums, and parks, many cities have several outdoor attractions for you to visit. Some cities have beautiful waterfalls or waterparks for you to explore. Others have mazes or beautiful walking trails to try out. Do your research and find some activities that align with both your and your friends' interests.

