 Are you home all the time or are you gone a lot? Do you like to spend time lounging around the house or are you always involved in a project or task. These are questions you should ask yourself before deciding what type of cat you want to get.Gauge your family's requirements. Do you have children? There are breeds, such as the Birman and the Ragdoll, that tend to be very good with children.Knowing your family and what they want and need from a cat can help you narrow down your requirements.;
, Each person may have different preferences for what type of cat is most attractive to them. Perhaps you like the flat face of a Persian or the fluffiness of a Maine Coon.Make a list of the attributes in a cat you find the cutest, including the color, size, length of coat, and other distinctive attributes. With a list in hand you can prioritize your choices and keep all your preferences in mind.For example, do you want a short-haired cat or a long-haired cat? This is an aesthetic decision but it can also impact the amount of cleaning you have to do to keep hair to a minimum.
Many breeds come in a variety of colors and fur lengths, for example the American bobtail, so in many cases these preferences will not eliminate all cats in a given breed., This will have an impact on the amount of work you have to do to raise the cat. Raising a kitten requires a lot of attention and care, as well as supervision so they don't get into trouble. However, raising a kitten well can also positively impact how well the cat it trained and how well it behaves. With an older cat you won't have to do the work to raise it but its personality and behaviors will already be formed.


If you are having a hard time deciding between a kitten and an older cat, pick an older cat. Older cats have a harder time getting adopted, so by getting one you are saving a life in addition to getting a great pet.
 This is largely a matter of preference. However, male cats are known to be more dominant than females, especially male cats that have not been fixed.Whether you want a male or female cat may depend on pets you already have in the home. If you already have a female cat, for instance, it may get into fights with another female that it is not related to.
 With all the information you now have about your family and its needs, you can now decide what type of cat you are looking for. Make a list of all the attributes you are looking for in a cat. This will help you keep a clear focus while researching a wide variety of cute and cuddly felines.


For example, this could be an active cat that likes to play, such as a Siamese or American curl; a cuddly cat that lounges most of the day, such as a Manx or Exotic; or an inquisitive cat that might get into trouble but is excessively smart, such as a European Burmese or Japanese bobtail., Begin with a general web search for common cat breeds and their appearance. This will help you narrow your search down by finding cats that look good to you. Begin my searching for cat breeds with the characteristics that you absolutely need. For instance, if you want a short-haired cat that is active, search for that. It is of no use to you to look over long-haired breeds if you absolutely don't want one.


Go to the websites of national cat organizations. These organizations tend to have good general information about a wide variety of breeds.The most common cats are domestic shorthair and longhair varieties. These are cats that are not considered purebred and do not have a specific breed. These come in all colors and sizes and their personalities come in a wide variety as well.You will not find information about them on websites devoted to purebred breeds.
 It's relatively easy to find a cat that is appealing to look at but you also need to know how they will act in life. In order to sort through all the information out there, make a list of all the cat breeds that might suit you based on aesthetics. Then research each one to find one that suits you.


For example, if you want a medium sized, long-haired cat that is friendly and playful, look into the Ragdoll breed or Birman breed.These are popular breeds that generally have a great disposition.
Some cat organizations have comparative charts that can help you sort through the many different types of cats.This phase of research should also let you know if getting a certain breed will be difficult or easy. Some specialty breeds are very rare and would require an immense amount of work to find. You may be able to find a similar breed that is much easier to get and will be just as great in your family.
 Once you decide on a few breeds that might suit you, you should spend some time learning more about them. Knowing a little bit about the history and health problems of the different cat breeds can help determine what breed suits you. A cat breed that has a lot of health problems may not be right for your family.


Even if you decide to adopt a cat that is a breed that has some health problems, it's important to know the risks to your cat's health. Having all the information will help you to keep an eye out for signs of a problem developing.
 Find a breeder that breeds you breed of cat or will source your specific breed of cat for you. Make sure that that they do not have a bad reputation by asking for references and calling them. Also talk to the breeder about their breeding practices and why they do what they do. This will give you an idea whether the breeder is breeding ethically.


Checking out a breeder is important so you can avoid bad breeding situations. At the least, good breeding practices include focusing on one or a select few breeds, knowing the genetic and breeding histories of the animals you breed, and thorough screening and vetting of potential adopters., If there is a selection of cats to choose from, then look at all of them. You may get a gut instinct when you meet them in person which cat is right for you.


When viewing the cats, also take a look at the breeding conditions the cats are being raised in.
 Make sure your chosen cat does not have any defects or issue's that would make it ill. This could be physical signs of illness, such as a cough or seeping eyes, or a family history of inheritable diseases.


Ask the cat breeder about the cat's parents. They should know who they are and about their health. Otherwise, you should be suspicious of the breeding operation.
 If the breeder and the specific cat check out, then you just need to decide whether or not to adopt it. Be aware that breeders will charge you a fee, which pays for their breeding operation. This cost will vary depending on the breeder and the rarity of the breed.


If you cannot find your chosen breed, try looking for a different one. There is bound to be another breed that also meets most of your requirements.

