 These controls limit the content you can access on the web, as well as the games you can play.Go to the My Account page.
In the upper right corner, click Sign In to sign into your Microsoft account.
Tap or click Security, family & forums, and then Privacy settings.
Tap or click one of the links under Access to content or Privacy & Online Safety, depending on which area you want to change.
Tap or click on the gamertag of the child account you are updating, and then change the privacy and safety settings.
 WARNING: This will reset all system settings to the factory defaults, so be sure to backup apps, games, saves and other data first.

Start by turning off your unit and removing all memory devices.
Restart you unit, and go to System Blade > Console Settings > System Info.
Press: left trigger, right trigger, x, y, left bumper, right bumper, up, left bumper, left bumper, x.
A menu should appear labeled Reset System Settings.
Select Yes to reset settings. Your screen will go blank for about two seconds.
Select your preferred language from the list.
A blade saying “Xbox 360 Storage Device” will appear with two options: Done or Continue without one. Select Continue.
An Initial Setup Complete screen will appear with three options: Family Settings, High Definition Settings, and Xbox Dashboard. Select Xbox Dashboard.
Turn the system off and insert the Memory Unit or Hard Drive.
Turn the system back on. Parental Control lock should be removed.

On your controller, press the Menu button and select Settings.
Scroll right to Family, then select the child profile you want to modify.
Click Adult Defaults to remove the parental controls on the account.
 WARNING: This will reset all system settings to the factory defaults, so be sure to backup apps, games, saves, and other data first.Go to the Home screen and press the Menu button on your controller.
Select Settings > System.
Select Restore Factory Defaults. You will be warned that this will erase all accounts, apps, games, saved games, and settings. Select Yes.
Your Xbox will now restore itself to factory settings, with no parental controls.

