 It may be helpful to come up with a list of punishments and consequences to use when you discipline your child, and involve your child in this process. Giving your child a chance to weigh in on what they think appropriate consequences should be may help to make enforcing those rules much easier. Consequences may include ignoring attention-seeking behavior, time outs, natural consequences, or loss of privileges. Developing a plan helps you know how to follow through with what you say.For example, when your child does something you told them not to, you may take away their privileges or put them in time out. If you told them not to go outside without an adult, you can put them in time out. If you told them to do their homework instead of playing and they ignore you, take away their playing privileges for the evening.
Be sure that your significant other and anyone else who care for your child will know what the consequences are and will agree to enforce them.
Make sure that the consequences are age appropriate. The types of consequences you would have for a young child will not be the same as those for an older child or teenager.
 If you are raising your child with a partner, discipline should be a shared effort. This means both partners should reinforce behavior the same way and avoid being pushovers. If one parent is a pushover and the other is not, it may lead to problems. Instead, discuss how you will discipline your children and follow through so you both know what to do.For example, both of you need to make sure you follow through what what you say, ignore attention-seeking behavior if you choose to, and have the same limits. If the rule is no candy between meals, both parents should reinforce this rule.
 When you are trying to stop being a pushover parent, you may want to decide what is worth being strict about and which rules can be amended. This helps you reinforce the important things, but not end up with a fight every time your child doesn’t do something. You also may want to evaluate the age of your child and determine what rules are appropriate for the age group.For example, you may be adamant about physical violence like hitting and television and snack limits. However, you may decide that chores can be done together as a group and that you can help them make their beds and put away their laundry.

