 Heavy, fatty food – like the kind you get from fast food restaurants – can make you feel sleepy and overfull. Stock up on stuff like fruit slices, rice cakes, and string cheese. They'll satisfy you without making you feel bloated, which can make sitting in a car for hours at at time really uncomfortable., You might be able to access GPS from your car - from your phone, your car itself, or a GPS system - but not everyone has access to this and the GPS signal is not always reliable. If you have a real map, you can't ever get lost.
 Pack a plastic tote in your trunk with an extra pair of tennis shoes, extra water, a flash light with batteries, your AAA card, and an extra blanket. If your car breaks down during the trip, you’ll be prepared., It's very easy to get dehydrated on a long car ride if you don't have regular access to water. Drinking soda can actually increase your dehydration, so try to avoid packing it.


To keep water colder longer during your trip, try freezing a few bottles the night before. They should thaw out during your trip, giving you a good supply of cool to cold water to drink.
 If you're a passenger, sometimes the best way to occupy yourself on a long drive is to sleep through it! Bringing a pillow, blanket, and some ear plugs can help you nap in comfort.


A neck pillow that supports your neck and gives your head some place to rest is probably the most comfortable pillow option for a long car ride. It can be hard to get a regular pillow to stay in a comfortable position, especially if you're sharing the backseat.
Don't bring a blanket that's too heavy - you don't want to end up too sweaty, which is definitely uncomfortable.
 A good way to stay comfortable during a long car ride is to make sure you have something to do. The more you can take your mind off of being in the car for a long time, the more comfortable you'll be.


If you're the driver, pack a few audio books or your favorite CDs. You can also load up your mp3 player with a driving playlist if you car allows you to sync the player with your stereo.
If you're a passenger, you can preload your own mp3 player with your favorite music or podcasts. You can also pack a few books or crossword puzzles.
 If you get carsick easily, you might want to pack some medicine to help with your symptoms.

