 A new dog owner may not understand or be able to predict all of the reactions from an abused dog early on. Be patient if the dog is hesitant, reluctant, afraid, or even aggressive. Most often, these are self-defense responses that will slow or fade after the dog has become more comfortable.Do not try to give your new pet too much affection or force physical contact with them. Let them come to you.
If the dog is exhibiting aggressive behaviors such as biting, try to discourage them without yelling by using stern verbal tones and eye contact.
If the aggressive behavior continues, you may want to seek the assistance of a professional trainer.
 You may choose to designate a corner in your home as a safe space for your new dog, or you may opt for a crate. Either way, create a space with access to a bed, water, and comforting items such as toys or a blanket that your new dog knows is just for them.This area should serve as a place for your dog to go to rest and recharge. Try not to disturb them too much when they are in their space.
If your dog is spending too much time in their space and never interacting at all, you may try to coax them out with treats, or by moving the food dish a bit farther out.
 Help rebuild your dog’s confidence by introducing them to new situations where they can only succeed. If new people scare your dog, for example, have a pet-loving friend come over with treats and plenty of gentle affection for your pup.The situations don’t have to be too elaborate, nor do they have to address all your dog’s fears at once. Rather, building success gradually teaches an abused dog to have confidence where there was once fear.
Reinforce positive responses to these situations with plenty of love and praise. Let your dog know when they do the right thing and they will continue to do so.
 It’s important to care for an abused dog’s specific needs, but it’s equally important to make sure their overall needs are met. Building a daily routine helps calm your abused dog because they know what to expect, and it also allows you and your new animal to bond.Try to make sure your dog is regularly fed and given clean water, walked, and played with. Keep times as consistent as possible,
Try to schedule some quiet time for you and your dog. Allow them to be in the same room or encourage them to be near you, but do not look to provide the dog with too much active attention. This allows your dog to become comfortable simply being near you.

