 If you want to view a DD214 in person, you can visit the National Personnel Records Center in St. Louis, Missouri. The NPRC maintains military records for discharged and deceased veterans who served from World War I and until the end of the 20th century. The records can be accessed by a veteran desiring to review his or her own record, the veteran’s next of kin, or individuals with written consent from the veteran or his or her next of kin. You can schedule an appointment in the following ways:


For military personnel records from before 1955, either e-mail stlarr.archives@nara.gov or call 314-801-0850.
For military personnel records from after 1954, call 314-801-0775.
For all military personnel record requests, you must provide the following information: name; phone number; desired date and time for appointment; whether you want to bring electronic equipment; specific information about the veteran and the records you are requesting.
 Anyone visiting the National Archives and reviewing materials must review and/or complete the following:


A Research Application located at: https://www.archives.gov/st-louis/archival-programs/na-14003-researcher-application.pdf

Review the Research Room procedures located at: https://www.archives.gov/st-louis/archival-programs/archival-research-room-policies-procedures.html.Once you have your appointment, you should contact the Research Room by phone at 314-801-0850, and ask where and when to submit your forms. You must submit your forms before your appointment., Once you have submitted all of your information, the NPRC will attempt to retrieve your requested documents and have them ready for your review during your appointment. There are some reasons why the NPRC may not be able to provide you with your records. These reasons include:


The record does not exist.
The record was damaged in the 1973 fire and may not be available because of fire damage.
The record is extremely fragile or damaged.
The record is not accessible to the public and you do not meet the necessary kinship requirements to view the document.