 A thank you speech should be fairly short, and you may be able to memorize it. However, having a note card or piece of paper with a general outline will help you make all your main points and remember all the names you want to mention.


Don't write out the speech word for word. When you deliver it, you'll be looking down at the paper the whole time instead of addressing the audience. You'll come off as nervous and stiff instead of sincerely grateful.
Try writing out just the first line of each paragraph you want to say. Then, when you glance down at your card, that first line will jog your memory.
 If you're giving the speech at a formal award ceremony, there may be a designated time limit for the acceptance speeches. Ask the organization responsible for giving the awards whether there are any guidelines you should take into account. If you aren't given a time limit, see if you can find out how long other people who've received awards from the organization took for their speeches.As a general rule acceptance speeches are very short. Acceptance speeches for Academy Awards, for example, are limited to 45 seconds or less. Going over two or three minutes is going to end up boring people, so no matter what, aim to keep it to the point.
When you practice your speech, set a timer to see how long it takes. You might want to record yourself so you can listen to the speech and identify parts you can shave off if your speech is too long. The most essential part of the speech is the expression of gratitude; the rest can be lopped if necessary.
 If you're not much for public speaking, try giving your speech to a person or group of people who make your stomach erupt with butterflies. Practice giving the speech four or five times, or as many times as it takes to be able to deliver it without your heart beating fast and your breath quickening. That way, when it's time to give it to your real audience, you'll be less likely to get stage fright.


Solicit feedback from the people listening to your speech. Ask them which parts drag on too long, or if there's anything you didn't say that should be included.
Make sure you deliver the speech to at least one person you trust to give you totally honest feedback.
 Most people naturally fill in awkward moments with "um," "uh" or "like." Train yourself to eliminate these words from your speech. Instead of using a filler word, just pause and be silent for a moment. Your speech will end up sounding poignant and well rehearsed, rather than thrown together.


To help yourself eliminate the filler words, listen to a recording of yourself talking. Try to catch the spots where you tend to fill in the blank with "um" or "uh." Practice saying those lines without filler until you're able to deliver the whole speech that way.
 Helping your audience feel the depth of your gratitude is the whole point of a thank you speech, and it's very hard to make that happen if you seem stiff, or worse, arrogant or ungrateful. Practice doing the things you'd normal do during a conversation: gesturing a bit with your hands, smiling, pausing and laughing. Make sure the way you inflect your words conveys the emotion you're feeling.

