 This will help get rid of any toothpaste residue and rinse out any bacteria. It's not necessary to use cleaner on your toothbrush each time you use it. Simply turn the tap water on and run your brush under the water for a few seconds. Make sure to get any old toothpaste residue out of your brush before brushing your teeth again.You can use warm or cold tap water to rinse your toothbrush. Warm water may soften your toothbrush bristles and make them feel smoother when you brush.;
, Sometimes, the handle of a toothbrush gets clogged with gunk. If you want, you can clean your toothbrush's handle about once a month. You can create a mixture of one parts bleach with ten parts water or even a chlorhexidine mouthwash can do the job. Use a clean cloth to wipe down your toothbrush's handle.Some people advocate disinfecting your whole toothbrush in a bleach/water solution. However, the Center for Disease Control and Prevent advises against soaking a full toothbrush in disinfectant, as this can actually damage the toothbrush. Stick to cleaning the handle over the whole brush., It is okay to occasionally clean gunk off the toothbrush's handle, but regular use of disinfectants can be damaging and you may develop allergies on your skin or mucosa if the substance is too concentrated It is not necessary to store a toothbrush in a disinfectant solution. For regular cleaning, tap water is sufficient to safely clean a toothbrush., If you want to use disinfectant solution for any reason, make sure to choose a disinfectant approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). An FDA approved solution should be generally safe for use. When using a disinfectant on the brush itself, opt for an FDA approved solution over something made at home.For the most part, however, it's unnecessary to disinfect toothbrush bristles. If your brush becomes contaminated, it's safer to buy a new toothbrush than it is to try to disinfect an old one.
 Many people feel the need to protect toothbrushes from bathroom contaminants by storing them in closed containers. However, toothbrushes need exposure to air to dry out because oxygen can destroy a large amount of bacteria. A moist toothbrush is a breeding grounds for bacteria. In order to keep your toothbrush clean, store it in an open container in your bathroom.Make sure to keep your toothbrush in a protected area, such as up on a high counter to make sure it will not fall onto the floor.
 It's unnecessary to try to dry your toothbrush after cleaning it. If you want, you can give the toothbrush a few quick shakes to get out excess water. Other than this, however, your toothbrush will not require drying. You can simply put the toothbrush in its regular container after rinsing it., You should always store toothbrushes upright. This will allow the toothbrush to dry easier and remove airborne debris. You should have some kind of cup in your bathroom where you store toothbrushes.You can also use a toothbrush holder with a suction cup that can be placed on your mirror.
If you're storing multiple toothbrushes in the same container, make sure they don't touch one another.
 Toothbrushes should generally be replaced every two to three months. Even with proper care, toothbrushes get old with time. After two to three months have passed, discard your toothbrush and purchase a new one., You should always have your own toothbrush. Never share a toothbrush with another person, as this can spread disease or viruses and bacteria., Sometimes, accidents happen. You may drop your toothbrush on the floor, in the sink, or in the toilet. Disinfecting toothbrushes is difficult, and can actually do more harm than good. In the event a toothbrush gets contaminated, throw it away and buy another brush. This is much safer than attempting to disinfect the brush on your own.