 Lithography is a big term often used to refer to many different styles of printing, contemporary and classical. But, in pre-photographic terms, planographic lithography is that which is printed from a flat surface. In planographic printing, plates are prepared by laying down an image in a greasy or oily substance, typically called tusche, that will hold ink. The blank areas of the plate will then be washed off with water, removing the ink from those areas. Types of planographic lithography include:


Chalk-manner prints, which are made by using wax crayon to draw the image onto limestone.
Chromolithography, which are identifiable based on the stippling of multiple colors on the plate.
Tinted lithography is made via two plates, one of which uses broad individual background strokes of tinting to give the image background color.
Transfer lithography isn't transferred directly from stone to paper, but from transfer paper to the stone itself, meaning that the image needn't be drawn in reverse originally.
 Unlike some of the other varieties of pre-photographic print identification, planographic lithography needs to be examined using at least 10x magnification to notice the signifiers necessary for proper identification. Since the absence of intaglio and relief printing marks doesn't necessarily mean you're dealing with a lithograph, it's important to look closely at the images and not take absence for proof.
 If you find plate marks, you're always dealing with a relief or, more likely, an intaglio print. Because the image is taken directly from a flat stone, there will never be plate marks of the sort you'd find on those prints, on a lithograph.
 Upon close examination, you should notice that there is no difference in the depth of the ink and the blank paper. Everything should be on the same level, with no imprinting of whiteness or darkness. Noticing this will require serious magnification, but it's a good indication that you're dealing with some variety of planographic printing, since the ink has come from a flat surface that didn't imprint itself in the paper.
 Since the planographic surface holds and repels ink on the same level, tonal variation is created by varying the amount of surface area covered and not covered by varying the quantity of ink deposited on the paper, either by using multiple layers and multiple prints, or by applying areas of heavier wax on the stone.


Usually, shaded areas will be spotty, shooting almost stipple-like dots that have the same tonal value. One mark will not be lighter or darker than the other surrounding marks, nor should they be evenly spaced. This creates the "illusion of shade."
A print with multiple colors will overlap those colors in certain areas. In general, you won't find green, but overlapping areas of blue and yellow, a more efficient process of printing. Shade in color prints is typically made via variation of tone., Typically, fine details will be somewhat blurrier in transfer lithographs than in other types of printmaking. Often, the paper won't quite stick, or will otherwise shift around when pressure is applied to the paper, and the details tend to suffer when this happens. This is typically a sign of planographic lithography processes.