 You want to ask the other side to admit to relevant facts. For example, if you are involved in an automobile accident lawsuit, then it probably isn’t relevant to ask the other side to admit that they were wearing a green jacket the day of the accident.


You should read the jury instructions to find out what facts you must prove in your lawsuit.You can often find your state’s jury instructions online.
Alternately, you could visit your nearest law library, which might be at your courthouse or at a nearby law school. Ask a librarian to show you where the jury instructions are stored.;
, Your court may limit the number of requests for admission that you can ask. You should read your state’s Rules of Civil Procedure as well as your local rules to find out.


For example, in California, you can only make 35 discovery requests if the case is worth less than $25,000. The 35 total includes other requests for documents to be produced and “interrogatories,” which are questions the other side must answer. If you use all 35 requests on Request for Admissions, then you won’t be able to request any documents or serve any interrogatories in your case.
However, if you sue for more than $25,000 in California, then you can ask at least 35 requests for admission, which will not be subtracted from a total amount of discovery requests., To draft your Requests for Admissions, you should open a blank word processing document and set the font to a comfortable size and style. Read your local rules, which you can get from the court, to see what formatting the judge prefers. If possible, simply follow the formatting of prior documents filed in your case.


Generally, Times New Roman or Arial 14 point is acceptable.
 The caption information contains the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number. It also might contain the judge’s name. You can find the caption information on either the complaint or the answer.


Insert the caption at the top of the page.Also include a title. The title will depend on whether you are the plaintiff or the defendant. If you are the plaintiff, then the title will be something like “Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions to Defendant.”If you are the defendant, then your title would read “Defendant’s Request for Admissions to Plaintiff.”

, You can briefly explain what rule authorizes you to make the requests. You can also tell the other party in your introduction where to send the answers to your Request for Admissions.Sample language could read: “Defendant, pursuant to Maryland Rule of Civil Procedure 2-424, requests that Plaintiff Alice Jones answer under oath each of the following requests for admission and serve the answers to within thirty (30) days of the date after service of this request.”
You can also warn the other side that failure to respond in a timely manner may result in each fact being deemed admitted and conclusively established against them.
 Because accuracy is important, you might want to include a section in which you define terms. You can briefly state that all words should be given the broadest interpretation possible.Then you could define individual terms or words. For example, many people define the following:“And” and “Or”: you can clarify that both words should be construed either disjunctively or conjunctively as necessary to give the request the broadest possible meaning.
“Defendant” or “Plaintiff”: if there is more than one defendant or plaintiff, then specify who you are referring to.
“Document”: most rules of civil procedure define “document” very broadly to encompass written, recorded, graphic, photographic, and computerized material.
“Government”: make sure to identify which government, e.g., city, county, federal, etc.
 You should number them “Request No. 1,” “Request No. 2,” etc. Underline and put the request number in bold face so that it stands out.


Remember that each admission should contain only one fact. Be careful with this. Don’t lump together two or more facts or include facts with subparts., You don’t ask questions in your Request for Admissions. Instead, you state facts. The other side then has to admit or deny the fact.


For example, you would write, “At the time of the collision, Defendant was travelling westbound on Walker Road in Cook County, Illinois.”You would not write, “At the time of the collision was Defendant travelling westbound on Walker Road in Cook County, Illinois?”
If you are asking the other side to authenticate documents as genuine, then you could write, “Please admit that Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of a document you created.” Then you could provide a very brief description of Exhibit A.
 You should sign the Request. Accordingly, insert a signature block underneath the words “Respectfully Submitted.”You can include your name and contact information.
 Read your local rules to see if you have to print on pleading paper, which is paper numbered down the left-hand column. Generally, if you have had to print prior court documents on pleading paper, then you will need to print your Request for Admissions on pleading paper as well.
 If you are asking for the other party to admit to the genuineness of a document, then you generally should attach a copy of the document to your motion.You should check your Rules of Civil Procedure to see if you need to furnish the other side with a copy.
 Your court may provide a cover sheet which has to be served along with the Request for Admissions.You should check with your court clerk or look on your court’s website to see if a cover sheet is required.
 You will want to keep a complete copy for your records. You typically do not have to file your Request for Admissions with the court, though you will want to keep a complete copy of the Request in case the other side fails to respond to you.
 You should have someone serve the Request on the other side. This person could be a private process server or someone 18 or older not involved in the case. Generally, you can mail the Request for Admissions to the other side.


If the other side has a lawyer, then serve the Request for Admissions on the lawyer.
Have whoever makes service complete a Proof of Service form or an Affidavit of Service” form if one is required by your court.The server should return the signed form to you after service has been made.
 The relevant Rules of Civil Procedure should state how much time the other side has to respond. In federal court, you generally get 30 days to respond, though the judge could lengthen or shorten the amount of time.The answers should be in writing and mailed to the address provided in your introduction.


If the deadline passes and you don’t get a response, then you should file a motion to have the court deem the facts admitted., If the other side blows you off and doesn’t respond to your Request, then you should file a motion with the court asking the judge to deem each fact admitted as true. Some courts have “fill in the blank” motion forms you can use when drafting your motion.Check with the clerk.
 If no motion form is available, then draft your own. Format the motion just as you have other documents in the case. Remember to insert the caption at the top.


You can title your motion something like “Motion and Order to Have Admissions Deemed Admitted.”, Briefly state who you are and what you are requesting that the judge do for you. Also state what rule of civil procedure gives you the right to file the motion.


For example, you could write: “COMES NOW the Defendant, pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure 36(A), and hereby moves this Court to have the Admissions served upon Plaintiff deemed admitted. This motion is based upon the following facts….”, The judge doesn’t know everything that is happening in your case. And since you didn’t file your Request for Admissions with the court, the judge might not even be aware that you served requests on the other side. Accordingly, you need to provide some background information. Use numbered paragraphs and give this section the heading “Statement of Facts” or something similar.


You should tell the judge the date you sent the Request and the method of delivery (such as first class mail). Also tell the judge that the Request for Admissions is attached as Exhibit A.State whether you received anything in reply from the other side. For example, they might have only answered some of the requests or provided garbled answers.
 As briefly as possible, explain why the judge should deem your Request for Admissions as admitted. Be sure to quote from the relevant rule of civil procedure.


For example, you can write: “According to Utah Rule of Civil Procedure 36(A), each Request for Admission is admitted unless the party to whom the requests were directed serves a written answer or objection. On June 1, 2016, Defendant personally served a copy of Request for Admissions upon the Plaintiff. See Exhibit A. The Utah Rules call for an answer or objection to have been filed within 30 days. As of July 5, Defendant has not yet received a proper answer or objection to the Request for Admissions. This court should deem the Admissions as having been admitted due to the failure of the party to answer them in the timeframe set forth in the Rules of Civil Procedure.”, Conclude the motion by repeating again your request that the court deem the requests admitted. Sample language could read:


“Therefore, based upon the foregoing, Defendant respectfully requests that this Court enter an order deeming Defendant’s Request for Admissions served upon Plaintiff as admitted.” Then include a date and a signature line., You have to show the court that you served a copy of the motion on the other side. In some courts, your server will fill out a “Proof of Service” form, which you then file with the court. In other courts, you can add a certificate of service to your motion.


A sample certificate of service could read: “I hereby certify that on , I mailed first class, postage prepaid a true and correct copy of the foregoing Motion to Have Admissions Deemed Admitted to .” Then sign your certificate.If you need to have your server fill out a Proof of Service form, then pick one up from your court clerk.
 In some courts, the judge will want you to submit a proposed order along with your motion. The order is what the judge signs after giving a ruling. You should read your local rules to see if the judge wants you to include an order. Federal judges usually do, although state court judges may vary.


To format the order, insert your caption information and title the document “Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Have Admissions Deemed Admitted” or something similar, depending on the title of your motion.
The body of the order can read: “After hearing argument upon Defendant’s Motion to Have Admissions Deemed Admitted and for good cause found, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Defendant’s Request for Admissions served on Plaintiff are hereby deemed admitted for purposes of the above-titled action.” Then include a line for the date and a line for the judge’s signature. Put the judge’s name and title underneath the signature line., You may want the judge to hold a hearing on the motion. If so, you need to schedule a date and time. Each court handles scheduling a little differently. In some courts, you can go onto the judge’s online calendar and look to see a time to schedule the motion. In other courts, the clerk will help you schedule a hearing.


Make sure not to schedule the hearing too early. Your Rules of Civil Procedure will require that the other side receive your copy of the motion a certain number of days before the hearing. Read your rules to make sure you give enough time.You may also need to complete a Notice of Hearing form, which will contain the date and time of the hearing. You will send this along with a copy of your motion to the other side.
 Be sure to serve the motion using the method you stated in your certificate of service. If your court requires that a server complete a Proof of Service form, then be sure to attach the signed form to your motion when you file it., Make sufficient copies of the completed motion. You will want one for your records and one copy to serve on the other side. The court also might need multiple copies filed along with the original.Check with the clerk.


Take the original and the copies to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date as well.
Depending on your court, you may have to pay a filing fee. Check with the court clerk and ask for a fee waiver form if you can’t afford the fee.
 The other side will probably file a response to your motion. They will try to justify why they did not answer the Request for Admissions on time. You should have a copy mailed or personally delivered to you.


The other side might even respond to your Request for Admissions. In some courts, the other party can avoid having the requests deemed admitted if they finally respond before the hearing date., You can prepare by reading both motions and also outlining any points you want to make to the judge. If you’ve never argued a motion before, then you should try to sit in on a motion hearing in the judge’s courtroom.


After the hearing, the judge should either grant or deny your motion.
Depending on your court, you may also be able to get the other side to pay your costs (such as filing fees) and any attorneys’ fees spent on filing the motion.