 Sheets of nori have a rough side and a smooth side. Place the nori so that the rough side is facing up.


You can find sushi mats and packages of nori at most Asian food markets. You can order both of them online as well (nori is dried and is easily shipped).;
, It should evenly cover from the near edge to about an inch from the far edge of the sheet.


Start by placing the ball in the middle of the sheet of nori, and spread it out evenly.
Use your fingers to spread the rice onto the nori. Keep your hands wet with a mixture of water and rice vinegar.
Do not press or mash the rice, or it will not stick properly when rolling.
 Place your ingredients in a line, starting on the near edge of the rice layer. Each ingredient should be in its own line, with each row placed a small space from the one before.Some common maki ingredient combinations:


Basic tuna or salmon roll: These rolls typically just have just tuna or salmon rolled up, without any other ingredients.
Ahi roll: Yellowfin, cucumber, daikon, avocado.
Shrimp tempura roll: shrimp tempura, avocado, cucumber.
Phoenix roll: salmon, tuna, crab sticks, avocado, tempura batter (fried).
If raw fish is to be used, it is important to use only expertly prepared fish to avoid food poisoning and tapeworm parasites.
 Start with the edge that has your first ingredient next to it. Lift the nori and fold it over the first ingredient. Make sure to keep the ingredients in place and that the rice sticks together.
 Tuck the front edge of the nori into the roll, and remove the mat as you continue to roll the sushi. Roll slowly so that you ensure that the sushi is coming out even.
 You will need to tighten the roll to keep ingredients from falling out when you cut it. Remember to tighten the roll with your sushi mat often, but not too tightly. Roll the sushi roll back and forth in the mat to tighten and seal it.
 You can use this time to make your next roll. This waiting period allows the nori to slightly moisten from the rice, which makes it less likely to tear.
 The thickness of the slices is determined by the number of ingredients. If you have more ingredients in the roll, the slices should be thinner.
 Sushi is best when eaten freshly-made. Avoid refrigerating it for a later date. Experiment with different ingredients until you find your favorite combinations.

