 Rinse the beets under running water, scrubbing them with a vegetable brush to remove any caked-on dirt.


Beets are a root vegetable, so they naturally have a lot of dirt and debris on them. You can scrub the surface with your fingers if you do not have a vegetable brush, but you must get as much dirt off as possible before continuing further in the cooking process.
Dry well before roasting the beets. Use paper towels to pat the beets dry.
You can use red or gold beets. Both can be roasted using the same procedure.;
,


Leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of the leafy stems attached in order to make it easier to handle the beets.
The beet greens or leaves can be saved for salads and other recipes.
Only trim away the very bottom of the tip or tail. You can roast beets with the tips still attached, but removing them will make it easier to wrap the beets later when you roast them.



Note that smaller beets tend to be sweeter and more tender. If using smaller beets, use 6 small beets instead of 3 medium beets. You can also use larger beets, but the larger the beet is, the tougher the center will be.
Beets tend to range in diameter from 1.5 to 2 inches (3.8 to 5 cm).
 You can also wrap entire beets in aluminum foil and roast them in the same baking sheet as smaller beet pieces. Put in some oil and herbs before sealing the foil packet closed., Set it to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius).If you're using the oven for another dish, preheat according to that recipe and plan to roast the beets at the same time. The cooking time will change, but the beets will still roast fine, especially if the oven is between 350º and 450ºF (177 to 232ºC).

Beets that are cooked at higher temperatures are more likely to scorch, so you should check them more frequently as they roast.
 Choose a baking sheet with a shallow rim or lip to prevent olive oil or beet juice from oozing off the side.


For best results, use nonstick aluminum foil to prevent the beets from sticking.
 Line the beets up on the foil-covered baking sheet, spacing them apart evenly. Try to keep at least 2 inches (5 cm) of space in between each beet.


The beets will roast evenly enough even if they are not spaced apart, but leaving a little room in between the beets will allow you to wrap them more snugly with aluminum foil in a later step.
 Evenly distribute the olive oil over the tops of the beets. Use your hand to rub the oil over the surface of each beet, coating each beet completely.


You can technically roast beets even without the use of olive oil, but the oil prevents the beets from sticking to the foil and may also prevent them from scorching. Moreover, olive oil adds more dimension to the flavor of the beets.
 Salt and pepper are not necessary, but sprinkling a pinch of each over each beet can enhance the flavor of the vegetable.


More recipes call for the use of salt than pepper, even though both can be used. Salt is thought to draw out more of the natural flavors in food, so even if you decide to skip the pepper, you should still consider adding the salt.
If you are uncertain about how much salt and pepper to add, start with ¼ tsp (1.25 ml) salt and ⅛ tsp (0.6 ml) ground black pepper.
 Spread another sheet of aluminum foil over the beets and cover them tightly. Make sure to avoid gaps, since you want to trap in heat and moisture.


Use your hands to gently press the aluminum foil around the top of each beet, creating a snugger, more secure cover.
Using nonstick aluminum foil will prevent the foil from sticking to the beets as they roast.
 Cook the beets until tender, checking them by inserting a fork into the center of each beet. When the fork glides in easily, the beets are tender enough to remove from the oven.Check the beets every 20 minutes or so to make sure that they have not begun to scorch. If they show signs of scorching, drizzle 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of water over each beet before returning them to the oven.
Large beets may need to cook for more than 1 hour. If a beet is not tender, return it to the oven and check again in 15 to 20 minutes. Some beets may need up to 2 hours to cook fully.
 The beets must be cool enough for you to handle with your hands.


Red beets have a tendency to stain, so you may want to wear food-grade plastic gloves when handling them. Only use food-grade gloves to prevent accidental contamination.
 Hold one beet with a paper towel. Scrub this beet with the edges of the paper towel until the skin peels and flakes off. Repeat with the other beets.


You can rub the skin away with your bare fingers just as easily as you can with a paper towel, but using a paper towel prevents the beets from staining your hands, especially if you cannot wear food-grade plastic gloves while peeling.
If desired, you could also peel the skin away using a small paring knife. Note, however, that skin which refuses to peel away easily could be a sign that the beets have not yet finished cooking. If the skin is notably difficult to peel, you should consider returning the beets to the oven for another 15 to 20 minutes.
 You can cut the roasted beets into slices or wedges depending on how you plan to eat them. Roasted beets can be added to other dishes or enjoyed on their own.


If slicing the beets, consider cutting them into slices that are 1/4 inch (mm) thick. This is an easy-to-manage size that works well with most dishes or when enjoyed alone.Goat cheese is a common accompaniment to roasted beets.
Other common accompaniments include sweet strawberries, orange segments, pine nuts, walnuts, and chopped mint leaves. These additions are especially popular if you end up adding your beets to a leafy green salad.
If you plan on using your beets in a salad, consider cutting them into wedges. For sandwiches, use slices. Beets enjoyed on their own can be cut either way.
 Any roasted beets you cannot eat immediately should be placed in an airtight container and stored in the refrigerator for 4 to 7 days.Roasted beets can be stored whole or in wedges and slices.
Use an airtight plastic container or plastic bag to store your beets. Note that roasted red beets can stain the container.

