 It is a myth that you are "putting the idea in their heads." If someone displays the warning signs of suicide, you need to talk to them. You need to be simple and direct, asking them if there is any chance that they hurt themselves. You need to have an open conversation about suicide, as hard as that may be. Some good ways to ask include:


"Have you considered hurting yourself?"
"Do you know how you would do it?"
"Are you planning on committing suicide?", You cannot, and should not, shoulder this burden alone. Even if your friends swears you to secrecy, you need to break the oath and let someone know. This person can be a hotline staff member, a counselor, or a trusted adult. You need to enlist the support of trained, responsible people who can help your friend far better than you can.


Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-TALK (800-273-8255) to talk through this difficult time and find strategies for helping someone.
 Push them to call a hotline, see a counselor/therapist, or join a support group. Help them see that there is no stigma to therapy, and that there is no reason to feel ashamed of getting help. You need to get them talking to someone about their thoughts, and mental health experts are trained to help prevent tragedies like this.


Offer to support them through their therapy. Join them at appointments, help them do research, and/or drive them to and from meetings., Encourage them to open up to you. Ask how they are doing, how things have been progressing, and then just listen. Give them a chance to talk to you about anything on their mind. Don't feel like you need to give advice or place blame—just keep the conversation flowing.Let the person express themselves however they feel comfortable. You don't need to judge them or curtail their thoughts, just prevent them from hurting themselves., If, in response to your question "do you know how you'd do it?" you get a response, you should not leave their side. If they have a plan in place, then they are far down the road of suicidal thoughts and should have constant support. If you do need to leave them, and they do not seem likely to commit suicide soon, you should still get them to talk to someone, even if just over the phone, before you go.This is another reason you 'must tell other people that they are considering suicide. A big support system is one of the best ways to prevent a tragedy.
 Take away any weapons, blades, or prescription drugs. In addition, keep them away from alcohol and other drugs, as these can influence people to act in ways they may not sober. Enlist other friends or family members to help you keep an eye out for dangerous objects and get them out of the way.