 Drinking water (and other non-caffeinated liquids) is very important to avoid constipation.Unless your doctor told you to restrict your fluids, regularly drink 8-12 cups daily of fluids like water, decaf tea, warm lemonade, or prune juice.Water can also help flush out excess toxins from chemotherapy.


Aim to drink 2-3 quarts of fluid every 24 hours.Caffeine, like in coffee and tea, can act like a diuretic and increase how much you urinate. This can contribute to dehydration, and should generally be avoided while constipated.;
, Always check with your doctor or cancer team before making dramatic changes to your diet. However, it is recommended to improve your diet rather than to take lots of vitamins and supplements. If appropriate, increase how much fiber you eat. You should get 25-30 grams of fiber from food daily. Many people do not hit that requirement.It's unlikely you'll exceed 30 grams of fiber, but try not to - keep track of your fiber and aim for that range. Whole grain cereal, oats, beans, lentils, nuts, seeds, and whole fruits and vegetables are good sources of fiber.


Drink 8 ounces or more of fluid when you eat lots of fiber or take a supplement, and stay hydrated. You can make constipation worse if you increase your fiber but don't drink enough water.Fiber is very filling, so be sure to get the daily calories you need if weight loss is a concern.
Add fiber to your diet gradually so your body can get used to it. Otherwise you might experience bloating or gas.For breakfast, try high fiber cereal and bars (bran, oats and flax), fresh and dried fruit, and whole grain bagels and oats.
For lunch and dinner, eat some whole grain and high fiber breads or pasta, brown rice, quinoa, beans and nuts, vegetables, leafy greens, and fruit.
If reaching fiber requirements is difficult, a fiber supplement can be added. Discuss this with your doctor.
 Discuss with your care team whether adding a high quality magnesium supplement is a good choice for you. Magnesium such as magnesium citrate can help with constipation.Start with a low dose and use the lowest dose effective to avoid diarrhea.


Foods rich in magnesium include: nuts (almonds, cashews, peanuts), spinach, black beans, avocado, kidney beans, broccoli, carrot, banana, apple, raisins, whole wheat bread and cereals, milk and soymilk, yogurt, edamame, brown rice, salmon, halibut, chicken breast, and ground beef.Get the magnesium you can from foods.
 You’ll probably feel better and improve constipation if you incorporate new foods slowly and limit foods likely to cause gas in the early stages of changing your diet. However, once your body adjusts to the increased fiber and new foods, you will not have to worry about being gassy. Beans, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, onions, and lettuce are the vegetables most likely to make you gassy, so integrate these slowly and limit your servings at first. Avoid carbonated and fizzy beverages.


Don’t chew gum. Drink straight from your glass instead of using a straw. Don’t talk much while you’re eating. These small changes will help decrease how much air you swallow., A sedentary job and life style can aggravate constipation.You may not be feeling your best, but add some light exercise to your daily routine to help minimize constipation. Walk, take a light jog, use an elliptical, dance – do whatever activity you enjoy to get you and your bowels moving.

