 Getting outside and getting some fresh air will help to pass the time and it can also help to relieve stress. Try taking a quick walk around your neighborhood or office building. Even if you only have 10 minutes, going out for a quick walk is a great way to pass the time.


Try inviting a coworker or friend to join you on a walk to make it even more enjoyable. For example, if you are working, then you could take your break in the form of a walk with a coworker. You can even bring a cup of coffee or tea along with you to enjoy along with the fresh air and conversation.You can also walk around indoors if you cannot get outside. Take a lap around your office or desk at work, or walk back and forth down your hallway.If you are at school or work and cannot go outside to take a walk, then you can exercise without attracting too much attention to yourself, such as by fidgeting and clenching various muscles. You can do this at your computer, sitting in front of the tv, or just in your bedroom. If you’re stuck on a plane or train for long periods, try doing leg extensions or arm stretches.
If you’re a woman, you can also do Kegel exercises.;
, At first it might not make the time go by faster, but once you get the hang of it, you'll be able to enter a "timeless" state. Your mind is what keeps track of time, and meditating is about clearing your mind.

You can find a guided meditation recording on Youtube to help you if you have never meditated before.
You can even meditate while doing active things, such as running.Try choosing a mantra to repeat and focus on as you go about your day.
If meditation doesn’t suit your restless mind, try daydreaming instead. Visualize yourself in an exciting place, story, conversation, or anything else that holds your interest.
You can also try to breathe deeply. Slow, deep breathing is calming and centering, and might actually get you to enjoy your current situation more than you thought possible. Try breathing in for eight counts, holding your breath, and breathing out for eight more. Repeat until it becomes natural and you can let your mind wander peacefully.
 Napping may not seem like an entertaining thing to do, but it can help to pass some time and make you feel more alert when you wake up. Whether you're nodding off during the afternoon slump at the office, working a nightshift or double shift, or fighting drowsiness while driving, a power nap in a safe location can make you more alert and productive.Try taking a quick 20 minute nap to recharge your batteries, or take a longer nap to pass some time.
 Writing is a great way to sort out your thoughts and it can also help to make the time go faster. Try writing in a journal about whatever is on your mind, or start a blog on something that interest you. You can start a blog for creative writing, cooking, video games or whatever interests you!Set aside a time to write in your journal or blog every day, such as in the morning for 30 minutes or right after school each day.
Setting up a blog is easy with sites like Wordpress and Blogger, but it will take up some time so it is a great way to make time go more quickly. You can customize your blog with color schemes, fonts, and images to make it your own.

