 Do this if you hear a sick or painful cry accompanied by a fever, rash, bruise, or other sign of illness/injury. Call your doctor immediately. Tell them the baby's symptoms and follow their instructions about caring for the child. If it's during regular working hours, ask if they could squeeze you in between other patients. If it's after hours, you might have to meet them at the emergency room.

For minor problems, such as post-vaccination soreness, try giving the baby a pacifier., Babies get hungry more often than adults do, about every two to four hours. After about three months, you should have your routine down.Make sure they get a full meal, which is usually 2-4 fl. oz. (59-118 mL) of breastmilk or formula. They'll usually pull away from their food source when they're full. Depending on the baby's age, this could be anywhere from 10 to 40 minutes.When feeding is over, take the baby on your shoulder and slowly move your palm over the baby's back from neck to buttocks. Do this several times until they burp, indicating that the milk has gone down into the stomach and they've expelled gas. This also prevents gassy stomach discomfort.
 While many babies cry after they've soiled their diapers, some don't. However, whether they're uncomfortable/annoyed or just chilling, let your nose be your guide. If it smells funky, change the diaper immediately. Urine and/or feces can cause diaper rash if a dirty diaper is left on too long. Female babies can get infections if fecal matter enters their vaginas., You could run a vacuum cleaner, if you think the sound won't trigger even more crying. Some quieter alternatives are a white noise machine or an oscillating fan. You might also try running warm water over the baby's hands and feet to calm them down., If you're baby is making the uncomfortable/annoyed cry, check their immediate surroundings. Maybe they don't like the texture of the blanket brushing their face. Perhaps they're outgrowing the clothes they're wearing. Feel their exposed skin. If it's cold, cover them with a blanket or hat.Get a quick whiff to see if they need a diaper change., Once you're fluent in crying, you'll know when and how to act. If you constantly run to a baby's side at the slightest cry, they'll be able to trick you when they really don't need attention. Sometimes, it helps to keep your distance and let them cry it out, especially if they're just sleepy.This is also a good option if the baby has colic, and you're feeling frustrated. Angry adults sometimes shake babies, leading to long-term injuries or even death. Calmly put the baby down and leave the room (although you should stay within earshot).Do not let the child cry for too long, as this may cause the child distress.You can ease the crying without staying right next to them. For example, placing the child in a self-rocking chair may help relax them.

