 Heat is an excellent way to remove tape and its residue from glass. Directing a hairdryer towards the tape and adhesive will soften them and make it easier to peel away.Turn your hairdryer to high heat and direct it on the tape for 45 seconds. Then test a corner of the tape to see if it comes up easily. If not, heat for another 45 seconds and check if the corner comes up more easily. If the tape is over a large area, break it up into smaller sections. Pull the tape as you go.
 Moist heat can also be useful for removing tape from glass. It may work especially well on very sticky tapes or residue. Try soaking the glass in hot or boiling water if a hairdryer doesn’t work. Leaving the glass in the water for 30-40 minutes may soften and dissolve the tape and adhesive enough so they simply wipe right off.


Fill a sink with hot or boiling water. Be sure to not burn yourself. Place the glass in the sink and leave it for 30-40 minutes. If the glass is too large to put in the sick, soak a dishcloth in the water and place it directly on the taped area. Leave it for the same amount of time. Wipe off the tape and any residue.
Try adding some dish soap or vinegar to the water for better removal.
 Your kitchen is a great place to find items that can quickly, naturally, and easily get tape off of glass. You likely have olive oil as a staple in your diet, now you can put it to work against tape and adhesive. Try other vegetable oils such as canola or safflower if you don’t have any olive oil on hand.Apply a few drops of oil over the area with tape and let it sit for a few minutes. You can also soak a paper towel with the oil and leave it on the glass. This allows the oil to penetrate the tape and adhesive. Once the olive oil has sat, scrape the tape and any good with your fingernails or a razor blade until it comes up and forms little clumps.
Wipe the area with a clean paper towel. You can wash it in soap and hot water to clean it or remove lingering residue.
 Mild acids like vinegar often work well to remove tape and its adhesive residue. Leave diluted vinegar on the tape for a few minutes to let it work its magic.Mix one part water to one part vinegar. Then soak a dishrag in the solution. Either wrap the cloth around the glass or set it on top of the glass. You can also safely hold it in place with your hands if you can’t set the glass on the ground. Allow the mixture to penetrate the tape and adhesive for a few minutes before you remove the cloth. You’ll likely notice that the tape is much less sticky.
Wash the class with a dish soap and warm water to remove any lingering tape or residue.
 Baking soda is an abrasive that can help pick up bits of tape and residue. Mixing it with an oil or acid such as lemon juice makes a natural paste that can scrub off and remove tape from glass.Mix equal parts baking soda with a vegetable oil, water, or lemon juice until it forms a paste. Rub this paste onto the area with tape and leave it on for a few minutes.
Wipe the paste off with a clean cloth. The tape should come off relatively easily. If there is any lingering tape or residue, use one of your kitchen scrubbers to remove it. You don’t have to worry about using a new one, as a baking soda paste is natural and safe to use.
Consider soaking your glass in boiling water for 30-40 minutes before rubbing on the paste. This can remove paper or other materials that may be stick to the tape or adhesive.

