 Food and water dishes should be cleaned out every day using hot water and dish soap. Rinse the dishes before lathering with soap, then rinse the soap off under hot water for several seconds. Once the bowl is clean, dry thoroughly with a clean towel.Some dishes may be dishwasher safe. Check to make sure that your dishes are dishwasher safe before placing them in the dishwasher, and make sure you use an animal-safe detergent.
Animal-safe dish soaps and detergents are often available at local pet stores, online, or in grocery stores that carry environmentally-friendly cleaning products.
It may also be useful to have two or three sets of dishes on hand if you do not have time to properly clean and dry the dishes every day.
Often, the bird can stay in the cage during daily cleanings. However, if you think the bird is a flight risk, you may want to consider keeping an alternate cage where the bird can stay while you clean.;
, If you have a birdbath, swings, ladders, or other toys, wash them in hot, soapy water the same way you do the dishes. Scrape droppings off perches and rotate the perches to ensure they wear evenly.When you replace the toys in the cage, consider moving them around to give your bird variety and additional stimulation.
 Your bird cage liner should be replaced every day. Newspaper or other store-bought paper linings are generally the preferred lining for your bird cage, as they are safe, economical, and easy to check for droppings. Remove the old liner completely, using a damp rag or sponge to take up any paper that sticks, and place the new paper down in several thin layers.Newspaper lining or any other recycled paper lining should be free of colored ink, as some pigments used in some inks may be toxic to birds.
Try to have at least seven layers of paper down to catch and absorb all debris and droppings.
 Use a handheld broom or vacuum to sweep up the areas surrounding the cage to pick up food, feathers, droppings, and other debris that may have fallen out of the cage. Wipe up any water or moisture that may have spilled into the surrounding area, as well.


A cage apron can be used to help collect debris falling out of the cage and may be easily emptied every day. These are available at pet stores as well as specialty bird stores.
If your cage is in a carpeted area, a plastic floor liner such as a placemat or a mat that might go under an office chair can help catch debris and may be easily sanitized.

