 An esteemed and much-loved author once said, “Babies, be kind.” Believe it or not, he was talking to adults, but the advice holds for kids of any age. Perhaps the best way to initiate a friendship with someone is simply being polite!If you each have a moment when you pass one another in the hallway, stop to chat. Ask something like "What's the next thing you're looking forward to?" You may even learn something new and interesting about your teacher.
You can keep it simple too. A quick “see you tomorrow” on the way out of class lets your teacher know you’re glad to be in their class – and that alone is significant.
 In the most literal sense, "getting along" doesn’t mean much more than communicating in a way that both you and your teacher enjoy. Good communication is based on clearly sharing one’s thoughts and needs with one another, and listening enough to understand what the other is saying.Don’t hesitate to ask your teacher questions about life outside of the material you’re learning in the classroom.
For instance, if you’ve been wondering about how to approach a certain issue with one of your friends, say something like “Can I ask you about something that’s not related to class?” Your teacher will likely be happy to talk to you about whatever.
 One of the best ways to enrich your relationship with another human being is by learning more about them. The best way to do this is to ask! For instance, ask your teacher questions like “Why did you decide to become a teacher?” or “What do you like most about teaching?”Not only do these sorts of questions lead to quality conversations, you’ll also come to recognize the sorts of things and ideas that your teacher values.
 At the conclusion of a course, thank your teacher by saying something like, “Thanks for teaching us this year. I appreciate your willingness to learn and grow with us.” This pertains to both the teachers you became friends with, and those you don’t. Chances are, you will likely think of some of your teachers years after you took their classes.It may be easier to convey your gratitude in a letter. Remember that your teacher will likely be happy to hear your appreciation. Include an illustration if you're feeling creative - it may even end up on the wall of your teacher's office.
In the future, whenever you’re back in town, make a point of visiting old teachers. They will immensely appreciate this gesture, as it indicates that you value the impact they made on your life.

