 Many potential customers are on social media, and your business should have a presence there, too. That way, you will maximize the number of opportunities to share information about your business and to connect with the public. There are many social media services available that you can sign up with, and each one has distinct features. Major services include:


Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
LinkedIn
Google Plus
Foursquare

, You don’t have to spread yourself too thin by trying to be active on all social media. Make sure you have a presence on the largest services, and then tailor your online presence with more specific ones. For instance, a restaurant may definitely want to have a Facebook account, but it may then be more important for it to have a presence on services like Yelp and Open table rather than an Instagram account.Make sure that your social media profiles link back to your website, to make it easy for customers to find it., LinkedIn is probably the most popular social networking service for professionals and businesses, but all social media offer ways to connect with customers. Make sure that you are connecting with customers, vendors, and even competitors on all of your social media accounts., Take the time to connect you’re your customers via social media. For instance, if a customer says something great about your company, repost, “like,” or “favorite” the comment. Likewise, if a customer asks a question, answer it online. Your customers will appreciate the attention and feeling like they can reach out to your business., Online promotion provides lots of opportunities to share information about your company in audio-visual formats. You can post material both on your own website and via social media services like YouTube, Pinterest, Instagram, Vimeo, and Flicker. Content might include commercials, promotional videos, and photos of your products, projects, services, etc. , Customers spend lots of time on social media, and you will want to connect with them meaningfully. Anytime your business has notable news (a new product, a special offer, an award, an event, a contest, etc.), post something about it on every social media service it uses. 