 Pay attention to how you will appear to others. Brush your hair, trim your facial hair and be sure to wash your face and neck before attending a social situation. If desired, use minimal makeup, and keep it natural for first impressions. Choose clothing colors and styles that compliment your figure but are not over flashy, skimpy or inappropriate (don’t wear a suit to a casual encounter or jeans to a formal event) for the event or meeting you will be attending.;
, Smiling can help keep you in a positive mood, and people will be more willing to approach a person who seems friendly and is enjoying themselves. Be sure not to smile immediately when you meet someone, though. First, pause and look at the person’s face when greeting them, then smile warmly and let it show in your eyes as well. This makes them feel as if your smile is meant only for them., When you make eye contact with someone, it signals that you are wanting to connect and are approachable. If you are interested in someone, occasionally look at them, no matter who is talking, to show that you want to see how they react. During conversations, hold eye contact for as long as is comfortable.One trick is to pretend your eyes are glued to the other person’s eyes with sticky taffy. Don’t break eye contact until a few moments after they are done speaking. Slowly and reluctantly look away, pretending like you are stretching the sticky taffy between you until it breaks.Another trick is to count the number of times the other person blinks while you are having a conversation. Know that some people may be uncomfortable with this type of attention. If you notice that the other person seems to be reacting negatively to your behavior or seems nervous, break eye contact more often ., People pay attention to the way you act towards them. When you first meet someone, turn your body completely toward them so you face them directly. When you turn toward someone this way, it tells the other person that you feel they are very special., Moving around a lot or using frequent hand motions near your face can make the other person feel unimportant or that you are anxious to get the conversation over with. It can even give the impression that you can’t be trusted. Earn credibility by keeping your eyes on the other person during the conversation and not fidgeting, twitching, wiggling, squirming, hair-twirling or scratching., A straight but comfortable posture can give the impression of confidence. Hold your head high, put your shoulders back and step lightly. Move with self-assurance and poise, and sit with your back straight. Don’t stare at your feet, make your back overly rigid or slump over.


One trick you can use to help you do this is to visualize a leather bit is hanging from the ceiling or doorway. Pretend to take a bite on the leather bit. This will put a sweeping smile on your face, keep your posture lifted upright and your feet weightless., Think of a person you care about who you have known a long while, and picture that person when you first meet someone. This can trick your body and facial expressions into relaxing and becoming more open and friendly. For example, your eyebrows will soften, and smiling will come naturally. Additionally, when you pretend to like someone it is easier to actually start to enjoy their company., Not only do you want to utilize body language that will attract people to you, but you need to be able to read others’ body cues as well. When you understand how people are feeling by the expression on their face, posture, ect., you will be able to react appropriately. People may give you clues that they are engaged, bored, disagree with you or are ready to flirt, and if you can recognize them, you will know what to do next.


Look for a genuine smile. When a person smiles, the corners of his or her eyes will crinkle and the cheeks will lift along with the mouth. This is a true smile and means the individual is enjoying your company.See where the individual's feet are pointed, while either sitting or standing. if the feet are pointed toward you, then the person is having a good time with you. Likewise, if they are angled away, then that person is ready to leave.While a torso facing you can be a sign that the other person is engaged, turning one's belly in another direction shows that that person may be defensive or not enjoying the conversation.Fidgeting hands or legs and arm or leg crossing can signal that the person is anxious, bored or angry., Move closer, and check to see how the other person reacts. If they tense up or seem nervous, then gradually increase a little more space between you. If they seem more comfortable or encourage the closeness, touch an arm to build more positive energy.

