


Ripe mistletoe berries are pearly white and yield a glue-like pulp when crushed. Most ripen naturally in October and November and are harvested for Christmas arrangements. However, some don't ripen until the springtime, in March and April.
Berries that are green or yellow are unripe, and won't produce seeds that germinate as well as those from ripe berries.
You'll need at least 24 berries to enhance your chances of 1 taking root, because many will drop off the host tree, be eaten by birds, or simply not germinate.
If you can't obtain ripe berries in the wild or buy seeds, save a few sprigs with berries from the Holiday season. Keep them in water in a cold room until it's time to plant them.
The best time to plant mistletoe berries is in late February or early March, mimicking the natural propagation cycle of the plant in the wild.;
,


Usually, mistletoe can be found in apple, lime, hawthorn or poplar host trees.
Sycamore trees, crab apples, maples, willows, false acacias, oak, ash, plum, cotoneaster or rowan trees are also viable host trees.
Select a branch of approximately 8 inches (20 cm) in diameter. This is the correct thickness, as the bark on the branch will still be thin enough for the germinating mistletoe seeds to penetrate, and the branch itself will be sturdy enough to carry the weight of the growing plant and provide it with the necessary nutrients.
The branch should get plenty of sunlight, so make sure it's either high up in the tree or to the side but not in the shade of structures or other trees.



Smudge the berries against the branch so their own pulp makes them stick to the bark. The best spots to do this are the sides or the undersides of the branch.
If necessary, stand on a step stool or ladder to reach the branch.
You can repeat this process on a number of different trees to enhance the chances of seeds taking root and yielding in both male and female plants. Be careful to not overburden any single tree.



Tie a piece of wool or twine around the branch where you attached the berries. This will allow you to monitor the progress of any that take root.



Once a seed has taken root, it will grow slowly. Every year, 2 new twigs with a pair of dark green, oval leaves on the end will develop.
If none of the seeds germinate, start the process again the following year.



In its 4th or 5th year, mistletoe is ready to yield berries.
In order to get berries, you will need a male and female plant in close proximity.
Female plants can be recognized by their small, unobtrusive yellow flowers in late winter. Male flowers are larger and brighter yellow.
In late February or March, shake some male flowers over the female flowers (if you have them) to ensure pollination.
If the female plant is mature enough, it will yield berries in October or November.

