 Fresh asparagus should be bright green and firm from the tips all the way down the stalks. Check the bottom of the stalks: if they're tough and brown, that means the asparagus was not freshly cut.Avoid asparagus with discoloration or brown spots.
Don't choose asparagus that feels as though it's going limp.;
, Asparagus usually come bunched and tied with a rubber band. The band makes it more convenient to store the asparagus upright and preserve freshness, so leave it in place until you're ready to cook your asparagus.
 When you bring you asparagus home, you may need to trim half an inch or so from the ends of the stalks. Take a sharp knife and trim off the part that's a little tough and woody. Discard the cut ends.
 A glass mason jar is usually just the right size for a bunch of asparagus. An empty jelly jar or pickle jar also work well. If you're trying to save space in your refrigerator, go with a sturdy plastic storage bag. Fill your storage container with an inch or so of water, enough to submerge the ends of the asparagus.


There's no need to fill the container all the way to the top; you just enough water to keep the asparagus moist.
Another convenient method is to dampen a paper towel and wrap it around the cut ends of the asparagus. You'll need to change the paper towel every few days as it dries out.
 Storing the asparagus upright allows it to soak up the water from the container, keeping the stalks fresh and firm. If you're using a storage bag, rubber band the top of the bag around the asparagus so you can store it upright on the refrigerator door without spilling water.
 Use a loose plastic bag (the type used for produce at the grocery store) and drape it over the asparagus tips and jar. This will keep the asparagus tasting fresh; without the bag, the stalks will take on the flavor of whatever else you're keeping in your refrigerator., Check the water every few days and switch it out when it's no longer clear, just as you would for cut flowers. You should change the water no more than once or twice before consuming the asparagus within a week or so.

