 Sore muscles are often the result of excessive lactic acid buildup in the muscle tissue.When you use a warm compress on a sore muscle, the heat draws more blood to that area.The increased circulation flushes away excessive lactic acid, making your muscles feel less sore. It also brings more oxygen to the area, speeding up the healing process for damaged tissue. The warm sensation can distract the nervous system, decreasing the amount of pain signals sent to the brain., If you experience prolonged muscle spasms, your first step is to rest the affected muscle. Take it easy, and avoid the activity that stressed your muscle to the point of spasm in the first place. Wait 72 hours to apply heat, letting any inflammation in the area diminish. After the three days have passed, apply a moist warm compress to the affected area to speed up the healing process., Both methods can be effective in treating joint issues, though some people prefer one over the other. You might try alternating between the two until you figure out which one works better for you.


Cold ice packs numb the soreness you feel and reduce inflammation and swelling in your joints by constricting your blood vessels. Though extreme cold can uncomfortable at first, it’s very useful for numbing acute pain.
Warm compresses dilate the blood vessels, increasing blood flow that speeds up the healing process. The heat also loosens the tissues and ligaments in the stiff area, increasing their range of movement.You can also apply heat by soaking the affected area in warm water. This might mean swimming in a heated pool or simply soaking in a warm bath.
 Pregnancy, diabetes, poor circulation, and heart disease (like high blood pressure) can respond poorly to heat therapy. Talk to your doctor before using a warm compress to ease muscle or joint pain.You should always keep a layer of cloth between the heat source and your skin to prevent burns.
 Cold, on the other hand, is better for use immediately after an acute injury like a sprained joint. So, if you pull a muscle, apply ice immediately to reduce the swelling within the first 48 hours. If the pain persists for several days, use heat to speed up the recovery process.

