 When facing a fast bowler a back foot defense shot is an important element to avoid being called out. If a shot is on the stump but short of good length, this shot is a solid way to play it safe.









Step back towards the wickets with your back foot. Keep your back leg inside the line of the ball. Keep your head forward and your back foot flat on the ground.
Move your front foot toward the back leg with your front foot pointed at the bowler.
Keeping the arms in a high position, swing the bat straight down. Angle the bat toward the ground and strike the ball when it is below the eyes.
 The trick to mastering this shot is all in the wrists. Use it to play balls that are delivered short or full on the leg side.









Quickly move both legs back toward the stumps. Keep your back leg in line with the ball. Angle your body to face toward the bowler.
Swing the bad straight through. Turn the face slightly toward your leg side and strike the ball in front of the body.
Roll your top wrist over to control the ball and angle it toward the ground. The top hand grip can remain loose or tight depending on how fine or square the batter wants the ball to be., This powerful shot can help score lots of runs. Select this shot on short deliveries that are outside of the stump.









Step backwards and across the stump with the back foot. Begin your backswing by turning your front shoulder while bringing the bat back.
Swing the bat down and across the body. Get your arms fully extended to generate maximum power. Roll your hands slightly to angle the ball downwards.
Continue the

, This shot is similar to a back foot defensive. Play this shot in to a short delivery to score runs.









Bring your front foot back as you begin your backswing.Keep your weight slightly on your front leg. And keep the bat in line with the delivery of the ball.
Keep the bat straight as you begin your swing. Use your top hand to control the swing and provide the power by pushing through with your bottom hand.
Follow through bringing your hands high above your front shoulder.
 The steps for these shots are identical, but a pull shot address balls delivered to the short side around the waist level, while a hook shot addresses balls delivered to the short side between chest and head height. These shots are somewhat risky as they pose the chance of being caught out. It requires great footwork and excellent hand-eye coordination.









Step back and across with your back foot. This will open up your chest slightly toward the bowler.
Move your front leg back and out toward the leg side. Bring your body around while keeping your eyes on the ball.
Swing the bat across the body at a slight downward angle. Keep your arms full extended and roll the wrists on contact to help keep the ball down.
 You can lift the front leg and shift your weight to pivot on the back leg. Or you can turn both your legs to follow through the path of the ball.

