 Sometimes, using a stool softener along with proper diet can prevent constipation. There are a number of stool softeners that you can get without a prescription, from your local drug store. Try Colace (docusate sodium), senna (Senokot), bisacodyl (Dulcolax, Correctol, and more), milk of magnesia (magnesium hydroxide), MiraLAX, or Metamucil.Consult with your cancer care team before starting an OTC medication, to make sure it won’t interfere with your other medications or health needs.
 Sometimes when on Temodar or other medications, you will simply need to be on a prescribed laxative, as well. There are many different kinds of laxatives that work in different ways. “Bulk-forming” laxatives like psyllium, polycarbophil, or methylcellulose are often prescribed first for mild constipation; docusate may be prescribed with these to help prevent straining.If the above laxatives don’t help, your doctor may prescribe something like glycerin, polyethylene glycol, lactulose, or sorbitol. Metoclopramide is another type of laxative that can be used when chemotherapy agents cause constipation.Laxatives come in many forms, like pills, suppositories, and enemas. Your care team can help you decide what is the best medicine to take, on what schedule to take it, and what form it should be in for your particular needs.
 Your cancer care team, if needed, will prescribe you a bowel program to prevent or treat your constipation while you take Temodar. Depending on your previous bowel habits, they may want you to start taking constipation medicine before you start taking Temodar. You may need to take a stool softener or other medicine once or twice daily. Follow all instructions about when and how to take your medications and follow your bowel program carefully.
 If your constipation persists despite your best efforts and it’s been 3 days or longer since your last bowel movement, see your doctor. They may prescribe you a strong laxative or offer other advice on fixing the problem.Also seek immediate medical care if you experience any of the following:Fever of 104°F (40°C) or higher
You are unable to pass gas, have pain in your stomach, or have nausea or vomiting with your constipation
Your stomach feels tense or hard when you press it, or it feels swollen

