 White ribbon works best for this, but you can use any color you want. Try to use satin ribbon, if you can.Sheer ribbon will give you a nice, delicate look, however., Gather the two ribbons together. Fold them in half and make sure that the ends match up. Slip the folded part through a D ring. Pull all four loose ends of the ribbon up through the loop. Gently tug down on the loose ends to tighten the knot., Make a mark using a pen, marker, or a sewing pin. You only need to mark one side of each ribbon. These marks will tell you where to glue the embroidery hoop., Discard the outer ring and save the inner ring. Divide the inner ring into quarters. Mark off each quarter with a pen. These marks will tell you where to put the ribbon.Make the marks on the inside of the ring.
 Take a hot glue gun, and draw a line of hot glue along one of the marks on the embroidery hoop. Quickly press one of the ribbons into the glue. Make sure that the mark on the ribbon lines up with the top edge of the hoop.Repeat this step for the other ribbons. Wok one ribbon at a time, or the glue will set too fast.
 Pull one of the ribbon ends over the bottom edge of the hoop. Bring it to the right side of the right side of the ribbon. Pull it down, them wrap it under the bottom edge of the hoop. This time, pull it to the left side of the ribbon.Secure the ribbon with hot glue before each wrap.
Repeat this step for the other three ribbons.
 Choose some pretty real or silk flowers, and cut them down until they are a few inches long. Use clean gardening shears for real flowers, and wire cutters for silk ones.

Choose flowers with thicker stems, such as roses, ranunculus, and zinnias.
If your flowers have leaves on them, it might be a good idea to trim them off.
 Wrap the end of each ribbon around each flower stem, and tie it into a tight knot. Try to tie the ribbon just above a "knob" or "knot" on the flower stem, so that when the flowers hang upside down, they won't slide off., Cut several more pieces of ribbon. They can be the same length as the ones dangling from the embroidery hoop, or different lengths. Attach them to the hoop with hot glue, then wrap them around the hoop twice for extra security. Trim down some more flowers, and tie them to the ribbons.The ribbons can all be the same, or they can be different.
It might be a good idea to hang the chandelier up while you are working. This way, if one side is too heavy, you will be able to fix it.
 Hang the chandelier up. It's okay if the flowers and ribbons are different lengths, but the embroidery hoop should be level. If it is hanging crooked, one side is too heavy. Switch out the flower for a lighter/heavier or, or trim down the stem to make it lighter., Measure around the embroidery hoop and add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). Cut a piece of lace trim according to that measurement. Glue it around the outer edge of the hoop. Overlap the ends by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), and secure them with more hot glue.Hot glue sets fast, so work only 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) at a time.
White or ivory lace would work well for this.

