 Most attorneys are ethical people who provide good representations to their clients. However, there will always be a few who are looking to scam you, or who will not adequately represent you. Consider the following when choosing an attorney., If a lawyer contacts you without your permission or expressed interest, do not hire him or her. It is against the Legal Rules of Professional Conduct for a lawyer to contact you if you have not expressed interest in his or her services, or given him or her permission to contact you.Attorneys are not allowed to pressure you into any fee arrangement. They should give you time to consider any arrangement you may. Do not hire a lawyer who pressures you to make any agreement., If the lawyer will not share these details with you, do not hire him or her.Verify your lawyer’s background and credentials with the local or state bar association. You can verify the information your lawyer has given you and check whether s/he has any ethics violations or disciplinary actions on his or her record. The American Bar Association has a directory of state and local bar associations.
If the lawyer has been disciplined multiple times or suspended, you should generally avoid hiring him or her. If you wish, you can ask for an explanation of their conduct and make your choice then.
 Don’t hire an attorney who encourages you to do anything illegal or unethical. For example, a lawyer who suggests that you lie in statements or on paperwork should be avoided.Never hire lawyers who make unethical offers themselves.


Also avoid attorneys who make specific promises about the results of your case. It is unethical for a lawyer to promise you that s/he will get a specific result for you if you hire him or her.An attorney cannot base the quality of representation on how much you pay. An attorney should never claim that the result of a case could change if you pay a different amount. For example, if a divorce attorney tells you that your case will have a greater chance of success if you pay for his/her “platinum” package vs the “basic” package, do not hire that attorney. This behavior is unethical. Attorneys are required to fully and competently represent you if they accept you as a client.