 Before you begin brainstorming, consider whether or not you feel you know the person well enough to write a letter that could really help them to get into graduate school. Crafting a relatively generic letter because you do not know the person that well will not help the person to get into graduate school. Ask yourself:


How long have you known the person?
Can you list some of their best qualities off of the top of your head?
Can you think of things that will make them stand out from the crowd?
If you have not spent much time with the candidate, but have done so in the past, consider setting up a time for the candidate to meet up with you and tell you a bit about their life now, what they hope to do, and what they feel they have accomplished recently.;
, While it is important to come up with unique information about the candidate that you have witnessed firsthand, having the person’s transcripts in front of you can help to jog your memory and inspire you. Ask the candidate to provide you with:


Their up-to-date resume
Transcripts
A list of their achievements over time (as detailed as possible)
Their goals and ambitions and how these relate to the program they’ve applied for

, Do a bit of research to assess the school that the candidate is applying to. Try to determine the values that school might wish to see in a student, or what achievements might impress the school the most.


Look at the school’s website and learn a bit about the culture of the school, what they expect out of their students, and what kind of talent the school appreciates or encourages.
If you do not have time for this research, you can ask the candidate to bring you information about the school. This should be relatively easy for the candidate, as they have most likely done extensive research on the school.
 Aside from learning about the school as a whole, looking at the specific program can also help you to decide what information to include in your letter. Doing this research will also help you to determine what information is unnecessary to include.


For example, if the candidate is applying to a nanotechnology program, you should be able to write something about how the candidate has always been fascinated by technology, or to discuss papers or speeches that the candidate has given on the subject. You might include information on projects you have collaborated on together in this field.
 These achievements do not need to be limited to academics or work experience, though you can certainly include information on these topics. You should also include achievements in extra curricular activities, like sport, volunteering, or music, and a discussion of the candidate's skills and personality.


Make a list of all of the skills or achievements the candidate has, as well as examples that support each of these subjects. For example, if you say that you have been impressed by the candidates commitment to the stray dog community in the area, back this statement up with a discussion of the fundraiser the candidate single handedly ran.
 This means that your letter should be a sources of information that cannot be found on transcripts, in applications essays, or through test scores. A reference letter is an opportunity to help the review committee gain insight into the candidate’s personality and abilities in a way that cannot be done by looking at transcripts.
 Consider the program that the candidate is applying for when deciding what information to include in your letter. If you want to include information that does not specifically pertain to what the candidate will need to be successful in the program they are applying for, keep your discussion of these extraneous skills brief.


For example, if the person is applying for a biomedical engineering program, discussing the person’s ability to write beautiful poetry, or give an incredibly engaging speech may not be necessary. Keep discussion of these traits to a sentence or two at the most.
 Structure your letter so that the text appears to flow together. Start with a brief overview of your relationship with the candidate, as well as a discussion of the purpose of the letter. After this, discuss the candidates achievements. After discussing the candidates achievements, spend some time talking about your observations regarding the candidate’s skills, personality, and capabilities, followed by your recommendations.


Create a bare bones outline that covers all of these topics. List your examples or the information you will use in each of these sections.
 This letter will be read by the admissions committee; as such, it should be addressed to them as a whole, rather than being addressed to an individual.


For example, you could write “To the Santa Clara University Admissions Committee” or “To whom it may concern”.
 Spend a couple of sentences discussing yourself and your relationship with the candidate. You should also introduce the candidate, along with information about yourself. For example:


”As an English professor at ERL University, I have seen many students both succeed and fail. One of the most successful student’s I have seen in my thirty years at this institution is John Smith, who has reshaped our entire nonfiction writing program. John Smith attended this university from Fall 2009 to June 2013.”.
 The application committee will be hoping to learn how admitting the candidate will affect their school, and what sort of benefits and skills the candidate will be able to bring to the program. Your goal is to present the candidate’s personality and skills in a way that help the committee to see that the candidate will be a benefit to them.


At the same time, you should also take a moment to mention how the program will benefit the candidate. For example, you could say something like “This nonfiction writing graduate program will help John Smith expand his already inspiring abilities by allowing him to hone his magazine journalism skills”. However, try to be more specific regarding both the program and the candidate’s skills.
 For each skill or achievement that you mention, you must also relate that thing back to the program and how the two tie together.


How will that skill help the candidate succeed in this program?
How does that achievement lend itself to the abilities need to be successful in this program?

, Each time that you make a claim about the candidate’s abilities or personality, you must back these claims up with examples of how the candidate has demonstrated these qualities.


For example, if you say that the candidate is very dedicated to his craft, mention how on multiple occasions you came into the English department early in the morning, or late at night, to find John Smith still reading or writing, coffee cups strewn across his desk.
Or, if you say that the candidate goes above and beyond the basics, discuss the time when you asked your students to give a speech and the candidate came in with not only a speech, but also a visually stunning slide show that perfectly accompanied the speech.
 Recommendation letters shouldn’t be restricted to academic achievements; selectors don’t want to see grades alone. They want a well-rounded person who can benefit from the program and seamlessly adjust to the institution. Mention the applicant’s personality and interests.
 Try to discuss information that is not covered in the candidate’s transcripts or application essay. Instead, discuss things that you experienced first hand with this person, or qualities and achievements that are not listed on other documents that the candidate will be sending into the application committee.


For example, look over the candidate’s transcripts and then discuss qualities, personality traits, and achievements that you have seen the person demonstrate, but that are not necessarily written about anywhere else.
 If the candidate gives you a date that they will need the letter by, set aside plenty of time so that you do not have to rush through the writing process. This letter is a very important part of the candidate’s application process; as such, you should put some time and effort into it.
 Once you have finished writing, set the letter aside and do other things. The next day, read over the letter and correct any awkward sentences or grammatically incorrect parts of the letter.


Double check that all proper nouns, including the candidate’s name and the name of the institution are spelled correctly.
Have someone else look over the letter if you feel uncertain about a specific part of the letter.

