 A position description is used to come up with interview questions and to evaluate how well a candidate fits the position’s needs. It should clearly outline the duties and responsibilities of the position, which include general position information, the purpose of the position, essential job functions, minimum candidate requirements, and preferred candidate qualifications., This includes position titles, pay grades, department information, supervisor name, and other special requirements such as background checks or valid driver’s license. , Your position purpose should state the fundamental functions of the position, especially in relation to supporting, directing, or managing activities of the department or organization. It should also include the number of openings (if more than one) and the duration of the position (if a non-career position).For example, in a financial position you could say, “the purpose of the financial position is to help the department assess the financial health of the organization as a whole”., This is used to clearly articulate the tasks and obligations required of a position so that job seekers have a clear idea of performance expectations. The essential functions should be arranged by importance, level of complexity should be discussed, and essential tasks should be listed.For instance, you could write, “The essential functions of event planning include many tasks such as: securing a venue, interviewing merchants and executing contracts, managing food delivery and setup, and overseeing all event staff".
 These should be basic qualifications that candidates must possess in order to be considered for the position. They must be closely related to the duties of the position, and must be necessary requirements needed to complete the essential functions of the position."Soft skills” such as communication skills or teamwork abilities, can be included but they are better ascertained through interviews versus resumes.
Requirements must be objective, non-comparative, and business related. For instance, instead of saying, “Seeking a candidate that went to a ‘good’ school, is within the top five candidates in years of experience, and has volunteer experience,” try saying, “Seeking a candidate with a Bachelor’s degree, five years of experience, and one year of experience in accounting”.
Avoid listing too many skills as it can greatly limit your potential candidates. List no more than five “hard” qualifications (degree, years of experience, etc.), and list “soft” skills based on the level of the position.
 Preferred qualifications are skills that are desired, but not necessarily a requirement for employment. These skills and abilities are used to define a higher aptitude level with which to complete essential functions.


For example, you can request prior experience with Microsoft Excel, but not require it.
Preferred qualifications are used with the hopes that someone who has greater aptitudes will be quicker to reach the full potential of their position.
 When determining your method of posting your job ad, you have to figure out what medium is likely to reach the best and brightest employees for the position. Consider the essential functions, as well as skills and qualifications needed in order to determine which mediums are best for recruitment.Various means for posting jobs include online career websites, college career boards, newspapers, social media, recruiting cards, job fairs, and employee referrals.Ads should be posted for a minimum of ten days for support staff positions, and a minimum of fifteen days for management positions. “Open until filled” is the recommended option, which keeps the posting viewable until the position is filled.
Utilize as many mediums as necessary to ensure a qualified pool of candidates.
 The human resources manager or search committee should view all applications and supplemental materials, such as cover letters, resumes, transcripts, etc. When assessing a candidate, you should keep in mind what you are seeking in a candidate, such as experience, education, and skills that were listed in the job description., A short list is a list of applicants who have been determined to possess the skills and qualifications necessary to effectively function in the position. Short lists can also be used to determine if the candidate pool is sufficiently diverse. The shortlist usually contains three to five potential candidates for interview.It is common practice to screen candidates by phone to help narrow the field of applicants. Be prepared by having a list of potential screening questions to help determine if the applicant has potential.
Telephone questions should be open-ended such as "Why are you interested in this position?" and "What specific skills would you bring to our team?"

, The interview is considered to be the most important step in the recruitment process because it gives both parties a chance to learn more about one another. Before the interview, employers should prepare by determining the format of the interview, questions to be posed to the candidate, and the preferred start date for the position.Determine what format you will use for your interview, and who will be present. Interviews can be conducted in many ways including a face-to-face interview, a panel interview, or a virtual interview. In addition, the interview may be conducted by one person or a committee of persons.
Behavioral questions and competency questions should seek to learn more information about a candidate’s on-the-job abilities and characteristics. For example, try a question such as, “describe your previous experiences working with grant writing”.Use a set of ten to twelve consistent questions so that you are better able to compare candidate responses.Always notify candidates about when you will finalize your decision, and how you will notify them.
 After all interviews are complete, your search committee or hiring manager will assess how closely each candidate met the selection criteria outlined in the job description. Be sure to document your decision and ensure that the candidate was chosen based on qualifications alone in order to avoid breaking federal laws employed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity commission.


The EOCC states that it is illegal to discriminate against an applicant based on their race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy, nation of origin, age, disability, or genetic information., You can run a background check to reveal any potential issues including criminal records, state licensing records, military records, and more.In addition, employment checks can be performed to determine how an employee performed and behaved at their previous places of employment.Candidates are required to sign consent forms to authorize a potential employer to complete employment and background checks.
For employment verification, describe the position and then ask the former employer, “Given the requirements discussed, what is your assessment of the individual’s qualifications for this position?” Ask follow-up questions to obtain more specific responses about job performance and abilities.
Background and reference checks should be conducted before an official offer is made to the candidate. This will help to guarantee that there will be no issues that hinder completion of the hiring process., Determine important information such as starting salary, benefits, start date, and training needed.In larger companies, this process is typically managed by the HR department and requires final approval. In smaller companies, this may be done by an HR manager, a supervisor, or even directly by the owner.


Be sure to make a fair and reasonable offer first. Not only does it demonstrate equity and good faith to the candidate, but it also leaves room for negotiation.
 Once the offer has been finalized, call the candidate to notify them that you are extending an offer of employment, and to determine if they are still interested. Fully discuss the offer package including salary, benefits, and paid time off, and demonstrate your enthusiasm to have the candidate join your team.A contractual relationship is created once there has been a verbal offer of employment, and a verbal acceptance by the candidate. Therefore, it’s important to make sure that you truly intend to hire the candidate for the position. Otherwise, the candidate may have a claim for breach of contract.If the candidate declines the position, you can always choose another candidate from the short list. Just make sure they are still interested, and you still follow all required personnel checks before offering a position.
 Occasionally, an applicant may decline the position based on the salary offered. Discuss the applicant’s needs and their reasons for declining the offer. Some companies may allow counteroffers, so discuss the issue with your HR department or hiring manager. For larger companies, counteroffers must be within the guidelines set forth for that particular role, and must be reviewed by HR.Counter offers do occur, but companies usually carefully restrict what the offer includes.Negotiating effectively means finding more terms to negotiate about, such as paid time off, start date, and fringe benefits. It’s important to remain flexible and consider what is important to both parties in order to come to a mutually beneficial agreement.
 Acceptance of an offer can be both formal and informal based on the company. For some businesses, a verbal acceptance and start date is enough. More formal finalizations include sending an offer letter (or email), obtaining written acceptance of the offer, retaining recruitment documents, and closing the job posting.Once an offer is finalized, be sure to contact the candidates that were interviewed (and not selected) by either phone or letter.

