 Stigma or shame may tempt you to keep the symptoms of your post-traumatic stress disorder under wraps. However, staying silent won’t help you or your condition. If you have the courage to talk to those around you about your symptoms, they can offer support.


Although you are the person who has to cope with PTSD symptoms, telling loved ones can help you feel less alone. Plus, when they understand what triggers anxiety, your friends and family can help you avoid those situations.
For example, if loud noises or sudden movements upset you, telling your loved ones “I get jumpy when someone slams a door.” can teach them to prevent or limit these things from startling you. They can learn to close doors more gently and announce themselves when in your presence.;
, Sharing your story with others who are going through a similar ordeal can be a cathartic, learning opportunity. In support groups, individuals with PTSD can discuss symptoms, triggers, and coping strategies. Being a part of such a group can help you learn how to manage your hyperarousal symptoms better.


Search for support groups online or by reaching out to local mental health clinics or therapists in your area.
 If you are not already seeing a mental health therapist for your post-traumatic stress, you should consult with one as soon as possible. There are many different types of talk therapies available today which can help you overcome the trauma and find healthy ways to cope.


Cognitive behavioral therapy helps you identify negative thought patterns that are keeping you from moving forward after a traumatic event.
Exposure therapy is a safe and effective way for those with PTSD to gradually face the trauma so that it becomes less frightening over time. This is done with the support and guidance of a professionally trained therapist who has experience working with PTSD patients. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a special type of treatment approach that is combined with exposure therapy to help you use eye movements to process the trauma and change your reaction to it.
 There is a selection of medication shown to help improve the symptoms of PTSD. It’s important to regularly meet with your doctor to determine which medication is best for your case, and also to monitor your progress on certain medications.


Medications commonly used in the treatment of PTSD include antidepressants, anti-anxiety medication, and a special drug called Prazosin, which helps alleviate sleep disruption due to nightmares and insomnia.