 There are three primary types of business bankruptcies. Not all are available to every business. Furthermore, these bankruptcies have key differences regarding whether you must sell your assets.Chapter 7. In a Chapter 7, your business will be liquidated. This means a bankruptcy trustee will sell your business assets and use the proceeds to pay back your creditors. After liquidation, your business cannot continue. A chapter 7 is available for sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, and other business entities.

Chapter 11. In a Chapter 11, you can continue your business. It is called a “reorganization.” You must come up with a plan for how to pay your creditors, which the creditors then vote on. Under a Chapter 11, you can pay back creditors over an extended amount of time. This bankruptcy is available for sole proprietorships, partnerships, corporations, and other business entities. It is a very complex bankruptcy to file and is mostly used by large, publicly-traded companies.Chapter 13. In a Chapter 13, you file a repayment plan with the court. The amount of money you must repay creditors will depend on how much you owe and the amount of property you have. A Chapter 13 is available only for sole proprietorships. Unlike a Chapter 7, your assets are not sold. To qualify for a Chapter 13 as a sole proprietorship, you must not owe too much debt. As of 2016, you must not owe more than $394,725 in unsecured debt or more than $1,184,200 in secured debt. If you do, you must file Chapter 11 if you want to reorganize.;
, Analyze your finances and decide whether you think the business has a future. Identify why the business failed in the first place and honestly assess whether your prospects will improve in the future.


If you want to continue your business, you can file a Chapter 11 reorganization.
If you have a sole proprietorship, you might also choose to file for a Chapter 7 or 13 bankruptcy. Generally, a Chapter 13 allows you to keep personal assets, like your car and home.
However, you might also be able to continue your sole proprietorship in a Chapter 7, which allows you to shield assets using your state’s “exemptions.” For example, a state might allow you to exempt a couple thousand dollars in tools of the trade., It’s important information whether your business debts exceed the value of your business assets. If they do, then you should consider a Chapter 11, since debts are eliminated when the case is discharged.By contrast, a Chapter 7 business bankruptcy does not discharge debts. Instead, your business will continue to be liable on debts if you start it back up.
The exception is if you are a sole proprietorship, because a sole proprietorship is not legally separate from its owner.Your business debts will be discharged at the end of a Chapter 7.
 A business can put your personal assets (like your home) at risk. Generally, a business is a separate legal entity, which means that when your business fails, you are not responsible for business debts. However, exceptions exist:


Sole proprietors and partners are personally liable for their business debts. A business bankruptcy cannot wipe out a partner’s personal liability for partnership debts. Instead, partners will need to file for both a business and personal bankruptcy.You might have personally guaranteed a business loan. Go through your business paperwork and check whether a lender required that you guarantee a business loan. If so, then you will want to file for a personal bankruptcy at the same time.
 Deciding which chapter to file is complicated, and you will benefit from meeting with a qualified bankruptcy attorney. This person can analyze your business form and financial situation. Call up a bankruptcy attorney and schedule a consultation. You can find a qualified bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.If you are a sole proprietorship, ask the attorney whether a Chapter 7, 11, or 13 is better for you. The attorney can help you analyze whether your state’s exemptions will shield your assets.
Seriously think about hiring the attorney to file the bankruptcy for you. You are more likely to succeed if you have a lawyer. In some courts, a business is required by local rules to be represented by a lawyer.Check with your court.
Ask the lawyer how much it will cost to represent you. If your business bankruptcy is simple, the lawyer might quote you a flat fee.
 After analyzing your situation and meeting with a lawyer, you should pick a bankruptcy chapter. Depending on your situation, you might not have many choices.


For example, if you are a corporation, LLC, or partnership, then you must choose a Chapter 7 if you want to shut down your business. However, if you want to continue, then choose a Chapter 11.
If you are a partner in a partnership, think about filing a personal Chapter 7 along with a business Chapter 7 to protect your personal property. Partners are personally liable for partnership debts unless they were a limited partner or in a limited liability partnership., Bankruptcy courts have fillable bankruptcy petitions you can use. You should check on the court’s website or stop into the court clerk’s office and ask. One advantage of hiring a lawyer is that he or she can fill out this paperwork for you accurately. If you fill out the forms yourself, be complete and neat.


To file as a non-individual, use the 200 series of forms.Non-individuals are businesses other than sole proprietorships.
If you are filing as a sole proprietor, or filing a personal bankruptcy at the same time as a business bankruptcy, use the 100 series of forms.
 You must submit detailed financial information along with your petition, including information about your assets and liabilities, as well as a list of creditors. Typically, you will file this information at the same time as the petition, but you can file it up to 14 days later.Depending on your bankruptcy chapter, you might need to submit financial records, such as a balance sheet or statement of operations. See the instructions to the petition or talk with your lawyer about what you will need.
 Make a copy for your records. Then take the originals of all documents and file them with your court clerk. You will have to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on the bankruptcy chapter.The cost to file a Chapter 7 is $335.00.
The cost to file a Chapter 11 is $1717.00.
The cost to file a Chapter 13 is $310.00.
 After you file for bankruptcy, the court issues an “automatic stay” and contacts your creditors. This stay halts any collection efforts from creditors.If a creditor contacts you after being notified of the automatic stay, then tell your lawyer. The creditor will get in trouble with the court.
 Filing for bankruptcy only begins the process. After you file, you can expect to participate in the following events:You’ll attend a Meeting of Creditors run by the bankruptcy trustee 21-40 days after filing. At the meeting, you’ll answer questions from the trustee and any creditors under oath. The purpose of the meeting is to gather more information about your finances and to understand whether you want to reaffirm certain loans, such as a car loan.
You must provide the trustee with updated financial information throughout the process. If your financial condition changes suddenly, such as you lose a job, then contact the trustee.
The trustee handles gathering your non-exempt assets and selling them.
The owner of a sole proprietorship will receive a discharge at the end of the process, which wipes out all pre-petition debts. However, other businesses will not receive the discharge. The discharge happens 60-90 days from the Meeting of Creditors.
 Once your lawyer files your Chapter 11 petition, there is a considerable amount of work to do. Highlights of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy include the following:You will continue to operate your business throughout the entire bankruptcy.
You must submit a plan of reorganization to the court. In this plan, you classify the different creditors. If a creditor will receive less than 100% of what you owe them, then they are “impaired” and get to vote whether to accept your plan of reorganization.
Even if impaired creditors reject your plan, the judge can cram it down on them if the judge finds it is fair.
Some creditors might ask the court to void certain business payments you’ve made so that the money can be used to pay your debts. You can expect the judge to hold many hearings on these issues.
If you are a small business, your bankruptcy will be somewhat simplified. Talk to your lawyer.
 Much like a Chapter 11, a Chapter 13 will require you to tell the court how you intend to repay your creditors. You’ll need to submit a repayment plan. In this plan, you will explain how you will repay debtors over the course of three to five years.You’ll also attend a Meeting of Creditors. At the meeting, you answer questions under oath about your finances.
You must start making payments under your plan within 30 days of filing your case, even if the judge hasn’t yet approved your plan.
Your creditors can object to the plan, principally by arguing they would receive more under a Chapter 7. The judge can convert a Chapter 13 to a Chapter 7.
You won’t be discharged from bankruptcy until you complete your payment plan.

