 The EOSC is an online database which allows users to search for and select an organization which enjoys tax exemptions as level. You can access the EOSC through the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits/Exempt-Organizations-Select-Check.;
, You can choose three options: those which are eligible to receive tax-deductible donations; those which have filed Form 990-N (a form for tax-exempt organizations whose annual gross receipts are less than $50,000); or those which have had their tax exempt status revoked.


An organization whose tax-exempt status has been revoked might have had it reinstated at a later date.
 The EIN is also known as the Tax Identification Number (TIN).


If you do not know the EIN, you do not need to enter it, and can use other data to narrow your search.
 If you know the organization’s name, or part of its name, you can enter it in the search bar. Alternately, if you’re looking for all organizations which address children’s health, rights, or care, you can simply enter “children” in the “Name” field search box and then narrow it by locale.
 You can identify the location you’re interested in by city, state, or zip code. The IRS also has tax-exempt organizations listed for Israel, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Canada, Guam, the Northern Marianas, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau in addition to the US.
 The deductibility status depends on the legal designation of the organization you’re searching for. If you have no preference as to what the deductibility status is for the nonprofit(s) you want listed, you can leave it in the default position (“All”).
 Press the search button at the bottom of the screen. Your results should come back quickly in a list featuring the EIN, name, location, and deductibility status of all tax-exempt organizations and nonprofits which meet your search criteria.


Instead of running a search, you can download the entire list of tax-exempt organizations in a zip file through the following link: https://apps.irs.gov/pub/epostcard/data-download-pub78.zip.

