 Do you only need a small bathroom vanity, or is this a major remodel? This will help you determine how to handle other steps in the process.
 Do you need to hire a contractor? For small projects, you can handle much, if not all, of the details yourself. For larger projects, it may be best to hire a local contractor.
 Will you need to pull a construction permit? Typically, if the project involves major remodeling where electrical and plumbing are involved, you will likely need to hire a professional.
 Do you need to hire a design professional? Are you good with putting colors and textures together? If not, you may want to consider hiring a qualified professional.
 Once you have determined the scope of work you can get started searching for stone. If you are handling the project yourself, ask your friends or neighbors for a referral or recommendation. This is by far the most effective way to find qualified suppliers, fabricators and installers. If you do not have any references, search online for local marble installers or local stone distributors.
 This will help the supplier calculate area required.
 For a small countertop, ask if they have any remnants. There are always small pieces left over from previous projects, which can help you save money.
 If they do not, ask for a list of local professionals. The more choices you have to compare qualifications and price, the better.
, Very Important: Ask how much the finished project is per net square foot. This will help you compare various bids for the finished price total. Note: Some installers disguise the final price by adding in various extras, like edge details, cutouts, extra travel, etc.
, Ask if there have been any complaints or judgements entered against the contractor. Many states list these online.
, Ask for a signed lien release form covering the amount of your payment. This protects your property against suppliers who do not pay sub-contractors.
 There may be a particular vein or pattern you wish to feature or avoid.
 You can avoid costly problems by being there to make sure the correct material and details were installed.
 This will help to avoid future staining and help you enjoy your new countertop for years.
 Once you have made a final payment, it is often very difficult to get problems corrected. Contractors have a way of conveniently disappearing once full payment has been made.

