 Don't fill them with water. Instead, just add some air and tie a knot at the bottom.

Blow the balloons up to cup size and keep mind you will be filling them with chocolate mousse.



 


Blow the balloons up before you melt the chocolate. Once the chocolate is melted, you have to work fast to create the cups before the chocolate sets.;
, This aids the melting process and reduces the chances of burning the chocolate.
 This step requires constant supervision, as chocolate burns easily:

Stir the melting chocolate often. If you're melting it in a pan or double boiler, stir constantly on low heat until the chocolate is fully melted.






Check the melting chocolate every 30 seconds. If you're melting the chocolate in a microwave, set it to cook for 30 seconds. Check and stir before returning it to cook for another 30 seconds.






Remove the melted chocolate from the heat source when it has a smooth, silky consistency. Now it's time to quickly create your cups.
 Cover the balloon three quarters of the way with chocolate.
 Avoid making it too thick; a thin covering works well.
 Allow them to dry/cool.


Allow the chocolate covered balloons to cool for up to 30 minutes. Alternatively, place the balloons in the refrigerator for faster cooling time.
 Combine 1 cup of heavy cream with a teaspoon of sugar. Whip using an electric mixer at high speed until peaks form.


Measure ½ a cup of whipping cream and place inside the refrigerator. This cream will sit atop the chocolate mousse cups.
 Sprinkle with the gelatin. Leave for 10 minutes to allow for it to expand.



Stir the mixture constantly to ensure complete integration. Also, stirring the chocolate will minimize the possibility the chocolate will burn.






Remove from the heat source while a few chocolate chunks are still visible. Combine with a bowl of whipping cream mixed with gelatin.
 Be sure to fully integrate the powder into the cocoa to get a hint of “kicked up” flavor.


Do not overwork the mousse––too much whipping will lose its fluffy appeal.
 Make sure a full 30 minutes has passed if you're unsure whether the chocolate is ready.

Gently prick the top of the water balloon with a thin needle to release the air; do this carefully so the balloon doesn't explode.






Allow the balloon to deflate and line the bottom of your cup. Wait for all the air to be released before proceeding to the next step.
 Take care not to disturb the chocolate cup when removing the balloon.
 The amount will depend upon the size you've made your chocolate cups.
 Don’t overdo it, but simply add a few slight shavings to add body and crunch to your mousse.
 This step is optional but it does give a realistic appearance to the chocolate cup if you're prepared to do some more work:


Melt some additional chocolate. Allow to cool until it can be handled.
Pour a thin "U"-style shape of melted chocolate onto a tray lined with parchment paper (or onto a silicone sheet). Use your fingers or a tool such as a knife to shape the "U" if needed. Leave to set.
Apply the handle using dobs of melted chocolate.
 Consider adding some more shaved chocolate or even grate a coffee bean on top. Finished.

