 See above, and prepare enough sweet ciderfor five gallons.
 Visit your local brewing supply store, or look online for cider yeast. Dry wine yeasts are also a good choice, and are more common—and therefore, less expensive.
 A day or two before you plan on brewing your hard cider, make a yeast starter. This will ensure that your yeast is alive and ready to go, and will let you control the final flavor of your brew.









In a sealable jar, add one yeast packet to a half cup of your fresh apple cider. Seal the jar, give it a good shaking for five to ten seconds, then set it aside for five or six hours, or overnight.
When you see it bubbling, release the pressure by partially twisting off the lid, then resealing the jar. Put the start in the refrigerator until a couple hours before you're ready to use it.
 Fill a stock pot or brew pot with fresh cider, and bring it to a very low simmer over medium heat. Continue simmering for about 45 minutes to an hour, to kill off any bacteria or wild yeasts that could alter the flavor of your cider.









Do not boil the cider
Add up to two pounds of brown sugar or honey to boost the sugar content, and make a harder hard cider!

, To ensure that your bucket is clean and ready for hard cider making, sterilize it. Pour a capful of bleach into the bucket, fill with water, and let it sit while you finish simmering your cider. Empty the water, then rinse the bucket thoroughly with cold water.
 Let it cool until it's just warmer than room temperature, then add your starter. Stir with a sterilized spoon, then seal the lid and set the airlock.
 Place the bucket in a cool, dark place—around 60° to 70°F (15° to 20°C). After a couple days, you should see the airlock start to bubble, as the yeast releases carbon dioxide. It should continue to bubble for a couple weeks. When it stops, let the cider rest for another week so that the yeast settles.
 Using a clean, food-grade siphon, gently transfer the cider to sterilized bottles, seal them, and then let them sit for as long as you can stand it—at least a couple weeks. Like wine, hard cider will improve with age.








