 One way to help your bladder healthy is to make sure you drink the proper liquids in the right amounts. You need to stay hydrated and keep drinking enough water to reduce the chances of a bladder infection or a urinary tract infection.You can also drink cranberry juice to reduce the risk of UTIs.The usual recommendation is to drink at least six to eight eight ounce glasses of water every day.Some beverages which contain caffeine, such as coffee, tea and chocolate drinks, can increase the frequency and the urgency of urination. Other beverages, like alcohol drinks, carbonated drinks, and acidic fruit juices (orange and grapefruit juice, lemonade and limeade), can also increase the frequency and the urgency of urination., Making sure you urinate when you need to and making sure you empty your bladder every time you use the bathroom can help you reduce chances of a UTI. This is most easily done by making sure that you go when you need to go and relax as much as possible, taking as much time as you need to empty out your bladder completely.Urinating often and emptying your bladder helps flush out bacteria.
 Urinating before sex can help flush out bacteria that might get spread during sex, and urinating after sex can help flush out bacteria that was introduced during sex.Make sure to use water-based lubricant during sex.
You can also clean your genital and anal areas before and after sex.
 After going to the bathroom, especially after having a bowel movement, women need to wipe from the front to the back. This helps prevent bacteria from the feces from spreading to the urethra., Using some feminine hygiene products, such as douches or feminine deodorants, may cause UTIs. They can irritate the urethra as well as remove natural flora that helps maintain the healthy environment, leading to a yeast infection or bacterial vaginosis.Douching can also lead to pelvic inflammatory disease, complications during pregnancy, STIs, and vaginal dryness. If you feel there is something "off" about the smell of your vagina or there is unusual discharge, this means there is something wrong and you should be checked by your doctor. Douching will not solve the problem and, if anything, could make it worse.
When using tampons or pads, you should change them often.

