 Before requesting a member of LEED comes to certify your building, you need know if your building or project is eligible. In general any new building -- commercial or residential -- is eligible to be certified if it is a permanent structure, meets local building codes, and fits the LEED size requirements.


New Neighborhoods, building upgrades, and complete remodeling projects can all be LEED certified., There are different processes for all types buildings, including neighborhoods, renovations, and homes. Each certification is done by a different set of professionals:



BD+C: Building Design and Construction. This certifies any newly constructed building that meets LEED requirements.

O+M: Operations and Management. Certifies improvements to existing buildings that makes them more efficient or green.

ID+C: Interior Design and Construction. Certifies interior designs as healthy and efficient work spaces.

ND: Neighborhood Development. Certifies neighborhood construction, design, and planning.

Homes: Certifies individual homes as efficient in energy consumption and wast management.
 LEED credits add up to form your building's "LEED Score," and includes everything from solar panels to light pollution reduction. A complete list of potential credits can be found in the LEED Credit Library. As you plan your building, discuss potential LEED credits with your architect and designers to maximize your project's green efficiency. To become certified, you need a minimum of 40 credits.


Several credits, like "building water metering" are required to become LEED certified.
Buildings can also reach for higher certifications, such as Silver (50-59 points), Gold, (60-79 points) or Platinum (80+ points) certifications., LEED certified Associate Professionals (APs) are trained to help you plan, design, and build LEED specific projects. They are required to pass rigorous exams and continue their education even after their test. When starting a project, look for the title "LEED AP" next to any builder or designer you hire.


Each AP specializes in a specific field related to your project (ie. AP O+Ms are trained to work on improvement projects).
 This process will take several months and requires you to build up LEED credits -- specific projects that contribute to your building's overall efficiency score. To apply:


Create a U.S. Green Business Council account.
Register your building project. If you are certifying multiple buildings at once (for a campus or large project) be sure to apply for "group" certification.Provide documentation of LEED credits you apply for.
 While this changes every year, the Green Building Council publishes the deadlines online as well.
 Within 20-25 days you will get a review of you application detailing the credits you will receive and any issues with your project. You will be asked to either accept the review or make any changes to your proposal. If you do not resubmit the proposal will be reviewed again before it is accepted or denied.


If you are denied, you may appeal by adding new credits, documentation, or testimony to your application.