 In college there are different types of classes depending on your school and your major. Before you get to class, look at your schedule to see what type of class you are going to so you are not surprised.


Lectures are large classes held in lecture halls that seat hundreds of students. During lectures, the professor talks while students take notes.
Discussion or section classes are small groups from your lecture class. You meet in a smaller and more intimate setting with an assistant instructor and discuss the material.
Seminar classes are small classes where you meet with the professor. They are usually advanced, focused, and specialized.
Lab classes are usually a part of a science lecture. You meet with a smaller group of students to complete assignments and experiments.
Studio classes are to practice what you are learning hands-on. These are usually for art, theater, music, design, or photography classes., At large schools, beginning level classes can be filled with hundreds of students. At small schools you will be more likely to have smaller classes, but not necessarily. You can check the size of your class on your schedule before the class starts. It might be overwhelming to expect to be going to a class of 30 students and walk in to find 200 faces staring at you.


Don’t be scared if you get to class and don’t know anyone. You can sit next to a stranger and maybe you will make a new friend., In college, professors often allow students to use laptops in class to take notes. This can be great because you can take notes faster and keep your notes very organized. However, sometimes technology can be a distraction. You might be more interested in online shopping than what the professor is saying if you have your laptop out. Practice self-control and only use your laptop in class to take notes.Allowing laptops in class depends on the professor’s rules and the school you go to. At some colleges this is much more common than at others.
If the person in front of you is scrolling through Facebook or doing something else distracting on their laptop, try to ignore it.
 There are some professors that take attendance, but most do not. You have a lot more freedom about whether you go to class or not in college. Your mom is not going to be there to wake you up in the morning and make you go anymore. Force yourself to go. The easiest thing you can do to pass a class is to show up., In high school, you may have been able to get away with not taking notes, but that is not likely in college. Take detailed notes of slideshows, diagrams, and of what the professor is saying. This will help you pay attention during class, help you learn the material, and make studying easier.


Be prepared to figure out what you should write down yourself and for professors to skip to the next slide without waiting for everyone to write everything down.