 Finding out that you are pregnant can be a very emotional experience. Whether you are planning to become a mom or explore other options, you will be going through some significant changes. It's important to surround yourself with people who can support you.In addition to your boyfriend, choose some other people to tell about your pregnancy. Maybe you trust your mom to help you figure out your next steps.
It is up to you to decide who you tell about your pregnancy and when. Don't feel that you have to share the news before you are ready.
Your doctor can be part of your support system. She can give you a lot of information and help you make healthy choices.
You can also join online support groups. There are many pregnancy support groups available. , Your body is going through a lot of changes. Make sure to stay healthy by getting enough rest. When you are tired, it can also be more difficult to think and communicate clearly.Allow your body to get the sleep it needs. If you find yourself needing a nap in the late afternoon, that's ok.
Go to bed earlier if you need to. Your body needs more sleep when you are pregnant.
 It is normal to feel some anxiety when you learn that you are pregnant. You might find it helpful to talk to someone about your feelings. Consider visiting a mental health specialist.Your local Planned Parenthood clinic can provide you with a counselor. With this person you can be open and honest.
If you want your boyfriend to be involved in this part of the process, invite him to go to sessions with you. The two of you might learn some great communication skills.
 Whether or not you have planned for this pregnancy, you will probably be somewhat nervous. For your own mental and physical health, it is important to not let that stress get out of control. It is also important for the health of your baby.Keep a journal. Writing your thoughts down on paper is an excellent way to keep track of your feelings.A journal can help you track patterns in your emotions. It can also help you figure out goals for the future and how to meet your emotional needs.
Try doing yoga. Stretching and going through poses is great for your mind and body.

