 Take some time every day to have a conversation with your girlfriend. Whether you have a phone or face-to-face conversation, try to find a daily time to dedicate your full attention to each other.Avoid checking your phone, surfing the web, or watching television when having a conversation with your girlfriend.
Keep in mind distractions aren’t only technological. For example, if either of you need time to zone out after school or work, give each other some space before starting an extended conversation.;
, Avoid questions that call for simple yes or no answers. Ask her about her day, and try to show your sincere interest in learning about her life’s little details.Ask her things like, “What did you do at work (or school) today? How did your presentation go? What’s the most unique thing that happened to you today?”
Learning small, even trivial details about someone lays the foundation of an intimate connection., Try to let your curiosity carry the conversation instead of just asking questions about things that you already know. Further, asking detailed questions doesn’t have to come off as nosy or intrusive. Don’t ask her questions in a way that seems rehearsed or paranoid.Make your intentions clear if she seems annoyed or asks, “Why do you want to know?” Say, “I’m not checking up on you or trying to nag, I just want to learn more about you.”

, Make eye contact and nod to show you’re listening with interest. When she talks about something or asks you a question, don’t respond with something like “Uh-huh,” or “Yeah whatever.” Listen to what she says, ask a follow-up question, tell her you support a decision she made, or share something about yourself that conveys you relate to her point.Expressing your interest and support, or “turning toward” your girlfriend, is crucial to maintaining a good relationship.
 Keep the conversation balanced by talking about yourself, too. Try not to deliberately change the subject when you talk about yourself, but show her that you can identity with her experiences. Bringing up a relevant experience you shared together is a great way to strengthen your conversation.For example, if she says something negative, like that she got splashed by a car while walking down a sidewalk, you could say, “Oh man, I’m sorry, babe. Remember when we got caught in that downpour the first time we walked to the park in your neighborhood? We got so soaked, but I always laugh whenever I think about us holding hands and running to get out of the rain!”

, If she talks about topics that are emotionally charged, make sure to be supportive of her and any difficult things that she brings up. For example, if she tells you about a fight she had with her best friend, then listen to her and let her know you are there for her.

Try saying something like, “That’s awful! I am sorry you had to go through that. What can I do to help?”

