 Spicy foods and acidic foods can cause you to sweat, making night sweats even worse. Avoid eating spicy foods a few hours before bed. Stay away from spicy foods flavored with hot peppers, or hot spices like cayenne pepper, chili powder, and sriracha. You should also avoid acidic foods like lemon, lime, or onions. Acidic foods can raise your body temperature and cause you to sweat.Try cutting these types of foods out of your diet or only eating them earlier in the day so your body has time to digest them before you go to bed.
 Hot teas or soups may trigger hot flashes in menopausal women., Alcohol and caffeine may make you sweat while you sleep by throwing off your hormonal balance. Do not have alcohol or caffeine based products like coffee, soda, or caffeinated teas two to three hours before bed., Staying hydrated will help to regulate your body temperature and keep you cool while you sleep. Carry a water bottle with you and sip out of it throughout the day. Put a full glass of water by your night table so you can drink it before you go to sleep.If you aren’t a big fan of drinking water, try putting sliced fruit like lemon or lime in the water. You can also put cucumber slices in the water.
 Having a diet full of fresh vegetables, fruits, protein, and grains will help to keep your body healthy and regulate your body temperature. A healthy diet can also be beneficial if you are experiencing night sweats due to menopause or hormonal changes. Make sure your diet is full of foods rich in vitamin D, vitamin B, and vitamin C.Your doctor may be able to recommend a specific diet that can help to reduce your night sweats.
 Additional stress of any kind is one of the largest contributing factors to night sweats.

Practicing mindfulness, meditation and breathing techniques is helpful in bringing stress levels down., Staying active can help you to maintain a regular body temperature and reduce your stress levels, which can cause night sweats. Try to be physically active at least 30 minutes a day. Go for a run or a jog around the neighborhood. Take a fitness class at your local gym. Do a workout on your own at the gym.