 If you don't already know who you want to go to, it's important to do your research to find a massage therapist. Ask your friends, look online, and simply glance around at some nearby places to know what you're working with.;
, Based on your job, you're more likely to have knots in certain places. Massage therapists are trained to know where knots are, so don't be afraid to let your therapist know that you do something that often causes your knots.
 Once you have a basic idea of who you want and what you'll need, contact the therapist's office and make an appointment. If you have a certain date in mind, try calling about a week in advance - it's hard to get an appointment one or two days before.


If you have preferences, let the office know in advance. Want someone of a certain gender? Are you or the person you're calling for under eighteen? Sprained your ankle a few weeks ago, and it's still a bit tender? They will want to know this as soon as possible, so let them know.
You'll want to relax after your massage. If at all possible, try to book at a time when you know you'll have a period afterwards to chill out.
 Depending on the office and whether you've been there before, you may need to fill out a form or simply speak with your therapist for a few minutes. This is to decide what spots on you need work, if you have any medical conditions, e.t.c.
 Most likely, your massage therapist will request that you strip down to your preferred undergarments (if any) and will leave the room. You do not have to get entirely naked, although the more you have on, the more boundaries the therapist will have.
 Finally, you can relax. If you've never had a massage before, a good place to start is at a simple half hour massage, although you're welcome to go for any amount of time.
 The oils used by massage therapists has a "detox" effect, but this can dehydrate you. Drinking a bottle of water after your massage will very much help to prevent this.
 Eat something after your massage to keep your blood sugar even.
 If you don't have anything to do for a while afterwards, simply leave on the oils, drink lots of water, and chill out. However, if you need to do something, it's a good idea to wash off the oils - you may feel like a freshly-greased chicken with them on, plus there's a slight possibility they can get on your clothes. Many spas that offer massage also have showers you can use. Another alternative to this is to use your own oil, you can choose a "dry oil" which leaves little to no residue.
 Whether it's directly after your massage, a few hours later, or the next day, chances are that you'll be sore soon, especially if you had a deep tissue massage.This is perfectly normal, and it's caused by lactic acid flooding your system during the massage and can be cured by drinking a lot of water to flush it out of your body.

