 If they tell the teacher that you ignored him or her, tell the teacher that s/he was bullying you and that he or she is bothering you! (Have good bonds with the teacher(s) in order to do this) Never make the teacher hate you, s/he won't believe you and you will end up getting in trouble.;
, Don't be afraid to be called "tattletale", as you are doing the right thing by telling someone. If you don't feel comfortable telling them face to face, then write them a letter explaining your situation and give it to them. They will then most likely read it and approach you, wanting to assist you.
 If you think that your 'friend' is actually a backstabber or a frenemy, stop being friends with this person immediately.
 When they bully you, instead of fighting back, get away. Do it for your own safety, and if they chase you go to where there are other people. If they don't give up, go to the principal office as soon as you can, or go to a teacher who is nearby. If you don't do this quickly, the bully might see you and tell the teacher lies.
 Don't use high kicks, as the bully will just grab your leg and pull you down. When the bully gives up, don't become the bully by further hurting him or her, instead just calmly walk away.
, Be honest but don't be overly dramatic. No principal wants students getting hurt in their school.
 This really helps! When a bully gets close your group, they will protect you from him or her. The bully may not even approach you. If you don't have any friends, just try to stay as far away as possible from that bully or stay within sight of a teacher.
 Become friends with old bullies, or at least neutral friends. Be as kind as possible.
 You probably have worked a long time to get here.
 Get more aggressive in trying to stop it instead of being intimidated. Talk with people around you, find out who else is hurt by that bully, and help them. Report the bully to the principal. Aggressively fight back (without being too physical). Don't let them see that you are bothered by what they say.
 Someone is bullying you! Don't just stand there and take it, stand up for yourself. This may be a lot harder than it sounds but if you do it, afterwards, you'll feel great. If you are not convinced that you have the courage, know what you want to say and who you want to say it to when you are standing up for yourself.
 When standing up for yourself, you have to know what to say and what not to say. The right thing to do, no matter how far it goes, is to avoid being mean. For example, if someone says something like, "Nice shirt... not!" to you, or something to diss you, you can say something back, that is not mean, but surprises them like, "Thanks! I like your shirt too!" Don't be sarcastic when saying this, sound genuine.
 Most likely, when you are getting bullied, you will be surrounded by a group. These can be your friends, or enemies. No matter who they are, you need to stand up for yourself. You may hear someone make fun of you for simply standing up for yourself. Some people may not even support the idea of you standing up for yourself.
 There are times that you can actually put a stop to a bullying situation. The greatest step to doing this is standing up for who you are and standing up for your friends. If someone insults you again and you are finally done with the bullying, you can say something along the lines of, "You know what, I am tired of you bullying me! You may be insecure about yourself or just not like me, but that is no reason to do the things you are doing right now."

, Often times, bullies want the attention, and get the attention. They want to start a fight and hurt the other person's feelings/emotions. Don't show them, and don't let them hurt your feelings. The person may be embarrassed, but you were too when you were being bullied. Your bully heard what you were saying when you stood up for yourself and in their heart, knows that it's wrong to do what they did.

