 Choose a towel that you like, and preferably isn't tatty. Make sure it's clean! Carry it everywhere. Be sure to take a photo of you with the towel and upload it to Flickr, a video uploaded to YouTube, so that you can show everyone else how you celebrated Towel Day. There is a Flickr Towel Day group you can join at: http://www.flickr.com/group/towelday And be sure to tag your photos "towelday".

You might even consider having a competition with friends for the "best towel". Take photos of everyone, including the winners.
For people who don't get the significance of your towel, let them know why you have it. You might also explain that a towel is a significant psychological tool, as outlined in the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.;
, It's quite possible that there's a fun event near you that you can be a part of. You'll also find other ideas and inspiration for celebrating Towel Day. The site can be found at: http://www.towelday.org.

If a celebration is being organized in your country or area, consider joining in. If there isn't, consider organizing one yourself and posting it on the website.
 Give a wise and knowing look every time you respond in this way. And remember that sometimes knowing the answer doesn't mean you know the question... When you can't use "42" fruitfully, try another famous line from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy or a Douglas Adams' quote instead, such as:

"Mostly harmless"
"Life, the Universe, and Everything"
"Almost, but not quite, entirely unlike tea."; "not entirely unlike"
"Share and Enjoy"
"So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish"
"I love deadlines. I love the whooshing noise they make as they go by."
"Humans are not proud of their ancestors, and rarely invite them around to dinner."
"I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I needed to be."
"It is no coincidence that in no known language does the phrase 'As pretty as an airport' appear."
"Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so."

, This could be on your cubicle, over or on a computer screen, or on a wall. Even better, wear a t-shirt or badge with these words.

Remember that DON'T PANIC is always written in uppercase. It was originally written on the cover of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
 Here are some of them:

Arthur (Dent)
Ford (Prefect)
Great Green Arkleseizure
Grunthos the Flatulent
Humma Kavula
Marvin

Random (Dent)
Trillian
Slartibartfast
Zaphod (Beeblebrox)
Vogon (This is not an individual's name. Use it to refer to a class of people, as in, "The Vogons from a corporation want you to return their call.")
The Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal.
 There are several ways you can involved via social media for Towel Day:

Follow Towel Day happenings on Twitter; use the #towelday hashtag.
Tell others about Towel Day on Twitter. Give updates as events are happening.
Add a post about Towel Day on your blog. Leave supportive messages on the blogs of others who write about Towel Day. Some blogs even give away prizes on Towel Day for the best stories, photos, etc. that are sent in.
Check out forum posts on your favorite sites and spread the word about Towel Day.
 If you haven't got one yet, and the library hasn't got any copies, at least order one online today. There are lots of choices, including:


The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (a "trilogy" consisting of six books and an adaptation of the radio series)

Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency (1987)

The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul (1988)

The Meaning of Liff (1983)

Last Chance to See (1990)
Posthumous collection The Salmon of Doubt (2002).
 Get your friends together to celebrate Douglas Adams by toasting him with a drink and celebrating in good cheer. He'd appreciate the sentiment and the joy.

While celebrating, get everyone to explain what Douglas Adams' writing has meant to them and how it has affected their life.
 Aim to do this with your friends and their towels. The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy can be listened to (the BBC broadcasts or audiobook recordings) or you can watch both the movie and the BBC TV mini-series., Douglas Adams was an avid environmentalist and animal lover who cared greatly about the plight of animals and campaigned on behalf of numerous endangered species. This is a practical and celebratory way to remember Douglas Adams.

Read Last Chance to See (and you can also watch Stephen Fry's show of the same name), and read The Great Ape Project, to which Adams contributed a passage called "Meeting the Gorilla".