 Read a good book, take a long bath, or go on a walk. Meditate and practice breathing techniques. Watch a funny movie or go to a comedy club. Surround yourself with funny people and laugh often. Chronic or continual stress reduces the presence of HGH in the body.The very process of laughing has a positive effect on the body and increases HGH. People watching a funny movie can even anticipate a rise of up to 87% in their HGH.One way of gauging stress could be to take your blood pressure on a daily basis. If you invest in a blood pressure cuff, then you can take a baseline reading and go from there. If you reach a consistent blood pressure of 120/80, then you are likely succeeding in relaxing and your HGH may boost as a result.;
, Your level of HGH is directly connected to your ability to get to REM, or deep sleep. Try to get at least 8 hours of undisturbed sleep per night. Create a relaxing routine in the evening, such as reading a book. Avoid playing with electronics which can expose you to blue light and lessen the quality of sleep.You can also reduce your caffeine intake, which might help you to fall asleep faster and deeper.
As you sleep, your body releases intervals of GH (growth hormone). If you miss hours of sleep, then you miss GH bursts., Gaining muscle and losing fat can positively impact your HGH levels. Body fat inhibits the production of HGH and belly fat is especially problematic. Try to lose the weight by eating a healthy, balanced diet and working out at least three times a week. Resistance exercises can be particularly helpful at trimming your mid-section.The presence of extra abdominal fat can lower your HGH by almost half the average amount.
To gauge your percentage of body fat, you can visit a personal trainer or invest in a body fat caliper. Talk with your doctor about how to accurately measure using the caliper.
 Create a work-out plan where you go through 30 second busts of intense activity followed by brief rest periods. You can include both challenging cardio and weight routines as part of your interval work-out. Breaking a sweat can be a sign of a particularly effective interval routine.Interval work-outs elevate HGH because the pituitary gland boosts production to assist with muscle recovery.
 Make an appointment with your doctor to take your HGH readings at the start of this process and at monthly or bi-monthly intervals thereafter. This will help you to know whether or not you are making appropriate progress. You can also pay close attention to your body to see if you have extra energy or if you are putting on muscle easier as these are indicators of HGH increases.

