 Each type of adoption requires a different set of fees. The process can be very expensive, especially when you factor in travel costs if you are adopting a child who lives in another country. If you're planning to adopt a child soon, anticipate spending up to $30,000 on the adoption (although it isn't always that expensive). Here are some of the expenses you can expect to encounter:


Home study fees. Prospective adoptive parents must pay for a home study in which representatives of an agency or the state come to the home to get a sense of how suitable the environment will be for a child.
Counseling fees. People adopting through an agency pay for their own counseling, as well as counseling for the birth mother.
The birth mother's medical expenses. In many cases adoptive parents pay the birth mother's expenses during her pregnancy. Sometimes they also pay for her room and board, travel, and other expenses.
The child's medical expenses. People adopting a child from another country may start paying the child's medical expenses before they even meet the child in person for the first time.
Lawyer fees. People pursuing independent adoptions can expect to pay a lawyer for helping them navigate the process. Almost all adoptive parents will hire a lawyer to finish the adoption process.
Travel expenses. Parents who are adopting a child from another state or country are responsible for paying for their own travel, hotel and meal expenses.
Expenses are often reimbursed for those adopting a child from the foster care system. Adopting a child from the state is the least expensive adoption process. In many cases the parents actually get a tax exemption that goes beyond the travel expenses and court fees required for every adoption.Adopting a child with special needs may make you eligible for an adoption subsidy., In order for the adoption to be conducted legally, you'll need to know which agencies are licensed to complete adoptions in your state. Make sure you follow your state's requirements to a T, so you won't have a legal battle to fight down the line.


Even if you aren't planning on adopting independently, it's a good idea to hire a lawyer familiar with the adoption process in your state to make sure everything is done correctly.
Remember that some states don't allow people to conduct their own search for birth mothers. Be clear on your state laws in this area before you pursue an independent adoption.
 All prospective adoptive parents must undergo a home study, a process in which a licensed social worker from the adoption agency or the state meets with each member of the family in preparation for the adoption. In addition to examining the family's living situation, the person conducting the home study spends time getting to know the family and making sure they are prepared to have a new family member enter their home.


The social worker will ask for birth and marriage certificates, personal references, and other details before finalizing his or her report.
At least one meeting with the social worker will be conducted in the prospective parents' home.The prospective parents must complete a criminal and child abuse background check, and in some states they will also be fingerprinted.
Parents may begin actively searching for a child to adopt after their home study has been approved.

