 Pansies are easy to grow from seed and seed growing is usually the most economical way to obtain pansy plants.


However, pansies can be purchased from a nursery such as bedding plants or plug plants. They are usually available in spring and fall. If you purchase pansies in the fall, they will need to be planted 6 weeks ahead of the first frosts. This gives the plant time to get established in the ground so it can resist the colder weather.

When choosing plants, it’s best to select ones with buds rather than open flower heads as these will deliver more flowers over their lifetime than ones purchased when they are already blooming.

;
, Most gardeners select pansies based on the flower color but you should also consider the flower size. The smallest pansies tend to have flower ‘faces’ about an inch across; the largest grow flowers up to 3 inches (7.6 cm) across.


You’ll also find ruffled, smooth, and trailing varieties. Trailing varieties work well in containers such as hanging baskets.
 Pansies work well in containers and pots; some varieties will trail more (suspend slightly, hanging lower) than others. In generally, pansies are clump-forming rather than spreading so they won’t provide much ground cover. Because of this, sometimes it's a good idea to combine them with other flowers.


Pansies work well with other spring-flowering plants such as daffodil or grape hyacinths. They make a good edging plant set against taller growing plants, too.
Some gardeners swear by the rule "a thriller, a filler and a spiller" for container planting. One showy plant to catch the eye and thrill it, a plant to fill out space and provide an attractive backdrop, and a trailing plant to spill over the edge and create an interesting organic shape. Certain varieties will be your spiller, while others make better fillers.
 Pansies favor free-draining soil so it’s best to select a pot or container with drainage holes. Use a light, free-draining compost.


Pansies won’t mind a shallow container as their roots are fairly shallow. They can tolerate a little crowding but aim to plant them no closer than about 6 inches (15.2 cm) apart.
 Then, cover with a thin layer of compost or vermiculite. They will germinate best at a cool room temperature of around 60F (16C).


You can select the best seedlings and move them to pots once large enough to handle without being damaged. This is usually about the point when they have 5 leaves.
Alternately, you may like to sow directly into individual pots.
 Pansies favor a sunny spot, but if you live in a hot climate, consider a spot with partial shade as they dislike too much heat. Pansies prefer cool temperatures and won’t enjoy the heat of a house, so don’t bring them inside.


Seedlings can be planted out in the fall, in which case you'll need to protect them from the severest of weather. For example, you may like to consider cloche protection during significant snowfall. Some gardeners cover pansies with evergreen branches from their Christmas tree to protect from the worst of the weather, too. Others mulch with something like straw or pine needles to keep the worst of the snow off.
 Check the packet you bought the seed from for specific instructions, but most pansies should be planted in summer. If you prefer to wait until spring to plant them out, a greenhouse or cold frame may be best for them over the winter. They can then be planted out in the early spring, perhaps around March.


Pansies can also be sown in mid-winter, say around January or February, for summer flowers. It’s best to do this if you live in an area where the summers aren’t too hot.
 Pansies grown in containers and pots will need regular watering; usually container plants require more regular watering than ground-planted ones as they dry out faster. Pansies prefer not to sit in permanently wet soil so as a general guide, only water them once the soil is dry to the touch.


Mulching will benefit pansy plants by helping retain water in the soil and also protect the roots in cold weather. Consider adding a 2-inch layer of well-rotted manure or something similar around the base of the plant to mulch it. It’s best to do this in spring or summer.
 In addition to mulch, you should feed your pansy plants about once a month to ensure maximum plant health and repeat flowering. A water-soluble nitrogen fertilizer can be added to the watering can on a monthly basis.


However, don’t overdo it or your pansies may grow too leggy. Stick to once a month for a while and adjust as necessary.
 Young pansy plants should always be protected from slugs and snails, in addition to other plant diseases. Leaf spotting can sometimes be contained by spraying but it’s hard to cure plant diseases completely.


Pansy plants can be susceptible to disease. Try removing any yellow or withered growth and disposing of it (don’t compost diseased plant matter). If plants are affected by mildew, it’s often best to dig the whole plant out to prevent it spreading.
 Removing spent flowers and any seed pods that develop is a good way to ensure repeat flowering. If your pansies become "leggy," i.e. they grow long and straggly, you can cut them right back and let them regrow to a more compact shape.


To do this, cut back the stems to about 2 inches (5.1 cm) height. The best way to take a cut is to snip each stem just above the leaf set nearest to this length.
 Pansies often die away in the summer heat, but they can sometimes be persuaded to live on through the hotter months if well taken care of. If this is done successfully they will flower again in the fall right into winter. To try to extend the pansies’ lifespan in this way, cut the plants right back once the weather starts to heat up in late June or early July.


Cut the stems above the nearest leaf set. You should cut back to a height of about 2 inches (5.1 cm). If you are able to move your container, move it out of the direct sun into a cooler spot.
Remember to keep watering the plant throughout the summer and it may reward you by flowering again in the fall.

