 Mormons observe the Sabbath closely, so Sundays are for attending church meetings and focusing on their spirituality.You’ll probably have to skip Sunday brunch, but there are six other days in the week to use for dating.
 The Church encourages people to be a good influence on one another, and she will probably expect you to dress well for her.You don’t need to wear a tie, but she will probably find it attractive if you take the time to put on something nicer than jeans and an old t-shirt for her.
 Due to their religious teachings, Mormons do not smoke, drink alcohol or caffeinated "hot drinks" (coffee or tea), or do drugs. This does not mean that you cannot do those things, but remember that she will not be able to do them with you. This can make it harder for you two to do things together.The Church has recently clarified its position on caffeine. "Hot drinks," which refers to coffee or tea are not okay, but sodas are perfectly fine., Mormons are very strict about avoiding sex outside of marriage. If you are in a relationship with the expectation of sex, it isn’t going to work out. The extent of other physical activity depends on what you both want from the relationship, though in general the Mormon Church frowns on sexual contact even beyond intercourse., If she identifies as a Mormon, then she probably takes her faith seriously, and it means a lot to her. You’ll want to show interest in things she cares about, so take this time to learn more about Mormonism. You can ask her directly, or through sources like other Mormons or reading their books. You certainly don’t have to accept any of it, or convert, but it may help you understand her faith and choices.
 If your relationship has gotten very serious, your girlfriend will probably try to find agreement in your faiths. Being married and raising a family can be very difficult if the two of you disagree about important issues like religion. In each case, you should also consider how this will affect your families. There are two ways to go about this.



You join the LDS Church. This is obviously a big step for you, so be sure you have learned about the Church’s beliefs and teachings.
She converts to your religion. As you have been learning about Mormonism, hopefully you have also helped her learn about your religious beliefs (even if you don’t have any). If she expresses interest in converting, be prepared to talk about your beliefs, and help her find ways to learn about and follow them. Mormon women are more likely to date outside of the religion than men, but also very unlikely to convert to a different religion.Of course, neither of you needs to convert. There are plenty of marriages between Mormons and non-Mormons. If you both comfortable having different faiths, your relationship can still be rewarding and fulfilling.That being said, interfaith marriages are pretty unusual for Mormons, especially compared to other faiths, so without conversion it could be very difficult for your relationship to last.