 To become aware that you are dreaming, you have to notice your environment and realize, "This is just a dream." Some experts say that practicing awareness of your environment while awake can help you do to the same while sleeping.During the day, look around and notice details like the heat of the sun or the feeling of pain when you stub your toe. With practice and attention, when you are dreaming you should be able to notice the absence or difference in these details, and realize you're dreaming. An additional perk to practicing mindfulness during the day, is it can make your dreams more realistic and easier to remember.;
, Since lucid dreaming typically occurs during the REM sleep cycle, which happens toward the end of sleep or just before waking in the morning, some lucid dreamers recommend setting an alarm for 4 hours after you go to bed at night, and then when you wake up, practicing meditation to enter a lucid dream state.Turn off your alarm but try to stay as asleep as possible. Concentrate on the darkness on the back of your eyelids and on your intent to enter a dream state in which you are in control. Think about what you might want to dream about., Some lucid dreamers use herbal supplements like choline or galantamine to induce a lucid dreaming state. These don't work for everyone, and sometimes can have adverse reactions like sleep paralysis, which is a state in which you are awake, but cannot move. (If this happens, stay calm and relax. If you are frightened, it only gets worse.) If you want to try choline or galantamine, try a small amount once a week. These herbs are available from health food stores in pill form. Some experienced lucid dreamers recommend setting an alarm for 3 or 4 hours after you go to bed at night and taking the supplement then, to reduce the chances that you will experience sleep paralysis or nightmares.Although some books and websites will encourage the use of off-label uses of prescription drugs or even illegal drugs to bring on lucid dreams, these are actually hallucinations and not lucid dreams, and can be dangerous. Some people have harmed themselves or others while using drugs., The definition of lucid dreaming is knowing that you are dreaming, but since lucid dreams typically feel very real, it is a good idea to test whether you are dreaming before trying anything dangerous like eating fire or jumping off of buildings.To test whether you are dreaming, do what is known as a "reality check."A reality check helps you ensure that you are actually dreaming. To perform a reality check while lucid dreaming, attempt to do something impossible but not dangerous like floating in the air. If you can do that, then you can advance to harder things that would be dangerous in real life.