 Your degree can be in any subject as long as it comes from an accredited university.While it is not necessary to major in a second language to become a bilingual teacher, it is strongly recommended to have a background in the subject.


While at university, you can complete a university certification program for teachers. This will prevent you from having to take a separate educator preparation program when you have graduated. It will help prepare for your exams, and it will give you student teaching experience.;
, As Texas is a competitive market for teachers, it is important to be as qualified as possible when applying for a position. A masters degree or doctorate may make you more attractive. You may consider studying education, your targeted bilingual language, or the subject area you wish to teach.Try to find a program that will offer an endorsement in bilingual education. These endorsements are specialized certificates that you can pursue alongside your general graduate studies.Some popular graduate programs include:


M.Ed in Teaching and Learning
M.S. in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)
M.S. in Elementary Education
Doctor of Education, If you did not complete a university teaching program, you will need to sign up for an Educator Preparation Program (EPP). These can be completed at a university, community college, school district, or regional service center based on which county or urban area you live in. They will guide you through the teaching application process and recommend you for eligibility during your application process.If you want to teach before receiving your certification, you may try an Alternate Certification Program (ACP) instead.If you are a first time teacher and want to teach before you gain your certification, you must be enrolled in one of these programs. These programs will formally recommend you to the state for your probationary certification.
If you have certification from another state or country, you do not need to complete these programs. Instead, you will send your previous certifications to the state to be reviewed, and they will inform you which specific examinations you will need to take to teach in Texas.
 There are many opportunities for financial assistance for those who wish to become teachers. These include organizations that offer cash or grants for teaching in certain underprivileged areas of the country. Programs you may want to look into include:


Teach for Texas or Teach for America
G.I. Bills
Troops to Teachers program.
Teacher Loan Forgiveness
Texas Workforce Commission
Texas Higher Education Coordination Board