 Many people recommend getting an acoustic as your first guitar. You’ll be able to start playing right away, without any accessories. Many instructors also feel like you will be more focused on creating good sounds.The steel strings that most acoustic guitars use can be relatively hard on your fingers, however.
Acoustic guitars are great for all kinds of music, including folk, rock, country, and virtually every other style.;
, Classical guitars have smaller bodies, making them a little easier to hold. The nylon strings they use are also easier to depress than steel-strings, making this type of guitar gentler on your fingertips.Nylon-stringed classicals don’t produce as much tone as traditional acoustic guitars. If you want to play quietly, however, this can be an advantage.
Classical guitars have wider necks than traditional ones. This can make it easier for beginners to fret notes, but if you have small hands, you may find a classical more challenging to play.
You don’t have to just play classical music to play a nylon-stringed guitar. Willie Nelson, for instance, has played country and folk on a nylon-stringed guitar for many years, and classical guitar is featured in many rock songs, like Metallica’s “Battery.”

, With an electric guitar, you can play in almost any style, from classic rock to indie and beyond. Because electric guitars have special controls (for volume, tone, etc.) and require other equipment (like a cord and amplifier), there’s a little more of a learning curve, however.Some beginners avoid buying an electric guitar because they think it will be louder than an acoustic. While it’s true that electrics can get loud, it is possible to play them quietly.
Practice amps generally play at relatively low volumes. Many have headphone jacks, allowing you to play even more quietly than you could with an acoustic.
Electric guitars are as versatile as acoustics, and can be used for may styles of music, from punk to jazz and everything in between.
 There’s nothing wrong with choosing a guitar just because an artist you love plays it. If you like the music of a certain player, then there’s a good chance you’ll want to play an instrument that will sound similar. Some well-known instruments and players include:Fender Stratocaster (Jimi Hendrix, Stevie Ray Vaughan, John Frusciante, David Gilmour, Buddy Guy)
Gibson Les Paul (Jimmy Page, Duane Allman, Joe Perry, Slash)
Gibson E-335 (B.B. King, Alex Lifeson)
Fender Jazzmaster (J. Mascis, Thurston Moore, Lee Ranaldo, Nels Cline)
Gibson SG (Tony Iommi, Jerry Garcia, Carrie Brownstein)
Danelectro Silvertone (Cat Power, Jimmy Page)
Martin D-28 (Bob Dylan, Elvis Presley, Joni Mitchell, Michael Mumford)
Gibson J-45 (John Lennon, Jeff Tweedy)

, Most major guitar companies make kits specifically marketed to beginners that contain everything you’ll need to get started. If you just want to start playing as soon as possible, these are a convenient choice.Acoustic starter kits typically include an entry-level guitar plus extra strings, a strap, picks, a tuner, and instructional materials.
Electric guitar starter kits typically include all of the above plus a practice amplifier and cord.
 Guitars have all kinds of finishes and aesthetic features. You can find ones painted solid colors, with effects like metallic finishes, painted in colorful patterns, with more natural “sunburst” finishes, and all sorts of other styles. You should try to get a guitar that looks good to you, since this can inspire you. Just keep in mind that looks matter but aren’t everything: above all, you’ll want a guitar that sounds good and is easy to play., Several manufacturers produce three-quarter and half-sized guitars. If you’re young and just starting out, these can be more comfortable for you to play. Quite a few adult players use smaller scale guitars, too, either for the slightly different sound, or because they are more comfortable to play., Until you play several guitars, you won’t know for sure which one is just right for you. If you have the chance to visit a guitar store, go there and play a few. Don’t be intimidated -- the salespeople will be happy to help out a beginner. Hold the guitars and play them a bit (or ask a salesperson to play something for you) so you can hear what the guitar sounds like. Think about things like:How heavy is the guitar?
Does the neck feel comfortable in your hand?
How wide is the guitar? Does your playing arm fit comfortably over the top of it?
How complicated are the controls (for electric guitars)?

, You might be worried about spending too much money on guitar before fully committing to learning out to play. At the same time, the cheapest guitars can often be difficult to play or keep in tune. This can be really frustrating, and actually discourage you from practicing. There’s no need to break the bank, but if you really want to play guitar, try to buy the best one you can reasonably afford.Decent acoustic and electric guitars can be purchased new for a few hundred dollars.
There are solid budget options (under two hundred dollars) in both categories.
The brand is not as important as the quality of the material--if the guitar stays in tune, produces decent tone, and feels comfortable to play, it is just fine for a beginner.
If you’re unsure which guitars will provide quality within your price range, ask sales staff for help.
 Many quality instruments are sold used at significantly reduced prices. Good guitars tend to hold up well over time, so if you see a something like a used Stratocaster or Martin D-28 for sale at a good price, snap it up.


Used acoustic and electric guitars can be found at local instrument stores, through online classifieds, and even major online music retailers.
 Once you’ve got a guitar in hand, you can start playing. However, a few extras can make the experience better, and ultimately inspire you to play more. Along with your guitar, pick up things like:A small practice amp and a guitar cord (if you buy an electric)
A guitar strap
Picks (medium gauge are best for beginners)
A case or stand to hold your instrument when you’re not playing it
Extra strings
A tuner

, If you’re just starting out on guitar, it’s very helpful to actually hold and play a few instruments before you buy. On-site sales staff can also instantly answer any questions you may have, and give you advice on choosing an instrument and learning to play.Smaller shops may have more attentive staff, while larger stores may have a larger selection to choose from.
 Online music stores will typically have a very large range of guitars to choose from. If you know you want a particular guitar, this can make the buying process easy.Many online retailers also sell used instruments. You can usually find options on online classified and auction sites as well.
 After getting your guitar, you might discover that there’s a problem with it. Or, you might decide after a few days that playing the guitar just isn’t for you. For situations like these, it’s helpful if the retailer you buy from has a reasonable policy regarding returns, exchanges, and refunds.