 Assemble your drawing supplies. A sheet of standard, 8 ½” X 11” computer paper, a sharp pencil, a ruler, a pencil sharpener and an eraser.
;
, Draw a line from side to side at approximately the center. This is the “Horizon Line” or the place where the sky and earth meet. It is also referred to as “Eye Level.” At eye level, you will only see the front and one side of the rectangle.
, It will be viewed at eye level. Draw a rectangle in the space to the right of the vanishing point on the horizon line, half above and half below.



Bear in mind that the only lines you will draw in this exercise will be horizontal, vertical (to the paper’s edges) or to the vanishing point.
 Erase the guide lines; the two lines to the vanishing point and the horizon line where it shows through the rectangle. Erasing the horizon line will make your rectangle appear to be a solid shape and will now be referred to as a cube.
 Make an X with your ruler from corner to corner on the first rectangle representing the front of the building. Through the center of the X, draw a vertical line. Make it as high as you want your roof peak to be.
, Mimic the slope of the roof at the back. Do this by placing your ruler against the angle and lightly dragging it to the back. Draw this line to close the roof shape.
 Run a line from the roof peak to the vanishing point.
, Remember to use only two kinds of lines for this: vertical or to the vanishing point. Make doors rectangular shaped, tall enough for a person to pass through. Windows can be rectangles, squares, even round. To do round, make a square and round off the four corners.
 This is a rectangle rising well above the highest peak of the roof. Add another line to give it depth.,, Copy your house to a piece of 140 pound 11” x 14” watercolor paper from a pad.

One method is to trace your sketch at the window. You might have to darken the lines of your house with pencil or fine line Sharpie for the sketch to show through onto the good paper. Hold your sketch behind the good paper and up to the light. Shift it around to determine where you want your house to go. Tack the sketch with masking tape it to the back of your good paper. Use a ruler for all lines.
Another method is to use graphite paper from the art or craft store, an artist’s erasable version of carbon paper.
 Ask yourself, what makes an house a country cottage? Do research on the internet. For ideas, Google “romantic cottages in watercolor” or “coloring pages of storybook cottages.“ Or, simply use your imagination and add whatever makes you happy.
 Siding will provide depth and texture; stucco, brick, stone, wood shingles, etc., They come in a great variety. A thatched roof is often seen in country cottages in storybooks.
 Do extra lines around it for depth and solidity. Add a window (s), texture, doorknob, raised panels, etc.
 They will represent and showcase the life that happens inside the house. Add additional lines for moldings and still more to break up the space into panes. Add window boxes and/or shutters. Show character by having them arched, narrow, or in an attic space, shaped like an eyelid., Low walls, picket or stone fences, a trellis or an arbor, shrubbery or landscaping elements, trees, paths, a rock garden or path, flowers, flagstones, etc.
 Draw landscape elements to place the house in a special setting. Vary types of tree shapes for interest., Angle it to the side, curve it and have it narrower close to the doorway and flare and fade it out as it goes into the scene. Drawing it straight down from the house and making it too rigid will have it appear to be standing upright, a situation to avoid.
 Gather whatever watercolors you prefer, brushes, a water bucket and paper towel or tissues to help control the flow of paint., Flow the paint over the shapes.
 There is no right place to begin. Work with light, diluted washes initially. This will help you see your scene in color and is easy to make corrections if you wipe away a wet area with tissue. Allow the piece to dry before doing additional layers or washes. Use a hairdryer if you wish.
 Better to stop earlier rather than overworking it. Remember there are lots of ways to edit your work, sponging off to lighten areas, over painting with another color, etc. You can add finishing touches indefinitely as they occur to you. When finished, sign your work. Start a new painting at this point., Hang it when finished and enjoy retreating to it whenever you want. No packing required.

