 Dinosaur-shaped food is a popular kid's dish. Stocking up on frozen foods you can easily cook in the oven before the party starts is a simple way to serve refreshments that speak to the theme.You could, for example, spread dinosaur-shaped chicken tenders on a plate for kids. You can also opt for dinosaur-shaped mac and cheese.
If you're serving baked goods as a refreshment, opt for dinosaur-shaped cookies. If you have dinosaur-shaped cookie cutters, make your own cookies using them.
 You can easily make dinosaur-shaped sandwiches for refreshments. Simply cut out two slices of bread using a dinosaur-shaped cookie cutter. From there, add the ingredients to one slice of bread and then top it off with the other.Sandwiches are great if you have multiple children attending with different dietary restrictions. You can have gluten-free sandwiches, nut-free sandwiches, and so on.
 Green and red drinks will remind guests of lava and swamps, two things associated with the dinosaur-age. Serve drinks of this color, and call them things like "Lava Juice" and "Swamp Punch."A fun thing to do with swamp drinks is to place gummy fish and worms in them. For example, use a green drink, like Mountain Dew, and have a few Swedish fish placed at the bottom of the cup.
Go for fizzy red drinks, such as red sodas, to give them a lava-like appearance. You can also add a scoop of sherbet on top of the glass to create an extra fizzy appearance.
 A dinosaur cake is a must for a birthday party. When it comes to creating a dinosaur cake, you have many options.You can draw a dinosaur on with icing, along with the words "Happy Birthday." If you're not skilled at decorating yourself, you can have a cake custom made at a local bakery.
You can also use small, decorative toys to decorate your cake. For example, add a dab of green food coloring to vanilla frosting to create a grass-like appearance. Then, put small plastic dinosaurs on top of the cake, as well as tiny plastic trees, rocks, and so on.
 Serve food on plates decorated with dinosaurs or a general prehistoric theme. You can get cartoon plates with dinosaurs at a local party supply store. You can also buy dinosaur plates online if you cannot find any there.

