 Before you can begin to change the words you use, recognize that you have power over the words you speak. You do not have to speak first and think later. If you have a problem with speaking before you think, you can train yourself to slow down and be more thoughtful with your words.Practice closing your mouth before you speak. If you are having a conversation with someone, this will force you to pause before you speak.
Closing your mouth as soon as you feel it opening teaches you self-control.
Learning to think before you speak is a process. It is a very valuable thing to learn. It will help you to not only stop using the word "gay" inappropriately, but it will also help you in many other situations in life.
 Before you say anything, ask yourself if what you are about to say is true.You know that the word "gay" has an actual definition that applies to a specific situation. Is what someone said truly "gay?" Did someone do something that was "gay?" It probably is not.


By choosing to speak only words that are true, you can avoid a lot of gossip and misunderstanding.
Asking yourself this question can also help you use a word that is more appropriate for what you are actually trying to say.
 What are your true intentions when you are using this word. Are you trying to express yourself? Are you trying to fit in? Are you trying to be funny? Are you trying to hurt someone? Will what you say hurt someone?


When you describe something as "gay," you are probably not saying something that is kind or helpful.
If your goal is to be funny or express yourself, what other ways can you do this and still be kind? There is always an alternative.
 Is it important for you to say what you are saying? Do you have to say it at this particular time? Are you adding anything to the conversation? Does the other person need to hear what you are saying?


There may be times that you should choose to be silent instead of calling something "gay." If this is the case, don't make a comment at all.
There may be other times that it is appropriate for you to be speaking, but you should just use a different word.
A good rule for deciding if what you are saying is truly necessary is to decide if what you are saying is more important than being silent.