 Everyone wants to be noticed for their incredible talent and passion, but that usually happens after you get hired. "Paying your dues" is not a ton of fun, but it is necessary in most industries. Most importantly, this is where you actually get to learn the job from the bottom up. Look at it less as an "entry-level job" and more of your on-the-job training and it will be much easier to accept.Ask around for the types of "entry-level" jobs that are recommended in your career.
If you don't have the qualifications for the job you want just yet, jumping into a related job to get experience while you study up will bolster your resume.
 This isn't always fun, but an honest comparison of yourself against your career is necessary to know what you still need to do to get your job. There are a number of good ways to fill in your experience gaps and build a resume, including:


Volunteer work
Classes at a local college
Certification or trade-specific courses (such as the CPA exam for accountants)
Large or unique personal projects
Internships, Networking has become something of a dirty word to job hunters because it feels so big, broad, and essential, but also unclear and confusing. Is it asking for jobs? How do you meet people? What do you say? Forget about all of these questions -- networking is simply making friends and connections related to your industry. You have all of the skills needed already, you just need to use them wisely.


Ask everyone you know if they know anyone in your industry. Ask them if they'd introduce you to ask questions about their job.
Ask general questions about the work, as shown above. Keep it loose and informal to keep making connections, not beg for work.
Do not ask for a job -- instead, tell them you're looking for advice and guidance starting a new career. If they have an opportunity, they will offer it to you if you're a good fit.
Always follow up with thank you emails or letters if people sit to talk to you.
Know that this takes time -- you'll likely meet 10 people for everyone one who is helpful. But this is networking -- get it as big as you can., You should be asking your interviewer questions as well, and the most important one is "room for growth." You want a career, not just a job, so knowing how you can move towards the jobs you want is essential. To do that, ask some versions of the following questions of either yourself of the interviewer:


"What are some examples of internal promotion or growth in this company?"
"Am I further along in my career for taking this job, in the same place, or behind?"
"Does this job bolster my qualifications for the types of job I want?"
"Will I be able to learn and grow in this job, or will I be stagnant?"
"Does the company seem interested and passionate about its work, or driven by the bottom line?"