 If you have already told someone you don’t want to have sex and they continue to bother you, especially if it is someone you don’t know very well like a co-worker, it may be sexual harassment.You should deal with this by telling the person to stop. You should tell someone of authority like your coach or boss.


If the person is continually making sexual comments that make you feel uncomfortable and you have told them to stop, it can be considered harassment.
You could say to the person, “What you are doing is uncomfortable and is sexual harassment. You need to stop.”
If possible, avoid the person or leave the area when they come around. You shouldn’t change your life for this person, but you can deal with them by limiting your contact.
Say to your teacher or boss, “I need to talk to you about someone that is bothering me. I think it is sexual harassment.”

, You should report it if someone has pressured you into having sex or doing something sexual when you didn’t want to. Whether it is a stranger, your spouse, or anyone else, you always have the right to say ‘no’ and to have your wishes respected. If someone pressured you into something sexual, then deal with it by telling someone.Even if you had sex with the person before, if you say ‘no’ this time, the person should stop. Just because you said ‘yes’ once, doesn’t mean you always want to have sex.
Immediately tell someone you trust what has happened. If you are nervous or afraid about reporting it, then ask them to be with you when you report it.
Try to report it to the authorities as soon as possible. It will be easier for the authorities to investigate and handle.
Talk to a professional like a crisis or trauma counselor. They can help you deal with your feelings about what happened and move on past it.
 When someone pressures you into sex more than once, it can be considered sexual abuse whether you are a child, teenager, or adult.If someone has repeatedly made you have sex when you didn’t want to, deal with it by telling someone you trust.


Don’t blame yourself and don’t try to keep what is happening a secret.
The best way to deal with it and get it to stop is by telling someone you trust what is going on. They can help you make it stop.
Go see a therapist or counselor to help you cope with the abuse and learn how to recover from it.

