 Let your baby's chin rest on your shoulder while you support them with one hand and burp them with the other. Gently pat or rub the baby’s back.Sit upright or stand while you burp the baby in this position. You can also try rocking in a chair.
Be sure to cover your back and shoulder with a cloth to avoid getting spit up on your clothes.;
, Place the baby against your chest and shoulder, but high enough up that your shoulder presses slightly into their stomach. This should help coax out any gas in their stomach. Gently rub their back with one hand and hold them with the other.Check to make sure that your baby is not slumped over too far and still able to breathe properly.
This position may work better when they are at least four months old and have more head and neck control.
Put a cloth on your shoulder and back to avoid getting spit up all over your clothes.
 Position your baby so that they are sitting on your lap or your knee facing away from you. Cradle your baby's chin in the palm of one hand and rest the heel of that hand on the baby's chest. With your other hand, pat the baby's back gently until you get a burp.Check the position of your hand. Make sure you are not holding the throat or making it hard for your baby to breathe.
This position may work better once your baby is around four months old and has better head and neck control.
Put a cloth on your baby and in your lap to avoid getting spit up everywhere.
 Put the baby face down on your lap and make sure that they are perpendicular with your body. Support their chin with one hand and gently pat their back with the other.Keep the baby's head higher than the rest of their body so blood does not rush to their head.
 If you baby is fussy, they may also need to pass gas from their bottom. In order to help them with this, lay the baby on their back and slowly flex their knees up to their chest. This will help them work gas out of both ends, but particularly the bottom., If you are not having success with one position, try another. Because of your baby’s anatomy, they may respond better to one method than another. Also, as they grow, the baby’s body will change and you may find that the method you have been using no longer works and you need to try a new one. Luckily, most babies grow out of needing to be burped after 4 to 6 months.

