 These cats are longhaired and very laid back. They love attention and are curious.They also enjoy playing when the opportunity arises, so they are great at keeping your kids entertained. They need to be groomed often because of their long fur.These cats do tend to be on the large side, averaging 9 to 18 pounds., Another longhaired cat option is the Persian. Persians are similar to Maine Coons in that they are gentle, sweet cats. They also need regular grooming, but they do very well with families., The American Shorthair is the classic American domestic cat. These cats are usually very sweet cats. The are also very laid back and gentle, perfect for a family with kids. They do need regular grooming., Burmese cats love their families and want to be around them. They are also very tolerant of kids' rambunctious behavior.They are also curious and energetic, so they'll enjoy playtime with your kids., Bombay cats look like tiny black panthers, which was the original breeder's intention. However, they are also love attention and won't be shy around your family. They are very smart, so your kids may be able to teach them tricks, like walking on a leash or playing fetch., These cats are also gentle giants, much like the Maine Coon. They also have long hair, but it doesn't need to be groomed quite as much as the Maine Coon or Persian. They also are usually okay with being handled; in fact, their name comes from the fact that they let their bodies go limp when picked up.These cats tend to be calmer than other breeds. They'll enjoy hanging out with your kids while they're reading or watching a movie., A Birman is a good option for you if you don't want a cat who's crying for attention all the time. They enjoy affection, but they are also independent. They are rarely cross, and they are usually great with kids., Manx cats can be shorthaired or longhaired. They sometimes do not have a tail. These cats are easy-going, and they get along well with families. However, they may bond the most with a single person in the family.