 The following foods have been proven to assist with growing healthy hair:Salmon contains omega-3 fatty acids, which promote the growth of full, shiny hair.
Greek yogurt contains vitamin B5, which promotes blood flow and helps keep hair thick.
Spinach contains vitamin A, iron, beta carotene, folate, and vitamin C, which combine to give you strong, well-moisturized hair.
Guava contains vitamin C, which prevents breakage.
Meats, iron-fortified cereals, and leafy greens will give you the iron you need to keep your hair growing.
Lean poultry and other sources of lean protein promote hair growth. When you’re not getting enough protein, your hair stops growing.
Cinnamon helps with your circulation, which brings oxygen and nutrients to your hair follicles.;
, Wearing makeup can dry out your lashes, making them brittle and more likely to break or fall out. Failing to remove your makeup can also cause eye irritation or even styes.


Styes are pimples that appear on your eyelids, often around the lash line. They are caused by clogged oil glands and bacteria. The irritation caused by styes can cause lashes to fall out., Use a gentle makeup remover for your eyes. Coconut oil is a good option, as it will remove your makeup and moisturize your lashes at the same time. It also has antibacterial properties.









One good way to clean the makeup off your eyes is to gently massage coconut oil into your eyelids and lashes, and then blot the oil and makeup off with a cotton pad.
Be sure not to rub your eyes too hard while cleaning them, as this could cause some of your eyelashes to fall out.
 Once you’ve removed your makeup, use a gentle facial cleanser over your entire face, including your eyelids. This will help remove any remaining oil.









Your eyelids should already be pretty clean, so just let the cleanser lightly run over your eyes. There is no need to rub it into them.
 Try to avoid wearing makeup every day — especially eye makeup and mascara. Wearing makeup every day can dry out your lashes and irritate your eyes, which can cause your lashes to break or even fall out.If you have to wear makeup to work or school, try to take a day off on the weekend.
At the very least, remove your makeup as soon as you are home and not going out for the rest of the day/night.
 Waterproof mascara not only dries out your lashes, but it is also more difficult to remove than non-waterproof formulas. The more you struggle to remove your mascara, the more likely you are to remove some eyelashes in the process., See if you can find someone who uses natural dyes and can dye your lashes a darker color. Having darker lashes may make it easier for you to skip the mascara.


If you do decide to dye your lashes, avoid chemical dyes, as these could damage your lashes and your eyes in the long run. Some experts recommend using vegetable-based semi-permanent stains instead., Both of these things involve pulling and placing pressure on your eyelashes that could cause them to fall out. If you must use an eyelash curler, squeeze it gently a few times instead of pressing down hard.If you do use an eyelash curler, be sure to only use it BEFORE applying mascara to your eyelashes. Using it on wet eyelashes increases the chances of the lashes adhering to the curler and tearing out., Whether you’re cleaning them or trying to get something out of your eye, avoid rubbing or pulling on your eyelashes, as doing so can cause them to break or fall out.









Rubbing your lashes means applying hard pressure to them while moving your fingers or other objects back and forth, or up and down, across your lashes.
Note that rubbing your lashes is not the same as massaging your eyelids, which can actually improve the health of both your eyelids and lashes.

