 You may want your staircase in a single color to match the color scheme of your home. If you have a wooden staircase, you can paint it in a shade that matches your wallpaper, carpeting, or other aspects of your house.You should use a paint primer on your staircase first, especially if it was previously painted a different color. This can help your chosen color show through.
You should usually place some painter's tape between the staircase and wall, creating a barrier between the paint and primer and your wall. When you're painting or a applying primer, you can use a roller or a paintbrush depending on the size of your stairs. It's a good idea to have a paintbrush handy to paint any hard-to-reach areas.
You can paint the stairs completely. However, you can also paint only a certain portion of the stairs if you do not want the color to overwhelm. For example, you can paint a line running down the center of the stairs, using a ruler and measuring tape to trace the line beforehand. You also may want to just paint the stair risers or just paint the top of the stairs.;
, If you want to add a design your staircase, you can use stencils. You can find stencils in a wide variety of shapes at a local craft store. You can also make your own stencils by drawing shapes on cardboard and then cutting out these shapes with an x-acto knife. Consider choosing stencils that match with other decorative elements of the room. If you have floral patterned wallpaper, for example, use flower stencils.


Many people enjoy creating a fun design by stenciling on the stair risers, which are the parts of stairs that are vertical. You will usually have to paint the risers a shade of cream or white first, if they are not already painted in this color, to help your designs stand out. You can also consider stenciling the wall around the stairs.You should dust and clean the staircase before stenciling or painting, to make sure no debris or dirt get trapped in the paint.
Place your stencil against the staircase. You can use spray mount, an adhesive spray you can purchase at a craft store, on the back of the stencil so it stays in place while you paint.
Take a small paintbrush and dab on a very light amount of the color you're using to stencil. Use tapping motions to apply paint. Go slowly, adding several layers of paint until your stencil shows up as bright as you want.
 If there's a specific design you want, like stripes or shapes, a simple way to get that design is via wallpaper. Peel and stick wallpaper, which has built-in adhesive on the back, is very easy to apply to stair risers. You can measure the dimensions of your risers, cut out wallpaper in these dimensions, and apply them to the risers. Wallpaper's main benefit is that you can chose a wide variety of shapes and decorations for your wall without having to paint or stencil them on.It's a good idea to dust and clean your staircase before applying wallpaper. Any dirt and debris trapped underneath the paper can cause bumps or ripples in the wallpaper.
 Another way to add patterns without stenciling or painting is using fabric. Fabric is cheaper than wallpaper, and provides as many design options. You can use modge podge, which you can purchase at a craft store, to apply fabric to stair risers, creating a striking design for your staircase.Measure out the dimensions of your stair risers. This should give you a rough idea of how many yards of fabric to purchase. Before you begin cutting the fabric, however, apply a layer of modge podge to the back of the fabric and allow it to dry. This will make the fabric easier to cut and also stiffer. It should take around 45 minutes for the modge podge to dry.
Once the fabric is dry, cut it into the dimensions you need. Apply a coating of modge podge to the stair risers. Then, press your fabric strips onto each riser. There may be some excess fabric along the edges of the staircase. This can be removed with an x-acto knife.
 Another fun staircase design is numbering your stairs. You can use a stencil to add a number to each stair riser. Choose a font you like for the numbers, and one that matches the aesthetic of your home., Many people enjoy adding words to your staircase. You may want to spell out a sentence running from the top of your stairs to the bottom. You can also try adding inspiring words, like hope and love, to each stair riser.


You can add words using stencils, which may be timely. You may be able to find wallpaper or fabric that has words on it, which you can apply to your staircase.
A fun way to add words is painting your staircase in chalkboard paint. Chalkboard paint can be written on in chalk, giving you the freedom to write whatever you choose on your staircase. You'll also have the liberty of changing the words for a specific season or event. If you have young children, they may have a lot of fun with chalkboard paint on the staircase.