 Building your own door frame can save some money, provided you have the time, skills and tools to do the job correctly. If you are uncertain, it is usually much easier to buy a pre-made door frame assembly or prehung door unit. Usually such pre-made products are not much more expensive, and will save you time and potential headaches.
 Determine the size of the framing members in the wall you are framing the door in. Wood studs are most often 2x4 nominal size, but 2x6 and other size studs are also used in residential framing. You can purchase the lumber you need at a lumberyard or home improvement warehouse store.









In terms of the best type of wood to use for the frame, feel free to choose lumber based on aesthetics rather than strength. Interior doors and frames are not exposed to the same harsh elements as exterior ones, so your main concern should be picking a type of wood that you like and which goes well with the door you're planning to hang on it.
Common wood types used for interior frames are:

Alder
Fir
Birch
Pine (the most popular)



, Normal, single interior doors are 22" - 42" wide and 6' 8" tall. Take into consideration what types and sizes of items you will be placing in the room. For example if the door leads to a laundry area, make sure the door will be large enough to fit a washer and dryer through, and preferably 36" wide.
 The size of the door opening will vary depending on the size of the door you plan to install. A typical door opening is 2 inches (5.1 cm) wider than the door size being installed to allow for the thickness of the jamb material and shims to plumb the jamb.









Measure your door carefully and cut the opening to fit using a reciprocating saw.
Make the opening the width of the door plus 2 inches (5.1 cm), and if additional studs are needed, a space for these, as well.
 Never cut a wall top plate! The boards secured in an upright position along the sides of the frame are referred to as studs., and are used to support the wall. The board that transverses the top of the studs is called the top plate.









To make the studs, measure the height of the door to be installed. Cut 2x4s to the height of the door plus 1 1/2 inches (5.1 cm) to allow room for the top of the frame and allowance for leveling the jamb.
To make the door header, cut 2x4s to the width of the original opening.
A "king stud" is one that runs continuously from the top plate (usually a double plate) to the bottom plate.
The "jack stud" is nailed to the king stud, but it's shorter as it supports the door header.
 To make the door header (the top of the door frame), cut two 2x4s to the same length as the width of the original opening and nail them securely together. 








You will need to add 1/2" of plywood between the 2x4's to get the right wall thickness of 3-1/2". This is the nominal size of a 2x4.

