 Paying attention to your surroundings can help you to get the most anxiety reducing benefits from your visit outdoors. While you are outside, try to focus your attention on your five senses. One way to do this is to try the 5-4-3-2-1 exercise. This exercises engages your senses and it can help to soothe anxiety.It is something that you can do easily while you are outside.


For this exercise, first name five things that you can see. This could include things like a tree, a flower, a squirrel, etc.
Then, name four things you can feel, such as the breeze on your face, the grass between your fingers, the sun on your back, etc.
Then, name three things you can hear, such as the leaves rustling in the breeze, a flowing stream, birds singing, etc.
Next, name two things you can smell, such as a flower or a pine tree.
Then, end the exercise by saying one good thing about yourself, such as “I am a nature lover.”;
, Breathing deeply while you are spending time outside can also help to soothe your anxiety. You can practice deep breathing while you are walking outdoors or while you are sitting still. As you breathe, focus on pulling the air down into your abdomen.This is called diaphragmatic breathing and it will help to ensure that you are taking full, deep breaths.


To practice deep, diaphragmatic breathing, place one hand on your abdomen and the other on your chest. Then, take in a deep breath in through your nose and focus on pulling the air down into your abdomen.
If you are pulling the air into your abdomen, then you should feel your abdomen expand. If you are breathing into your chest, then you will feel your chest expand. Keep trying until you feel your abdomen expand as you breathe in.
Try counting up to five as you take in a breath and then count down from five as you release the breathe. This will help to ensure that you are taking in slow, deep breaths.
 Meditating outside can also help you to reap more anxiety reducing benefits from the time you spend outside. Try sitting in a quiet, comfortable place, such as under a tree or near a stream. Then, close your eyes and begin to focus on your breathing.


You may also note what you hear, feel, and smell as you sit with your eyes closed.
Try to keep your mind focused on your breathing and what your senses are telling you. Don’t think about problems at work or personal issues during this time. Just try to stay focused on the present.
If your mind starts to wander, then acknowledge the thought and return to focusing on your breathing.
If you prefer, you can also try keeping your eyes open and focusing on something as you meditate.For example, you could focus on a flower, a tree, or a rock in the middle of a stream.
 Journaling has many health benefits, including stress and anxiety reduction. By writing about how you are feeling, you may also gain a better understanding of the sources of your anxiety.The next time you are outside, try writing freely in your journal for as long as you like. Write about anything that you are thinking about or feeling at the time.
Write as much or as little as you like. You can write ½ a page or 10 pages. Just write as much as you feel like writing.
Don’t feel like you have to stick to a strict format. If you prefer, you can make lists, draw pictures, or write a poem.
 Living with an anxiety disorder can be difficult. However, you don't have to cope with your problem alone. Seeing a therapist and/or taking medication can help make your life with anxiety much more manageable and can dramatically improve your quality of life.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), exposure therapy, and psychotherapy ("talk" therapy) are all proven ways of treating anxiety disorders.
Support groups are also an option. For many people, having a shared experience makes an anxiety disorder easier to live with.
Medication also helps many people with anxiety. Some antidepressants are effective at treating anxiety, while benzodiazepines are effective at stopping a panic attack and temporarily relieving the symptoms of anxiety.
 If you live with anxiety, you've probably gotten used to the symptoms of a panic attack. If you haven't had anxiety for long, though, you may not yet recognize when you're feeling anxious. Learning how to recognize an episode of anxiety is crucial if you want to seek medical help or take a trip into nature to relieve your symptoms.If you find yourself opting out of social, academic, or otherwise enjoyable situations due to uncontrollable fear or discomfort, you may be experiencing a bout of anxiety.
Some physical sensations that may accompany anxiety include shortness of breath, heart palpitations, hot and cold flashes, and shaking/trembling.
Symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder may include worry, rapid or racing thoughts, chronic muscle tension, persistent stomach cramps, nausea, or GI issues.The mental symptoms of anxiety may include obsessive thinking, uncontrollable worrying, and feeling like something catastrophic is happening.
 For many people, spending time in nature quickly relieves stress and anxiety.However, being in nature requires you to give up some control over your situation. For many people, a lack of control can actually trigger anxiety.If you have obsessive compulsive disorder or are otherwise prone to anxiety when you can't control a situation, spending time in nature may actually make your anxiety worse.
Talk to your doctor or therapist to determine if exposure to nature would be a good treatment option for you.
 Once you've decided to spend time in nature, you'll need to choose an outing that's right for you. If you live in a city, it may be easier for you to spend time at a city park. If you live in a more rural area, you may have an easier time finding hiking trails that are farther removed from urban areas.Always choose an outdoor area with well-marked trails and published maps. You can find maps by contacting your local parks department or ranger station, or by searching online.
 Many novice hikers make the mistake of wearing denim jeans. However, denim (cotton) absorbs moisture and can easily freeze in cold conditions. Choose materials that are designed for use during outdoor recreation. You can find wool or moisture-wicking polyester materials online or at your local outdoor sports retailer.Because cotton absorbs water, it will not keep you warm when wet.
Moisture-wicking fabrics like wool and polyester help keep your body dry and warm. They also tend to help you stay warm, even when the material is wet.
Always pack a base layer, a warm layer for insulation, a waterproof/windproof layer, and socks that provide cushion and airflow., Footwear can make or break a wilderness experience. While comfortable boots or shoes can make you forget that you're hiking long distances, uncomfortable footwear will deliver agony every step of the way.Wearing hiking boots or shoes straight out of the box leads to blisters and discomfort on the trail. Lightweight trail shoes tend to break in more quickly than taller, thicker hiking boots.
Your feet swell up when you stand or walk for prolonged periods. In the course of a single day, your feet may swell up by half a shoe size or more.
Consider your needs when choosing footwear, including factors like weather conditions, trail conditions, and any ankle or foot problems you have that may require extra support.Always break your shoes or boots in for a few weeks before a big hike. You can do this by wearing them while doing yard work, walking your dog, or even walking around your local mall.
Check the return policy before breaking in new boots or shoes. If you cannot make returns after the footwear has been used outside, stick to indoor use to break in your boots/shoes.
 Even on a short day hike (a trip on which you don't intend to camp in the backcountry), you should always carry some essentials with you in your pack. These basic necessities will help you survive if you get lost, injured, or stranded after sunset.Before embarking on any trip into nature, you should always bring the following items:


a compass and a detailed topographic map of the area (with trail distances marked clearly)
water and a means of purifying more drinking water if necessary (filter, tablets, etc.)
extra layers that will keep you warm and dry
bug spray, sunscreen, a brimmed hat, and sunglasses
a flashlight or headlamp and extra batteries, even if you intend to return before sunset
food or snacks with a high caloric count for a quick energy boost

, If you're not used to spending time in nature, trying to dive into a long-distance backpacking trip or an extended camp out could be dangerous. It's best to start out slow when you're first getting used to spending time in nature. This can make your trip more relaxing and safe for you and your companion(s).Begin with short day trips. Stick with trails that are only a mile or less, and if possible, choose a trail that loops back so you don't have to double your mileage.
See how you react to being around nature in small doses. It's usually a relaxing experience, but for some people, it may not be enjoyable.
 Whether you're new to the outdoors or a seasoned hiker and camper, it's imperative to know your own abilities and limitations. Never push yourself beyond your ability or attempt to do more than you're comfortable with.Be aware of any physical limitations you might have, including allergies, asthma, heart problems, and physical injuries or disabilities.
Consider the trail conditions, altitude, and weather.
Recognize your own fitness level. Never attempt a trail that is outside of your ability level.
 If you're not used to spending time in nature, it may be safer and more enjoyable for you to bring a hiking companion. Invite a friend or relative, or look for new hiking partners through social clubs in your area. You can find these clubs by searching online for hiking groups near you.Always let your outdoor partner know your experience (or lack thereof) with spending time in nature, as well as any limitations you might have.
Try to find a hiking companion who has more experience than you and won't mind teaching you about trail safety.
 Starting a trip into nature late in the day poses many risks. For one thing, you lose a lot of sunlight for the day and risk having to hike out in the dark. Starting too late in the day also runs the risk of having to deal with cooler temperatures and inclement weather, depending on your location.Many high altitude regions like the Rocky Mountains are prone to afternoon thunderstorms. If you start your hike in the afternoon in a place like this, you risk getting stuck in a storm far from the trailhead.
Hiking after sunset poses many risks. In addition to hiking in the dark, you'll also have to deal with the risk of nocturnal wildlife and the colder evening temperatures, which in some regions may be a drastic change.
Always check the weather forecast for the region you'll be in and be prepared for cooler temperatures at higher elevations.
You should also check what time the sun will set that day and plan your trip accordingly.
 Spending time in nature can be a relaxing, anxiety-relieving experience. However, if you push yourself to the point of exhaustion or rush to get through the trail, you may end up feeling stressed or even physically ill.Don't overexert yourself. Walk or hike at a comfortable pace and take breaks whenever you feel the need to.
When you take a break, spend a few moments observing the nature around you. Focus on your breath and notice your surroundings.
 Whenever you venture into nature, it's important to practice leave no trace (LNT) principles. These guidelines help ensure a safe and accessible nature experience for you and for the countless other hikers who will explore that region in the future.Stay on trails and camp only on durable surfaces.
Dispose of all waste properly. Pack out any garbage or waste that you bring into nature.
Leave things that you find untouched. Never remove any natural objects from parks or wilderness areas.
Be respectful of wildlife and considerate of other people enjoying the outdoors.

