 Egypt is a truly ancient kingdom, which history dates around 120,000 years BC, and has led a cherished life until it was conquered by the Romans and was part of various empires in later years including the Ottoman, French and British Empires.


It is not clear when Egyptian history truly started although by 5500 BC communities were settling around the Nile and developing agriculture. This era is typically known as the Pre-dynastic period. The climate was far less arid then than it is now, with much of the land covered with Savannah and grasslands.
The Early Dynastic period started around 3050BCE is typically formed by the uniting of two Kingdoms, Upper Egypt, which paradoxically is in the south of Egypt and Lower Egypt which is in the northern Nile Delta regions. This period developed the powerful institution of the Pharaohs, which were critical to its stability, regional influence and survival. In 2868 BC the period known as the Old Kingdom started, it was within this age that greater developments started, such as a justice system, taxation system and other levels of governance as well as more advanced crop management. The practice of creating Pyramids started in this era, creating what would become many "cities of the dead" which are known as necropolis. In this age were the building of the pyramids of Giza and the Sphinx among many others.
In 2181 BC, power struggles as well as over a century of famine conditions weakened the structure of Egypt and created what is known as the First Intermediate Period. This period lasted a relatively short time as Egypt had re-split into Upper and Lower Egypt and the period ended when the two rival dynasties went to war, with the winners being Upper Egypt who ruled from Thebes.
In 2134 BC The Pharaohs of the Upper Kingdom had reunited Egypt and set to restore the countries prosperity. This era is known as the Middle Kingdom and an age when Egypt controlled great wealth from agriculture, precious metals and led to a great revival of arts, literature and architecture. This kingdom collapsed yet again due to famine and restive migrants.
1674 BC was the start of the Second Intermediate Period. In this age the Pharaohs power was heavily reduced and was expected to pay tribute to what were seen as foreign rulers that are known as 'Hyksos'. However they did absorb Egyptian culture as a way to hold power and introduced many new inventions. The Pharaoh's court was forced to remain at the old capital, where it was kept busy by an old enemy Nubia (Sudan & Ethiopia) to the south and the Hyksos to the North.
By 1549BCE, The Pharaohs had gradually built the military and defeated both Nubia and the Hyksos, which lead to the New Kingdom. In this age the Egyptian Empire was at its largest and saw a great period of arts, monument building and literature. This age built vast wealth, however as its religious institutions become too powerful, the nation fractured once again.
The Third Intermediate Period lasted for quite some time, starting from 1069 BC and was ruled by many dynasties, including many Libyan princes. While the empire regained power, wealth and prestige, it also was a period with many wars that led to an eventual decline.
By 672BCE, the two kingdoms were reunited and this is known as the Late period. In this age Egypt was threatened by many different Kingdoms and was eventually conquered the the Greeks in 332BCE, by Alexander the Great.
The Ptolemaic period was 3 centuries ruled by Greek dynasties, however the Hellenistic culture did not overthrow the ancient culture and the Greek rulers absorbed the local culture and religion to hold power. 30 BCE is marked by the famous story of Cleopatra, arguably the last true independent Pharaoh of Egypt, but does not count as the last Egyptian Pharaoh which was before the invasion by Greece. The stories say that Cleopatra having failed to fend off a Roman invasion during a Roman civil war with her Roman lover Mark Antony and committed suicide after which Egypt swiftly fell to the Romans.;
, Egypt had an enormous variety of different creation myths, legends as well as Gods and Goddesses. This lasted until 391 when the Christian emperors eroded and banned any traditional institutions. Eventually, Christianity gave way to Islam which is the majority religion today.


In ancient Egypt, the location of the Nile was important. The living lived on the east of the Nile, where the sun rose, and in a rite of passage the deceased were taken to the west of the Nile, which were the lands of the dead. The tradition of placing pennies in the coffin or on the corpse to pay for the ferryman comes from ancient Egypt.
Deities were not always seen as benevolent and the faithful prayed to them for protection against their wrath. This pattern also created many of the animal Gods such as the hippopotamus - a most dangerous creature - as well as other predators.
The overall system was complex, and the priests typically made little effort to unify the religion and resolve conflicting myths. This in many ways did not seem to pose a major problem as it would today.
Egypt was also the place where the worlds first recorded monotheistic religion started long before the current religions of today. This was a short lived period ruled by Akhenaten, who worshiped a sun God known as Aten. After this king died, his successor, Tutankhaten, revived the old ways and changed his name to Tutankhamun, cementing his power by invoking the old Sun God Amun.
The later transfer from the old religions to Christianity was not a smooth transition, with the mathematician and philosopher Hypatia later murdered outside a large Church during a time of political rivalry as a scapegoat. This event is sometimes marked as the end of the classical civilization.
The Pharaohs and the nobles were mummified as a way to ensure their pathway to eternal paradise was safe. To help preserve the body, parts were extracted (including the brain through the nose) and stored in canopic jars. They often took furniture, gold, food and slaves (in early days slaves were entombed alive with the Pharaoh, but later sculptural images were made to represent them), as things to enjoy in the next world.
Egyptian temples were slightly different to Greek and Roman temples. The God occupied a small sanctum or chamber and the priests dealt directly with the God - the common person usually didn't even get close but used the priest as an intermediary. On very special occasions the image of the god was taken out into the public space for worship.
Gods served as an important role not only in life, but in death. A person who traveled to the underworld had their heart weighed on a pair of scales against the feather of truth, while they were interrogated by the Gods about their life. Should their heart be heavy (also if they lie), their heart would be fed to a demon monster and that person would then be damned.
Visit Design and Make a Canopic Jar, Embalm & Make a Mummy for more insights about the methods they used!

, Egypt was quite advanced in its time in medicine. The stone ground flour was gritty and wore down Egyptians teeth, the close proximity to the Nile bought parasites, malaria and other diseases and a lot of work related injuries. Many mummies reveal the wealthy were often overweight from a rich diet. Adult life expectancy for Egyptians was around 35 and with infant mortality high with 1/3 of infants dying, the Egyptians lived fast and died young, and death was a central facet of their philosophy.


Egyptian doctors were highly specialized so that there were doctors for specific ailments. Egyptians at quite an early age used bandages, set bones, stitched wounds, performed dentistry, amputated limbs, had an understanding of anatomy and even created prosthetic.
In medicine, they used honey as an antiseptic, herbal medicines and opium for pain management (many of these are still used today in processed forms), but not all medicines actually worked, some of them have been shown to have no curative properties, relied on sorcery and some even contained animal dung!
Egyptians were early and very skilled in glass making, creating their own type of glass known as Faience. They made many household and decorative objects as well as tiles out of glass.
They were also expert shipbuilders, mastering the art as early as 3000 BC, as their location on the Nile river as well as access to the Mediterranean sea made ships a highly useful tool to trade and transport wares.
The ancient Egyptians were expert mathematicians and engineers, which was an important skill not only around the nation but for building the great monuments Egypt is famous for. While it is still open to debate how the Egyptians created vast palaces, temples, pillars, obelisks, pyramids and other structures, it is certain the Egyptians were skilled at the architectural sciences.
Other important early development are paper from papyrus, art and painting, precision tools, mining, irrigation, astronomy, metal smelting, ceramics, pigment making and masonry.
Visit Make Papyrus, Build a Karel Drbal Pyramid, Read Egyptian Hieroglyphics & Multiply Like the Ancient Egyptians for more insight into their language, science and mathematics.
 Egypt had as principal the pharaoh who enacted most laws. While Egypt does not seem to have had a fixed legal code like the modern world (or one that has survived), most cases were resolved by arbitration between local elders in a common sense methodology, preferring mediation or an agreement between the two.


Severe crimes tended to be referred to the Pharaoh & the vizier to judge. The system was complex for these cases as the Judge was also the prosecutor and the plaintiff and defendant in the case had to defend their own cases. Punishments were often severe and extended to the family of the criminal.
Egyptian society was very class conscious and unlike the Greeks had little fluidity between the hierarchical classes. After the Pharaoh came the scribes, officials and then the priests, doctors, engineers and other scholars, below them came the craftsmen and workers, below them were the farm workers and at the bottom of the ladder were the slave populations.
However, ancient Egypt like Greece did have an equal system for men and women where they were equal under the law and all classes except the slaves could petition to have their case heard and resolved. Egyptian women were more free than their descendants in the modern religions. Both men and women could also marry, own property, sell and trade, inherit and make contracts equally, which was unlike many of Egypt’s neighbors The downside is that they tended to have less access to education if their family did not persist in it, did not always occupy high positions in administration and that while many women ruled as Pharaoh; they often wore a symbolic and prosthetic beard to represent masculine strength.
The military defended the nation and was typically recruited from the populace but in later years, which caused much strife, relied on mercenaries and foreign troops.
Egypt however had a very centralized and well managed economy, in which the temples played in a key role as many granaries and good pasture was in the temple property. All products bought and wages paid were on a fixed rate, so inflation was heavily controlled. Workers were paid in a fixed rate of grain of which they could barter with and administrators were paid in grain and silver or copper.
Enforced recruitment was known during times of pyramid and monument building (which seeing the short life expectancy was quite often), as well as times of civil war which was also fairly common.
 Egypt was a world spice center and an important part of the world as the fertile valley around the Nile had regular flood and dry periods which allowed new silt rich to improve the soil. This gave Egypt regular crop surpluses in good years, but like today, the Nile is still the life source of Egypt.
Like many other cultures, the ancient Egyptians relied a lot of beer as a beverage as the Nile water was unsafe to drink. This beer was often thick, cloudy and nutritious almost to being a watery porridge or gruel. Wine was imported or made locally, but beer was the beverage for the common people.
Vegetables could be grown almost year round and included a lot of onions and garlic, lettuce, pulses and beans - especially lentils and chickpeas, as well as varieties of cucumber, gourd and water plant tubers.
Fruits included melons, dates, nuts, figs, grapes and pomegranates. Coconuts were imported from the tropics at great expense and by the Roman period, they had a range of stone fruits such as apple, pear, plums and quince as well as almonds, walnuts and pistachios.
The ancient Egyptian diet was low in sugar, but the Egyptians did like their sweet dishes which were frequently made of honey, sweet carob pods, dates and figs.
In the early dynasties when the Nile valley was lush and green, meat was a common staple, which included antelope, birds such as duck, geese and quail, as well as ostrich, crocodile and even hippo and porcupine! They also farmed cows, goats, sheep and pigs for consumption and fished often, but fish was more a commoner’s diet, where further north in Rome & Greece, fish was incredibly expensive.
Other staples include breads, cheese and eggs, but for the poorer people bread, beer and legumes or pulses tended to be the main foundations.
 The Egyptian home varied according to the wealth of the inhabitant, basic homes were typically mud brick houses, often with white painted walls, reed mat carpets, decorative fabric wall hangings and a semi detached kitchen, which was usually made without a roof to be able to let the heat and smoke of the fires out of the house.


The Egyptian bed was usually a solid wooden frame bed, with a reed mat if any for padding, the beds often doubled up as seating during the day. There was no pillow, but a headrest made from wood or metal as the only additional comfort.
The Egyptians enjoyed theater although as the climate is excessively hot, it was never as big as the Greeks and Romans who built vast amphitheater and circus arenas. However the Abydos Passion play is still likely to be the world’s oldest existent play.
Clothing in ancient Egypt was very egalitarian, both men and women wore a large folded piece of bleached white linen, while children wore no clothes until they were 12 after which they were given clothing and had their heads shaved.
Popular past-times includes board games such as Senet, Mehen (unfortunately the rules have long been lost so it is unknown how to play this game) and Hounds and Jackals. For the youth, ball games, wrestling and games such as marbles made from old knuckle bones were popular. Egyptian games didn't have dice, so used a series or color coded sticks or bones to create values.
The wealthy classes often enjoyed hunting and fishing, but the poorer classes were typically tied to their farms and so had little time for leisure during the day.
Hygiene was very important, which in a hot climate is an important consideration as well as for religion. Men and women bathed often if not daily and used a soap made from oils and sand or fat and crushed chalk. Men often shaved their entire bodies and both genders used scented ointments as a perfume. Women often used a mirror made of polished bronze and both genders used Kohl, which is an eye makeup with medicinal as well as sun protective qualities.
The Egyptians loved music and parties, although they were expensive. Common instruments included a wide range such as drums, cymbals, bells, flutes, trumpets, pipe instruments, lyres and harps.
Egyptian palaces were much grander affairs, often featuring great painted murals, polished stone and fine furnishings - often expensive wood such as cedar imported from elsewhere, to be able to express the great wealth of Egypt.
Visit Play Senet for an idea about the worlds oldest board game!

, You can learn from online sources, documentaries, visiting museums as well as from history experts to gain an insight into an empire, culture and its people whose effects can still be felt today within the modern world.

