 Ask your friend if she has a cell phone and what her number is. Text her first one day and see how she responds. If she texts back and ask questions, she is probably interested in developing the friendship. If she does not text back or gives you one word answers, she may not be interested.


Texting is also a good way to have conversations if you are shy or get nervous in person. You can get to know the person so it is easier to talk in person.
If you text her and she never responds, do not continue to text her. Wait to see if she will text you first.
You should not always be the person that initiates conversations.
 It will take time to go from being friends to becoming best friends. You have to get to know the person really well and allow the person to get to know you.It may take many months before someone becomes your best friend.


Some friends are not meant to be your best friend. There is nothing wrong with staying regular friends.
Over time, you should be able to tell if the person wants to be your best friends as well. They will put time and effort into your relationship.
 A best friend is someone that you can trust. You must also show this person that you are trustworthy. Do not talk about your friend to other people. If your friend tells you a secret, do not tell anyone else. If you are ever worried about something your friend tells you, let your friend know that you are worried and suggest the two of you talk to an adult that you trust.
If you and your friend get into an argument, work it out with your friend and do not tell other people.
 Doing new activities with someone else will create a bond between the two of you. It is even better if the activity is something that neither one of you has tried before. You can then create a special memory for just the two of you., If you do not see your friend on a regular basis, it will be hard to take your friendship to the next level.How often you spend time together will depend on both of your schedules. Try to make plans in person.


Do not be too pushy or overbearing when you ask. If your friend seems hesitant about making future plans, back off.
Let the person know that you're happy that the two of you are friends and you look forward to hanging out with them.
You could also text the person after you hang out and say, "I had fun today. Can't wait to hang out again!"

, You are more likely to become best friends with someone that you share similarities with.You can talk about your likes and dislikes, but spend more time on the things that both of you like. If you tend to laugh at the same type of jokes or have similar taste in music and movies, you have greater chances of becoming best friends.


You will not like everything about your potential best friend, but focus on her good qualities and the fun times that you have with her.
Keep in mind that the more time you spend around someone, you will begin to pick up some their same behaviors. Choose wisely when you pick a best friend.

