 If for some reason you were prohibited from attending college or university you still may be able to attend some classes. Some universities and colleges offer free on-line classes and may even allow you to collect credit for that class. There are also many on-line courses and classes that are open and free to attend. Search on-line for free courses that might be of interest to your career goals.


http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm
http://online.stanford.edu/courses
http://www.online.colostate.edu/free-online-courses/
http://online-learning.harvard.edu/courses?cost

, Your community may offer local courses and classes that can impart to you the skills and information that you need for your career goals. Many of these courses will offer certifications or other documentation proving that you have obtained the skills offered by them. By taking these classes you can help increase your chances of obtaining a new position without having attended college classes.


Taking classes that offer certification can be a good way to demonstrate your completion of that course to an employer.
Public libraries can be a good place to check for community workshops and classes.
Some colleges will offer community classes, allowing you to attend without actually being enrolled as a student.
There are many community learning centers that offer courses and classes.
 A good way to obtain education and skills without attending college or university is to secure an apprenticeship or internship. These are usually hands-on and direct learning experiences, allowing you to train specifically for the position you are working towards.


Some internships may be paid positions.
Many apprenticeship positions are paid positions.
Both apprenticeships and internships can lead to you being hired directly.
Many internships and apprenticeships are highly competitive.
Try looking online for open apprenticeships near you at http://www.dol.gov/apprenticeship/find-opportunities.htm


, Trade schools are instructional institutions that are geared towards teaching specific trades and the skills they require. These schools are usually much less expensive than college or university and can generally be completed in only two years. Trade schools can be a good choice if you are limited by time or money, allowing you to still get an education and learn professional skills.Trade schools are often much more affordable than college tuition.
Most trade school programs take only two years.
Trade schools teach skills that are in high demand such as welding, plumbing, health care, professional cooking and automotive repair.
 Joining the military can be a good way to get hands-on instruction in many skills that can work towards your career goals. The military offers training as well as funds for college after your service has ended, should you decide to attend. Do some research to see if the military is a good fit for your goals.The military will offer training for whatever position and role you are assigned.
College funds are made available to those who successfully complete their service.
 There are many positions that are open to those without a college education. The employers that make these positions available will often times want their employees to continue to learn and grow in their professional life, making available funding and time to attend classes. Taking advantage of these classes, courses, or development workshops can be a great way to still receive an education while having secure employment.Learning new skills and information about your current job will let you be at your best.
If you have to leave you current position, staying up to date will increase that chances of you getting rehired elsewhere.

