 Check with local animal shelters and rescue centers to see if they need help with the organization of a fundraiser.


If you cannot be there in person, offer your help by sharing information with friends and family about the event.;
, Animal shelters and rescues provide services for many pets, some of which have faced abusive pasts. Volunteering will go a long way toward helping these institutions sustain their work. There are also organizations dedicated to rehabilitating abused farm animals that welcome the help of volunteers.Get in touch with a shelter or sanctuary to see where they need help and how you might be most impactful.
If you are unable to donate your time, spread the word to others or make a monetary donation.
 Pets at animal shelters were often abandoned or unwanted, and have potentially faced abuse. Adopting one of these pets will help give them a loving family and become a great addition to the family.


Many shelters often have euthanasia policies due to receiving abandoned and unwanted pets at a high volume. Not only is adopting a pet giving it a happy and loving home, but it is also saving a life., If you are unable or not yet ready to adopt a pet, consider fostering animals. Many shelters and rescues are in need of foster parents willing to provide a temporary home to unwanted or abandoned animals. Being a foster parent to an animal provides the animal with more time to find a permanent home.Every adoption agency or animal shelter has different requirements for potential fosters. Get in touch with a local adoption agency or shelter to discuss the application process and requirements for being a foster parent.
Most agencies and shelters will have a foster care coordinator work with you throughout the process to help you determine which type of pet (puppies, dogs, kittens, cats, etc.) might be best for you., Most adoption agencies and animal shelters will have extensive histories available about the pet you are considering adopting or fostering. Ask the shelter or agency questions about the animal’s temperament, whether it has been fostered before, and what kinds of abuse it has suffered. The more information you have about your pet the better home you will be able to make for them.If your pet has been fostered before, reach out to the previous foster parents to find out about the animal’s comfort zone and what actions, behaviors, or environments should be avoided.
Many agencies and shelters also offer rehabilitation for abused animals. Reach out to your shelter or agency to see if your pet has been enrolled in rehabilitation or if there is a program you can enroll in together.