 Cut a 2-inch (5-centimeter) square out of parchment paper. Place a dot of icing on the flower nail, then press the parchment paper on top.
 A petal tip is a slanted tip that is wider at one end, and narrower at the other. Great examples include the Wilton 101, 102, and 103., You can use royal icing or buttercream icing, but it needs to be medium-consistency., Hold the bag so that the tip is at a 45-degree angle to nail head. Make sure that the narrower side of the tip is facing up. Using a medium amount of pressure, gently squeeze the bag while turning the nail by 1/5., Once you have a tight, C-shaped petal, strop squeezing the bag, and sweep the tip at a downward angle to cut off the icing., Make sure that all of the petals are touching, and that they are all connected in the center., Use cake decorating tweezers to place three yellow sugar pearls in the center of the flowers.You can also use a tiny round tip (ie: Wilton 1) and dark pink icing to make 3 to 5 dots instead.Make sure that the pears/dots are not touching.
 Set it down onto a baking sheet, and allow the flower to dry. This will take about 3 hours. You can make as many flowers as you like., The item you will be decorating should already be frosted. The icing should be cool, firm, and set., Use a small round tip (ie: Wilton 3) for larger flowers and branches, and a tiny round tip (ie: Wilton 1) for smaller ones., Stiff icing would be ideal, but a medium-consistency would also be fine., Start your branch from the edge of the cake or cookie, and move it towards the center. It can be straight or slightly bent. Try to make the branch thicker at the base, and thinner at the tip.

If you are using a tiny round tip (ie: Wilton 1), consider creating a "rope" instead by piping tiny, tight coils., These branches should be smaller and shorter. Try having two on one side of the main branch, and one on the other side, for some variety., Plan on using 6 to 8 blossoms per branch.If you have a lot of branches to decorate, it would be a good idea to separate them into smaller groups ahead of time., The icing can be plain, white icing, or it can be leftover pink, brown, or grey icing., Try to arrange the flowers in small clumps. Focus on the ends of the branches, then fill in the negative space between them., This includes the icing on the branch and the icing that's holding the cherry blossoms in place.