 Before you begin eating, unfold your napkin and place it across your lap. This way no food will drop onto your clothing while you are eating. You should never tuck your napkin into the front of your shirt or dress when engaging in a fine dining experience., At a very formal dinner, you may notice three sets of cutlery around your plate. Forks will be positioned to the left of your plate, spoons will be above your plate, and knives will be to the right of your plate. Always work your way inwards with each dish. This means that the cutlery positioned farthest from your plate should be used for the first course.If you are still unsure of which utensils to use first, watch what other people at the table are doing and follow their lead.
 It is rude to begin eating while other people at your table are still waiting for their food to be served. The only exception to this rule is if the host requests that you begin eating, or if your fellow diners tell you to start eating before your food gets cold., Most chefs pride themselves on perfectly seasoning their dishes. As a result, it can be seen as a rude gesture to season your food before tasting it. At some high end restaurants there will not even be salt and pepper available on the table. Always taste the food first and then determine if you would like some added seasoning., If you can't reach the bread basket or table seasoning, do not reach across the table to fetch it yourself. Instead, you should politely ask someone to pass it to you. Try saying something along these lines: “Excuse me, Jim. Could you please pass me the table salt?”, When eating soup, keep the bowl on the table and dip your spoon into the centre of the bowl. Then, scoop the soup moving the spoon away from you, towards the farthest side of the bowl. Bring the spoon to your mouth and sip the soup off of the spoon.Try not to make a slurping noise as you eat your soup.
 If you need to leave the table to go to the washroom, make a quick phone call, or touch up your make-up, that is understandable. Simply stand up, place your napkin on your chair and say “please excuse me.” You don’t need to give any details about why you wish to leave the table, but you should never try to sneak off without excusing yourself first.If you have to leave early and will not be returning, you should give a brief explanation and apologize to the guests before departing.

