 It is important for parents and caregivers to understand and differentiate between the two parenting styles of authoritarian and authoritative, as the two terms are often misunderstood.

An authoritarian parent is one who is concerned with strict order and control over everything. Authoritarian parents are typically black and white thinkers, and believe in one way of doing things, which is their way, without much (if any) variation for the child to express their freedom and individuality.
Children who are raised in households where authoritarian parenting was used may grow to rebel against authority later on in life, or they may become indecisive often relying on others to make decisions for them.
An authoritative parent or caregiver will have set rules and guidelines for their children and follow through with the consequences if the rules and guidelines are not adhered to. An authoritarian parent is typically consistent with their expectations and feedback for their children. There is an allowance for the child to express their individuality, and freedom as long as it is expressed responsibly and safely.
Studies have shown that the authoritative parenting style is the best approach to take for all children, gifted or not, as it allows all children to grow to be independent and responsible creative thinkers. Children raised in authoritative households typically will grow up to be reasonable responsible risk takers, and are confident with themselves and the life that they live.;
, Arguing back will only fuel your gifted child’s debate, elongate the argument, and reinforce argumentation as an effective communication strategy. A gifted child may present a logical argument such as, “Why should I have to go to sleep when it’s still light out?” You can respond by saying, “Bedtime is at eight o’clock. We can revisit your summer bedtime tomorrow, but you will not be allowed to watch television tomorrow since you did not go to be on time tonight.”, Gifted children are talented at attempting to argue their way out of abiding by the rules. If a child knows that arguing will eventually result in you changing the rules or allowing them to get their way, they will continue to push you. Be firm and consistent with rules, and do not deviate or your child will think that rules can be broken, and that arguing is a way to achieve their goals.If the consequence for not completing homework on time is the removal of television privileges for three days, be consistent. Stick to the three day consequence rather than giving in after only one day.
 As with any relationship, a parent must choose their battles with a gifted child. Rules should be consistent, fair, and appropriate to the child’s age and developmental stage. For example, it is appropriate that a four-year-old does not play in the street and that your sixteen-year-old does not stay out until two o’clock in the morning. It might, however, be unreasonable to demand that your teenager dress the way you want them to. This might not be a battle worth fighting., Arguments with gifted children often arise out of the child’s perception that others’ rules make no sense and desire to feel in control. While you need to maintain control and set rules in general, letting your child make some rules in a controlled setting will allow them to feel a sense of control. This, in turn, can curb conflict and argument.Allow your child to make a rule about cleaning their room. For example, allow them to choose the day or days each week that the room must be cleaned.
Try negotiating a curfew with your teenager. For example, start with a low offer of 8:30pm and allow the teen to negotiate a 10:00pm policy.
 When the parent or caregiver praises the child’s accomplishments, rather than their efforts, they minimize the work that the child put forth into their endeavor. Empower your child and build their resiliency by praising their efforts and the process they have undergone.

This will teach your gifted child that accomplishments and success are not measured by a final product. They will learn to have more appreciation for the steps that were taken throughout their process of completing a goal or accomplishing a task, as well as the end result.
 Arguments with gifted children often arise from problems that include the child and the family as a whole. Recognizing the problem is the first step in creatively and effectively addressing solving problems and avoiding arguments. Sit down with your family members and ask everyone to talk about the problem. Conflicts over using communal space and objects, respecting the property of other family members, and taking turns are all common conflicts that should be recognized as family, rather than individual problems.Trying saying, "Kids, it seems like we have a problem sharing television time. There have been multiple arguments about it this week. Let's each take a turn and talk about what we think the problem is."

, Finding out what the “real” problem is will help your family address the issue and avoid arguments. For example, your family might identify shoes being left on the stairs as a problem. Ask family members why shoes are being left on the stairs. Refrain from judgment until everyone has responded. Next ask, “How can we work together as a family to solve this problem?” This strategy will avoid arguments with a gifted child who might say, “Dad leaves his shoes on the stairs, so I’m not picking up mine!”Try saying, "Let's each take a turn and talk about what we think is the cause of this problem. We will all listen to each other talk, and will not speak until it is our turn."

, Refrain from criticism, welcome off-the-wall ideas, and encourage combining ideas as your family works together to come up with a solution. It’s important that your gifted child and all members of the family feel their ideas are being recognized. Suggest combining ideas from different family members as you work toward a resolution.Try saying, "Let's come up with some solutions to the problem. I'm going to write them all down, even if they seem wacky. Once we all have a chance to talk about our ideas for solutions, we will put our heads together and come up with a strategy that works for everyone."
Once you come up with alternative solutions, evaluate the ideas based on criteria like feasibility, usefulness, and how much time it might take to institute the solution.
 Once your family has come up with solutions, evaluated them, and decided on the best one, it’s time to turn the idea into an action. Include your gifted child and all members of the family in developing a plan to implement the solution. During this phase, come up with possible obstacles you might face in the implementation and how you can address them as families and as individuals.Try saying, "It looks like we can avoid the mess on the stairs if we place a basket there for everyone to put their shoes in. Are there any obstacles you think we might run into with this solution? How can we solve them?"

, Empathy, or the ability to understand or share another person’s feelings and experiences, is at the core of our experience as humans. Being able to understand another person’s perspective and valuing perspectives other than our own is key to cultivating meaningful, compassionate relationships with others. Empathy can help your child take someone else’s perspective into account, which, in turn, can help the child avoid arguments with others.Tell your child about a time you felt sad about something. Ask them to think about a time when they also felt sad about something similar.
 Empathizing with your child will help them develop a secure attachment to you, facilitating their adoption of your values and modeling of your behavior. This will help your child build empathy for others, taking the needs and emotions of others into consideration.When your child is upset or happy about something, ask them to share their feelings with you. Then think about a time when you had similar emotions. Talk to your child about how you felt at that time, and explain how that past experience helps you understand how your child might feel in the present.
 It’s important that your child has opportunities to nurture their capacity for empathy and regularly consider the feelings, needs, and perspectives of others. Providing these opportunities can help you avoid arguments with a gifted child as they will cultivate their capacity to understand why, for example, you need help with chores after a long day of work.Try holding regular family meetings where you discuss conflicts and challenges. Ask family members to talk about their perspective and feelings on a particular matter.
 When your child is angry, sad, or frustrated about something, encourage them to talk you about these feelings and why, exactly, they might be feeling a particular way. While you may not accept the bad behavior or argumentative tactics that accompany a child’s emotions, they need to know that all feelings are okay – even the bad ones!When your child is sad, try saying, "Anna, you seem upset. What are you feeling today? Do you want to talk about it?"

, Gifted children will often argue with parents or other authority figures when they feel their emotions, thoughts, and perspectives are not being recognized. Never ignore your child’s emotions or assess them as being overly dramatic. Instead, recognize their feelings as valid at all times, and especially during conflicts that could quickly turn into an argument.For example, if your child is angry because you asked them to clean their room, do not dismiss their feelings. Try asking, "John, are you feeling angry about this situation? Let's talk about why you feel this way."

, Avoiding arguments with gifted children can begin with self-control. Practice a deep breathing approach with your child. First, take a deep breath through the nose. Next, exhale slowly as you count to five. Practice this with your child. When you see them getting upset, or when they begin arguing with you, practice the approach together. This will help both parent and child maintain a sense of calm and avoid explosive arguments.