 Do you tease and straighten it? Well if you are serious about having healthy hair then maybe cut some of it out. Learn to love your natural hair or keep your natural hair some days.;
, Lots of water and a diet rich in fruit, veg, fish and nuts will make your hair gleam. You won't get glossy tresses if you live on junk food. An unbalanced diet could lead to problems of hair like dryness, brittleness, dandruff and ultimately hair loss. Protein is necessary for strong healthy hair as hair is made up of keratin which is a protein. So, include for non-vegetarians - lean meat, fish egg and for vegetarians - paneer, yogurt, dals, peas, beans and nuts. Also eat salmon. Make sure you eat right by including the following in your diet:



Vitamin B - Green vegetables, beans, sunflower seeds, nuts and peas.

Vitamin C - Citrus fruits like oranges, lemons, limes, melons and berries.

Vitamin E - Avocados, rice bran, nuts, dark green vegetables, legumes and whole grains.

Vitamin A - Carrots, sweet potatoes, squash, broccoli, cantaloupe and apricots.

Vitamin K - Seafood, dairy, figs, asparagus, broccoli, lettuce, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, dark green leafy vegetables, oatmeal, soybeans, wheat, yogurt, egg yolks and liver.
 To deep condition your hair, you just wash your hair and put some deep conditioner or leave in conditioner in your hair. Then put a shower cap on before you to go to sleep. There are deep conditioners that you don't need to sleep on, Like Aussie 3 minute miracle. But for better results wear to sleep. Leave some spray on conditioner when you go out or even when you're at home. Put some Jojoba oil or coconut oil in your hair at least twice a week.
 ALWAYS. Swimming pools can ruin hair. The chlorine in a pool is a strong bleach. It will discolor hair and leave it with an unattractive tinge. Protect your hair before going in by applying a deep conditioner. Immediately after, rinse your hair in apple cider vinegar, then with club soda. The carbonation will lift excess salt and chlorine out.
, If you have scene hair, It's most likely going to be damaged. So there are going to be split ends. Also bleaching, and dying and teasing will cause split ends definitely. Trim them at least once a month.
 These require less heat, limiting hair damage, so your locks will be left looking shinier and healthier.
 Always make sure to NEVER GO OVER THE HAIR THAT IS ALREADY BLEACHED. It will cause breakage. Only bleach your dark roots., If you bleach your hair a crazy color it will probably turn out uneven which would make you bleach it more, which is of course damaging.

