 If you hear or feel a crackling or popping sound/sensation when you extend your finger or thumb, it is a good bet that you have trigger finger. However, it is vital that you have this diagnosis medically confirmed, especially if you have not had the condition previously. You need to rule out other, possibly serious, conditions.Your fingers extend and bend by way of tendons, which are essentially flexible bands that stretch and retract to move the attached bones. They are protected and lubricated by tendons sheaths (basically tubes). If a tendon sheath becomes inflamed (due to repeated use or another medical condition), it can narrow and cause the tendon to scrape or even get caught in place, causing the locking, popping, and crackling sensations of trigger finger.
Being female and/or over age 40, and having diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis can make you more susceptible to trigger finger. Most often, though, it is suffered by people who use repeated gripping motions with their hand(s), such as carpenters, farmers, factory workers, and musicians.
It is important to go to the doctor to diagnose trigger finger, because sometimes people mistake a fracture or dislocation for the condition. Your physician can determine the severity and proper treatment of your condition, and can also rule out potentially-dangerous infections that can occur at the site of inflammation.;
, Treatment for trigger finger can range from rest to surgery, depending on severity. Splinting is a common first-level treatment, especially for milder forms of the condition.Studies indicate that splinting for a period of around six weeks is roughly as effective as a cortisone shot in the joint, another common treatment for trigger finger.There are several types of splints and you can splint your finger continuously or only during times of rest. Talk to your doctor about the best treatment option for you., Before try to splint your finger, confirm with your doctor that you can and should splint your affected finger(s) yourself. Self-treatment without proper medical advice is not recommended.Splint your finger temporarily until you can receive proper medical attention. Do not engage in long-term splinting on your own initiative, however.
Improper or prolonged splinting can cause joint damage, obstructed blood flow, and/or skin infections.

