 Start with the basics: “Hi, I’m Jim.” Unless the situation demands that you add some more specific detail about yourself, leave everything else unmentioned for now. Allow the other person to learn about you through natural conversation. Don’t force-feed them every factoid about yourself right off the bat. If you need to put yourself in some sort of context when you introduce yourself, keep it simple, like:“Hi, I’m Jennifer. I run track for Such-and-Such High School. I saw you run at last week’s invitational.”
“Hi, I’m Rick. I’m the birthday boy’s cousin.”
“Hi, I’m Susan. I was your sister’s lab partner in Biology last year.”

, We all have different sides of ourselves, so be the “you” that is most appropriate for the moment.Be confident and relevant at the same time. Even if you have x-amount of impressive facts about yourself that you are just dying to share, keep them to yourself if there isn’t any context for mentioning them. Avoid coming across as a bragger.For instance:


Say the two of you strike up a conversation about bands you like. Now let’s also say that you are a maestro on the guitar. Even though your guitar skills have to do with music, stick to your fan-based conversation about other musicians that the two of you admire. Impress the other person with your skills and your self-assurance by letting them find out how great you are from someone else entirely.
 If you feel nervous, don’t overcompensate by acting bolder than you normally behave. Instead, make the bold move of admitting to feeling anxious! Show the other person that you are so confident in yourself that you are comfortable sharing your imperfections, even with new people. Lure them into an instant air of intimacy by allowing them to see your vulnerabilities from the get-go.At a party or large gathering? Do crowds make you nervous? Say as much and let the other person know that hanging out one-on-one in the future will reveal you at your best.
Is the scene you’re in not really yours? Say you are at a football game and know nothing about the sport. Instead of faking interest or knowledge, confide in the other person and stoke their ego by relying on their expertise to guide you through the game.
 Keep the conversation focused on them. Show them that you are less interested in advertising yourself and more interested in learning about them.Make them feel important while creating an air of mystery about yourself. When the conversation ends, leave them feeling intrigued so they become eager to find out more about you.When they tell you a story, ask follow-up questions to indicate your interest.
When you share your own thoughts and opinions, ask them what their take is to shift the spotlight back onto them.

