 Most dress codes define a few school required colors that you can't shift outside. However, there are ways around this, such as getting a different hue of the required color, to stand out from everyone else's. You can sometimes wear differently colored socks or a colorful hair ribbon, to add a color that isn't usually permitted.;
, Have your shirt fitted or buy a fitted one to make it unique to you. Depending on the shirt you have to wear, getting creative with designs and styles will complement any dress code. Most teen clothing stores have great shirts that can be great for school and a great price. Mix and match.
 If you are allowed or required to wear pants or jeans, find pants that will go well with your figure and shirt. Make sure it is appropriate for school, because one reason schools have dress codes in the first place is to monitor the appropriateness of it. If they do not mind, get creative with colors and styles. Colored pants are very fashionable, and are excellent to experiment with.
 If you are required to wear skirts, change their length. If you find your skirts to be too long, it may be okay to roll it up a bit. A little bit above the knee may not be too noticeable. If a teacher does notice, you can always roll it down.


Skirt styles can vary considerably if the code is only concerned with length and color. Consider A-line, flowing maxis, pleats, layered skirts, etc., to set yourself apart with a stylish skirt.
Ensure that you have gym skirts or shorts when needed. A flowing maxi won't impress your sports teacher one bit.
 You're more likely to get away with variations on the theme in a dress code if you present a very neat and tidy look that shows style, care and flair.
 Stick to the dress code more on shoes in general. Have a few pretty flats, a pair of cute sneakers for gym class, and shoes like winter and rain-boots. Some schools prefer white socks, but if your school has no preference, mix it up with bright colors.
 Hair doesn't seriously affect the dress code, so making it look creative and fashionable can really add a great touch to your outfit. Wear your hair in a hairstyle that will go well with any clothes. Try wearing braids, a bun, a messy or simple ponytail, or allow it to stay down. Or, add a headband or a ribbon to accessorize your hair.


You should stick to the school colors to really contrast with the dress code, or black or white (only wear black if you have light hair).
 Many schools have a policy against jewelry or just during physical education, but if not, get fancy with necklaces, bracelets or earrings.


Don't wear anything valuable. Turning yourself into a target for robbing isn't smart.
 Use subtle foundation in the right shade. Don't wear anything else, apart from mascara if you wear glasses. Don't wear any nail polish except clear, which lots of schools also have a policy about, but keeping your nails nice and clean will make you look great.


Teachers are less likely to notice or care if the makeup isn't obvious.

