 All the same, you can get a surprising amount of it removed without any chemicals or fluid. Taking a butter knife or your fingernail, scrape the excess paint away from the stain. Because the paint has dried, it will actually come off in chunks. You won't be able to scrape the paint that has soaked into the fabric, but the simple act of scraping the stain may have a significant impact on removing it.
 Alcohol-based cleaners, like acetone nail polish remover or hairspray, are arguably your best bet for fighting acrylic-based spray paint stains. These cleaners will break the bonds in the acrylic plastic.Unfortunately, they're far less effective once the paint itself has set into the clothes. If the stain is completely dried and you haven't seen any improvement from the alcohol-based cleaners, a heavy-duty paint remover may do the trick.


Keep in mind, however, that paint removers have some tough chemicals in them, and they might strip the dye from your shirt completely. As such, they should only be used as a last resort.
 If it comes out of the laundry with the stain in place, there's nothing you can do outside of covering it up. Luckily, certain stains (especially on black clothing) can be covered quite well with fabric pens and other "destaining" products.
 Because dried paint is essentially bound to the fabric it has stained, sometimes the best option is to fight one stain with another. There are fabric pens available that are specifically intended for covering up paint stains. Go to a arts or fabric store and try to find a pen that matches the colour of your clothes.


Paint shows up on jeans like a sore thumb, but you may be in luck if denim is your problem. Because denim tends to be in shades of blue and black, there are lots of paint pens that fit this range.
 Laundering clothes actually tends to solidify any dried stains on your clothes. Given that dry cleaners are professionals (and have no doubt handled an issue like this before) you may find it helpful to bring the issue to their attention.Even if they're not able to fix it via cleaning, they still may be able to offer advice or help that is specifically catered to the type of stain at hand.

