 These two herbs are great for preventing and expelling round- and whipworms. They also have many other health benefits as well, not the least of which are their ability to calm and act as an anti-inflammatory.


Use a ¼ teaspoon of tincture directly into the mouth per 30 pounds every few hours. If you brew your own tea, use 1T every few hours.
If you brew your own, make it strong: 4 tea bags (or 2T bulk flowers) to each cup of boiling water.
Chamomile is non-toxic so you can give this to your pup fairly liberally without fear of side effects.;
, This ancient herb’s anti-parasitic properties are fortified by the fact that it also provides an environment that is not conducive to their growth while also healing worm-infested areas in your dog’s digestive track.Administer 1/8 to ¼ teaspoon per 10 pounds of weight every day. Make sure that your furry friend drinks plenty of water too so that it doesn’t get constipated.
Take once a day, after meals, for 1 week. Then for large dogs, administer it after meals daily every other week for two months.
Long-term usage can be harmful so do not go over the two-month limit.
 While their effectiveness is amplified when used in combination with other methods (e.g. wormwood or black walnut), cloves taken daily after meals can help eliminate those pesky worms.For small dogs, use ¼ of a whole dry clove crushed and mixed into food 1 x daily for one week. Skip a week, then repeat the same dosage formula for the third week.
For medium size dogs, use ½ of a whole dry clove and repeat the same dosage formula as that of small dogs.
For large dogs use 1 whole dry clove and repeat the dosage formula as that of small dogs.
 Made from the hull of the black walnut tree, this herb is excellent for eliminating heart and intestinal worms. While it is safer than most commercial de-wormers, it can be toxic if overused so great care must be taken. Think of it as your next-to-last resort herbal treatment.As the tannins and alkaloids may be dangerous to your pooch, please be certain to consult your veterinarian for use and dosage amounts.
 There are sites that will recommend this herb but be very, very careful. Known to have serious negative effects on a dog’s nervous system, liver and kidneys, this should only be used under the direct supervision of a veterinarian., This helps keep your dog’s digestive system happy and healthy during the de-worming process. Parsley is full of nutrients and also acts as a diuretic to help flush out all those worms that are desperately hanging on.


Boil 1 quart of water and add one bunch of fresh parsley. Reduce heat and let simmer for 3 minutes. Strain, jar, and refrigerate the parsley water. Administer 1 T per 10 lbs of body weight once a day for 10 days.For dogs with renal issues, substitute Rooibos tea for parsley. Known to support the immune system and inhibit cancer and other diseases, Rooibos has zero tannin and is much healthier for dogs suffering from renal issues.

