 In both Europe and the United States, where different species of bream are found, fishing for freshwater bream will be a very similar process. You'll want to head inland to find relatively shallow and still lake, river, or pond waters where bream are common. In the US, species of bream are common through the south and the Midwest, while European bream are most common in England, Wales, and Scotland.


Look for rivers with plenty of switch-backs and coves that are good for feeding. Very weedy or reeded lakes and ponds are also common habitats for bream of all varieties. Anywhere with shallow, sun-filled water and plenty of cover is a likely home for bream.
 Bream and most other freshwater fish are crepuscular feeders, meaning that they become active in the hours during the sun coming up and going down. Mornings and evenings can often be the best times to catch bream, when they'll be out and hungry. Try to get out on the water before the sun starts its movement, so you'll be set up and in place for the feeding that will happen.
 Sunfish are so named because they seek areas of lakes, ponds, and streams that have been warmed by the rays of the sun. Sunny banks with deep water nearby are great places to look for bream.


European bream are bottom-feeders, less likely to be easily identifiable from above, though they still favor the same kinds of environments that American bream favor. Look for calm areas of water with favorable cover from above.
 Although bream like to have wind and water currents sweep their food to them, they like to position themselves just outside those currents when feeding and shallow coves protected from wind and wave when spawning. Look for still places and little coves where freshwater fish feed.
 As with many other species, bream like to have some form of cover nearby, either to hide from predators or prey or to shade themselves from the sun's light. What type of cover you should look for depends on what kind of water you are fishing for bream in.


In lakes and ponds, look for weeds, lily pads, brush, timber, rip-rap (gravel), or rocks. If the lake has a boat dock, try it as well.In streams, look for any of the same cover as in lakes or ponds, as well as undercut banks, particularly those that offer deep pools just outside the flow of the current.
 Bream spawn during the late spring, which makes the months April, May, and June make excellent months for bagging bream. When spawning, bream prefer gravel or sandy bottoms, although they will spawn on silt-covered muddy bottoms if sand or gravel is not available. Sand tends to collect where water flows into or out of a lake or where the current slows to a stop.


When bream spawn, they sometimes give off an odor something like a mixture of watermelon (or other fruit) and fresh fish. This smell can help you narrow down where to fish once you have established the right water warmth, current, and cover conditions.
 Some species prefer one kind of cover over another. For instance, redear sunfish and redbreast sunfish normally prefer to hug the bottom, although redbreasts can sometimes be taken on the surface or halfway to the bottom.


Take advantage of the expertise available at the local bait shop. Whether you're in your hometown or fishing far from home, talk to those who are most familiar with the fishing in the area. Fish change their habits depending on the season and the area, and it's the locals who know best. A good angler might want to keep the best spots sacred, but might be willing to share some info on good bait for the season, or for the area.

