 For a minor injury, take a few days of rest from your activities. Maybe, that's all you need. A severe injury needs more recovery time, and it may require surgery and physical therapy. In this case, you have to check with a physician first, and rest the joint until advised. Avoid stair climbing, squatting, and kneeling whenever possible.;
, Don't sit with knee bent underneath you. Try to sit with the knee almost straight whenever possible. Keep your foot up on the affected side up on a chair. Propping your leg with a pillow in bed aims to limit and reduce swelling.
 Ice reduces inflammation and pain. Use it when appropriate, but no longer than 15-20 minutes at a time. Icing for too long can cause you skin and tissue damage.
 Use a compression bandage which is tight enough to support your knee, and not interfere the circulation. The bandage also gives stability to your knee.
 The knee is the most complex joint in the body. For people who have pain around the knee is very important to keep the muscles strong and tight. Before you start to exercise, check with a physician if exercising is appropriate for you. He or she may advise you to wear a knee brace during your workout to support and protect the joint.


Do gentle range of motion exercises and never go past a safe range of motion. Avoid full squats,and don't "make" pain. Here are some exercises: quad setting, closed- knee extension, terminal leg extension, exercise ball wall squat, halfway-down chair squats.
Improving your balance is also very important. For example standing barefoot on a small exercise ball can be very helpful for that purpose .With a foam roller you can release muscle tension in case of Patellar tendinitis.
 Eat enough carbohydrates from fruits, veggies, and grains. Your body will use carbs as fuel and the protein you eat can be used to heal, and repair your muscles. Extra protein will speed muscle repair, so make sure you have 20-30 grams of protein at each meal and snack.


Take also vitamins, minerals, and fish oil. Herbs and spices like: green tee, cocoa, turmeric, ginger, garlic, cayenne pepper, black pepper, cinnamon, and clove have anti-inflammatory properties, and they can help your recovery.

