

Cooking the noodles in the broth adds flavor and thickness from starch and a little oil to the broth, and adds flavor from the broth to the inside of the noodles. If you like that, just cook the noodles in the usual manner substituting improved broth for water. But, if some part of the soup such as big or tough vegetables or meat requires extended cooking time, add the noodles to the broth three to five minutes before it will be done so they don't overcook.



 


Cooking the noodles out of the broth avoids masking delicate flavors with starch and oil. Make Ramen Noodles the usual way, preferably right before the broth will be done, discard the water, and add the noodles to the broth when it's done. The amount of broth to make separately from noodles is up to you, but you may want to use less liquid than normally recommended because cooked noodles will not absorb much more liquid.





;
, Try meat bouillon (broth) from a can or reconstituted from a dehydrated cube or packet. There are also vegetable broths some of which taste like chicken broth.
 For that, you could Microwave or steam the toppings, or boil them in minimal water, to avoid leaching out their vitamins (but make sure meat is cooked thoroughly). Or, Sauté them (adds some fat and a more-cooked outside texture and flavor). You could also add some cheap, strong flavorings to the boiling water for the noodles to absorb into them, such as the seasoning packet, chili, or soy sauce.
 Cut them into bite-size pieces, small and across the grain if fibrous. They will cook by boiling, but you can Sauté some or all of them and add them to the soup for different texture and flavor.
 Canned, frozen or otherwise pre-cooked vegetables should be cooked as little as possible; add them once everything else is hot. Firm vegetables should be cut thin to speed cooking, and fibrous vegetables should be cut for easy eating. Some popular choices are:


Bell peppers
Tomatoes
Bamboo shoots
Chopped Lemongrass, especially with seafood
Onion

, The pieces should be bite-size and thin so they are tender and certain to cook thoroughly by boiling a few minutes. Some popular choices are:


Baby clams
Dried baby shrimp
Asian beef meatballs
Squid
Shrimp
Crab
Salmon (available canned)
Bacon
Tuna (widely available canned)

, Especially if you're a Vegetarian.


Eggs (fried, dropped in, or stirred in)
Tofu
Grated cheese, especially cheddar, Colby, or Colby-Jack. Try it as a topping.
Vegetarian imitation bacon bits.
 Be careful if you're also using the spices that come with ramen noodles, because those can be very hot already. Give anything dehydrated a chance to rehydrate rather than just sprinkling it on top, which would leave it hard and difficult to taste at first. Some popular choices are:


Chili
Basil
Hot sauce
Lemon juice (try it with hot sauce for a flavor like hot and sour soup)
Soy sauce
Old Bay (don't add much; it's largely salt)
Peanut butter (preferably unsweetened)
For American-style noodles, ranch dressing (available in a light style) or butter adds creaminess. These would be best without a broth.
 Try small bowls, chopsticks, and big Asian soup spoons.
 Some popular choices are:


Cilantro
Bean sprouts
Parsley
Decorative spices and herbs such as slices of hot peppers and basil leaves.

