 The could include seeing flashes of light, seeing double, experiencing blurry vision, eye pain, frequent headaches, or having difficulty distinguishing between reds and greens., This can help you determine when it’s time to schedule an eye exam. For example, if you had a recent injury or operations which you suspect is affecting your vision, call a clinic immediately to schedule an appointment.


If anybody in your family, especially your parents, has had glaucoma, cataracts, or other eye conditions such as macular degeneration, you may be at higher risk of developing the same conditions. For example, family history of glaucoma can increase your risk of developing the condition by four to nine times.Even if you don’t experience any symptoms yourself, you should schedule a yearly eye exam.
You are also at greater risk of eye problems if you have diabetes or hypertension, wear contact lenses, have had eye surgery, take medication with side effects that affect the eye, or if your occupation is highly demanding visually or eye-hazardous., This list can be helpful so that you can clearly state the purpose of your visit. It can also be helpful to have this list handy during your visit so that you don’t forget to ask anything you may have been wondering about.


You could ask your doctor a variety of questions, ranging from whether your vision has changed significantly since your last visit to whether you can do anything differently to care for your eyes. You can also ask what you should look out for when it comes to your vision or what the difference between wearing glasses and contact lenses is.
Be ready to listen to any answers your doctor may give to your questions. If you do have a problem with your vision, it will probably be best to address this sooner rather than later, and your doctor is your best bet for recommending any necessary treatment.
 There are two main types of eye doctors, and seeing the right eye care professional can affect the sort of care you receive.An ophthalmologist is a medical doctor who, having undergone three to eight years of training after college (depending on their specialty), specializes in eye care. Ophthalmologists can perform eye surgery and treat a variety of medical conditions of the eye.
An optometrist can treat medical conditions of the eye with non-surgical methods. They can prescribe medicine, eye drops, glasses, and contacts. Optometrists have received 4+ years of training after college but are not medical doctors.
 Eye doctors can specialize in a variety of areas, such as retina, cornea, glaucoma, neurology, and pediatric, among others. Some eye doctors will provide general, non-specified care. Determine the sort of care you need by reviewing your symptoms and ocular history.Look individual doctors up through your insurance company’s website. Eye doctors will frequently list their main areas of practice on their websites. This is also the best way to make sure that your doctor takes your insurance. Make a decision about the doctor you’ll see after thoroughly reviewing all options in your area.
 If your vision problems are urgent, stress the urgency of your problem and try to schedule an appointment as soon as possible. You’ll find that some doctors are booked up if you give short-term notice that you would like to schedule an appointment. Still, you can ask if you can be put on a waiting list in case any spots open up.


There are suggested guidelines for how frequently people should have an eye exam depending on their age and whether or not they are at risk for visual impairment.
During your call, ask whether the office accepts your insurance and is in-network. This can affect how much you are billed for your visit.
 If so, you should plan to bring sunglasses and ask a friend or family member to drive you to and from your appointment. Dilation causes sensitivity to light and will make it hard to focus on nearby objects for up to several hours, so it may be unsafe for you to drive.