 Even when your skin is clear, you can use a product to help prevent breakouts. Use an over-the-counter acne cream or gel to dry excess oil. Use a product that has benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid as the active ingredient. Check the label for strength, and pick a gentle product to begin.Start with a 2.5 percent concentration of the active ingredient, and try using more of the product or upgrading to a stronger product if you see no results after several weeks. Stronger products are not always more effective, and they may dry out your skin.Consult with your health care provider if your over-the-counter product is not working.
 Some prescribed medications used to treat outbreaks of acne can be used as preventative medicine after the acne has cleared. Discuss the continued use of a prescribed acne medication with your health care provider.Commonly, teens are on an antibiotic to kill the bacteria that are in the hair follicles, and isotretinoin, which reduces oil production, unplugs follicles, and reduces inflammation. Isotretinoin is teratogenic and should not be used in those who may become pregnant.
In most cases your doctor will recommend "tapering," or slowly decreasing, an antibiotic acne medication, as you risk building resistance if you continue at a high dose., Birth-control pills have been shown to be as effective at treating acne as traditional acne antibiotics, and in some cases more effective. If you are a woman or female-assigned person who has passed through puberty, you may be eligible for hormonal acne prevention in the form of oral contraceptives., Your doctor may recommend you participate in light therapy sessions. Light therapy targets the bacteria that cause breakouts, so it can be used preventatively.Light therapy has also been moderately successful at diminishing acne scars.
If you are taking an antibiotic that causes you to be extra sensitive to light, talk to your doctor before trying one of these methods. They may not be appropriate or you may need to stop the antibiotic.

