 There are several cost-effective choices for neutralizing chlorine bleach (commonly sold under the brand name Clorox), which is the kind used in washing and for decorating or changing the color of fabric products. It also contains sodium hydroxide (lye) to stabilize the hypochlorite. The lye is difficult to rinse out completely and will slowly destroy cotton. To fully neutralize the lingering effects of chlorine bleach the hypochlorite and the lye must be neutralized, too. If you’re using bleach for decorative effects on cotton, denim, or other natural fabrics, you can try one of these options:


Bisulfite/metabisulfite is very inexpensive. It is sold under the brand name Anti-Chlor, and you only need to use a small amount to neutralize bleach. You can usually find bisulfite at dye suppliers or you can get Camden Tablets (which have the same ingredient) from a wine brewing supply company.Thiosulfate, which is called Bleach Stop, can typically be found at a local photography supply store, as it is commonly used in developing photographs. This is a more expensive option than bisulfite, and it’s not as strong so you’ll need to use more.Hydrogen peroxide is the most easily obtainable of the three neutralizers; you can find it at drugstores and grocery stores. This is an inexpensive choice, and it works well for people with asthma, who may be sensitive to the other compounds, which contain sulfur. Opt for the 3% solution.;
, The amount of neutralizing agent required will depend on which one you’ve chosen.


Anti-Chlor: use 1 teaspoon per quart of water.Bleach Stop: 1 ounce by weight (30 grams) per gallon of water.Hydrogen peroxide: 1 part hydrogen peroxide to 10 parts water.Vitamin C/Absorbic acid: Absorbic acid neutralizes both the hypochlorite and the lye. You will find it in most food stores or pharmacies under its common name, vitamin C. Yes, get the cheapest vitamin C you can find and grind the tablets up into powder to dissolve in your rinse water. You may not know the exact quantity of ascorbic acid to use, because you almost certainly won't know exactly how much sodium hypochlorite and sodium hydroxide you are neutralizing. Just use plenty and rinse the excess out along with the products of the neutralizing chemical reaction. If some remains, it will certainly smell better than any of the sulphites or thiosulphate.
 Following the directions on the bottle, use the bleach to achieve the desired effect/shade on your fabric.
 Before you use your neutralizer, you want to rinse the fabric well with warm water to remove all of the bleach.Fill your bucket or stationary tub with rinse water ‘‘before’’ you begin bleaching.This way, you can be sure to get the bleach off your fabric as soon as necessary so you don’t remove more than the desired amount of color.
 Soak your fabric in the neutralizing agent mixed with the appropriate amount of warm water. Depending on the size of the fabric item(s) you may want to use a bucket or a stationary tub. It may or may not be cost-effective for you to do your neutralizing in the washing machine.


Whatever neutralizing agent you use, the quantity needed depends upon the quantity of bleach remaining in the material that has been bleached, not the amount of water.
Fabric should soak in the neutralizer for about 10 minutes.
 Wash your neutralized fabric in warm water with laundry detergent and rinse well.

