 Since hiccups seem to be associated with a reflex movement of the diaphragm, halting it can help to end them.


After holding your breath for a few seconds, swallow large breaths of air a few times. Repeat this process a few times to see if it can stop your hiccups.;
, Sit while pulling your knees up to your chest or bending over will compress your diaphragm.Hiccups are related to diaphragm spasms, and compressing the diaphragm may reduce the spasms.


Be careful getting up and down--remember that your coordination and sense of balance might be impaired when you are drinking.



You can use a straw or two to help you drink the water more quickly.
Make sure that is only water that you are drinking and not alcohol, which can cause hiccups.
 Even if you don’t actually have to cough, just make yourself do it.
 It’s not clear why this technique works, but putting pressure put on a nerve or blood vessel often seems to help.
 To make yourself sneeze, try sniffing a little pepper, breathing in a dusty area, or walking out into bright sunshine.
 All of this together can help end a bout of hiccups.
 However, if you already have them, they may also “shock” your body into ending them.


If this method does not work the first time, it is probably best not to try it again, since drinking too much vinegar can irritate your stomach and esophagus. If it doesn’t work, just try a different method.
 The cold can cause changes in your circulation and muscle activity in the area, which might stop the hiccups.


If your hiccups do not go away within twenty minutes, remove the ice and try a different method. Leaving the ice on too long can cause soreness.
 Try one of these tricks:


Let a spoonful of sugar slowly dissolve on your tongue.
Eat a spoonful of honey.Tickle the roof of your mouth with a cotton swab.Stick your fingers in your ear.
Sip water (or some other non-alcoholic, non-carbonated beverage) slowly, letting it hit the roof of your mouth., Typically, you can cure hiccups with home remedies. However, if your hiccups last longer than two consecutive days and you've tried treating them at home already, it's time to see your doctor.