 Try to buy organic foods and avoid genetically modified foods at all costs. Hippie’s find that it is better for the earth and healthier for the body. Hippies nowadays and in the past ate to sustain themselves and the planet. A reason hippies eat this way is because they treat their bodies like a temple. This is why you should pick out the purest ingredients available.


Check labels at your local grocery store. They usually have stickers or a sign on the box saying if they are organic and 100% organic.
Visit healthy grocery stores to guarantee finding quality ingredients.;
, One way in supporting your local community is by buying produce or meats directly from the farmer who grows it. You can do this by attending a local farmer’s market. If you have the time, become involved with the local farmers in your community.


One important value of the modern hippie is sustainability, and part of this includes avoiding the processed food industry.Growing your own food is also a viable option for getting the best quality. Volunteer with a local garden to get started into the local gardening community.
 Vegetarianism isn't for everyone, but a lot of hippies are vegetarian. Hippies go vegetarian because of their love for animals and their stance against violence. Industrial cattle farming is one of the highest producers of toxic emissions. It is better for your body and the environment to eat a plant based diet.If you are struggling with giving up meat, you can take steps to lower your weekly meat intake. Start slowly, and progressively work to cut it from your diet.
If you do eat meat, purchase hormone free meats.
 One way to treat your body like a temple is to cut out toxin from your life. Dietary toxins can contribute to causing many modern diseases. Replace foods that contain dietary toxins like crackers or soda with vitalizing foods like quinoa and blueberries. The four largest dietary toxins that can be found in a wide array of processed foods are:


Refined cereal grains
Industrial seed oils
Sugar
Processed soy, Kombucha is fermented tea that ancient Chinese called the “immortal health elixir”. The health benefits from drinking kombucha are tremendous when consumed on a regular basis. You can either buy kombucha or brew your own by fermenting tea yourself. Here are some of the health benefits:


Detoxifying effects like protecting the health of your liver and cancer prevention.
It protects your joints and prevents diseases like arthritis.
Kombucha aids and protects the health of your gut by containing probiotics.