 There are significant differences in 401(k) plans depending on your employer. Some employers will contribute more to your retirement plan than others, some make additional contributions based on profit sharing, some offer extensive choices as to where you invest, some have a set amount of time you need to work before you are allowed to keep company contributions, and some companies will automatically enroll you in a 401(k) plan.Given all these differences, begin by studying what your company offers exactly.


You should be able to obtain this information from your plan administrator. She will have a prospectus that contains information on all of your options.;
, Most financial experts suggest that you invest as much money as you can afford into your 401(k). The money put into your 401(k) is tax free until it is withdrawn, your company will often match a percentage of your investment, and it is money that you will use to live on when you retire. These are tremendous benefits and they should be taken advantage of when possible.


At the very least you will want to invest as much as is needed to get the full matching amount from your company.Suppose your company offers a 3% match. If you invest 3% of your $50,000 salary that will be $1,500. Your company will invest another $1,500. You want to maximize this.
Other 401(k) benefits include a lower taxable income. Your taxable income at the end of the year will be your salary minus 401(k) contributions.
 The IRS has limits for the amount of money that can be invested yearly and this figure changes from year to year. For 2015, those younger than 50 years old can invest up to $18,000.00 annually and those over 49 years old can invest an additional $6,000.00 more (which is called a "catch up" contribution). Your investment cannot exceed the lesser of 100% of your salary or $52,000.00.By law you will have to pay tax on your investment when it is withdrawn at the age of 59 1/2 at your ordinary income tax rate. The IRS imposes a 10% early withdrawal penalty if funds are distributed earlier than this age in addition to the taxes owed.
 It is up to you to decide how your money gets invested so it is important that you take an active role in your investments. Begin by familiarizing yourself with the mutual funds your plan offers.A mutual fund is operated by money managers and is essentially a large pool of money that your money will go into. These pools of money are invested in different ways, for instance in U.S. stocks, treasury bonds, foreign stocks, real estate, and much, much more.
 If you elect to choose the mutual funds that you will invest in on your own it is important that you do extensive research. It is recommended that you consider the advice of professionals as well. While they will charge a fee, it may be worth it obtain this kind of guidance.Investment research companies provide comprehensive data about a variety of different investment vehicles. They can be good resources to educate yourself about particular funds.
Decide if you want a big or small fund and keep in mind that bigger is not always better. Funds with too much money may have difficulty coming up with new ideas on how to invest. Responsible investors should close funds before they get too big, but be careful.Look beyond the numbers. If a fund has performed well in the past check to make sure it is still under the same management. A key manager may have moved on meaning that the fund may not continue its strong performance.
Review any fees associated with the fund. The fee that is charged to run the fund is expressed as a percentage and is known as the expense ratio. These typically range from 0.15% (15 basis points or "BPS") to as high as 2.00% (200 BPS.) Funds with more active management will have a higher fee. If you are interested in this option, be sure it is worth the extra cost.Experts suggest looking for a fund with at least a five year track record.Look for no-load mutual funds which do not have a sales charge (commission) in addition to the fees paid within the fund.
Choose low-cost index funds when available and the performance is competitive with higher-cost funds.
 With this option, you will not be choosing individual stocks and bonds but instead you will have your investment managed by professionals; importantly, the target-date retirement fund is custom tailored to the year you plan on retiring. This is a simple option, where you basically need to pick the year closest to your retirement.


With the retirement year option the portfolio will include stocks, bonds and other assets with a level of risk that is appropriate to the number of years you have until retirement. Typically higher risk at the beginning and lower risk towards the end.
If you select this option have a good understanding of what you are investing in. Understand the allocation of your investment in particular - are you investing in stocks, bonds, cash, or a mix.Also, be sure to review any costs and fees associated with the fund.If you choose a target date retirement fund avoid investing in other funds. All of your 401(k) money will go into it; given that the target date fund disperses your investment among different stocks and bonds, there is no need to further diversify your money.
 Your time horizon is the amount of time that you will be investing to reach your particular goal. In the case of a 401(k) you are investing for your retirement. So will you be retiring in months, years, or decades? The answer to this question should shape how you allocate investment in your 401(k)., There is always risk with investment. Some people, however, can afford high risk - high reward investments more than others. You need to know how much risk you are willing to take. Traditionally, people with less time until retirement should take less risk than those with more time.


Aggressive or higher-risk investments include growth-oriented, small-cap, emerging and frontier market stocks. The appeal being the potential for higher return over the long-term while the risk trade-off is higher volatility along the way.
Conservative or lower-risk investments include money market accounts, certificates of deposit (CD's), high quality, short-term bonds or bond funds like Treasury bills, notes or bonds.
 Many experts agree that diversity is the name of the game in investing. In other words, it is unwise to put all of your money in one place and it is best to put your money in many different places. This means that you should make sure to invest in a diversified mix of stocks of varying size, country and sector, as well as bonds of varying quality, term and type.


Some companies will allow its employees to invest in company stock. Be aware that doing so reduces diversification as investing in the stock of a company you already depend upon for your livelihood increases your overall risk should the company encounter difficult times or go out of business.

