 If your family seems to have a hard time letting go of their electronics, you may have to consider ways to integrate technology into your activities. One way is to collaborate with your family on a playlist using a smartphone or a computer. Create the playlist together, adding songs you think your family may enjoy. You can then listen to the playlist when you are traveling as a family or when you are spending time together.Having a family playlist can be a fun way to share your musical tastes with your family and bond in a fun way. You can also keep adding to the playlist, making it a common point of discussion in the family on a day to day basis.
 Another option is to play games on the computer or through a computer program together as a family. This way, you can all still bond and spend time together, and not have to give up the use of electronics completely. You may all choose a computer game you can play in teams for a game night. Or you may take turns playing an interactive computer game as a fun way to hang out on the weekend as a family.


You may try switching up the types of games you play as a family on a weekly basis. For example, one night may be computer games and the following night may be board games or an outing outdoors. Having a variety of games can keep your family engaged in spending time together.
 Share information with your family through texting, video chat, and social media. Send your family interesting articles online or interesting videos so you can all discuss them later at dinner. Keep in touch through texting so your family is connected on a regular basis. Doing this can allow your family to use electronics in a healthy, productive way.You may try to encourage family to communicate through electronics and in person. This way, there is a healthy balance in how you connect with each other. For example, you may send a family member a link to an interesting online article. Then, you may all discuss the article later at the dinner table to connect in person and bond over a shared issue.
 Another way to integrate electronics into your family time is to play games that require family members to use their phones to play. There are trivia games and other party games that you can play using your cellphones as controllers. Check out the games that are available for your game console or computer.


One option is the Jackbox Party Pack which includes trivia, drawing games, and fill in the blank games.