 Cat bath wipes deodorize your cat’s coat while removing allergens and distributing essential oils. Wipes can be purchased online or at most pet stores. Opt for a veterinarian-recommended brand of wipes that has natural ingredients (e.g. aloe, lavender) and is alcohol-free., Choose a time to clean your cat with cat bath wipes when it is relaxed. After playing or eating your cat is likely to be content and calm, making the grooming experience easier. If you cat seems agitated or distressed when you start to give it a waterless bath, stop and try again at another time to prevent negative associations., To get your cat comfortable with the cleaning experience, start petting it before touching it with a cat bath wipe. Have the wipes next to you and try to phase seamlessly into rubbing your cat with them, keeping the rhythm and frequency of petting the same. For instance, pet your cat with your left hand while picking up a wipe with the right hand, then switch and continue petting your cat with the wipe., Make your cat’s waterless bath feel more like a massage by petting it while you use the wipes. Wipe your cat in long strokes to distribute its skin’s natural oils throughout its coat. Focus extra attention on spots your cat likes to be pet (e.g. behind its ears) to make the experience enjoyable., Using a fresh wipe, gently clean your cat’s ears, eyes, and face. Gently brace your cat’s head with one hand (gently placed behind it) and softly dab away any debris or dirt. Reward your cat with treats, praise, and petting to create a positive association., When using cat bath wipes on your pet, make sure to wipe its front and back paws as well. Your cat’s feet may pick up litter, dust, and residue from household chemicals on a daily basis. Even if you are not giving your cat a full cleaning with cat bath wipes, wipe down its paws every few days to ensure that they are clean., Do not use cat bath wipes more than once a day, as they can dry out your cat’s skin. In general, your cat should be able to keep itself clean by self-grooming and washing itself. Opt for a waterless bath in special circumstances such as:an injury or infection that requires your cat to wear a lamp shade collar
your cat being too obsess to wash itself effectively
your cat’s fur getting too dirty to effectively clean on its own
your cat being too ill to groom itself
your aging cat being too sore or stiff to wash itself properly

