 Any ordinary grocery bag will do. An octagon has eight sides of equal length and resembles a "Stop" sign. Take a ruler to measure that each side has a length of about 4 inches (10 cm).






;
, You should make eight holes in all. Find a sharp object such as the end of a metal paintbrush or a very thin pair of scissors and punch a hole about .5 inches (1.2 cm) away from each corner. Touch the sharp object to the polythene and then gently push it through, being careful not to tear the bag.
 Just run the string through the hole and tie it in two sturdy knots outside the hole to keep it firmly in place. A thin piece of string will work best because the thicker the string, the more it will weigh down the parachute. The parachute should be as aerodynamic as possible.









Choose a string with a color that contrasts the shape of the parachute, such as brown.
 Tie each of the eight strings to the same part of a paperclip, creating one thick knot. Use a thinner paper clip so you don't weigh down the parachute too much.
 You can use a toy soldier, make a person out of modeling clay, or use any small figurine that would use the parachute -- it doesn't have to be a person. Animals like using parachutes just as much as people.
 Latch the paper clip around the toy, whether it's around its neck, waist, or one of its legs. If you can't find a good point to attach the paper clip to the toy, you should use another toy. Once you attach the toy to the paper clip, the toy will be connected to the parachute and will be ready to use it.
 This hole will be used to stabilize the parachute. As your parachute falls, this hole will direct the airflow and will prevent the air from trying to escape around the edges.
 Hold the polythene part of the parachute as high as it will go. You can even climb onto a chair for extra height. Then, throw it up slightly and watch the parachute fall to the ground. For extra cushion for your toy, you can throw it over a thick carpet or a field of grass.








