 This type of tape measure is easy to wrap around your body, and accurately measuring curves. If you don't have one, you can instead wrap a string around your body, then measure that with a ruler.






;
, It can be a little tricky to take an accurate chest measurement on your own, so if possible, see if you can find a friend to help you. If not, you'll just need to be extra careful to make sure the tape measure doesn't slip in the back.
 Any extra fabric will add a few centimeters to your measurement. Since you'll be wearing a bra under the clothing you're getting measured for, the extra fabric of the bra should be included in your measurement.
 Position it so that the tape is horizontal to the ground, and falls just under your armpits. Bring it around your back so that the ends come together in front, across the widest part of your breasts.









Don't stick your chest out or exhale; just stand normally.
Make sure the tape measure is not twisted.
 The place where the end of the tape measure meets with the other side is where you'll find the number that indicates your chest size.
 This type of tape measure is made of soft material that makes it easy to wrap around your body. If you don't have one, you can instead use a piece of string to wrap around your chest, and measure the string with a ruler to get your size.
 You will get the most accurate measurement if someone else is holding the tape, since they'll be able to make sure it's lined up correctly across your back. However, you can still get a very accurate measurement if you just want to do it yourself.









If you must take the measurement yourself, do it in front of a mirror, so that you can see if the tape is parallel to the ground all the way around.
 Clothing adds extra width to the measurement, so it's better not to be wearing anything on your torso.
 Slide it tape so that it surrounds your chest and falls just under your armpits. Rest it securely around the widest part of your chest, which is often above or at the nipple line. If you are performing the measuring yourself, make sure the numbers are turned out so that you can read it in the mirror.









Hold the ends of the tape with both hands in the front of your body, so you'll be able to see the measurement.
Look in the mirror and make sure the measuring tape isn't twisted.
Ensure the tape is at the same height all the way around. It should be parallel with the ground.
 Don't puff out your chest or flex your muscles. This will add a few centimeters to the measurement and make it less accurate.
 Look in the mirror at the place where the beginning end of the tape measure and the remaining portion meet in the front of your chest. This number is your chest measurement.









Don't look down at the tape to take your measurement, since this can cause it to slip out of place. Look in the mirror instead.
Add 2 inches (5cm) to the measurement for any garment that you want to be slightly loose, such as a dress shirt. Always round up the measurement when buying clothing.

