 The arrangement of a space can directly influence the clarity of your thoughts. Make your work area a comfortable and productive place. Start now! Clean what is dirty, sort what is messy, and let go of what is nonessential., Identify what you need to keep and what you do not need to keep. If you don't need to keep something, then find a way to release it from your life. There are a number of ways to donate, sell, or otherwise pass items along without a lot of effort on your part.Give things to your community. Speak to your friends, or post photos of items on social media. Put things out on the curb. Consider having a garage sale.

Post online. Sell used goods on eBay, Craigslist, and other online marketplaces. Give things away using sites like http://www.freecycle.org/ or the "free stuff" section of Craiglist.

Donate. Arrange a pickup from your local donation center, or bring boxes of things in to a local thrift store. Find a Goodwill store in your area: these centers will usually sift through large amounts of unsolicited used goods., The more space and tidiness you can create, the more relaxing your home will become. It is also important during this process to have a very clear mental image of how you want each room to look. This vision can be a very strong motivational image to spur you forward., Even after the purge, you may wind up with items that you want to keep but don’t really have the space to keep. Try to find an alternate storage solution that does not directly clutter your life. If you are emotionally attached to a thing, but you rarely use it, then it may be worth relegating it to a less visible corner of your life. For easy reference, make sure to keep a master list of everything that you store away.Pay for extra storage elsewhere. This can be a solid solution if you're keeping furniture or other large objects that you may need in the future. Weigh the cost of the storage unit against the benefits of keeping the item.Store the items in attics, basements, and other out-of-the-way places. Sort things into labeled boxes: e.g. "Christmas decorations" or "Family photos." Make sure that you can easily reach thing that you'll need to access with any regularity.
Create cheap storage solutions within your rooms using cardboard boxes and wrapping paper for decoration. Decorate the boxes in any way you want, to match the décor of your rooms. With a little creativity and flair, you can even add to a room's overall look and feel. Store a decorative box beneath a bed, couch, chair, or table.