 A boho bride should look relaxed and feel comfortable in her wedding dress. Opt for ethereal fabrics like lace, chiffon, organza, silk, satin and gauze. Seek out delicate textures and layers, which help to create an airy look.Billowy ruffles, lace designs, soft silhouettes, delicate spaghetti straps and vintage-inspired details can help create a whimsical and laid-back boho vibe.Subtle cream and time-worn ivory are great color alternatives to the traditional white wedding gown. Fabrics in pastels like lilac, pink and mint are also popular.
Look for loose fits and natural, flowing materials.;
, Graceful and eclectic accessories, like lace shrugs and simple fabric cuffs, are popular with boho brides. Look for dainty embellishments like silk rosettes, feathers, crystals, pearls and filigree. Vintage jewelry works well for creating a boho style, but keep your pieces minimal and simple.Don't overwhelm your gown with loud accessories.


Consider a veil with an unconventional design and soft, lacy fabric.
Depending on your dress and personal style, you can even opt for an ultra-relaxed, no-jewelry look.
 High heels typically do not compliment a boho style bridal gown – a laid-back dress calls for carefree footwear. Many boho weddings are held at outdoor venues, with a ground covering of soft grass or sand, so going barefoot works well in these situations. You can have your bridal party go barefoot, as well, to complete the intimate atmosphere and lighthearted look.If you prefer to wear shoes, stick to simple designs. Flats and delicate sandals work well, but the ultimate decision should be made based on the design of your dress.
 Floral crowns made of baby’s breath, daisies, lavender sprigs and delicate greenery are extremely popular and symbolize the boho spirit. Depending on your personal style and dress, you could wear a subtle circlet or something more ornate for your crown. You could do something even simpler, such as tucking sprigs of baby’s breath or wild flowers into a loose and somewhat “undone” hair style.Try adorning braids and up-dos with fresh herbs and daisies.More intricate fabric headpieces with floral details are also popular.

