 The safest way to bet on football is generally to go to a casino that offers sports betting. Public, well-known casinos operate in cooperation with the government, so their gambling opportunities must be licensed and above-board. However, sports betting is not offered at the majority of the country's casinos outside Nevada, so check the casino's website first before you make the journey.


In the U.S., Las Vegas is generally the best place to make sports bets in casinos. Sports betting is legal in the city and there are many different casinos to choose from. Reno, Nevada also offers numerous sports betting opportunities.
As of 2015, Atlantic City, New Jersey has not legalized sports betting. However, recent legalization efforts may cause this to change in the future.;
, If you can't bet in a legal casino, the rest of your options fall into the realm of semi-legality. Some of these options are safer than others. For example, workplace pools almost never attract the attention of the law. You can feel reasonably safe about putting $20 or so into a small office pool during the playoffs.


This is because these kinds of betting opportunities aren't usually set up to make money for a bookkeeper or betting agency. In other words, since the participants in the pool are playing for each others' money and no one is taking a "cut" of the bets, authorities almost always tend to turn a blind eye., Online betting sites are technically illegal on a federal level under the 2006 Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (UIGEA). However, this is typically only applied to the operators of the site. In practice, people who use online betting sites are virtually never prosecuted.Some states (like New Jersey) have even taken steps to legalize types of online gambling.


If you go this route, pick a popular, well-known site with a reputation for quality service. Sites like sportsbook.ag and bovada.lv are good choices. Don't pick an obscure site with suspect credentials — it can be difficult or impossible to get your money back if you fall for an online betting scam. See our article on spotting scams for more information.
 Making an informal, illegal bet with a bookmaker (or "bookie") is probably the least wise option when it comes to sports betting. While it's unlikely that you personally will be prosecuted, bookmaking is illegal in most parts of the U.S., so this option is forcing you to associate with criminal enterprises. In addition, since this is illegal, you won't have any recourse if your money is stolen or you are scammed.

