 Click on the "Explore" icon on the left-hand menu.;
, Explore displays the most popular content right now in the Google Plus world.


To the right, you'll see a list of what are currently the most popular searches and hashtags. Icons to the left of each trend indicates whether it is becoming more or less popular (or staying constant) in posts and searches.
If you have any saved searches, those will appear underneath the trending topics.
Finally, you'll see a list of suggested Google Plus pages to follow, based on your interests and interactions.
 On the top right corner of each post, click on the arrow and then choose "Mute Post."

, Click on the arrow on the top right corner of each post, and choose "Link to this post." A box will pop-up with a URL that you can copy and paste to show the Google Plus post to anyone. This is especially helpful if you want to share something outside of Google Plus––for example, on email, Facebook, or a website.
 On the top right corner of each post, there is an arrow. Click on that and then choose "View Ripples" to see a public post's ripple diagram.


The ripple diagram shows a public post spreading as users share it on Google Plus. Arrows indicate the direction of re-sharing. Circles within circles indicate re-sharing, so larger circles have greater numbers of re-shares.






Hover over circles to see who shared it from whom, and any commentary that people added when they re-shared it. You can also see the number of total re-shares and direct re-shares from each person.






Scroll down and you can see a graph of the most popular influences as well as how the post spread across time, since its initial posting.






Finally, there's data at the bottom about the top influencers, chain length, rate of sharing, and languages in which the post has been shared.
 Remember, content from your homepage consists of things posted by the Google Plus pages and people you are following.
, The most relevant Google Plus result will be featured at the top. You can also filter search results by "Best of" (all-time popularity) or "Most recent" (date created).


To access this search quicker next time, click on the red "Save this Search" button at the top right. The search will now appear in your Explore dashboard on the right.
 Click on the "Everything" (the default setting) button next to your search query to change it.
 The post will appear on your Google Plus page as something shared from a particular stream.

