 Believe it or not, most furniture is designed to be re-upholstered, just as cars are designed to be worked on. Just because the fabric on an old couch has seen better days doesn't mean the couch needs to be consigned to the junk heap. There are riches to be found here.






;
, At the very least, find a couch that is of a style that can be molded to something enjoyable by the time it is completed.
 Take pictures of how the couch looks before you tear it apart, and especially all through the process of "destroying it." Take pictures inside and out, front and back. Take closeup pictures of any area that might be difficult.









Couches are not complex pieces of machinery, but this sort of project can take a long time, so it's good to have a nice "photographic memory" for referencing. You never know when you'll need to go back and piece something together about what the couch was like before you ripped its fabric off.
 While taking the couch's fabric off, take care not to damage the old cover or other parts that will be needed later, such as stuffing. Otherwise, remove the fabric in the following order:









With the sofa upside down or on its back, take off the dust-clothes and all the fabric around the bottom.
Turn the sofa upright and take off the outside back, the outside arms, the inside back, the inside arms and the deck.
If the old cover fits well, you can use it as a pattern to cut your new fabric. Keep the old cover around until you finish the sofa so that you can refer to it as needed.
 See if any filling material will need to be replaced once the couch has been stripped down. If the sofa needs new cushion filling, purchase high-quality foam (2.5 lb to 3 lb.), which will last for many years. Cheap foam quickly breaks down.









High-quality foam can get very expensive, very quickly — its cost is tied to the cost of petroleum, out of which its made — but don't skimp out, or else the couch will be great looking, but also saggy and uncomfortable couch.

