 It’s cool to be creative and have your own style. Don’t go overboard. You don’t want people to think you look like a crazy person, but you can develop a style that suits you. If you don’t have a uniform at school trying wearing something a bit out there. People will think that it’s good if you’re confident about wearing it. For example, if you have to wear a button down shirt for your uniform why don't you try wearing a brightly colored one? Or a tie with strange designs?;
, This will help you look stylish during the day. If you’re rushing to find something to wear in the morning you might end up looking a bit more sloppy than you intended.
 Don’t stick with the haircut your mom gave you as a little kid. Try to find a hair style that you like and ask a hair stylist to cut your hair to look that way. You can even show them hair styles that famous actresses or actors have and ask them to copy that. , If you look good with sunglasses, wear them! The same goes for necklaces, or watches, or anything else. You have to judge what works for your particular outfit and style.
 If you have to wear a uniform at your school then you probably have a relatively strict set of parameters you have to follow. Still, you can alter this style in a way that suits you. Maybe you can wear a button down shirt with a flamboyant color or a particular tie. If you’re a girl you can wear dresses with different patterns or that fit you differently. Try to take some liberties with the uniform without getting in trouble. People will think it’s cool that you’re willing to challenge the rules anyways. , You don’t want your outfit to be all over the place. Try to find a style that appeals to you and then change it to fit your personality as you see fit. Maybe you like the alternative style of converse and corduroys.


For example, maybe you prefer wearing basketball shoes and a baggy sweatshirt. These are styles that work well together, and there are many more to choose from. Don’t try to look like everyone else, but use certain styles as potential guidelines. , Unfortunately, if you’re really out of shape it’s a little harder to pull off the cool persona. That’s not to say you can’t do it, and you certainly don’t need to have a six-pack. However, most people are more attracted to fit people.


For example, try incorporating aerobic exercise like running or biking into your routine.

