 There are a variety of products designed for different flows and different stages of your period. The best way to work out which products are best for you is to work out what type of flow you have (light, normal, heavy, very heavy, etc), although your flow can differ at different days of your period, and then to try out different products until you find some which you are happy with. You should also consider your daily activities,if you are very active or participate in regular sporting activities then a pad will be very uncomfortable.



Panty liners: For use just before and at the end of a period when there is very little flow, but still enough blood to stain your underwear. Usually quite discrete. Can also be used as extra protection when using a tampon.

Normal pads: For use during your period. Come in a range of absorbancies so there should always be something to suit you. Usually quite discrete except the higher absorbency towels are longer and therefore may be harder to hide with clothes like leggings or tight trousers. Can sometimes get some leaking over the sides of the pad.

Winged pads: The same as normal pads but with wings that fold under your underwear to prevent it moving about and to reduce spillage over the sides of your underwear.

Non-applicator tampons: Secure, and few leaks as long as you have the right absorbency. Smaller and therefore more discreet than pads and applicator tampons. Can take some practice to insert properly. Must have clean hands before using. Must change after at least 8 hours because they're linked to an illness - Toxic Shock Syndrome.

Applicator tampons: Easier to insert thanks to the applicator. Less discreet although some are in smaller packaging than others. Come in a heavier absorbency than non-applicator tampons. Should still have clean hands before using, but it's less of a risk if you don't. Must be changed within 8 hours due to TSS.
"Menstrual Cups": Menstrual cups are made of silicone, rubber or TPP. They are folded and inserted into the vagina where they collect the menstrual fluid. You then empty into the toilet, rinse and reinsert. They can be worn for 12 hours and have no reported link to Toxic Shock Syndrome.
"Cloth Menstrual Pads": Work in the same way as disposable pads, but you wash them and reuse them. Come in any shape or length you want and come in a range of fabrics. Look for 'wicking' top fabrics to feel dry.;
, After a while you might be able to see a pattern which will help you to predict when your next period will be. Being prepared for your period will help because it's less likely that you'll be caught by surprise when you're out and about. Don't worry if you can't see any regular patterns, in young girls it can take a few years until periods finally settle into a regular cycle, and in some women their periods never become completely regular.


If your periods are usually fairly predictable but you notice some changes such as a missed period or a shorter-than-usual period, visit your doctor to check nothing is wrong, especially if you've been sexually active.
If you have very irregular periods and you started your periods more than a couple of years ago, visit your doctor to check for any problems, and if necessary, to find a way to regulate your periods.
 Especially if you are 'due on' any time soon. Keep a make up bag with a some protection of your choice (sanitary pads/tampons), some painkillers and a couple of coins just in case you need to buy some pads/tampons from a machine. Some other optional things which you could keep in it are; some nappy bags to dispose of used sanitary protection in a nice hygienic way if you have to change at someone else's house, a small pack of wipes to clean up if you've come on your period unexpectedly, and a pair of clean underwear to change into if you've got blood on your underwear. Keep it in a pretty purse or make up bag and no one will know what it is!


If you do come on your period when you have no supplies with you, just go to the toilet, clean yourself up, wrap some toilet roll around your hand again and again until you have a good amount and flatten it. Put in your underwear as a make-shift pad until you can get hold of one. If it happens at school, school offices often have a supply of sanitary pads (it happens to many students), or try asking a few other girls who you're friends with, chances are someone will have some or will know someone who does.
 Wearing a skirt or dress could make you feel self-conscious during your period because you'll be worrying about leaks. If the weather is hot, opt for a pair of shorts instead because this will feel more secure. If you have a uniform or even that means you have to wear a skirt or dress, either wear a pair of tight shorts, which are shorter than your skirt, underneath, or, wear tights with your skirt just so you don't feel as exposed.


If you have a leak onto your pants or skirt that is visible, a quick fix to hide it is to wrap a cardigan, coat or jumper around your waist to hide it until you can get a change of clothes.
Wear sensible underwear. There's no point in wearing your prettiest lacy underwear when you're on your period. Choose a pair of comfy knickers that are big enough to comfortably wear with a sanitary pad. Preferably choose some that are a dark or red colour so that any leaks won't stain your underwear.
 This will prevent you from worrying about any smells or discomfort that can occur after a while. Pads should be changed about every 2-4 hours depending on your flow. Tampons can be left for up to 8 hours without any hassle but be careful not to leave it in for much longer than 8 hours.


If you need to leave class to go and sort out period problems, just ask to go to the toilet as you normally would. If your teacher says no, wait for a moment when you can talk to them quietly and just say that you have "lady problems" that need sorting out. Even if your teacher is male don't be embarrassed to say something, they're mature enough to not get bothered by it.
As a sneaky way of getting to the toilet without anyone knowing why you're going, stick your towel/tampon in your bra or in the waistband of your trousers so that no-one sees you with it in your hand.
 Period pains are caused by muscle contractions in the lower half of the stomach. These are caused by chemicals which are present during your period. Different things work for different people when trying to reduce the pain. Try out different painkillers, (not at the same time), for example paracetamol, ibuprofen or painkillers with ingredients aimed at period pain. Bear in mind that painkillers aren't effective for everyone. Another thing which can help is exercise, even though it's probably the last thing you feel like doing when it's your time of the month. Exercise releases endorphins, a chemical which makes you feel happy, which will help to overcome the pain, and the moodiness which sometimes comes with periods. A third option is to have a warm bath or to hold a hot water bottle to your stomach. The warmth soothes the pain for a while, although it's not removing the pain.


If you have severe pain that is so bad it causes you to take time off school/work, and/or that lasts for more than a couple of days of your period, go to your doctor to make sure there are no issues.

