 You want to get the blood pumping and get your arms loose. Starting out on heavy weights can cause serious injury to your arm. Warm up before each exercise. Perform the same motion as your exercise, but use 30% of your maximum weight, aiming for smooth, easy motions.


Swing your arms, individually, in circles at your sides. Start with small circles, then gradually swing your entire arm.
Jog or use the elliptical for 5-10 minutes. Even if the machine doesn't use your arms, this elevates your heart-rate and prepares your body to exercise.
 Working out your triceps every day will paradoxically slow down your muscle growth. When you work out, you're stretching and ripping muscle fibers. The "growth" of your muscles is when they repair themselves, building up stronger than before. But if you never give your muscles time to actually repair and get stronger you won't get ripped triceps -- you'll rip your triceps!


This doesn't mean you don't work out on off days, just that you focus on muscles other than your triceps.
 Your muscles are made of protein, so it makes sense that your body needs protein to repair and strengthen muscles after a workout. Chicken, eggs, turkey, beans, chocolate milk, peanut butter, tuna, and protein shakes are some of the most common post-workout fuels, as they have enough protein to satisfy your body without being overly rich or fatty.


Be sure to drink plenty of water with your meal and keep drinking throughout the day as well.
Eating protein doesn't mean an all-protein diet. A chicken breast or can of tuna with a sandwich or pasta, a piece of fruit, and some water is a wonderful, simple meal to refuel.
 The triceps are smaller muscles that are naturally incorporated into a variety of other exercises. This means you can often work on your triceps without focusing strictly on them, making them a part of a more full-body workout. Exercises include:


Bench press (all forms)
Push-ups
Pull-ups (palms facing away from you)
Weighted Dips
Military Press
Wide-armed Row, While all of these exercises do target your triceps, it doesn't mean that they all do so equally. Different grips, exercises, and weights will all strengthen other ligaments, small muscles, and parts of your triceps (they are a collection of three muscles, after all) to get a healthier, more even tone to your outer arms.


Find the 4-5 exercises above you like the most and rotate through them, only doing 2-3 each time.
 Difficulty is how you know you're actually building muscle. The last few reps of every set should be challenging but doable, making you dig a little deeper to get the weight up or finish the set. You shouldn't be in pain, but you should be pushing yourself. Instead of artificially picking weights or raising the weight on a schedule, let your body dictate how you proceed.

