 The recommendations below are based on normal dosages only. No matter which product you choose, be aware of the following:


It's best to talk to a doctor or dermatologist before taking any medication while pregnant. This is especially true if you are already taking other medication.
Use only as recommended. Most products are intended for daily or twice-daily use only.
Don't use two or more products with the same active ingredients. Some ingredients used to treat acne are also in other skin care products.
Avoid face or body peels, which increase the amount of drug absorbed.;
, Glycolic acids and other alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) are considered safe to use topically while pregnant. Very little of the drug is absorbed through the skin.Topical treatments are drugs that go directly onto your skin: lotions, gels, facial washes, etc. Oral treatments (pills) carry much higher risk. Do not take oral acne treatments during pregnancy unless directed by a doctor.
 The US FDA places azelaic acid in pregnancy category B. This means there is no known risk, but the drug has not been studied on pregnant women.It is considered safe when used as directed.This drug requires a prescription in some regions, including the US.
This drug is commonly sold as Finacea.
 Acne is often associated with excessive skin bacteria. Topical antibacterials (antibiotics) can help treat this condition. Clindamycin and erythromycin, two of the most common options, are both in pregnancy category B. They are considered safe to use during pregnancy.You'll need a prescription in most regions. If you do find an over-the-counter drug, confirm the other active ingredients are safe as well. These drugs are often combined with higher-risk ingredients., Salicylic acid and other beta hydroxy acids (BHAs) are in FDA pregnancy category C. This means the FDA has not ruled out risk to the fetus.That said, some doctors consider these drugs safe in topical form, at no more than 2% concentration.Salicylic acid is often confused with aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), which has complex effects on pregnancy.The two chemicals are closely related, but not identical. Ask your doctor about each one separately.
 This is another drug in pregnancy category C. Risk cannot be ruled out without more studies.However, the drug only passes through skin in small amounts, and the body metabolizes it quickly.Your doctor can help you judge the risk and choose a low-dosage product.
 The following acne treatments are not recommended during pregnancy:


Isotretinoin (Accutane) may cause birth defects or miscarriage.Tetracycline may affect bone and tooth development in the fetus.Tretinoin (Retin-A, Renova), adapalene (Differin), tazorac (tazarotene) and other retinoids may cause birth defects. The evidence is unclear, but it's still best to avoid these.This group includes most ingredients with "retin" in the name.
Hormonal therapy can cause major developmental changes to the fetus.