 There’s no substitute for confidence. When you walk into a room, hold your head high and put a little swagger in your step. Acting self-assured shows that you have a lot going for you and you’re not hung up on being a little more compact than the people around you.In order to feel bigger, it can also help to sound bigger. Use a clear, assertive tone when you speak instead of acting shy or murmuring softly.
If you don’t treat your shortness like a big deal, chances are no one else will either.;
, Practice good posture and avoid slouching. Draw your shoulders back, push your chest forward and raise your chin up. You should also find something better to do with your hands than stick them in your pockets, which can cause your shoulders to droop and make you look self-conscious.It’s all about creating a presence—by holding yourself as though you were the tallest person in the room, you’ll have an influence over the way other people see you.Poor posture can actually play up shortness, which is the opposite of the effect you’re going for.
 Remember, it's what's inside that really counts. Instead of simply wishing you were taller, make your worth visible in other ways. For instance, you could play up your accomplishments at school or work, or describe a fascinating hobby of yours that will help you stand out from the crowd.Always wear a warm smile. It will make you more approachable.Being friendly will take you a lot further than just being a certain height. Girls want to spend time with people they can feel comfortable around.
 Wearing slim, fitted clothes can make your limbs look longer, creating the appearance of added height. Take your measurements and start buying items that are true to your build. Dressing well can help you cut a more appealing image.Vertical stripes and patterns are also a smart choice, as they make the eye move up and down.Steer clear of baggy, oversized clothes that have a tendency to bunch up. You’ll look even smaller if you’re swallowed up by your outfit.
Thick-soled shoes or boots will raise you up a little, which can help you get noticed when socializing.
 You might be able to make your short stature less noticeable by building a healthier, more proportioned body. Put in some time at the gym doing cardio and lifting light weights to increase your muscle mass, and make sure you’re eating a balanced diet. A well-developed physique will draw attention away from the fact that your interest has a few inches on you.Get good at a sport or some other discipline that’s physically impressive, like dancing.
Be careful not to bulk up too much, or it could end up making you look stocky. Putting on massive amounts of muscle may also give the impression that you’re trying to compensate.