 Practicing in front of someone you're comfortable with will make it easier for you to perform calmly when it comes time to perform in front of the judges. You could even pretend you're still just practicing with your good friend.
 A book will keep you busy so that you don't start pacing, overthinking things, worrying or just getting really nervous. Being occupied will also keep others from talking to you, distracting you or even making you nervous intentionally.
 While waiting for your turn, do your best to get into character. When you're really in character you're going to be more comfortable and less nervous., When you get on stage and there are a lot of people watching the audition, just think how much worse it would be if it was just you and the judges. If you are performing just for the judges. then use the same strategy and think how much more nerve wracking it would be with an audience. Seeing your audition as an easier scenario compared to another will make you less nervous and more comfortable., When you're on stage and it's time for your performance to start, without thinking of anything else, just do it. Just start and keep going and it'll be over before you know it. Always remember that the sooner you start, the sooner you finish., If you forget your lines the judges won't put your head on a pike. They know it's natural for anyone new to auditions to be nervous. You need to remember that these judges have seen countless auditions in their years in the industry so someone forgetting their lines is certainly nothing new to them. If you forget your lines you can also ad-lib. While saying what's on the script should always be your first option, if you forget some lines it's better to ad-lib through that part than to just stop talking. And besides, you probably already have the lines well memorized by now and you're worrying for nothing. Once you start your performance, you'll be surprised when all of a sudden it's already done and the judges might have even liked it., You shouldn't feel as though the judges are out to get you. In reality they're just interested in seeing your performance the same as a family member would be. Would you be this nervous in front of your Aunt? Didn't think so!, When you get to auditions, pretend the judges and audience are not watching you. If you can do it alone, then this may help a bit., Because first of all you probably won't. And even if you freeze on stage, let yourself know that the judges won't hurt you. If you don't get the part, that's okay too., If you didn't get the role, don't think you messed up somehow and become discouraged from future auditions. In reality you shouldn't be afraid to mess up again. Even with a near flawless audition, there's no guarantee you'll get cast. You see, the judges see the people as a product, they'll only buy that product if it is exactly what they have in mind for their project. If you keep auditioning, your bound to be the product that someone is shopping for!