 When choosing a fish for grilling, you first want to consider how hearty it is -— how well can it stand up to the torture of a live fire. Flaky or delicate fish like flounder or sole won't cut it here. You want thicker fillets or steaks of more sturdy contenders such as:Halibut
Tuna
Swordfish
Haddock
Salmon
Mahi-mahi
Grouper
If you do opt for a delicate fish, you'll be better of with putting it in aluminum foil or using a grilling basket -- or else you risk your meat falling through the grill to the flames.

Of course, there's always the option of taking a whole fish and filleting it yourself.
 Not only will it be easier to manage on the grill but you can ensure the fish cooks up evenly -- the skinnier tail end doesn't need to cook as long as the thicker part of the fillet. Cut your fish into portions that have an even thickness to ensure you don't have dry parts and/or undercooked parts all on one portion.
 If you have a marinade you've been dying to try, go for it. Just make sure to keep the fish in the marinade for no longer than 30 minutes -- both salty or sugary marinades have a negative effect on taste if left on too long.


However, all fish really needs is a coating of olive or coconut oil and some salt and pepper. The art is in the grilling -- just make sure you lather up both sides evenly.
 This not only creates those masterful grill marks you see in restaurants, it actually makes it easier to flip the fish because it's on an angle.The general rule is a fish will take 8 minutes to cook through per inch of thickness, which means about 3 to 5 minutes per side.Reduce the heat to medium, cover the grill, and let cook! Don't try to move the fish until you see that the skin side has a nice sear and looks crisp -- if you do, you risk it falling apart. If you're not sure when to check the fish to see this, try gently lifting with a fine-edged spatula after a few minutes. If it doesn't lift off the grate easily, let it cook a bit longer and check at 20-second intervals until it does., Okay, so the fish is lifting off the grate and has the right color on the bottom. Time to flip. First, you need the right tool. A wide spatula with a thin, tapered edge does the job nicely by being able to slide easily under the fish and also large enough to support the whole fillet while you flip it. To make your life even easier, pair it with a flexible turner which can help hold the fish in place while the larger spatula slides underneath.


While attempting the turn, if you feel too much resistance, just stop and walk away. If you've properly cleaned and oiled the grate, the fish will let you know when it's ready to turn by releasing itself from the grate., When cooked properly, the meat will be firm to the touch, flake easily with a fork, and appear opaque all the way through.


Take a fork and gently pull back a flaky section in the center. If the fish is opaque with just a bit of translucent center, it's ready to come off. If using an instant read thermometer, the fish should be pulled when it registers between 130-135°F (54-57°C), letting it carry over to 140°F (60°C) while it rests.