 Gay men, in particular, may have had years of self doubt and questioning due to living with homophobia in all its forms. This takes time and effort to shake off!


Take the time to identify what you think is beautiful about yourself, and nurture that beauty instead of doubting it.
You should also believe other people when they tell you you are beautiful. They are telling you the truth as they see it!;
, It can be hard to find stereotypically "gay" aspects of your composure or personality beautiful. This is because straight society has defined these things as undesirable. Instead of falling prey to these ideas, embrace your "gay voice" or mannerisms that are stereotypically associated with gay men.
 Attractiveness may have less to do with physical traits than other character traits, such as a sense of humor or a sharp intellect. Become really good at something. Do projects or hobbies you love to do. Develop a career that is fulfilling. Having passions, skills, and pursuits makes you a more interesting, and attractive, person.
 It can be easy to see someone and think, "I wish I could look that good." This can be especially hard in the gay community, where looks and traditional attractiveness tends to take center stage. However, this accomplishes nothing. Instead of comparing yourself to others, embrace your own looks.


Learn to recognize your own beauty, and let the good aspects of your looks and style make you feel more confident., There is no one way to be a beautiful and attractive gay man. Some gay men find skinny, hairless men beautiful. Other gay men prefer hairy, large men. In other words, if you want to feel beautiful you don't necessarily need to change yourself. Instead, you can surround yourself with people who like you as you are!


It is undeniable that it feels good when someone else thinks you are beautiful. If you are around people that fill you with self doubt and self hatred, those people are toxic. Find other people that can see the beauty that already exists in you.

