 Some people prefer washing once in the morning when they wake up, and once more before they go to bed. Wet your face with lukewarm water and apply your face wash with your fingertips. There are hundreds of face washes to choose from, targeting different skin issues like oil, acne, dryness, and more. Experiment to find a face wash that works best for your skin. Rinse your face with warm water and gently pat dry with a towel.If you have sensitive skin prone to drying, you might want to limit your face washing to once a day.
If you struggle with dry skin, apply a facial moisturizer after washing.;
, The goal, of course, is to make your skin look flawless while still looking very natural. Use only a tiny bit of product in areas prone to discoloration or blotchiness— typically around your mouth and nose. Put a bit on your fingertip, dot it in the desired area, and gently massage it into skin in a circular motion.The secret to applying makeup for a natural “no makeup” appearance is to use a very light, gentle hand and to blend thoroughly.
 When you choose a product, the key is to consider your natural skin tone. For example, people with darker complexions may be able to use bronzer to brighten their cheeks, while very fair people may want to opt for a lighter pink or peach blush. Work with the natural undertones of your skin. Think of the color your cheeks turn when you’re embarrassed and embrace it! Very lightly pat the product onto your cheeks and blend thoroughly.


If your skin is very rosy naturally, you may opt to skip this step. Instead, remove redness from the other parts of your face, using foundation or concealer, leaving the cheeks bare.
 You can always tell when someone has pulled an all-nighter, because they literally wear their fatigue on their face. When you aren’t getting enough sleep, the pH of your skin can go berserk. This, in turn, affects moisture levels, which can cause acne, redness, and dryness. Lack of sleep can also cause blood vessels to dilate, which is the culprit behind the dark circles you get under your eyes.Adults age 18 to 64 require 7 to 9 hours of sleep nightly, while teenagers 14 to 17 years old require 8 to 10 hours., With healthy, glowing skin, you might as well throw your makeup out! There is nothing as naturally attractive as a great complexion. A great face mask will hydrate dry skin, remove excess oil, and brighten your skin. You can find face masks that target all different skin concerns at your local pharmacy, or you can even make one at home. Apply it once or twice a week, and your skin will thank you.Ingredients like coconut oil, honey, oatmeal, banana, egg whites, and avocado can all benefit your skin. Look online to find endless recipes for DIY face masks.