 One-way rentals tend to be more expensive than booking a car round-trip, and rates vary depending on what company you rent a car from and on what dates. Using a comparison site like AutoSlash or KAYAK can help you find the best deal and decide the right rental company for you.


Inquire about hidden fees. When you find a rental company that you like and would potentially rent from, check the company website. One-way rentals often have additional fees that round-trip rentals don’t. The drop-off surcharge, which some companies charge for leaving the car somewhere other than where you picked it up, can add up to hundreds of dollars. It’s advisable to see what the company’s website says about these fees.;
, Individual rental companies will often offer special deals, extras, and coupons on one-way rentals. These can range from 24 hour roadside assistance to unlimited mileage to a reduction of up to 35% on your price if you pay when you book your reservation instead of when you drop-off the car.You can search for these discounts on the website of your selected rental company, through membership programs with AAA or AARP, or on a general site like Groupon or RetailMeNot.
 A large national chain like Budget, Hertz, or Enterprise will offer more places to drop the car off than will a small company. Not only does this give you more options, but prices will typically be cheaper for companies with multiple drop-off locations., Car rental companies offer an array of options, including economy, full-size sedans, minivans, SUVs, and pickup trucks. Choose a model depending on your specific needs, but be aware that some car rental companies will only offer larger cars for one-way rentals., Check with your auto insurance company to see if the coverage you have for your main vehicle also extends to a rental car. It is likely that it will if you have full coverage, but it’s best to double-check by checking your insurance policy.Buy insurance over the phone or online instead of at the counter. The rates will likely be lower, and you won’t feel pressured to purchase insurance that you actually may not need., You can do this online, over the phone, or in person, whichever option is most convenient for you.


List additional drivers, if applicable. This may cost more, but if you plan on letting somebody else drive, the liability will be on you if an accident happens.Read over the rental agreement line by line and ask the service representative any questions you may have about the contract. It is better to be certain of what you’re signing than to have to face any surprises during your trip.

