 Some studies suggest that acupuncture may be somewhat effective in treating and preventing migraines.Acupuncture involves getting stuck with very thin needles in carefully-chosen areas on your body.Acupuncture is safe, but should only be performed by a qualified practitioner. You should never attempt to practice acupuncture at home.
 Some studies suggest that massage therapy can help reduce the frequency of migraine symptoms. It may be related to the relief of stress that tends to come with a massage, or it could have something to do with pressure points in the body (the same reason acupuncture works in some individuals)., Some studies have found that taking herbs and herbal supplements can help provide pain relief and reduce the frequency of migraines over a period of several months.It's important to exercise caution, however, since most herbs and herbal supplements are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration.


Feverfew is a plant that is in the daisy family which has been shown to help reduce migraine symptoms. Its leaves are typically dried and ground into capsules, which are sold in health food stores and certain online retailers.White willow naturally contains aspirin-like chemicals which may help relieve migraines, especially when combined with feverfew. You can find extracts and supplements made from white willow at certain health food and vitamin stores.
 Studies suggest that vitamins may be helpful at reducing migraines in some individuals. Be aware, though, that some of these are more effective than others. Natural supplements are no substitute for professional medical attention, so make sure you continue to see your doctor on a regular basis and let him or her know about your plan to try supplements.Vitamin B-2, also known as riboflavin, may reduce the frequency of migraine symptoms or prevent them altogether.
Coenzyme Q10 is a supplement that may reduce the incidence of migraines. However, once you begin to experience a migraine, it will not have much effect on the immediate symptoms.
Some people have found that magnesium supplements may be helpful. However, this tends to be most helpful in people with a magnesium deficiency, and not in general migraine sufferers.
 If you're willing to explore your options, you may find aromatherapy helpful in treating and preventing migraines. Some studies suggest that certain aromatherapy oils, particularly lavender essential oil, may be helpful in managing the symptoms of migraines.You can find lavender essential oils at many natural food stores, as well as through many online retailers.

