 Then, wash your bedding. While this is in the wash, try to pick up some of the items on the floor or continue with the steps. Flip your mattress to increase the lifespan and your comfort. When the washing is done, make your bed! Be sure to style the pillows any way you like! Make the bed neat, but also add a touch of your own personality. Making the bed makes a big difference in your room.;
,, Take everything off and out of it. Organize the drawers and the top of it. Wipe down the bedside table and go through the items you cleared off the bedside table. Put anything important you might need on the top of it like a cell phone, etc. But try not to make it too cluttered.
 Take everything off the desk and sort it. Keep only stuff important to work or school and find homes for everything else. Wipe down the desk and neatly organize the items on the desk. Also, wipe down your desk chair. You are more likely to work well if you feel comfortable, clean, and organized.
 Clear out the bookshelf and sort the items. Next, wipe down the shelves and give it a minute to dry. Next, organize books and keepsakes. Remember, you DO NOT want to create a junk shelf so DO NOT put things that are irrelevant to the other items on the bookshelf.
 First, clear out the closet. Wash all your clothes. If clothing does not fit anymore, then donate it. Vacuum/mop/shampoo the floor and wipe down shelves, racks, and other parts of the closet. Next, hang up delicate items (note that knitted items should be folded in drawers to prevent stretching of the threads). Get more wear out of your closet by bringing a few rarely worn items to a more prominent position. If you don't wear items you should get rid of them, making space for clothing you will wear. Then, hang up or place the rest of your clothes on shelves. Put like clothes together (sweaters with sweaters, dresses with dresses, jeans with jeans, etc.) Now, organize your shoes neatly. You should always keep shoes with clothes so in the morning, you can dress from the head to the shoes.
 Then, organize your clothes in the dresser. It is a good idea to keep all socks and all underwear together, so you can instantly see if you are running out! Try not place things on top of the dresser but if you do, do not clutter it. Try placing relevant items on it, like a jewelry box or alarm clock.
 Be sure to wipe down all surfaces that you clean off. If you have a mirror, a TV, or a computer in your room, wipe off the screens. Take out the trash and take the donated items to a donation station (Goodwill or a thrift store) Be sure that you have a place for everything but if it doesn't belong in your room, take it to where it does belong!

, Then, open all the blinds! Sunlight is the finishing touch!

, If you get bored with it, change it up. Make sure if you do move things around, to get help so you don't hurt yourself.
 Donate unneeded or unwanted things. For the things you want to keep organize it back into the container and find a place for the bin where it does not look cluttered., Be sure that if you do take something out that you put it away. Begin a daily routine to help you make sure that your room stays looking good!

