 Make a list of 3-5 companies you will inquire further about. The legitimacy of companies like or I-Camz has been backed by many users. However, it is still advisable to thoroughly review each company you might consider working for and to check that the company is indeed reputable., Not only is this a way to get any questions you may have answered, it’s also a way to see how responsive the company is. A legitimate company will respond to your call promptly or message you back within a few days, whereas a scam will not respond. In fact, scam sites may not even have contact information posted.
 Scams are common in the camming industry and could be harmful to you. They could damage your reputation or even threaten your safety. There are several ways you can recognize scams:


Beware of companies that reach out to you first. Legitimate cam sites will advertise, but they will never contact you first. A cold contact through social media, messaging, or email is likely a scam.
Reputable companies will ask for verification that you are over 18, since this is the legal age requirement for adult work of an explicit nature. A scam will not ask for such documentation.
If a company requests nude pictures or an interview via webcam, this is most likely an attempt to get a free show. No legitimate company will ask for such an interview or for nude pictures. Instead, a reputable company will ask for a full body picture and a headshot.
A company with a registration, application, or processing fee is rarely reputable. If anything, your initial investments will have to do with purchasing a quality webcam, lingerie, or novelty items.
If the company guarantees a certain income, it is most likely a scam. Webcam models make money when customers pay, and that is a variable factor.
The company is most likely a scam if it says it uses PayPal as a payment service. PayPal has a zero tolerance policy for adult services., Typically, users pay tokens - credits or “tips” - which allow them to interact with cam models. Webcam models, in turn, make money when the host site, the middleman, distributes the tips. Every camming company will take a different percentage of the tips, so find out exactly what the rate is. Some sites, for example, will allow you to keep 50-60% of the profits from tips.You should also find out how frequently you will be paid. Some companies will pay you twice a month, some monthly, a very select few daily. Factor this into your considerations for what company you will sign up with.
Know that as an independent contractor, you will still owe taxes to the IRS. You will have to pay these on your own through quarterly estimated payments or by filing a tax return at the end of the year., Being a webcam model involves incurring certain expenses on your part. These can range from buying a variety of outfits and lingerie to purchasing high-definition equipment. Consider whether these are costs you are willing to bear up-front in order to in turn potentially earn money in the long-run.


Making money as a cam model is not guaranteed. You could have days when you don’t make any money. Determine whether this is acceptable to you prior to signing up for a camming website.
 You can do this by doing a Google search of camming site reviews. Multiple favorable reviews will likely mean the company can be trusted. However, you should always use your own discretion to determine if this is indeed the case for each particular site you are considering.


You can also watch YouTube videos by webcam models to get their insight into the webcam industry.
 You must be age 18 or older to be a webcam model. Any webcam content involving a performer under age 18 is considered child pornography given the often explicit nature of the cam modeling industry., Every company will have a different application process, but all legitimate companies will ask you to fill out required paperwork. This will include a model contract and release form.


Recall that a reputable company will never ask you for a webcam interview or for nude images.
 Once your paperwork has been processed, you will receive an email notifying you that you can begin to update your profile. This will include choosing a username, which should be simple and easy to remember. A simple username will make it easier to get repeat visitors and is also something you could use to promote yourself on social media sites like Twitter or Instagram.
 This should include information about what you are willing to do on camera as well as any talents you may have, such as dancing or speaking foreign languages. Do not offer to do anything you are not comfortable with. At the same time, know that your willingness to fulfill requests and perform a variety of acts can set you apart and increase your earning potential.


Never reveal any personal information about yourself in your description.
 This image should be eye-catching and colorful so as to entice viewers to click on your profile. If possible, upload multiple pictures to your profile. Once you upload your images, your profile will go through an approval process. Once approved, you can begin hosting live shows.
 A live broadcast is your show. You are the one who sets the rules. If you don’t want to show your face, don’t. If you would rather perform without audio, do just that. The same goes for if you don’t want to perform fully nude. You are the one with full control over your broadcast.
 Do this prior to signing up for any camming company. Being a webcam model involves potentially exposing yourself to scams, blackmail, or various forms of exploitation. Furthermore, your videos are accessible by practically anyone and have the potential to remain on the internet forever. Your true identity could also be revealed.


If you fear that somebody you know might stumble across your video or that a potential employer might notice your cam activity, carefully consider whether camming is the right profession for you.
 You can use the camera on your laptop if you have a solid, high-speed internet connection. The better the picture quality, the more users your broadcasts will attract.


If you have dedicated, loyal viewers, you could create a wishlist that includes an HD webcam to improve the quality of your stream. A regular visitor might gift this to you.Check whether your laptop’s audio and microphone are working well, if applicable.
 Choose a single area as your workspace and use this as your background every time you broadcast live. You should also set up the room in a way that attracts visitors, so clean the area around you, consider performing in front of a brightly-colored wall, and choose a room with good lighting., Groom as you see fit and dress as you intend to perform. If you want to have a seductive broadcast, choose an alluring outfit. If you want your broadcast to be more casual or low-key, choose an outfit that is less revealing but still cute. If you plan on accepting role-play requests, have a few costumes on hand in case you decide to switch to a private show.
 If you decide to be a kawaii anime girl, be a kawaii anime girl during every broadcast. You want the vibe in your room to be the same every time users join your broadcast. This will create a feeling of familiarity and comfort which will attract regular users.By putting users at ease with a consistent persona, loyal viewers will likely tip you generously or help you create an even better page if you don’t have experience with photo editing or HTML., Be outgoing, smile, and engage in conversation with the users. Talk to them, the goal being to keep them entertained and in your room. Look directly at the camera to create a more intense and realistic connection with your users., Many sites, like I-Camz, will spotlight new models. You can leverage this additional exposure to boost your earnings and to begin establishing a regular clientele., This will allow you to estimate approximately how many hours a week you should be working and how many regular clients you should have so as to obtain your desired income.
 You can do this by establishing an active presence on social media. Twitter and Instagram are great ways to extend your fan base and to attract new clients to your page. You could also use Twitter, for example, to announce to followers at what time you’ll be doing a live broadcast that day.
 This is a simple yet fantastic way to establish a regular clientele. When clients know at what time you’ll be online, they can log in as well. Be online when you say you will be and you could start to develop regular clients.


Once you have established a regular clientele, you could consider creating a fan club membership with a monthly subscription. This is another way to earn extra cash.
 Becoming a successful webcam model takes time and dedication. Stick to your schedule, be enthusiastic and engaging when doing a live show, and create a connection with your clients. Slowly but surely, you could start earning regular profits.

