 Your source equipment includes a CD player, cassette player, record player, or other form of media players. You aren’t required to have this equipment available, but it will benefit you if you are a music based station.


Consider getting used audio equipment from craigslist or other music posting websites.
 There are many benefits to having a computer for your radio station and studio. You can generate the bulk of your station's broadcast with only a computer playing music, miscellaneous sounds, and even your own voice. Many radio stations record shows on computers and play them at a selected time over the airways.


If you are first starting out, a computer will cut down on a lot of your audio costs.
You can upload your radio show as a podcast or as an internet radio station with a computer.
 Unless you plan to play music alone, you should invest in at least one microphone, if not two. You will also need an audio mixer to switch between multiple audio outputs like a turntable, microphone, and computer. For a good quality microphones invest in a Sennheiser MD 421 or a Shure SH 55.There are options if you don’t want to deal with audio equipment. You can invest in a USB microphone that goes directly into your computer. These mics have been continuing to grow and offer a range in quality.
Consider getting help from a tech-savvy friend if you’re beginning to feel overwhelmed.
 Asides from the microphones and mixing boards, you’ll need cables to attach everything together. Most transmitters take an ⅛” jack (headphone jack), so you’ll need to use the right converters for your mixer. Other cables that might help you are XLR cables (for microphones) and RCA cables (for external audio players).


If you went with the USB microphone, you don’t need to worry about this step.
You’ll also need one or two sets of headphones depending on how many people plan to talk. For future endeavors, you should have two headphones or more. If you use multiple headphones, you will also need a headphone splitter.
 Search through the internet for a professional grade, low powered FM transmitter. There are several options available that are all verified by the FCC. You can spend a small amount of money ($80), or spend a larger sum of around $300.For a cleaner signal, shop for a mono transmitter opposed to a stereo transmitter.
Some transmitters come with an antenna, but these models aren’t as powerful or reliable.
 Remember a good antenna is a must for clear and long transmission. An antenna that works well on one frequency may not work as well on another. Some audio stores will have antennas for FM transmitters, but you will probably have more luck shopping online.


You can also purchase a custom antenna, tuned to your radio frequency. Check out radio brandy for custom antennas: http://www.radiobrandy.com/FMAntenna.html

