 This goes without saying, if you want to become the top of the class then you need to make sure that you are organized. Also homework tasks are always set for a reason which may mean that if you don't do your homework, you might suffer during the final exam.;
, Becoming top of the class is going to take time and if you are extremely sporty/musical and have lots of other clubs which occupy you, then you will have to work extra hard to keep on top. So keep a planner so you know when all your homework is due.
 If you are studying a book in English, read it! So then you will have the upper hand over the rest of the class. Little things like this really make a difference to your grades.


Read the content that will be taught before class and revise anything taught in missed classes, this can help you to catch up in the class.
 This is so you can buy the related textbooks which are specific to your course. This will help make sure that you spend your time studying the right topics and not wasting your time on notes that you will never be tested on!

, These may look complicated at first, but after a while they will become your bible. These notes tell you exactly what you need to know for the exam. So you can use them as a checklist while revising.
 Start revising well ahead of the exam to make sure all the information sinks in properly, give yourself time to carefully work through all the topics in your course.
 Take it question by question.
 This way you will enjoy every minute of your class. You will have high grades if you participate in class because you are actively testing your knowledge as you learn. Participating means that you are also paying attention to your teacher and will surely be a great way to achieve the first rank in your class.
 These "friends" will become barriers to your education and they can ruin your future.
 Never answer back to them and make sure you show them respect. Don't make fun of them and always obey them. By doing this, your teachers might think that you are worthy to be the first in class.
 Study everything that you want and need to know. Study as best as you can so that you can be ready for unexpected recitations and quizzes.
 This way others can understand your writing and your work will not be marked down.
 Do them as early as you can so you can have time to do other important things. However, if you need help on anything, don't be afraid to ask to your teacher or parents or even look on the internet.
 A creative yet clean piece of work will force your teacher to give you high grades and you can also have the chance for your work to be posted in your school !

, It will provide you popularity and extra grades that you will surely love.
 You do not want to miss important lessons, do you?

