


A vaccine for pandemic flu may not be available for 4-6 months after a pandemic starts, and even then, it may only be available in limited amounts.
People will have little or no immunity to pandemic flu since it is a new virus to humans. With seasonal flu, people have some immunity built up from previous exposure to the viruses.
Symptoms of pandemic flu may be more severe than seasonal flu. More people are likely to die from pandemic flu than from seasonal flu.
 Store nonperishable foods, bottled water, over-the-counter drugs, health supplies, and other necessities. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recommends having a 2-week supply. (These supplies can be useful in other types of emergencies, such as power outages.) Have basic, over-the-counter health supplies such as a thermometer, facemasks, tissues, soap, hand sanitizers, medicine to relieve fever, and cold medicine.
 Plan for what you will do in the following cases:


Schools dismissed: Consider childcare needs. Plan home learning activities and exercises. Have materials, such as books, on hand. Also plan recreational activities that your children can do at home.
You or family member becomes sick and requires care: Make plans for how to care for people with special needs in case the services they rely on are not available. Plan to stay home for at least 10 days when you are sick with pandemic flu. Staying home will keep you from giving it to others. Make sure others in your household also stay home when they are sick. During a severe pandemic, stay home if someone in your household is sick with pandemic flu.
Transportation networks disrupted. Think about how you can rely less on public transportation during a pandemic. For example, store food and other essential supplies so you can make fewer trips to the store. Prepare backup plans for taking care of loved ones who are far away. Consider other ways to get to work, or, if you can, work at home.
 Ask your employer about how business will continue during a pandemic. You can Develop a Risk Management Plan that accounts for the possibility of a flu pandemic. Find out if you can work from home, or if your employer will consider virtualizing the workforce. Plan for the possible reduction or loss of income if you are unable to work or your place of employment is closed. Check with your employer or union about leave policies.
 Identify sources you can count on for reliable information. If a pandemic occurs, having accurate and reliable information will be critical.


Reliable, accurate, and timely information is available at http://www.pandemicflu.gov.
Another source for information on pandemic influenza is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Hotline at: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). This line is available in English and Spanish, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. TTY: 1-888-232-6348. If you do not live in the U.S., check if there is an equivalent hotline in your area.
Look for information on your local and state government Web sites. Review your state's planning efforts and those of your local public health and emergency preparedness officials.
Listen to local and national radio, watch news reports on television, and read your newspaper and other sources of printed and Web-based information.

