 Scientists have observed that babies who were not cuddled, played with and loved have stunted brain growth. They also observed that babies who were not held and did not receive attention failed to grow, became depressed, and eventually died. On the other hand, many studies have shown that hugging, interacting and playing with your child has a strong effect on developing his intelligence. The loving connection formed between you and your child and your one-on-one interaction with him provide the foundation for his higher thinking skills.;
, Also, listen to when your child is speaking. This reinforces their effort to communicate and for language. You may also read books to your child. Start reading to even if your child does not understand the words. This gives them a head start in developing language skills. Children who are read to when young are more likely to develop a lifelong interest in reading, do well in school, and succeed in adult life. Reading books is one of the most important activities that make children smart.
, When your child plays with other children, they learn to combine ideas, impressions and feelings with others.
 Exercise increases the flow of blood to the brain and builds new brain cells. Exercise is good for adults' mental sharpness, but it has a more long-lasting effect on your child's developing brain.
 It can also lower stress that is destructive to your child's brain. Learning to play a musical instrument has an effect on the brain’s proportional thinking and spatial-temporal reasoning that lay the foundation for abstract math. If possible, start with the piano. After learning to read music and play up to 10 notes at a time, it will be much easier for them to learn any of the other instruments. But starting them with music young--no matter what the instrument--is the important thing.
 If they see you engaged in reading books, writing, making music, or doing creative things, they will imitate you, and in the process get smarter.
 It also develops their hand-eye coordination and prepares them for tomorrow’s technology. More importantly, the child learns these while they play. Learning and having fun at the same time is the best way for your child to learn.
 improves their attention, alertness, and thinking. Carbohydrates give his brain the fuel that is used in thinking. The best ones are those that come from whole grain and fruits. Processed carbohydrates and sugar have bad effects on attention span, focusing ability, and activity level. Vitamins and minerals are also important.
 Some good options are the museum and tourist attractions. Once they are old enough take them on educational yet very thrilling/exciting places such as The London Dungeons. Taking them on affordable trips abroad is a good option too.
 In a study, researchers showed that teaching 7th graders that intelligence is not fixed but malleable (and that it can be improved through hard work) resulted in an upward trajectory of math grades in junior high school .