 One thing you can do for someone with anxiety is let the person know that they can come to you. Reassuring your loved one that you won’t judge them no matter what they say or despite the anxiety can help give your friend some peace of mind. It will also help calm him or her.Tell your friend that you won’t like them any less no matter what his or her anxiety is. Even if your friend tells you every time you are together that he or she fears something, you will still be there for him or her and still feel the same way.
Let your friend know that he or she can call you whenever they need you. This can help provide some calm for your friend. You may even say, “Let me know if there is anything I can do for you.”

, Another way you can calm your friend with anxiety is to spend time with him or her. Don’t avoid your friend, ignore calls, or cancel plans without a good reason. Avoiding your friend may cause more anxiety since he or she may believe it is his or her fault that you are not spending time with him or her.Being around other people can help your friend a lot. When someone with anxiety spends quality time with other people, it helps to distract from the anxiety. This can help your friend feel calmer and less anxious.
 You should be patient with your friend if he or she has anxiety. Getting frustrated will increase your friend’s anxiety. Staying patient during an anxiety attack or when your friend expresses any fears can help calm any anxiety.Remember that your friend suffers from a chemical imbalance and may rationally understand that any fears are unfounded. However, he or she is unable to control the anxiety, so getting frustrated because your friend can’t “get a grip” or think logically like you about something may worsen the anxiety.
Forgive your friend if he or she says anything out of frustration or irritation. Because anxiety can cause a neurological change and sudden intense feelings, your friend may say something he or she does not mean. Let your friend know you understand and forgive him or her.
 You should never try to calm your friend with anxiety by giving him or her alcohol, recreational drugs, or other controlled substances. Alcohol may calm your friend temporarily, but alcohol and recreational drugs can aggravate a person’s anxiety. These substances can ultimately make the anxiety worse, which is the opposite of calming your friend.Alcohol can interact with certain anti-anxiety and antidepressants negatively.
Encouraging your friend to turn to alcohol or other controlled substances may lead to addiction.
 If your friend suffers from an anxiety disorder but has not sought help for it, you should try to encourage your friend to get the help he or she needs. Make sure to broach the subject of getting help when your friend is in a calm state. Suggesting he or she gets help during a heightened state of anxiety may cause additional stress and a negative reaction.Decide if you are the right person to discuss this with your friend. If you are not extremely close, your friend may not trust your judgment or listen to what you have to say. If this is the case, talk to your friend's close friends or family members.
Do research before you approach your friend. Have some suggestions of treatment options, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, ready for when you approach the person.
There are helplines and organizations that can provide information for you if you are unsure how to help your friend with anxiety.

