 Use the spade to dig holes spaced a few inches apart, or as indicated on the packaging of the seeds or young plants you bought. Make sure the holes are as deep and wide as they need to be. Place the seeds or plants in the holes and cover them with soil. Pat the soil gently into place.
 Depending on the plants you choose to grow, you may need to fertilize the garden again after planting. Some plants may need more fertilizer than others, so make sure you only use it in the areas that require it.
 Some types of plants require a thin covering of compost, mulch or topsoil to protect them during seed germination and while the plant is young and fragile. Spread the material by hand, or use a soil spreader to cover a larger area.


Some types of compost or mulch aren't appropriate for certain plants. Conduct research on the produce you're growing to make sure you use the right ground cover.
Too thick a layer could in inhibit growth, so make sure you add only as much as each type of plant needs.
 When you're finished planting and treating the soil, use the garden hose's "sprinkler" setting to thoroughly dampen the garden. Continue watering the garden every day, adding more or less water to different areas according to the plants' needs, for the first few weeks after planting.


Over saturating the soil could drown the seeds and prevent the plants from growing. Don't water to the point where streams of water run through the garden.
Never let the soil completely dry out. Watering once a day is sufficient.
Once the plants have sprouted, water in the morning, rather than at night. Water sitting on the leaves and stems all night can lead to the production of mold and other plant diseases.
After a few weeks, reduce how often you water the plants. Give the garden deep waterings two or three times a week or as needed.
 Sprouting weeds take nutrients from the soil, leaving less for your vegetables or flowers. Weed the garden every few days to make sure your plants get the nutrients they need - just be careful not to pull up sprouting garden plants.


A stirrup hoe will help remove weeds before they get too big. You can run the hoe along the soil beside plants and knock the weeds down.
 If you see small animals such as rabbits, squirrels, deer, and gophers or voles in your garden or in your neighborhood, you may want to go ahead and put a fence around the garden to protect it. A two or three foot tall fence should be tall enough to keep small creatures out. If you have deer in your area, the fence may need to be as high as eight feet.

