 Outdoor space will be limited in the new apartment. Taking your small dog out in the yard less often before moving will help it get used to no longer having a yard for running around.


Try not to abruptly stop taking your dog out in the yard. Make the transition gradual. This will give your dog time to adjust.
Try shortening outside time a little more every few days. If your dog is used to being outside for two hours total every day, try shortening the time to an hour and 45 minutes. After three to four days of that, cut the time down to an hour and a half. Continue cutting the total time until the move.
You can start shortening time outside in the yard each time you take the dog out to use the bathroom. Rather than let the dog run around, bring him back in as soon as he’s done.;
, Small dogs need exercise just like larger ones, but the opportunity to be outside will be limited in the apartment. A walk in the morning and one in the afternoon or evening will give your dog the daily exercise it needs. Plus, starting the walks before the move will help your dog adapt to its new routine after the move.
 Once you move, you’ll no longer be able to play with your dog out in the yard whenever you want. Getting your dog used to indoor playtime before the move can help it more easily adjust to the new apartment. After the move, your dog will probably look forward to indoor playtime together.


Play fetch with a soft toy that won’t knock over any breakable items in your apartment.
Play hide and seek with a bone, ball, or dog toy. Show your dog the item, then hide it somewhere and let your pooch find it.
Practice old and new tricks, such as sit or roll over. Let your dog proudly show you he’s still good at tricks he’s already learned. Then challenge him by teaching a new trick.
Create a small obstacle course for your dog to navigate. Choose an area with the most open floor space, such as the living room. Then set up a few items for the dog to climb or jump over, or to go around or crawl through. You can use boxes, crates, chairs, baskets, or anything you have on hand.
 Training pads work great with small dogs. The pads can absorb any accidents your dog might have in the new apartment. You can also choose to train your dog to intentionally go on the training pads all the time since you won’t have a yard for the dog to go in.


Place training pads in areas of your home similar to where you plan to have them in the apartment. For instance, keep one in or near the bathroom and do the same once you move. This will help your dog more easily find the pads after moving to the new place.
 Gathering many of the items you’ll need for your dog in the new apartment ahead of time will make things easier on you after the move. You and your dog will both be better prepared for life in the apartment.


Items you might need for your small dog in the apartment include training pads, a leash for walks, and toys for indoor playtime.

