 You should brush your teeth multiple times a day. Most dental hygiene experts suggest brushing 2 times daily, after breakfast and before you go to bed. This will help prevent tooth decay, gum disease, and bad breath.To make sure that your overall oral hygiene is at its best, you should also floss daily.


You should try to use toothpaste with fluoride because it will help strengthen your teeth and promote a healthy mouth. You can also use a mouth wash with fluoride as well.When you brush your teeth, you should also clean the rest of your mouth. Ignoring your tongue, the roof of your mouth, or the insides of your cheeks can leave harmful bacteria in your mouth that can cause hygiene problems. Run your brush over all the surfaces in your mouth and scrub the surface of your tongue with the bristles every time your brush your teeth.
Replace your toothbrush every three months. This will ensure that your brush is the most effective it can be for the best oral hygiene possible.See your dentist regularly for check-ups. Most dentists recommend twice a year, but your dentist can recommend a schedule that's best for you.;
, Along with brushing your teeth, you should floss every day. This will help combat bad breath and cavities. Each day, you should pull floss between each of your teeth and run it along the edges. Make sure you reach your back teeth as well.Don't snap the floss against your gums. This may cause them to bleed, which you don't want.
If your gums always bleed when you floss, you may have an underlying dental issue. You should see your dentist.
 One way to ensure that you have extra minty breath all day long is to use mouthwash. It helps prevent bacteria and can help fight cavities as well. Swish it around your mouth after each time you brush. You can also use it after meals if you can't brush your teeth to help get rid of odors lingering in your mouth.


You should never use mouthwash to replace brushing your teeth or prevent underlying causes of bad breath. It is only used to help add a minty smell to your breath and help your other oral hygiene methods., To keep up personal hygiene, you need to make sure that you wash your hands often. Not washing hands often enough is one of the most common hygiene mistakes people make. Common situations where you need to wash your hands are after you go to the restroom, after you sneeze, before you prepare food or drinks, before you eat, and after handling objects that are handled by many others. This helps keep you clean as well as stop the spread of germs and bacteria that lead to illness.


When washing hands, you should lather your soap covered hands in warm water for at least 20 seconds. Make sure to rub around your fingers and nails. This ensures that the soap has time to kill any germs on your hands. You should then rinse the soap off with warm water and dry them with a disposable towel or use an air dryer.If you want to further prevent the spread of germs, you should sneeze into your elbow. This helps cover more of your nose and mouth and keep the germs from your hands.
 Disposable wipes are not just for babies anymore. If you are feeling slightly unfresh, you can use one of these wipes to clean yourself if you cannot get to a shower. They are also good to use if you have to defecate and want to freshen up afterwards.


You can find these at grocery or general stores. They are in the adult hygiene aisles., To keep yourself clean, fresh, and smelling pleasant, you should shower or take a bath daily or every two out of three days. This is the best way to prevent unnecessary body odors as well as prevent the build up of bacteria or germs on your skin. There are some recent studies that suggest that taking a day off from showering every few days is healthy for the skin and helps promote healthy bacteria growth on your skin. Make sure you wash every part of your body, including every part of your feet and behind your ears.


If you go to the gym, commute on public transit, or come into contact with sick people daily, you should shower every day to avoid the spread of germs and to maintain cleanliness.Make sure you wash your belly button. It may be an area that you forget about, but numerous odor causing bacteria can grow there.If body odor is a constant concern for you, ask your doctor about an antibacterial body wash.
 You should wash your hair 2-3 times a week. For most people, it can be harmful to your hair if you wash it every day. If you wash it daily, you can wash out the natural oils in your hair, causing it to break and become damaged. If you have excessively oily hair, however, it may be necessary to wash your hair daily.


The amount of times a week that your hair should be washed can be different for every person. Be aware of what your hair smells like and pay attention to how oily it gets. Keep a check on your hair to assess how often you should wash it.If you work out, do sporting events, or take part in any other activity that causes your scalp to sweat profusely, you should wash your hair more often.
 As part of a good overall hygiene routine, you should wash your face every morning and every night. This helps get all the impurities off of your face from the day and any oil that accumulated on your face overnight. It also helps you remove any makeup, moisturizer, or sunscreen that you may have put on your face throughout the day. Washing your face prevents acne and will give you a clean, brighter appearance every day.


Make sure you pick the right cleanser for you. Not every person's skin is the same, so try a few different kinds until you find the cleanser that works for you. If you need some help, talk to your doctor or pharmacist, who can help you find the right cleanser for your skin.
You should moisturize after your wash your face. This will help prevent dry, irritated skin and promote skin health., If you are a female and you are on your period, you need to change your feminine products (such as pads or tampons) often. If you do not, this may lead to spills and leaks on yourself and your underwear. If this happens, you should wash yourself or find some kind of wipe to help clean you until you can shower.


Changing your products frequently will make you feel cleaner and help prevent odors.
If you find that you smell slightly during your period, you can get feminine deodorizing sprays that are specifically designed for these situations. Apply them according to the instructions on the bottle. Don't apply sprays directly to your genital area, as they can cause irritation.

