 If you are using a quilting frame (it can be homemade), tack the bottom of the quilt to the frame, face down.;
, You'll want to stretch it a little, so cut it about 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) smaller than your sheets.
, Tack the corners first, then centers, then about every 5–6 inches (12.7–15.2 cm) along the entire edge of the blanket. When you tack, be sure to get all the layers on the tack - bottom, middle and top. The tighter you pull the sheets, the easier it is to sew the quilt.
, 4" separations are preferred. That makes it so that you can continuously sew and tie, only stopping when you run out of yarn in your needle. Start your marks 6-8" from the edge of the blanket (the boards you are tacking the material to) because when you finish the blanket, you'll roll the edges and take up about 4–6 inches (10.2–15.2 cm) on each side. A tape measure will work fine too. Use a fabric marker which washes out easily.



Select the yarn you will be using. you may use several different colors or just one through the entire blanket. This is the simplest way to tie your blanket quickly.
Thread the needle. Use a quilting needle, or a large needle. Most quilting needles are about 3" long with a large eye. Use cheaters to help thread the yarn. They are available at most material stores. Only thread about 6 feet (1.8 m) of yarn each time.
Start by putting the needle fully into the blanket at one of your marks. It should stick out the bottom.
Then, without actually going through, turn the needle to the side (horizontal) and pull it back until about ¼" of the needle can be seen as a bump in the top of the quilt. Push the needle through that bump.
Now you have the needle through the entire blanket, pull it, with the yarn, all the way through until only about 2" of the yarn sticks out of the stitch.
Tie the yarn in a square knot - ½ Knot pulled tight, then another ½ knot.
Move to the next marker and do the next stitch. Don't cut anything!
Tie a knot in the yarn without cutting it.
 When you do, tie off the last stitch, cut the needle free, re-thread the needle and keep going. Any pattern works. You can do straight lines or boxes. Boxes work well because you can do a whole section without having to get up.


Somewhere in the process, the markers will be further away than you can reach. Before you roll it, clip all the yarn exactly in the middle between the knots. When you're done clipping, you'll have perfect knots with exactly the right amount of yarn on the knot.
 With one of your helpers, undo the clamps at the edge of the blanket, remove the tacks down the edge the will be rolled, and role the frame under the blanket to the edge of the marks that you haven't stitched yet.
, Lay the blanket flat on the floor. Roll an edge, starting from the middle on any side. Roll it 2" wide and at least 2 times, then pin it flat.


When you get to a corner, fold the corner down towards the center of the blanket about 3". You end up with a small triangle on the corner.
Continue rolling the first edges until you use up the triangle and are left with a straight edge.
Then start rolling the next edge matching the straight edge again. As you do, it will automatically form a straight edge corner!
Continue rolling the rest of the edges and corners, using pins to hold it in place.
 You may either hand stitch the rolled edges, or use a sewing machine to stitch the rolled edges. A pretty wavy pattern on the border adds flair.


The secret to getting the border to look right is to be sure to hold the material firmly as it passes through the sewing machine. Since the blanket is the equivalent of about six or seven layers of material, the sewing machine will try to move the bottom material, but leaves the top behind. It is best to stretch the border as it passes through the sewing machine, assuring that the top and bottom layers stay together until they are sewn.
Although you can get a lot fancier, this same process will work for any blanket.

