 To protect your vocal cords and prevent changes to the sound of your voice, you will want to avoid shouting or screaming. When you raise your voice, your vocal cords come together forcefully, which can cause nodules to form over time. Shouting also causes increased strain to the muscles in your neck., Similar to when you shout, you put more pressure on your vocal cords when you whisper. Whispering strains your vocal cords and can cause damage over time. Instead of whispering, practice speaking in a soft voice., Instead of coughing and clearing your throat, try drinking water or sucking on a sugar-free candy. Swallowing hard works, too. These can help clear your throat without causing the vocal strain that coughing and aggressive throat clearing cause., If you have lost your voice or have had a sore throat, it is important that you speak or sing as little as possible.

It is especially important that you rest your voice if you are sick. Illness puts extra strain on your voice, and talking or singing can put even more stress on your vocal cords. Over time, this can lead to unwanted changes in your voice., If you use mouthwash, use it for rinsing your mouth only. Gargling with mouthwash in the back of your throat can be harmful to your vocal cords, as mouthwashes often contain alcohol and other irritating chemicals., If you are lifting heavy objects or straining your neck, wait until you are finished to speak. Talking while straining your neck can cause unnecessary stress on your voice., Since your voice is part of the muscular system of your body, tension in your body can negatively impact your voice. Make some time to integrate relaxation techniques and relaxing hobbies into your life. Doing so will help you to use your vocal cords in a way that doesn’t cause damage.Some ideas for relaxing activities include walking, swimming, doing yoga, and meditating.
You also want to be sure that you are getting enough sleep at night—between 6 and 8 hours. Sleep recharges your body as well as your voices, and being underslept can cause your voice to become more easily fatigued and strained., Belly breathing, also known as diaphragmatic breathing, is a method of deep breathing that allows your body to receive more oxygen with each breath. Learning good breathing patterns helps you to have a strong voice without having to strain. To practice belly breathing, sit or stand up straight with your shoulders pulled back. Put one hand on your stomach, and breathe in through your mouth. You should feel your stomach push out against your hand. Then, slowly breathe out through your mouth. As you breathe out, you should pull your stomach back in. Repeat this 5 times, as often as you wish. It will start to feel more natural with practice. You can also try these breathing exercises to improve your voice:Sit up straight in a chair, and breathe in through your nose. Breathe out slowly through your nose, and begin to make a humming sound (“hmmmm”). You should feel the sound vibrating in your nose. The sound should be coming from your nose, not your throat.
Lie on your back, and place a small book on top of your stomach. Breathe in through your mouth. The book should rise up as you inhale. Breathe out slowly through pursed lips. The book should lower as you exhale.

