 Before you begin, it is important to tell yourself that once you go in, you will not back out. Set the amount of time you are going to keep up working out. Some claim they want to do it for life, but give up after a certain amount of time. Make it a goal to keep up with your program for at least four months.;
, Water is more important than food and has always been. Your body can go three to four weeks without food, but your body can barely last several days without water. Drink at least three to four water bottles a day, two at the very least. Drink two more bottles every time you workout.
 There are fitness rumors that you should consume smaller, more frequent meals, but for many, this isn't feasible. Many people are caught up with business or parenting, and do not have the amount of time to incorporate those extra meals. If that's the case, eat regular meals; calculate your calorie intake when you consume food or eat until you are full. You do not need to diet, but you should consume junk food moderately. You can eat it for three meals a week. Definitely, eat more fruits and veggies!

, You can do simple stretches, bending only until you feel pain. Do not go any further than that; hold it there for twenty seconds. Stretch every part of your body. Do this when you first wake up and at night. Stretching helps you to avoid stiffness and does improve posture somewhat.
 Buy some dumbbells from your store or gym. Keep it very light-weight, preferably 5-15 pounds. Do body-weight exercises with the weights; work different muscle groups separate days. Squats, lunges, standing calf-raises, sit-ups, push-ups, and pull-ups. Consider doing weighted calisthenics with a back-pack.
 You should start off with 6-12 reps the first week. Keep the same amount of weight you use the first week for the second week, but add 5 reps for each set you do, and then increase the weight by five pounds the next week. This builds muscular endurance and strength. Keep this cycle consistent and you are bound to get stronger doing only the same exercises.
 For cardio, you don't need to do running; you can do things like rock-climbing, martial arts, and swimming. If in doubt, try four sets of sprints until you exhaust yourself, or do things like jumping rope, jumping jacks, or dance.
 After working each muscle group, you will need at least 2 days of rest. Expect yourself to get sore.

