 While it’s important for your child to take pride in the way they look, your child should not place their worth on their looks. Make sure that your child learns that body image and self worth comes from everything, including traits, qualities, and talents that they have. Place less emphasis on looks and more emphasis on how your child acts.For example, your child should realize that their compassion, intelligence, humor, and inquisitive nature are all things to be confident about. These things are just as important as their looks in making them a worthy person.
When you child does something nice for someone else, tell them, "I'm proud that you shared your toy" or "Thank you for carrying the neighbor's bag for her. That was very kind of you." If your child asks a lot of question, encourage that behavior by saying, "It is wonderful that you are so interested in the world. Keep asking questions about things you are interested in. Why don't you start trying to find the answers? Maybe we can do it together.";
, One of the main tendencies for young people is to compare themselves to others. They may compare themselves to peers or people on television, many of whom are much older playing younger teens. Help your child learn to be happy with how they look instead of comparing themselves to someone else.Your child may be upset because they have acne and other teens don’t, or they have had a growth spurt that makes them taller than everyone else.
Tell your child, “Acne is a natural part of puberty. There is nothing to be embarrassed about. However, we will get you some acne wash to help heal it up” or “Yes, that other girl does have pretty hair. And so do you. You may look different, but you have nice features too, such as your eyes and smile.”
Point out to your child that people on television and magazines are not a realistic image of someone. You can talk about photoshop, makeup artists, CGI, and touch ups, which display an unrealistic image in the media.
 Provide positive feedback to your child, not criticism. You should compliment your child’s looks, qualities, and talents. Providing a body positive environment at home can help them develop self-confidence and feel more self-assured around their peers.For example, you may say, “That shirt looks nice on you,” “Your guitar skills are really improving,” or “That was a really kind thing you did for our neighbor. You are such a kind and thoughtful person.” Praise their physical capabilities, like their strength, energy, or balance, along with qualities, like intelligence, humor, or compassion.
Avoid criticizing your child, even if you are joking. Teasing your child for being “chubby” or “slow,” or having pimples, a squeaky voice, or being at an awkward height can negatively affect their self-esteem.
Teach your child to give compliments to him or herself as well. Try to encourage your child to find one nice thing to say to him or herself every day. For example, your child might give him or herself a compliment by saying, "Whoa! Look how strong my legs look in these volleyball shorts." Or, "My hair looks so good curly, I'll let it air dry again today."

, One way to help your child’s body image is to get them involved in activities. When you talk to your child about body image, ask them what they are interested in. Support your child’s interests and help them find validation and confidence through the pursuit of their interests and talents.For example, if your child is interested in music, let them take voice, piano, or guitar lessons. If they are interested in drawing, encourage them to paint, draw, or take photos. Let them join a sport or take dance lessons.
Help your child realize that body image and self-confidence comes from multiple sources, not just their looks.
 Nutritious eating is only part of developing a healthy body and body image. Physical activity is another key part of a healthy lifestyle. Discuss with your child the importance of physical fitness and taking care of their body. Remind them that sports or going to the gym are not the only ways they can be active.Encourage your child to try different types of activities. They may love team sports, or a one-on-one sport like tennis. They may prefer to run or walk, do martial arts, learn yoga, or try a dance class.
Find ways for the whole family to be active together. Go on hikes and nature walks, ride bikes together, or swim at a lake.
 Children are surrounded by society telling them that fat is bad or ugly. The media also supports the idea that people who look different are somehow less. You should teach your child that everyone is important and valid, no matter their body shape or the way they look. Don’t allow your children to make fun of kids who weigh more, kids who have special needs, or kids who are different in other ways. Encourage positive talk about people who look different.You should teach that everyone is different, and that different is beautiful. People have different hair colors, body shapes, skin colors, and features, and all of this is okay.
For example, if you and your child see someone who looks different, say, "That person looks different from you. The world is full of interesting, beautiful people of all different shapes and looks."
If your child makes fun of someone, correct them and teach them to respect others. You can say, "You shouldn't make fun of people who are different than you. It is okay that people are different. Try getting to know people different than you and being friends with them. You can learn so much from people different than you and see how beautiful everyone is no matter what they look like."

