 If you act unsure of your sexual orientation, people may assume your bisexuality is just a phase, and that you're not sure of your sexual orientation yet. If you beat about the bush, you may give the impression of being ashamed, which may prompt your loved ones to try to "help" you overcome your orientation. No one can change if you don't want to change! If you are matter-of-fact about it, they will take it better. You might be asked to prove your bisexuality when you come out, so stay confident in yourself. Don't come out as bi if you are not; it will just complicate things down the line. Here are some tips to help you "prove it".


Make a list of people you think are hot. This may seem trivial, but it can help you by not having to pause and think of someone you like.
Know what relationships or encounters you've been in, like your first kiss, date, or pickup line.
Ask yourself how you know you are bi.
Have examples of other people that knew they were bi at your age or younger.
Ask yourself why you are coming out.
 It is usually easiest to tell someone you know will be supportive, like your close friends or parents. This will help build the confidence you will need to tell the rest of the world.
 If you are fully dependent on your parent(s) and you aren't sure they will accept you and be supportive, you may want to consider not telling them until you are no longer dependent upon them. Don't feel pressured to come out by your friends or the media. Only you know when the moment is right. If you are being asked by someone and you don't feel safe, don't feel obligated to tell them. If you really do want to keep it a secret from a particular person or group, ask your school or your parents if that is OK. If you know your parents love you no matter what, then you should feel safe, but if not, don't put yourself through something you'll regret.
 Some people may think that you are just trying to get attention or that you are gay, but unwilling to admit it. A good way to counteract this is to say "I'm attracted to people, not to genders." Be very clear about who you are, what you mean, and why you are telling them.
,