 Those interested in more advanced study in a particular field might consider entering a graduate school program instead of earning a second bachelor’s degree, since graduate degrees can open additional career possibilities and provide more substantial qualifications if you want to work in a particular field.


Second bachelor’s degrees make the most sense if a career change or other factor requires you to acquire a body of knowledge in a substantially different field.Some potential employers or others who review your credentials might see earning a second bachelor’s degree as showing a lack of commitment, so be prepared to explain your reason for earning one if you decide it is the best plan for you.
Many graduate programs don't necessarily require an undergraduate degree in the same field as a prerequisite for admission. For instance, you may be able to enter a graduate program in Sociology even if your undergraduate degree is in Anthropology, or a program in English if your bachelor's degree is in Computer Science. With this in mind, consider whether a graduate program or a second bachelor's degree is the best option for your plans. You can contact the graduate coordinator of the program you're interested in for details.;
, Many programs will only consider admitting second bachelor’s degree students if their intended field of study is substantially different from their first bachelor’s degree.For instance, if you already have a bachelor’s degree in biology, some institutions will not admit you if you want to earn a second bachelor’s degree in microbiology. However, the same institution might consider admitting you if you want to earn a second bachelor’s degree in computer science.


Generally, the intention of most colleges and universities is to award first bachelor’s degrees to students., While you may be able to find some financial aid as a second bachelor’s degree student, many loans, grants, and scholarships are only available to first bachelor’s degree students. When selecting a school and program, or deciding to get a second bachelor’s degree at all, make sure to consider the cost of attendance (tuition, fees, living expenses, etc.).


You can find information about costs of attendance at a particular college or university via its admissions website.
Private loans may be available to fund a second bachelor’s degree program, but can have high interest rates.
Contact an institution’s financial aid office about particular sources of funding that might be available to you as a second bachelor’s degree student.

