 Jock itch typically consists of a red, circular rash found on or underneath your groin, in your inner thighs and/or buttocks. It typically occurs in areas of the body that retain moisture from sweat.Jock itch gets its common name from athletes, who often sweat frequently in this area of the body.
You do not have to be an athlete, however, in order to get it. Many studies have shown that overweight patients sometimes suffer from jock itch due to sweat as well.;
, If you have a red, irritated rash, you might be tempted not to wash it, but you should clean it before applying any ointment. While taking a shower or bath, apply a gentle, hydrating cleanser to the area.


Gently apply the cleanser to wet skin with your fingertips. Avoid using thick washcloths or a loofah as these can irritate the bumps on the rash.Use a thick, creamy cleanser on the area, such as a milky body wash or face wash. A gel-based cleanser might be too drying.
If you are using a bar soap, you can also apply this directly to the skin.
Avoid cleansers with exfoliating agents in them, such as salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide (typically found in face washes for acne). These will only further irritate the layer of skin affected by the rash.
Do not shave the area while you are cleansing it. This will only cause painful irritation and could transfer bacteria from your razor to the infected skin.Make sure you have thoroughly removed all of the soap from the groin area before leaving the shower.
 After you get out of the shower or bath, be sure to thoroughly dry the area with a clean towel. Pat the area gently with the towel. Do not rub harshly as this could cause further pain.


It is very important that the towel is clean and dry. Damp towels are often traps for mold and mildew, which could further irritate your rash.If you can wait a few minutes to let the area around your groin air dry, that will help ensure the Sudocrem is most effective when it is applied.
 If you have handled anything besides your clean towel since washing the groin, then wash your hands again with warm water and antibacterial soap. Dry them with a clean towel., Sudocrem can come in tube or jar form. If you have jar packaging, you may want to use a plastic mini-spatula to scoop out the cream and place it on your fingers. This will reduce the risk of contaminating the cream in the jar from bacteria on your fingers.
 Use light, circular motions to apply it. Do not rub it harshly; allow it time to absorb into the skin., You should use enough cream that it substantially covers the rash, but not so much that it can't absorb into the skin.


The cream should absorb so you can no longer see the white color of the cream. If you can still see the thick, creamy substance on your skin, you have applied too much.Wait a couple minutes before putting on underwear so the cream has a chance to fully absorb. It should create a barrier between your rash and any clothing you are wearing.
 It is very important that you wear clean clothes as dirty underwear and pants can contain bacteria that will only make the rash worse.Be sure to wear undergarments that are breathable and won't cause you to sweat more in the groin. Avoid polyester or other constricting fabrics. Instead, use simple cotton boxers or panties.
 If you have been sweating during the day, wash the area again before you reapply.
 Most forms of jock itch are responsive to over-the-counter treatments and will clear up within 10 days.If the rash persists for more than two weeks, talk to your doctor about other forms of treatment. You might need a stronger antifungal cream than is available without a prescription. Or you might need to take antifungal medicine orally., Bacteria that is trapped in dirty pants, shorts or underwear can cause fungal infections on your skin.Wash clothes with a gentle laundry detergent and in a washing machine/dryer. Avoid harsh bleaches or fabric softeners as these can irritate the skin.
Be sure to wash your gym or athletic clothes frequently because they can retain sweat.
Make sure you clothing is comfortable and fits properly, especially your underwear. Clothing that chafes or makes the skin raw could leave you vulnerable to an infection.
Do not share clothing as it is possible to pass the infection through clothing.
 Sweat that is trapped in the groin is the key culprit behind jock itch. If you sweat frequently during the day, be sure to shower or bathe regularly.You might also consider applying antibacterial wipes to the area around the inner thigh and groin during the day if you sweat frequently. Be sure to follow up with a dry towel to remove any moisture left by the wipes.
 If you use a jock strap or athletic cup, be sure to wash and clean these items frequently. Follow the instructions on the package of the product in order to prevent the growth of a fungal infection., If you constantly suffer from jock itch, consider applying antifungal creams every day after showering. If you want to try something besides Sudocrem, look into Lotrimin (or any cream with the ingredient clotrimazole) and Hydrocortisone. These are specially designed to take down rashes and relieve irritation., Sometimes, jock itch occurs alongside other fungal infections such as ringworm or athlete's foot. If you have these other conditions, talk to your doctor about the best ways to treat them.