 Moving into a co-ed dorm will definitely shake up your routine. You’ve been living and doing things in a certain way for a long time, and this new environment will force you make some changes. It can be uncomfortable, but why not seize the opportunity to switch things up? Doing so will help you get to know yourself and your personal limits.Even mundane things, like wearing your pajamas around at night or using the bathroom, can be scary in this new, much more public context. But, there can be benefits, too, like making you less self-conscious. It’ll make you less likely to sweat the little stuff.
You’ll encounter plenty of people who behave and do things differently from you, sometimes in ways that can challenge your expectations. While this can be upsetting, it can also help you figure out what you think the best way of doing things is or what you believe good behavior looks like.
 Interacting with a diverse set of peers such as you’ll find in a co-ed dorm is useful preparation for real life. It will help you develop the self-assurance and experience you need to network with ease or fit in at a new workplace.


Try challenging yourself to not always hang out with the same set of people. Every time you’re at a dorm event, introduce yourself to someone you don’t know. It’s as simple as saying, “Hi, I’ve seen you around and wanted to introduce myself.” Or, “Hi, I’m Luke, do you live on the third floor, too?”

, There’s often a sense a mystery around how other people live. When you’re in a dorm, you get a first-hand glimpse at a diverse set of people’s ordinary existences, daily routines, and idiosyncratic habits. Sometimes it may feel like you’d rather not be privy to some of the stuff you see, but it does help to understand people as human beings just like you, with their own values and quirks.


Many students have noted that living is a co-ed dorm can be especially powerful at breaking down the mystique that sometimes surrounds the opposite sex or anyone who seems, on the outside, to be different from you. Getting a glimpse of the mundane aspects of people’s lives can help overcome those sense of difference that distances you from others and limits your ability to authentically connect with them., Co-ed dorms can be a great venue for finding people to study with, not just party with. Make learning fun by collaborating with your peers to get your homework and test prep done.

