 This can include unresponsiveness, parental insensitivity, and emotional neglect.Analyze the way the caregiver reacts to feelings and needs of the child. Some warning signs are if the caregiver or parent is:Too focused on their own issues such as mental illness, substance abuse, or work responsibilities.
Unable or unavailable to respond to the child’s emotional needs.
Ignoring the child’s needs to interact.
Failing to express positive emotions to the child (smiling, laughing).
Showing no emotion in interactions with the child.
Rejection or hostility towards the child.;
, This occurs when the caregiver does not have adequate understanding of age-appropriate interactions and discipline. This may mean the parent treats the child as though he or she has the developmental capabilities of an older child or an adult. The parent may not intend to cause harm but can unknowingly engage in inappropriate interactions with the child.Look for:Exposure to confusing or traumatic events that the child cannot process or understand. This may include exposure to domestic violence or suicidal behavior, such as self-harm or suicide attempts.
 This is the inability by the parent to fully understand that the child is a separate and individual person.This type of abuse is common in divorces proceedings and custody disputes, and may appear as:


Using the child for the fulfillment of the parent’s psychological needs.
Inability to distinguish between the child’s reality and the adult’s beliefs and wishes.
Lack of psychological boundaries (discussing issues with the opposite parent with the child).
 This means the parents or caregivers do not help the child develop social skills.This may include:Corrupting the child by giving them alcohol or drugs, exposing them to pornography or cruelty to humans or animals. Corrupting or not socializing also includes teaching the child self-destructive or antisocial behaviors, like bullying.
Psychological neglect (failure to provide adequate opportunities for brain development and learning).
Isolating the child.
Involving him in criminal activities.

