 A shy girl won't just flirt with anyone, so you can be sure she is interested in you if you see that she tries to flirt back. She may flirt back by making more frequent eye contact, liking your statuses on social media, initiating small talk, or displaying flirty body language cues., Somebody who is shy may need reinforcement that you are serious about pursuing them. What you want to do is send her multiple consistent signals so that she is sure that you are flirting with her.


If you said hi to her yesterday, say hi to her today. If you smiled at her when you crossed paths in the cafeteria, smile at her again so that she doesn’t think you were just being polite. Try to make eye contact multiple times. She will get your hints if you repeat them a few times.
 It may take her time, like a few weeks or even a month or two, to warm up to the idea of flirting or being flirted with. She may take longer to recognize and acknowledge your cues.


Set an amount of time you're willing to try to break the ice. For example, tell yourself that if after two months of you flirting with her you are still not spending more time with each other, you will either move on or try a more direct flirting technique.
 If you notice that she’s not responding to your body language cues, try flirting with her via text or social media. She may be less comfortable with or less used to in-person conversations than with replying through Facebook Messenger. Use texting as a way for her to get used to making small talk and having conversations with you. This way, she might open up in person as she becomes more comfortable with you over time.
 See how she reacts to your different flirting methods. She may totally shut down when you try to hold eye contact but be talkative when you ask her a question about her hobbies. The goal is to be flexible and cater your flirting style to her comfort zone. You can then gradually move communication to a more mutual ground.
 If she’s interested and receptive to your body language cues, she will likely respond with open body language. She may also get nervous around you and blush or stammer, both of which could mean that she’s into you. If she is nervous because she likes you, she might tease you or throw a joke into the conversation.


If she doesn’t like you, you will see her become uncomfortable with your gestures. Her body language will be closed, she might not make eye contact, and she might be even quieter than usual.

