 When things feel overwhelming, reach out to your friends or family. Find someone that you can lean on, and ask them, “Is it alright if I call you or come over when I feel like I need some support?”Talk to your support network openly and honestly. Let your conversations with them be a safe space where you can work on your own feelings without judgement.
If possible, try to lean on someone who isn’t too close to your sibling. That way, they can focus on you without having to worry about any of their own grief.
It might be helpful for you to have a confidant within your family and someone who is not a part of your family. You can even turn to your spiritual community, such as members of your church or synagogue.;
, When some things feel out of control, organizing a routine can help things feel more normal. Try to set a daily routine that includes things like a consistent time to wake up, time to go to bed, and daily habits like scheduling when you eat, work or go to school, and exercise.When thoughts about your sibling feel overwhelming, turn your mind toward what you have to do next. Use your routine as a way to center yourself and achieve a level headspace when you need a distraction from intrusive thoughts.
You may find it helpful to use a day planner or electronic calendar to help you keep track of your activities during this time.
It is always acceptable to break from your routine when necessary. Let your schedule be a guideline, rather than a rigid set of rules.
 Just as caring for your sibling is important, so is taking a little time each day to care for yourself. Make sure that you get plenty of sleep, follow a healthy diet, and get regular exercise. Self-care can also include activities you enjoy or that relax you, from playing a video game for half an hour to taking a bath, meditating, or reading a book.Remind yourself, “I can best help my sibling when I feel calm and capable.” Try to avoid feeling bad for taking time to care for yourself.
Make self-care a part of your daily routine. Schedule 15 to 30 minutes to do something that will help you stay calm and centered.
If you trying to help a child or teenage sibling cope with their brother or sister’s cancer, set aside a little time to be with them each day and do something they enjoy. Let them know that they are still valued, too.
 Actions such as journaling, making art, playing sports, or training athletically can help you work out some emotions that you may not be able to fully express with words. Find a healthy outlet that allows you to release some of your anger, fear, and frustration.If you are not sure where to start, try asking friends and family what they do that is therapeutic for them.


You may consider signing up for a class at your local gym or fitness club.
Dedicate a corner in your room or in your home as an art or craft space where you can go and be creative when you need to work through emotions. Supply it with things like clay, paint, canvas, brushes, or any other creative media you like to use.
 Coping with a sibling’s cancer diagnosis can bring out a lot of emotion, and it is perfectly normal to want help in managing that. Look into meeting with a grief counselor or therapist in your area.You may opt to speak with a counselor on a regular basis, or may only choose to schedule appointments when things feel overwhelming.
Ask the hospital or your sibling’s attending doctors for recommendations for mental health professionals in your area that help friends and family deal with grief. Ask if the hospital provides any counseling for families coping with cancer treatment.
Children and teenage siblings may also benefit from meeting one-on-one with a therapist or counselor that specializes in childhood grief or childhood counseling.
 It is possible for your worries and sadness about your sibling’s condition to turn into depression, so pay attention to how you are feeling. If you start to suspect that you are depressed, then talk to your doctor or a therapist right away. Depression can have many different symptoms, which may include:Feeling sad, empty, tearful, or hopeless
Losing interest in things you used to enjoy
Changes in your sleep quality and/or patterns
Feeling irritated or angry about minor problems
Changes in your appetite
Feeling tired or lacking energy to do things
Feeling anxious
Moving more slowly than usual
Difficulty thinking, concentrating, or remembering
Having aches and pains for no reason
Thinking about death or suicide

