 Are you interested in a social group? Are you looking into establishing an academic community that meets to discuss classwork? Or, are you interested in meeting new people in the same field as you? Research the established organizations at your school.

Perhaps there are pre-existing communities that already offer what you're trying to create. If so, reconsider starting a student community and explore the options that are available on campus. Here, you will be able to find people who share the same interests with you without having to create promotional materials to advertise your new community.;
, If you are interested in organizing a general social community of students, search for potential meeting places that accommodate varying numbers of students. You are not limited to organizing academic communities, but consider what the students at your university may express interest in., The extent to which you decide to organize your club will determine any costs that arise during the preparation process. Some examples of easily accessible, inexpensively maintained clubs are:

Microbiology Club
Engineering Students Association
Sophomores of ______ University

, Promote your group: invite friends and students, print flyers to post around campus, and consider creating an online presence for the group where you can share announcements and meeting places.

Explore opportunities to print inexpensive documents through your school's library to make the promotional process easier. Most schools offer cheap printing for around 11 cents per page.
Social media can help promote your group. Create a Facebook page to share information and facilitate the process of joining the group.
 For example, if your group will be academic in nature or may attract a large group of students, consider the fact that any potential conferences or meetings may necessitate a meeting area. Some college campuses allow students to use board rooms for meetings, but depending on the size and function of your group, you may need to explore options of renting a room on campus for a few hours occasionally., Also, depending on the function of your community, you should consider the costs and utility of things like:

Folding tables and chairs for group functions
Fundraising and volunteering to generate income and create experiential opportunities for members
Governing the community. Depending on the size and function of your group, you may need to hire someone or purchase software that tracks membership, expenses, and funds. For example, you could download and use Microsoft Excel to create a simple spreadsheet that has members' names in alphabetical order, their attendance to group meetings, or their contribution and donations to the group. Again, this is not necessary for a simple, recreational community, so you want to define the title and purpose of your group before planning for large events or membership.
 Print posters with the name of the group, possibly an introduction to the new community, and any upcoming meeting times. This ensures that the group is visible to the public. You can post an announcement to your school's bulletin boards to your classes.

Create an agenda. Schedule group meetings that are accessible to other students. Have a topic prepared to talk about before attending any community meetings.
Prepare a list of expectations, guidelines, or rules that define your community.
Track members' names and email addresses on a database such as Microsoft Excel so that you have a list that is easily accessible in the event that you need to send out an important message or announcement.
 This is critical to running a successful student community. You want your community to be attractive to potential members, but you need to have a cohesive set of shared group interests to do so.

Invite friends that share an interest in your community's theme, but don't be exclusive of outsiders or students who are curious. Encourage diverse people to share ideas on how to improve the community.
Think of opportunities for community members to engage with each other on campus. For example, schedule a community clean-up or a fundraising bake sale to create a positive image of your group and encourage friendships among members.
 If you are running an academic community, such as a Microbiology Group, gather study materials that may be helpful to struggling students or prepare to show a helpful educational video you used to study for a Microbiology exam. If you are running a community that is for athletes, have exciting games or drills prepared to engage the community members.

Be creative. Think of plans that are inspiring, useful, and structured.
Seek help from your campus recreation office to find resources that will keen your community entertained and excited to be a part of your group.
 Do you need to find exciting activities to liven up your community? Or, are you finding that noise levels at a previous meeting were too high and that you need help controlling your group? Consider what changes can be made to improve members' experiences in your community., Be attentive to students who are expressing dissatisfaction, or those who are actively suggesting changes., If several students are unhappy with how a meeting went, you can choose to address it to the whole group to get feedback or you can make a simple change to improve your next meeting.