 Head to the southeastern corner of Einbroch and find the Blacksmith shop. Talk to Guildsman Altiregen inside (ein_in01 18, 28). He will ask you to help Geshupenschte in Einbech.

To get to Einbroch, take the Izlude airship (1,200z). Exit at Yuno then take the terminal downstairs to ride another airship heading to Einbroch.
To get to Einbech from Enbroch, simply talk to the Train Station Staff located northwest of Einbroch. You will have to pay 200z fees.
 At Einbech, head to the center of the city then enter the building to meet Gesh. There are 3 parts to Gesh's test. The first part is Q&A, and each question is worth 10 points. You must get a perfect score for the first time to pass. There are two possible set of questions you should expect:

Set 1

Which town and local item don't match? (Alberta - Swordmace)
What does the smith skill Hammerfall do? (Stun)
What is a merchant not good at? (Running Fast)
Where do you buy Blue Gems? (Geffen)
Where is the Geffen Tool Shop from the tower? (8 o'clock)
What weapon can't be used by merchants? (Bible)
Which has the highest def? (Mink Coat)
For Level 3 weapons, what is the Safe limit for upgrading? (+5)
What can you make with Trunks? (Sakkat)
What is the most important to merchants!? (All answers are correct)


Set 2

Which town and local item is mismatched? (Aldebaran - Hammer)
How much does Jellopy sell for? (3z)
What's necessary to make a shop? (Must have cart)
Where is the merchant guild located? (Alberta)
Where is the Morroc Weapon Shop from the center? (5 o'clock)
What can't a merchant equip? (Claymore)
What has the highest defense? (Mink Coat)
For level 3 weapons, what is the Safe limit for upgrading? (+5)
Which monster doesn't drop iron ore? (Anolian)
What is the most important to merchants?! (All answers are correct)


If you failed the test, you can have a retake.
 After you passed the Q&A, Gesh will give you the second test, which is collecting items. There are 5 sets of items in the list; you will be given only one set.

Item Set 1 - 2 Steel, 1 Rotten Bandage, 2 Blue Gemstone, and 1 Arc Wand. (You can purchase Arc Wand and Blue Gemstone in Geffen Magic Shop while Steel and Rotten Bandage can be gathered in Glast Heim Underprison.)
Item Set 2 - 2 Star Dust, 2 Skel-Bone, 1 Zargon, and 1 Gladius. (Star Dust, Skel-Bone, and Zargon can be gathered in the Clock Tower from Hunterfly, Bathory, and Skel Archer; Gladius can be purchased from weapon Dealer in Morroc.)
Item Set 3 - 2 Coal, 2 Shell, 2 Red Blood, and 1 Tsurugi. (Coal, Shell, and Red Blood can be gathered in Ant Hell from Giearth, Diniro, and Andre; you can purchase Tsurugi from the Weapon Dealer in Prontera.)
Item Set 4 - 8 Iron Ore, 1 Trunk, 2 Blue Gemstone, and 1 Arbalest. (Iron Ore and Trunk can be gathered in Geffen Field; you can buy Blue Gemstone in Geffen Magical Item seller while Arbalest can be purchased from Weapon Dealer in Payon.)
Item Set 5 - 8 Iron Ore, 20 Green Herb, 2 Animal Skin, and 1 Morning Star. (Iron Ore, Green Herb, and Animal Skin can be gathered in Prontera Field from Pupa, Green Plant, and Baby Desert Wolf; Morning Star can be purchased from the nun in Prontera Church.)

, Talk to Gesh after you’ve gathered the items; he will give weapon that you must deliver to NPCs. For each delivery, you will receive a receipt from the NPC. Show the receipt to Gesh to pass this part of the test.

Arc Wand goes to Geffen's Baisulitst (11 o'clock position of Geffen Town).
Gladius goes to Morroc's Wickebine (a little south from the west exit of Morroc).
Tsurugi goes to Lighthalzen's Krongast (found at the lower right of Lighthalzen, near to the chopping-down axe structure).
Arbalest goes to Payon's Tilpitz (5 o'clock position of Payon, standing in front of a gate).
Morning Star goes to Hugel's Bismarc (found a little northwest from the airship).
If for any reason you don't have the receipt with you, you will have to start the whole quest all over again.
After you’ve delivered each weapon and shown Gesh the receipts, he’ll tell you to go back to Altiregen.
 You can find Mitmayer behind Altiregen, just walk a few steps further into the room. Mitmayer will ask you 5 questions, and each is worth 20 points. You must get at least 80 points to pass. There are 3 possible sets of questions, all listed below:

Quiz Question Set 1

Which skill is needed for discount? (Enlarge Weight Lv 3)
What effect does Hammerfall have? (Stun)
How much Zeny is taken when Mammonite 10 is used? (1,000z)
How much money is saved with max discount? (24%)
How much can you earn with max overcharge? (24%)


Quiz Question Set 2

Which monster drops Steel? (Skeleton Worker)
What can you make with Red Bloods? (Flame Heart)
Which ore do you have the most of in storage? (Red Blood or Green Live or Crystal Blue)
What kind of monsters are weak against Wind weapons? (Water)
How many irons are needed to make steel? (5)


Quiz Question Set 3

What do you do when you find a person in distress? (Ask what they need or Talk for a bit)
Where do you learn change cart? (Alberta)
Geffen Tower is the center, where is the Blacksmith guild? (5 o' clock)
Which town has the most smiths? (Geffen )
Which stat affect Forge? (DEX)


After passing, Mitmayer will give you a Hammer of Blacksmith as proof of success.
 Show the Hammer of Blacksmith to Guildsman Altiregen in order for him to change you into a Blacksmith.

He will give you 5 Steel if your job level is below 49 and 10 Steel if you have job level 50.
If you don't have the Hammer of Blacksmith, you have to start the quest all over again.

