 Perhaps the most popular way of telling a life story is to write your autobiography. An autobiography is a genre of writing where you chronicle your life story. You may start your autobiography from your birth and work your way chronologically through your life story.


Many autobiographies are written in first person present tense or first person past tense. They usually cover the entire span of a life.
You can read examples of autobiographies to get a better sense of the genre. For example, you may check to see if your favorite celebrity has an autobiography out or search for an autobiography of a famous historical figure.
 You can also write a memoir as a way to tell your life story. Memoirs are different than autobiographies in that it focuses on particular moments in a life, rather than the entire span of a life. Often, memoirs cover a particular span of a person’s life, such as a dramatic event or a dramatic period.


You can write the memoir in first person or third person. They are usually written in past tense so you can reflect on a certain time period or event.
You can read examples of memoir to gain a better understanding of the genre, such as Running with Scissors by Augusten Burroughs, In the Wilderness by Kim Barnes, The Boys of My Youth by Jo Ann Beard, and Angela’s Ashes by Frank McCourt.
 If you would prefer to write poetry over prose, go for a long form poem that explores your life story. You can write an epic poem, which often spans many pages. Or you may write a series of shorter poems to chronicle your life story. You may use the same poetic form for the poems or play with different poems in each poem.


Try using the poetic form to reflect a certain period or event in your life story. For example, you may write in a more playful form, such as the limerick, for poems about your childhood. You may then write in the sonnet form to write about a great love of your life.
 Personal essay is another great way for you to write about your life story. With this form, you can focus on one specific moment, event, or theme that appears in your life story. The personal essay can be a good form to use if you enjoy writing non fiction or a more structured piece on your life story.


The personal essay contains an introductory section, a body section and a concluding section. You can then play with the form as you see fit and do not need to adhere to a five paragraph essay form.
You can read examples of the personal essay, such as “Shipping Out” by David Foster Wallace, “The White Album” by Joan Didion, and “We Do Abortions Here” by Sallie Tisdale.
 Ghostwriters are often hired to help someone write their story, such as their life story. Having a ghostwriter can be a good way to dive into your life story and have someone assist you in shaping your story. The ghostwriter can also help you choose a form for your life story so it is written in a way that is engaging and unique.


You can search for a ghostwriter online through online writing sites or online classifieds. You can also ask writing professors and other professionals to recommend a ghostwriter.

