 One reason many students and young people don’t enjoy reading is that they feel it is always “required,” and never a choice. If you can offer them a choice of reading that takes their interests into account, they’re more likely to learn to love reading.A choice of how to read can also be helpful. For example, in-class reading periods can be very helpful for some students, while others need to be at home alone in their rooms to focus.
A choice of what to read can help young people understand that reading doesn’t always mean dry or boring. In addition to the classics, provide options such as magazines and comics.
 If your home doesn’t have many books or other reading materials, it will be more difficult for your child to see reading as something enjoyable that s/he could do even in leisure time. Keep interesting, fun books around your home.Set a good example by reading yourself. If your children see you enjoying a good book, they may be more likely to pick one up themselves.
Try reading together as a family. Creating a positive association between reading and family fun time can help take the pressure off of young people to “perform” in their reading.
Create a “reading space,” either in your classroom or your home. It should not have other distractions and should be a pleasant little retreat where the child can enjoy reading.
Use books as rewards. Offer to take your child on a trip to the bookstore to pick out a few new books as a reward for chores or good performance in school. Help your child see that reading can be something that’s fun and rewarding.
 There’s no reason that the story has to end when the back cover shuts. Encourage young people to engage with their reading creatively.For example, you could encourage students or your own children to draw scenes from what they read.
Performing reading in funny character voices can provide extra drama to reading.
Ask questions about how children feel about the reading.
Encourage them to think about what might happen next in the story, or write their own continuation.
Ask them to create a movie poster highlighting what they think is the most important element from the book.
 One reason children may feel uncomfortable reading is that they worry they don’t understand what they read or will get the “wrong” answer. Be supportive and encouraging of young readers.Never tell a young reader that his/her opinion or interpretation is “wrong.” Instead, ask the child how s/he came to this opinion. This will help her/him articulate how she formed her ideas and will help teach him/her about how to hone reading skills.
If a young reader tells you that s/he is having trouble understanding, be patient. Don’t make the child feel stupid or ignorant for not “getting” the material. Instead, ask questions to find out where the confusion is, and guide the child into stronger skills.
Accept every comment, no matter how “wrong” or inaccurate it may seem, as a valuable contribution. Remember that it can be terrifying for young or inexperienced readers to even offer their opinions. If the idea is inaccurate or needs correcting, ask further questions about it rather than rejecting it out of hand.

