 Most bunions occur in women who habitually wear shoes that are too narrow for their feet.Narrow shoes tend to crowd the toes, particularly the big toe, and significantly increase your risk of developing bunions and other foot problems. Changing to shoes that have wider toe boxes, good arch support and conform to the shape of your feet can help prevent bunions and even thwart their progression, but it won't correct an already established bunion. In other words, switch to better shoes before the bunion gets too severe and creates significant symptoms.


Get fitted for your shoes by a salesperson later in the day because that's when your feet are larger, usually due to swelling and slight arch compression.
Wearing heels more than 2 inches high can force your body to tilt forward, which creates lots of pressure in the feet and toes — another risk factor for bunions.
About 90% of bunion cases involve women, mainly due to their poor choice of shoes.;
, Aside from a crooked appearance and compromised foot aesthetics, the main complaint of bunions is pain while walking (and sometimes even while at rest).The pain can be described as sharp and stabbing (like an acute joint sprain) or sometimes as dull and achy (similar to osteoarthritis). As such, it's important to control bunion pain, but you don't have to rely strictly on over-the-counter medications. There are a variety of herbal remedies that can combat pain and inflammation including turmeric, cat's claw, ginger root and willow bark — they can be taken as capsules or consumed as herbal tea.The effective doses for most herbal remedies are not well established and depend on many factors, such as purity and concentration.


Turmeric root has anti-inflammatory & analgesic (pain killing) properties and performs as well as ibuprofen in studies, but w/out side effects.Turmeric extract doses range from 300-600 mg 3x daily for joint pain.
Cat's claw extract doses range from 30-300 mg daily, and is used to treat osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Ginger blocks COX-2 production and reduces inflammation much like the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Celebrex. At least 2,000 mg daily (divided doses) is needed to be effective for joint pain.
Willow bark was used in the late 1800s to make acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin). Extract doses range from 300-500 mg 3x daily.
Fish oil is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which also display anti-inflammatory properties. A dosage of 1,000 mg 2-3x daily can noticeably reduce inflammation and pain.Capsaicin (derived from cayenne peppers) reduces a chemical called substance-P, which contributes to the sensation of pain. It's usually applied as a cream a few times daily for a couple of days for noticeable effects.
 If you notice your toe joint is red, inflamed and quite tender after exercise or a day at work, then apply some cold therapy to it in order to reduce the swelling and numb the pain. The application of ice (or anything cold) is an effective natural treatment for essentially all minor musculoskeletal strains and sprains, including bunions, because it contracts small blood vessels and reduces the flow of blood and lymph fluid into the injured area.Cold therapy should be applied to your toe for 10-15 minutes every hour until the pain and swelling subside.


Always wrap ice, frozen gel packs or bags of veggies from the freezer in a thin towel to prevent irritation, ice burn or frostbite on your skin.
While you're icing your toe(s), elevate your foot on a stool or with some pillows in order to help combat the effects of gravity and help the swelling subside.
Cold therapy is best for acute injuries or flare-ups that involve significant swelling, and is not as effective for chronic joint issues.
 If your bunion has been a chronic problem for many months or years and it feels stiff more so than inflamed, then soaking it in a hot bath with Epsom salt may provide relief. The hot water will help improve circulation and the magnesium-rich salt works well to reduce ligament and tendon tension, joint stiffness and pain.Soak your entire foot for about 20 minutes and repeat on a daily basis to treat a chronic bunion. Taking a foot bath first thing in the morning prior to exercising or going to work is a great way for making the bunion more flexible and less symptomatic at the end of the day.


The salt in the bath also acts as an natural antiseptic, which is helpful for combating any infections related to blisters, minor cuts or ingrown toenails — all common sequel of bunions.
Try gently flexing your sore toe repeatedly while soaking your foot, as it will help increase circulation and joint mobility.
Essential oils that you can add to the Epsom salt bath to help ease symptoms include peppermint, eucalyptus or rosemary extracts.Arnica tincture is also helpful for acute joint and muscle pain.
 If your big toe(s) is looking crooked and creating discomfort, then consider applying a splint at night for structural support and leaving it on while you sleep. Taping a plastic or metal splint around the affected toe(s) might help reduce the pain and realign the joint, depending on how advanced the bunion is.A bunion splint is positioned in a longitudinal direction over the toe, which results in a corrective force being applied. However, splints are mainly for prevention and are not meant to completely reverse a bunion. Bunion splints can be found at most medical supply or rehabilitation-type stores, but consult with your physician or podiatrist before using one.


Rigid splints are usually considered night-time splints because the materials don't flex and cannot bear weight.
Silicone or felt pads worn on your feet or in your shoes during the day may also relieve bunion pain, but it depends on the degree of crookedness and joint damage.
 Osteopaths and chiropractors are joint specialists who focus on naturally establishing normal movement and function within spinal joints as well as peripheral joints, such as those in your toes.The crookedness of your bunion can sometimes be reduced with manual joint manipulation — also called an adjustment. An adjustment to your big toe can potentially reposition the misaligned joint and make the toe straighter. You can often hear a "popping" sound with an adjustment, which is normal.


Although a single adjustment can sometimes completely realign a mild bunion, more than likely it will take several adjustments to treat most advanced bunions.
Although a toe adjustment doesn't always reduce the crookedness of a bunion, it can significantly reduce the pain and stiffness of a bunion, making the big toe more functional again.
 Podiatrist are foot specialists who can examine your toes and tell you whether you have a bunion or if you're at risk of developing one. Podiatrists usually treat bunions naturally (without drugs, injections or surgery) with splints, special taping techniques and/or custom made orthotics (shoe inserts). Custom orthotics and orthopedic shoes are beneficial because they support your arches, provide shock absorption, improve foot biomechanics and reduce the pressure on your big toes. Custom-made orthotics can be expensive without medical coverage, so check your policy, but cheaper off-the-shelf insoles may be beneficial also.


You may have to buy shoes a little bigger than you normally would in order to accommodate the custom-made orthotic insoles.
Some medical doctors, chiropractors and physical therapists also make orthotics, so shop around for the best price and service.
 Make an appointment with a qualified massage therapist and get a deep tissue foot massage that includes the toes and Achilles tendons. Massage reduces muscle tension, increases joint mobility and promotes better blood flow.Have the therapist start rubbing from the toes and work towards the calf muscles so you help the venous blood circulate. Allow the therapist to go as deep as you can tolerate, especial around the base of the big toe, without wincing. Massage can treat the symptoms of bunions, but is unlikely to reverse the deformity of them.


Start by experimenting with three 30-minute foot massages spread out over the course of a week and see how it impacts your bunion symptoms.
Always drink lots of water following a massage in order to flush out inflammatory by-products from your body. Failure to do so might cause a headache or mild nausea.
 Acupuncture is an ancient healing technique / art that was developed primarily in China. It involves placing small needles into specific energy points within the skin in efforts to reduce pain and swelling and stimulate healing.Acupuncture treatment for bunions is not a commonly recommended treatment by mainstream medical professionals, although some anecdotal reports suggest it can be helpful for joint pain. As such, if you've tried other natural treatments without success, then acupuncture is worth experimenting with due to its great safety record and relative affordability.Acupuncture is now practiced by many mainstream health professionals, such as physicians, chiropractors, naturopaths and massage therapists. Regardless, whoever you pick should be certified by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine.Acupuncture points that may provide relief for your bunions are not all located near the big toe where the pain is coming from — some points can be in distant areas of the body.
Japanese acupuncturists view bunions as a sequel of diabetes, or as a symptom of sugar imbalance in the body. They believe that excess sugar intake results in inflammation, which can promote bunions.

