 She will be way too busy on the day of the show. A good instructor will have outlined all of this clearly for you in advance, and have let you ask any questions before or after class.;
, Have them prepared well in advance if you are responsible for making them yourself - if they need adjustments or special materials, this can take time. On the day, be careful to take every single costume and accessory with you. If you forget a costume, it would be a heartbreak. If you have a lot of costumes, make a checklist and check them off as you go. Have family members help gather them together and bring them. Also sharpie your name on to the tags if many other students have the same costume. Try using a laundry basket to keep accessories, makeup, and costumes that don't hang up. Hang hanging costume up above the basket. (start this when you get your first costume.)

, Make sure your tights are washed and not ripped. Buy new ones, don't wear practice ones and make sure to have one or two extra pairs in case they rip at the show. Also, some studios require you to have pink for ballet, ask your teacher ahead of time. Wash your ballet shoes, or at least wipe them down with a moist cloth (a year of dance makes them dirty).
 You may want to do it at the show backstage because the sweat might make it run. If you are at the beginning of the show get to the theater a little early. Also, make sure your make up is appropriate/acceptable for your routine(s)/dance(s).
 And do not forget to bring a sewing kit, safety pins, and some clear nail polish to put on teeny holes in your tights, so they don't stretch any further. If need be, make a list of everything you need and run through it a few times before you leave.
 When you get backstage listen like your life depended on it! You don't want to miss your turn!

, Just remember do not bring anything that will stain your teeth or clothes. If you are going to be eating, don't bring messy food, and bring a shirt, street clothes, or jacket to put over your costumes. And make sure that you Remember, when you're backstage, do not talk, the audience can hear you. Also, remember that if you can see the audience, they can see you!

, You worked all year for recital day. Enjoy it and if you mess up, roll with it. Don't stop in the middle of the stage (no one other than the ballerinas will notice it).
 Being nervous is normal. Drink some water. Take your mind off of things, and even chat with the people around you to calm your nerves.

