 wikiHow work can encompass many disciplines and skills.



Writing. If you've written for wikiHow, you have written informational content for a large, international audience spanning a wide variety of ages and experience. Chances are you have also received feedback and criticism on your writing. What have you learned? How could you apply that to your job or your next intended career move?

Proofreading and copyediting. Do spelling and grammatical errors in writing catch your attention? Can you rewrite an article for clarity, continuity, style, and the like?

Photography and illustration. Some of our best wikiHow articles have step-by-step images guiding the reader through whatever procedure they describe. Have you developed any visual communications skills that you could offer to an employer?
Teaching and instruction. Have you gained any experience explaining procedures and other factual information clearly and concisely? Can you summarize or synthesize information?
Researching. Have you ever come across a terrible article on a subject you didn't know and read about it in order to improve it? Have you learned anything about locating and sorting information?

Information management and evaluation. Is a new article equivalent to something we already have? Is it accurate? Is it worthy of deletion or should it be improved or merged, instead? What articles do we have on related subjects? Have you participated in making decisions such as these? Have you learned anything about managing information and content?
Collaboration. Writing for wikiHow is a collaborative process. Have you learned anything about communicating over long distances, working together with others, resolving creative differences, or helping fellow contributors to feel like part of a community?
Initiative and confidence. Wikis, including wikiHow, are a "do-ocracy". Have you learned to jump in and take the lead? Could you apply that skill to your professional life, too?
Cleanup and administration. It isn't easy to clean up after all the mixed contributions that wander in from wikiHow's thousands of visitors, but collectively, the volunteers here do just that. Have you patrolled? Have you learned something about keeping on top of ongoing cleanup and administrative tasks? Have you learned anything about encouraging and guiding newcomers? Have you learned about giving constructive criticism?
Skills that are the subject of the articles themselves. Do articles you have written reflect skills you already mastered or skills that you learned or polished in order to write the article? Similarly, have you learned any new skills from reading and applying others' articles?;
, You can print some of these out, copy and paste, or take screen shots as you go. Look for clues about what talents others recognize in your work. How have your articles or your activities in wikiHow helped others? How have they helped wikiHow?

, Online, you could cut and paste small samples or even post the entire article. On paper, you could print articles or relevant portions.
 Organizations like employees who are proactive and reach outside of themselves to contribute to the community. It shows them that you aren't 'just' about you. Include concrete skills (such as editing or researching) in a skills section or mention your time and contributions to wikiHow in a section for volunteer work or (if you are a student) extracurricular activities. If possible, list concrete accomplishments, such as the examples below.


Very general: Volunteered for wikiHow.
A concrete statement of contributions: Patrolled over 2,000 edits for vandalism, content and style. Wrote 10 articles related to office and computer skills.
A concrete statement of skills: Edited factual content in a collaborative, online environment. Welcomed and guided new contributors and built community goodwill.

