 This is the first and foremost thing you need to do. Once you feel you have the confidence to move forward, then you move to the next step.
 This is most important if you want to have a chance to form a garage band that will stay together. Life expectancy of a garage band is 1 year. Many garage bands stay together for decades. This is because they all think the same way and as a band and a not individuals. Always think what is best for the band.
 One cannot have a garage band without one. If you have a garage, empty the cars out of it. If the cars are already out of it, empty out sporting equipment, and ten foot wide paintings. A basement might work as well, however it creates problems for the drummer and when lugging a 25 pound amplifier down 70-year old wooden steps. Besides, garages are so much cooler. Having rugs lying around will help reduce the bass vibrations going all over the place. Make sure there is electricity and some dim lighting for setting a depressing non-conformist mood.
 The most important part of creating a rock band. You need instruments to play, and although not always mandatory, you will greatly benefit by knowing how to play it, as explained in detail in step three. Necessary instruments are a drum set, Electric Guitar, and Bass. You may elaborate, adding another guitar, keyboard, organist, or solo singer. individual background singers are strongly unadvised, due to the high level of un-garageness. Although cheap instruments might look unattractive in the store, they're a bargain for your buck and add to the "grunge" appeal of your garage band. Stay away from fancy and "professional" equipment, as they also have a high level of un-garageness. For instance, buying a real Fender Strat could cost you up to $1200, what kind of Garage rocker would you be if you had that kind of money I ask you? Instead, go to a pawn shop and buy a $50 Strat rip-off missing a fret or two, and put some stickers on it.
 The same rule basically applies to gear (amps, mics, pedals, etc.) as to instruments. Do not worry about getting cheaper gear, as long as it works and plays a decent sound. However, do not get too small an amp. You want something at least maybe 10"x10", as smaller amps subtract from the garage band feel, and are suited more for country-rock playing in the subway.
 The name of your band might decide the fate of you. The name for your band may come in a variety of ways. It never hurt to have a cool name, it may be totally instantaneous, or you may lock yourself in a room for a week, using that as a source of inspiration. Whatever you do, make it sound unusual and unprecedented, try to think of something that would never happen like The Flying Hippos or something like "Sex Pistols" or "Nine Inch Nails" or "Slipknot". When choosing a name, it's wise to have something that either is so out there that people automatically want to listen, or maybe something ironic or vulgar, to attract attention in other ways

, Showing off your rock knowledge skills to everyone might increase your garage band stature. However, there are things to say and things not to say. Do not say, "Did you know that Jimi Hendrix was born Johnny Allen Hendrix at 10:15 a.m. on November 27, 1942?" Do say, "Did you know Jimi Hendrix died by choking on his vomit?" Instead of "Did you know that Ozzy had two #1 Albums with Black Sabbath," you could say, "When he was solo, he toured with Motley Crue, and one time on this bus, Vince Neal snorted an ant, and then to prove that he was more hardcore, Ozzy pissed on himself and licked it off".

