 If someone is coming at you in an attack, you’ll want to be prepared to defend yourself.Back away from the attacker to put yourself out of reach.
Place your arms in front of your face to block any punches.
Duck under a punch and prepare to counter attack.;
, When someone is attacking you, you can use the forward momentum of the attack to pull the attacker towards you and to the ground. Using your opponent's momentum against him is a good way to take on an opponent that is larger than you are.Lean back away from the attack.
Grab the person by the arm or shirt as they are punching or attacking.
Pull the attacker towards you and down.
Use your leg to trip them to the ground as you pull them.
 Using a combination of a trip and a push, you can make someone fall backwards. This method works well when you are able to position yourself in front of an opponent.Move in close to your opponent.
Step one leg beside your attacker.
Grab the person by the shoulders and push them backwards.
Sweep your leg around and behind their ankles while you push.
 Using a combination of defensive moves to avoid your attacker and an offensive take down, you can easily take down an opponent.


Enroll in a beginner's martial arts class at a local gym.
Watch instructional videos to see the movements in action.
Practice the moves in front of a mirror or with a trained partner.
 In order to perform a choke hold, you must be in the proper position to grab your opponent. This technique works best when you move quickly and can catch someone off guard. An opponent that is much larger than you may be able to break free of a choke hold and turn on you quickly.Wrap your dominant arm around the person’s neck as you move behind them.
Your elbow should be under the person’s chin with your bicep and forearm on either side of the neck.
Place your other hand behind the person’s head.
Squeeze your bicep and forearm closed and push the person’s head forwards with your other arm.
Hold the choke for 10-20 seconds and slowly lower the person to the ground.

