 Let your child know that they are cared for and will always have a home with you. Be respectful to your child and don’t disparage their ideas or input. Respond to your child’s ideas and self-expression in a kind and gentle way.For instance, when your child mispronounces a word, don’t belittle them. Instead, help them re-read the word and pronounce it for them correctly.
If your child shares their hopes and dreams, encourage them by saying, “I believe you can do anything if you put your mind to it.”
Pick your child up when they’re down. For instance, after your child gets a disappointing grade on their test, say, “Don’t worry, I’m sure you’ll study hard and do better next time. Let’s go to the movie theatre and see that new animated film you wanted to see.”, Always outline your expectations and punishments for violating expectations in clear terms. Be consistent in your application of rules. Never curse or yell at your child, and do not strike your child in anger or as punishment for misbehavior.Using physical punishment will erode the bonds of trust and affection between you and your child.
Being a good role model for self-control and justice in this way will demonstrate to your child how to behave.
 Emphasize to your child that you love them no matter how well they do in their chosen arena of competition. Remind them that it is not some inherent flaw in them that caused them to lose, but rather, a flawed performance which can be corrected for in other matches.Do not get angry or become sullen with your child for losing.
Do not proffer hurtful criticism or embarrassing commentary when your child does not succeed.
 Do not essentialize your child by saying things like, “You are a great artist/athlete/dancer.” Comments to this effect will make your child believe they have already attained some level of perfection at whatever it is they’re engaged in. Instead, praise the work and actions that your child is contributing toward becoming a great artist/athlete/dancer. For example, you could say, “I’m really proud of you for putting a lot of extra time in on your art” or “All your practice will pay off soon. Keep at it.”, Parents, teachers, and coaches who are demanding and do not accept sub-par effort produce mental toughness in their kids. Your child might chafe under strict rules or schedules, but in the long run, they will appreciate this “tough love” for helping them become more focused and more capable of giving things their best shot.Insist that your child gets all their homework done before playing.
Ensure your child adjusts themselves to schedules for sports practice or for school.
Setting limits for your child demonstrates that you care about them, which in turn helps them develop habits of self-care.