 Making a foam jewelry box is easy, but you will need some special items to do it. Before you get started, you will need to get:a large piece of foam board
a pair of sharp scissors
a ruler
a pencil
a hot glue gun with glue
a glue stick
five beads
decorative paper
baize or felt (to line the jewelry box);
, The parts diagram for this project provides dimensions for the parts that you will be using as well as a diagram that shows how they all fit together. Print it out and use it to help you build your jewelry box.You can download the part diagram at: http://anadiycrafts.com/diy-jewelry-box/


, Glue guns work better when they are warmed up all the way. Make sure that you allow about 15 minutes for your glue gun to heat up. Otherwise the pieces may not stay in place when you glue them., You will need to cut piece from your foam board before you can make the jewelry box. You will need the following pieces:two 11cm by 2.7 cm pieces
two 17.7cm by 2.7cm pieces
one 16.7cm by 11 centimeter (4.3 in) piece
two 18cm by 12cm pieces
two 12cm by 7cm pieces
one 6cm by 3cm piece
one 19cm by 7cm piece
two 18cm by 3cm pieces
one 20cm by 13cm piece

, Take one of your 12cm by 7cm pieces and use your ruler to measure 3cm from the long edge. Then make a mark to show this point. Do the same on the other side of the piece and then connect the two dots so that you have a line on the piece that is 3cm from the long edge.Repeat this process with the other 12cm by 7cm piece and with your 19cm by 7cm. This line will serve as a guide for where to attach one of your 18cm by 12cm pieces.
 Take one of your 18cm by 12cm pieces and lay it down in front of you. Then, take one of your 12cm by 7cm pieces and glue it to the short edge of the 18cm by 12cm piece. Hold the glue gun close to the edge as you apply the glue or it may dry before it reaches the surface.Make sure that you keep the line that you drew on the piece facing inwards.Next, take your 19cm by 7cm piece and glue it to the long edge of your 18cm by 12cm piece. Make sure that the line you drew on the 19cm by 7cm piece is facing inwards.
Then, take your other 18cm by 12cm piece and glue it along the lines that you drew on the 12cm by 7cm and 19cm by 7cm pieces.
Next, take your other 12cm by 7cm piece and glue it to the short edges of your 18cm by 12cm pieces.
Last, take one of your 18cm by 3cm pieces and glue it to the other long edge of your upper 18cm by 12cm piece.
 After you have assembled the base of your jewelry box, you will need to line it with your baize or felt fabric. Cut the fabric to fit the upper shelf of your jewelry box that you have created. Use your glue stick to apply the fabric to this area and smooth it out so that there are no bumps or bubbles., After you have lined your upper shelf, you can add the dividers. Take your other 18cm by 3cm piece and your 6cm by 3cm piece and position them in the box so that they make a “T” shape. Use the hot glue gun to glue the 6cm by 3cm piece into place first and then attach the 18cm by 3cm piece., Before you build your drawer, you will need to line it with your baize or felt fabric. Cut a piece of fabric to fit into the 16.7cm by 11 centimeter (4.3 in) piece. Then, use your glue stick to attach the fabric to this piece.Make sure that you smooth out the fabric to avoid bumps or bubbles.
 Use the hot glue gun to attach your 11cm by 2.7cm pieces to the 11cm long sides of your 16.7 centimeter (6.6 in) by 11cm piece. Then, use the glue gun to attach your 17.7 centimeter (7 in) by 2.7cm pieces to the 16.7 centimeter (6.6 in) sides of your 16.7 centimeter (6.6 in) by 11cm piece.Make sure that you press on each of the sides to ensure that they are firmly in place.
 You will use a piece of your baize or felt fabric to attach the cover to the jewelry box. Cut a piece of your baize or felt so that it is 20 centimeter (7.9 in) long and about 5 cm wide. Then, use your hot glue gun to attach the fabric to the long edge of your cover (the 20cm by 13cm piece).Make sure that a couple of inches hang off the edge.
 Take a piece of your decorative paper and make sure that it is large enough to cover an entire side of your cover piece. Use your glue stick to apply the decorative paper to the cover. Then, fold the excess paper over the edges of the cover and then secure them with glue.Apply decorative paper to the the inside of the cover as well. This piece should stay a little inside of the cover edge, but the whole surface should be covered in decorative paper when you are done.
 Use the fabric that you glued to the edge of the cover to attach the cover to the jewelry box. Glue the edge to the outside of the back of your jewelry box. You will be covering this area with decorative paper, so do not worry about the fabric showing., The next thing that you will need to do is apply decorative paper to the front, back, and sides of your jewelry box as well as to the front of your jewelry box drawer. Cut the pieces to fit each of the areas that you need to cover and then secure them with your glue stick.Make sure that you smooth out the pieces so that there are no bubbles or bumps in the paper.
 Find the center of the front of your drawer by measuring from the edges with your ruler. Make a small pencil mark to indicate the center of your drawer. Then take one of your beads and use the hot glue gun to glue it to this spot. This will serve as your drawer handle.The drawer is all done now, so you can insert the drawer into the slot on the front of the jewelry box.
 Then, turn your jewelry box over and apply a dot of hot glue to one of the bottom corners. Then, secure a bead to this spot. Repeat this process for the other three corners. These will be the feet of your jewelry box., You can leave the box as is or you can decorate your jewelry box. Decorate the top of the jewelry box and the inside cover of the jewelry box with pictures, glitter glue, beads, buttons, etc.After you have finished decorating your box, it is ready to use!

