 Before you can join the British Army, you must meet certain requirements in terms of age, education, residency, and health.


You must be at least 16 years old and in Army phase 1 training before you turn 33 years old. If you are under the age of 18, you will also need parental consent.
You can join if you are a British citizen or British subject under the Nationality Act of 1981. You can also join if you are a British Protected Person or citizen of the Irish Republic, but certain restrictions may apply. You might also be able to join if you are a citizen of a commonwealth country, but you should check with a recruitment officer about restrictions.You will need to be in good enough physical health to complete a static lift, Jerry can test, and 2.4 km (1.5 mile) run.You must not have any medical conditions that would prevent you from performing your job.
You must check with a recruiter if you have had a past criminal offence to determine if that offence can change your eligibility status.
 You can fill out an application by registering for an account on the British Army website or by contacting a recruitment officer directly.


When you apply, you should have a general idea of the role you want to fill within the British Army. These roles include: combat, engineering, logistics and support, intelligence, IT and communications, HR and finance, medical, and musical and ceremonial.
 Take this opportunity to ask any questions you have about joining the Army. The adviser will also check your suitability and offer you any necessary advice about preparing for your Army career.


You will be asked about your physical fitness, achievements, and interests. Answer all questions fully and honestly.
 This test evaluates your mental ability to solve problems and understand information.


The test consists of five sections: reasoning, letter checking, number distance, odd one out, and symbol rotation.
 The literacy test evaluates your reading and writing abilities.


You are allowed to complete the test in as much time as you need. There are no time limits for this exam.
 This test evaluates whether or not you are able to accurately and quickly complete basic mathematical tasks.


If you do not pass this test the first time, you can take it a second time.
 If you meet all the basic standards, you will need to stay at the ADSC for two days to go through a medical exam and to have your fitness, memory, and teamwork abilities tested.


Go through the fitness test. You will need to complete a 1.5 mile run and several strength tests.
Take a memory test. You will participate in a memory lesson, and the following day, you will need to demonstrate how much of the information you can remember.
Pass the teamwork test. You will be put through a basic teamwork exercise, through which you must show that you can respect and motivate others in your team while remaining calm.
 During this final interview, the results of your exams will be discussed and you will be asked any questions that linger about your ability to perform well.


Dress respectfully and speak with confidence.
 You will receive a grade after leaving the ADSC, and this grade determines how long you will have to wait before beginning your Initial Training.


Your final role within the Army will vary depending on the number of positions available in each trade.

