 Knock out all that negative vibe on your heart, kick vengeance out and scratch away all that hatred. Naruto proved that his heart was pure from all that when he fought off Dark-Naruto, remember? You should do the same. Always find a reason to be happy. Set goals that you want to achieve in the future and don't let obstacles stop it, Naruto always wanted to become Hokage and didn't let small fights get to him, he always got up and kept going.;
, Don’t ever give up! Life is wired to scare us and turn us pessimistic but, you’ve got to push through with the right attitude. Naruto wasn’t so optimistic from the start; he scared the life out of himself when faced with Zabuza for the first time, he wanted to run away but, he didn’t. He faced the challenge and took the horse by its reins. Don’t back down when challenges look you dead in the eye.
 Always try to attract people’s attention in whatever petty thing you do. Not only will this push you out of your comfort zone but also give you a motivation to perfect whatever you’re doing. Always try to juice-out praise; it can give you a boost of self-esteem!

, It can be anything from academics to breaking a habit. Always remind yourself of what you’re working towards.
 Remember how much Naruto used to hate Sasuke because he was so popular? However, towards the end, he found a common ground with Sasuke and the two became quite close. Don’t think you’re ego’s going to be hurt if you talk to that girl/boy who sits at the back of the class –they’re human too! Treat everyone the same and keep those who you’ve got a lot in common with close to heart.
 The whole plot of Shippuden surrounds Naruto trying to bring Sasuke back or, at least, erase that sense of revenge from his heart because it’s wrong. Once you love someone, love them unconditionally and dearly and don’t be afraid to go all the way for them.
 Never stop smiling, even if you’re having a bad day. Smiling brings a light of hope and joy to the people around you, regardless of the situation’s intensity. Always be the one to light the dark path.
 These literally define Naruto. Let your voice be heard and refuse to feel lower than anyone. Call yourself the best and Believe it!

, Study hard, take extra classes or whatever you need to ace academics –if that’s your goal. Practice as much as possible, train your body and mind and eat right if becoming the world’s greatest athlete is your goal. Whatever it may be, don’t stop till you’ve reached/become what you’ve dreamed.
 Once you make a promise –Never go back on it! Learn to keep secrets and be trustworthy.
 Naruto never needed too many words to make friends and he didn’t use too much word to show how much he cared about Sasuke, Sakura and the village as a whole. Let your actions speak for you. People will admire you for that.
 This shows your individuality and fun-ness. Naruto is obsessed with ramen. What are you obsessed with? These will give you a random topic to discuss about when you’re bored –just make sure you’re not over doing it or the other person can become annoyed.

