 Don't underestimate the power of a healthy breakfast. A healthy breakfast will improve the entire course of your day and will give you more energy to handle your classes and anything school will bring your way. Eating a healthy breakfast won't take long and it will make you much more likely to stay alert. Here's what you should eat:


Eat foods that are high in protein, like eggs, ham, or turkey.

Eat fruits and vegetables. You can also drink them in a healthy vegetable smoothie.
Eat food with carbohydrates, like oatmeal, granola, or toast.
Eat yogurt. Avoid too much milk because it can make you sleepy.
If you're really tired, try some caffeine. If you're still in school, it's likely that you're not used to caffeine, so try it in low doses. Black tea is best, and a small cup of coffee will help you as well. Avoid soda or energy drinks unless you're extremely desperate for a quick pick-me-up, because they will make you crash after a brief spike in your energy level.
 Having a great morning routine to follow every day will help you be in the right mental and physical state to begin a long day of school. Being able to get up in the morning without problems will put you on the right footing to begin your school day.


Get enough rest the day before. Most teenagers need between 8-10 hours of sleep. Studies have shown that 6 hours or less is not good for your overall wellbeing, even if you think it is. If you oversleep or don't get enough sleep, you're setting yourself up to be tired for the rest of the day. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every night.
Wake up at least an hour before school. This may sound like a pain because school already starts so early, but being more alert when you enter school will help you stay alert. If you roll out of bed and head straight to the school bus, you will still be half asleep when your day begins.
Take a cold, refreshing shower. Turn the lights on bright and sing to yourself. This will help your body wake up.
Stimulate your mind. Read the morning paper or even surf the Internet for an interesting article or two. This will help get your mind moving.
Listen to your favorite pump-up song.
 Feeling mentally prepared for a day of school will go a long way in helping you be mentally alert for the eight or more hours that you will spend in school. You should do whatever you can to make sure that you're going to school feeling prepared, positive, and ready for the challenges ahead

.

Be prepared for school. Do all of your homework the evening before so you don't end up staying too late doing your homework, or rush to get it done in the morning and then end up crashing from working too fast.
Have a game plan. As you're waking up, think of the classes ahead of you and the tests, lessons, or events in store. Knowing what your day will look like will help you stay alert for it.
Feel positive about going to school. This can sound difficult, but you should give yourself at least three reasons why you're looking forward to going to school, such as going to your amazing English class, or even catching up with a friend during lunch.

