 While locking devices to a specific carrier was a popular practice for a while, these days many carriers unlock their phones from the get-go.
 You'll need to remove the SIM card and insert the new one, so turn the device off by holding the Power button., You'll need something about this size to insert into the SIM tray eject hole. This won't be necessary if your SIM is located behind your battery., This can usually be found along the right edge of the device, though it may be found behind the battery on older devices., This small pinhole can be found on one side of the SIM tray., When inserted correctly and with a little force, the SIM tray should eject., If the phone has a SIM card from the original carrier in it, take it out of the tray., Lay the SIM card for your new carrier into the tray, with the contacts facing down. There may be slots that the SIM card slides into., After inserting your SIM card, turn the device back on and let it boot up., If you are able to get wireless service, your phone is unlocked already., If you got your phone through your carrier, there's a good chance that the phone payment has been subsidized as part of your monthly service charge. Before your carrier will unlock your phone, you'll likely need to completely pay off what you owe for your device.

In the US, device payments are typically made for two years. If you've had your device for longer than two years, it is probably eligible for unlocking.
 Your carrier will need this number to confirm the unlock request.

To get your IMEI, dial *#06#. The IMEI will immediately appear after you enter the last #. Write this number down.
 You'll need to request an unlock code from the carrier, which you can try either over the phone or in person., As long as you have met any contractual obligations, most carriers should provide the code to you free of charge. Some carriers may still charge a small fee for your code.

If your device isn't paid off or your account is in negative standing, you may not be able to receive your unlock code.
It may take a while for your carrier to process your request and deliver the code to you.
 After you have received your unlock code, you'll need to turn off your device in order to remove the old SIM and insert the new one., Remove the SIM tray and insert the SIM card from your new carrier into your device., After the SIM has been inserted, turn the device back on., When your device detects a SIM card from a different carrier, you'll be prompted to enter the unlock code. Make sure to type the code exactly., After unlocking your device, it will begin activation with the new carrier. This may take a few minutes to complete. Once you see service bars, you should be able to use the new network.

You'll need to be in the coverage area of the new network in order to activate and use the new SIM card.
 There are a variety of unlocking websites that you can use to get an unlock code. These sites operate in a legal gray area, so look into reviews to make sure that you're using a legitimate service. Some popular unlocking sites include:

getunlocked.com/
safeunlockcode.com/
sim-unlock.net/

, This will display the IMEI number for your device., You'll need this to request an unlock code from any of the unlocking websites., Different websites provide unlocking services for different devices. Find your device on the website you want to use. If you can't find your device, you'll need to try a different service., Depending on your device, network, and unlocking service, there may be issues with getting an unlock code. For example, users with CDMA devices (Verizon, Sprint) may have difficulty finding a service that can unlock their devices., The process will be a little different for each site, but generally you can start your order directly from your device's page on the unlocking site., You'll need to provide this number in order for the unlocking service to be able to retrieve your unlock code., Enter your payment information and place your order. The cost will vary depending on the service and the device you are unlocking., This can take anywhere from half-an-hour to a few days or even weeks. You'll receive your code at the email you entered when you made the purchase., With your unlock code in hand, you'll need to power down your Android device so that you can insert your new SIM., Remove the old SIM card from your device and insert the SIM card from the network you're switching to. Make sure you're in the coverage area of your new network., After inserting the new SIM, turn on the phone so it can start trying to activate it., When the device turns on and an unrecognized SIM card is present, you'll be prompted to enter your device's unlock code. Type in the code you received from the unlock service., After entering your unlock code, your SIM will attempt to activate on your new network. This may take several minutes. Once you see service bars, you should be able to make and receive calls.