 Before you begin, you will need to turn off the power to the fan from the circuit breaker box.
 Put on a pair of gloves, safety goggles and a respirator and remove the grille covering from the old fan. You may be shocked at the amount of dirt and debris that fall out of it!


Unscrew or unplug the motor blower assembly from the housing unit, then open up the electrical splice unit and carefully pull out the wires.
Remove the connectors and untwist the wires to disconnect them. It's a good idea to double check that power to the wires is off before doing this.
Loosen the cable clamp to free the electrical cable from the fan housing., In the attic, detach the duct pipe from both the housing unit and the vent cap connector duct.


Pull the electrical cable and wiring free from the housing unit.
Use a power drill to remove the screws securing the old fan's brackets to the joists, then lift the old fan from the ceiling.
 Head back down to your bathroom and remove the new fan from its packaging. If it has the same measurements as your old fan, you will be able to install it immediately.


But if the new fan is bigger than the old one, you will need to enlarge the hole in your ceiling. You can do this by tracing the outline of your new fan onto the ceiling, then cutting around the outline with a drywall saw.
If your new fan is smaller than the old one, you can caulk around the edges of the housing unit to fill in any gaps once the fan is installed.
Go to the attic and lower the new fan into the preexisting or newly enlarged hole. Make sure the unit is properly oriented for all electrical and duct work connections.
Slide out the extendable mounting brackets and secure them to the joists using your power drill and 1 inch (2.5 cm) drywall screws. You may need a helper to hold the fan in place from below as you do this.
 Once the fan is in place, connect a 90 degree duct elbow to the fan's exhaust port using sheet metal screws. Then attach a new 4 to 6 inch (10.2 to 15.2 cm) duct pipe to the duct elbow.


It is possible to use the duct pipe from the old fan, but if it is less than 4 inches (10.2 cm) in diameter you will need to install a duct pipe reducer before reattaching the pipe.
However be aware that using a smaller, older duct pipe will prevent the fan from working as efficiently.
 Insert the electrical cable through the new fans connector and secure it with a cable clamp.


Open up the electrical splice box (from either the attic or the bathroom, depending on the model) and pull out the fan wires.
Attach the electrical wires to the fan wires by twisting same color wires together (white to white and black or red to black) and attaching a wire connector.
Wrap the bare copper wire under the ground clip or screw and tighten to secure. Tuck all of the wires back into the electrical splice box and replace the cover. , If you replaced your old duct pipe with a newer, bigger pipe, you will also need to install a larger vent cap on your roof or sidewall.


Take whatever safety precautions are necessary for working at a height. Remove the old vent cap and use a saw to enlarge the opening to the size of the new duct pipe.
Pull the end of the duct pipe through the hole until 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) extends beyond the edge of the roof or sidewall. Secure in place with sheet metal screws and seal around the edges with caulk.
Secure the new vent cap over the end of the duct pipe. If the vent pipe is on the roof, replace any shingles that may have come loose.
 Return to the bathroom and install the motor blower assembly by plugging it into the receptacle and screwing to secure. Attach the decorative plastic grille, then turn the power back on to test if your new bathroom fan is working.

