 Whenever you're monitoring your intake of certain nutrients or foods, it's important to get familiar with the food label on packaged items. You can figure out how much sodium is in foods and decide whether or not they're appropriate for your diet.


Reading the food label is very important when you're trying to limit sodium. The first thing you need to look at is the serving size. This will guide you when you're figuring out how much sodium or other nutrients are in the food.The total sodium amount is listed underneath "total cholesterol" and above "total carbohydrates."The amount of sodium listed here is for one serving. If you eat more than one serving, you'll need to multiply this number by however many servings you consume.
Foods that are labeled as low-sodium (usually advertised on the front of the package) cannot contain more than 140 mg of sodium per serving.;
, Most of the sodium in Westernized diets doesn't come from the salt shaker. Much of this nutrient is actually coming from restaurant foods — especially fried foods and fast foods.


Many foods from a fast food restaurant are high in sodium — especially if you get a meal or combo. You're not only getting sodium in the sandwich, but also from the fries or other sides you may consume.
Many fried foods also contain high quantities of sodium. About six mozzarella sticks have over 2,500 mg of sodium.Even fast food sandwiches that seem "healthy" like a turkey sandwich with cheese and bacon contain over 2,800 mg of sodium.Fast food sub places also can rack up high-sodium contents. Deli meats, processed meats and cheeses — especially when piled high on a sub roll — can total up to 1,500 — 3,200 mg of sodium., If you were to think of some of the foods with the highest amount of sodium, you'd probably think of canned foods and some frozen foods. And you'd be right: both of these foods can tip the scales in terms of sodium.


If you're choosing to purchase canned foods, always look for the words "low-sodium" or "no salt added." This generally means these foods are relatively low in sodium.
Note that if you're buying low-sodium canned soup, you need to make sure you only eat one serving of soup. Some soups have over 1,600 mg of sodium per serving.If you eat more than one serving, you're consuming more sodium than what's listed for "one serving" on the food label.
Frozen foods like frozen meals, pizzas, breakfast foods or veggie burgers also contain a high amount of sodium. Some frozen meals can contain up to 1,800 mg of sodium per meal.Again, it's important to look for "low-sodium" on these items as well.
 If you love having a ham and cheese sandwich at lunch, you may want to rethink your choice of deli meat. These types of meats in addition to other sources of processed meat is a major source of sodium.Limit or avoid deli meats like ham, turkey, roast beef, or pastrami. Three slices of deli turkey can have over 1,000 mg of sodium.If you do choose to have these items, look for ones that are labeled "low-sodium."
Also limit or avoid meats like sausage, bacon, hot dogs or canned meats. Again, these foods are high in sodium. One small hot dog has over 500 mg of sodium.Choose low-sodium options if available.
 Other common high-sodium culprits are snack foods. Whether it's a treat from a vending machine or items you purchase from the grocery store, many common snack foods are very high in sodium.Foods like chips, crackers, popcorn, salted mixed nuts and pretzels frequently have higher levels of sodium. In addition, these foods are generally higher in calories and fat but low in any valuable nutrition.
Salted nuts can have about 200 mg of sodium per ounce.In addition foods like potato chips, crackers and popcorn can have over 20% of your daily recommended allowance for sodium — about 500 mg per serving.
Although you may find some chips, crackers or popcorn without added salt, it's best to limit these foods anyways. Even low-sodium versions are still fairly high in calories and low in nutrients.
 You may be surprised to find out that grains — like breads or pasta — also contain high amounts of sodium. Be mindful when purchasing and consuming these foods.


One slice of bread can contain over 200 mg of sodium.If you're making a sandwich, which generally requires two slices of bread, your sodium intake is already up close to 400 mg. This is without the deli meat or cheese as well.
If you think you're making a better choice by choosing a tortilla or wrap, think again. A 6 inch tortilla has about 200 mg of sodium while a 10 inch tortilla has over 500 mg of sodium.Choose items with lower sodium content per slice, or choose to make a sandwich with only a half a slice of bread or make it open-faced.
 One particularly sneaky place that sodium frequently hides is in condiments, sauces, salad dressings and marinades. Make sure to thoroughly read the food label on these items so you know exactly how much sodium you're getting from these items.


Some of the sauces and condiments containing the highest amount of sodium include: pasta sauce, ketchup, hot sauce, salad dressings (especially light or fat-free dressings) and soy sauce.
Many common condiments, like ketchup and mustard, offer low-sodium options or "all natural" options that have considerably less sodium per serving. Regular ketchup can have 150 mg of sodium per tablespoon.If you purchase store-bought salad dressings, be wary that the fat-free or light versions typically have significantly more sodium than the originals. Stick to the original version or make your own at home.
Soy sauce is known for being high in sodium. Regular soy sauce packs about 1,000 mg of sodium per tablespoon.Limit the amount you use.
 Limiting or reducing the amount of sodium in your diet is common. Many people are looking to improve their diets or chronic health conditions by avoiding this nutrient. Speaking to your doctor can be helpful when reducing your overall sodium intake.


Since cutting sodium is a common practice and something frequently advised by physicians, your doctor can be a great source of guidance, advice and provide additional resources.
Also ask if reducing sodium is appropriate for you. Although it's typically safe, and even advised, there are some health conditions that require you to maintain a certain sodium intake.
Also consider speaking to a registered dietitian. These nutrition professionals can help design a low-sodium meal plan for you, give you low-sodium recipes and help teach you how to track your sodium intake.
 Another important part of following a low-sodium diet is tracking your foods and overall sodium intake. This can show you whether or not your diet is meeting your goal.


A good idea to start with is keeping a food journal. Start by noting the types of foods and amounts of them you eat on a typical day. Using a food journal app or online program, determine how much sodium you typically eat.
If your total sodium intake is under 2,400 mg on average each day, you're actually consuming an appropriate amount; however, if you're looking to decreasing your intake further or you're eating more than 2,400 mg, continue tracking your intake.
Set yourself a goal or limit for your sodium intake. It could be the recommended allowance of 2,400 mg or it could be lower like 1,800 mg daily.
Continue to track your intake and total intake over time. Total your sodium each day to see if your low-sodium diet is helping you meet your goals. If you keep going over your limit, recheck your food journal and identify sources of sodium in your diet and continue to work on cutting those foods out.
 If you want to cut out large quantities of sodium from your diet, consider making more meals and snacks at home. If you cook from scratch you can control the amount of salt and sodium-containing ingredients in your foods.


People who eat out on a regular basis ate 50% more calories, sodium and fat than those who ate meals at home.The occasional meal out isn't a big deal, but if you're eating on a regular basis, these restaurant foods are most likely a big source of sodium in your diet.
Cooking your meals at home allows you to choose what ingredients you use and to control how much added fat, sugar or sodium you add to your foods. You can choose to add little or no salt to items and only use ingredients that are low-sodium or have no sodium.
If you find yourself eating out frequently, start cooking one meal at home a week. Maybe you start by eating every breakfast at home. Then you can work on packing your lunch everyday and so on until you're preparing most meals at home.
Since eating out is fun and enjoyable for most people, give yourself a limit of how often you eat out so that you don't overdo it with sodium.
 Another sure-fire way to reduce the total sodium in your diet is by choosing more whole foods over processed foods.


Whole foods are considered minimally processed foods that have little or no added ingredients. Items like an apple, head of broccoli, a raw chicken breast or egg are considered whole foods. They go through minimal processing and have only one ingredient.Processed foods on the other hand generally have multiple ingredients, many additives and preservatives and are generally higher in sodium.Try to limit the amounts of foods and types of foods that you purchase that are processed or come in a box or package.
For example, instead of buying ketchup from the store, consider making your own from scratch. Or instead of buying salad dressing or pasta sauce at the store, make your own. You can even bake your own bread, roast your chicken or turkey for sandwiches or make your own "freezer meals" by freezing leftovers of your dinners.
 Although using salt at the dinner table or during cooking isn't the biggest source of sodium in most American's diets, it can still add unnecessary amounts of sodium to your overall diet.Consider getting rid of your salt shaker completely, as it can encourage you to add salt to meals that don't need it.


If you typically use salt to flavor your meals while cooking and add salt to your foods at the dinner table, consider choosing only one or the other. If you use salt during cooking, keep the salt shaker off the table.
If you enjoy salting your foods at the table, then do not cook with salt. You can measure out how much salt you're using per meal.
You can also use half the amount of salt you typically use in cooking or at the table to slowly bring down the amount of sodium you use.
 Salt provides a lot of flavor to foods, so if you're cutting down on the amount of salt you're using, you'll need to replace that with other flavors. Try cooking with fresh or dried herbs for an extra hit of flavor.


Both fresh and dried herbs are full of flavor. In addition, you can use as much as you want without needing to worry about how much sodium you're adding to foods — they're naturally sodium-free.
In particular, basil, garlic, turmeric, coriander and ginger have been shown to be the best herbs that pack the most flavor and help replace the taste of salt.Be sure to skip sodium-containing herb blends or seasoning blends. Check the label to make sure there is no sodium or MSG in the seasonings.
 In addition to herbs, certain spicy foods can help give foods a lot of flavor without having to add any sodium to the meal.


Both black pepper and cayenne pepper can add a kick of heat, but have been shown to be the best at reducing the need for salt.You may also want to consider adding a little low-sodium hot sauce to meals to add a kick to meals as well if you don't have any dried spices at home.
 In addition to spices and herbs, acidic foods or flavorings can really increase and brighten the flavor of many foods.


Try adding a splash of lemon juice, vinegar, lime juice or the juice from pickles or pickled vegetables.
Many times when you're cooking and think your meal or recipe needs some salt or is "missing something", adding a touch of something acidic like lemon juice fixes the problem. It's more flavorful and bright without added sodium.
 With any diet changes, it can take time to get used to new flavors, recipes or meal plans. The same goes with a low-sodium diet — you'll need to give yourself some time to get used to your new eating pattern.


Since salt provides a lot of flavor to many foods, you will most likely notice the lack of salt when you initially begin cutting it out.
It can take a few weeks for your taste buds and palate to adjust. But if you're patient and give yourself time, you'll notice eventually you adjust to your lower sodium diet. You may even become more sensitive to salty foods and dislike the foods you used to eat regularly.

