 You can’t discriminate in any way against an employee who participates in union activity.Accordingly, you shouldn’t demote, lay off, or refuse training to an employee engaged in the union drive.


Nevertheless, you can still discipline employees if they make job mistakes. An employee trying to form a union must still perform his or her job competently. You can discipline an employee who fails to fulfill their job requirements., You can’t try to ward off a union by promising to increase benefits, wages, or vacation time. You also can’t promise to improve working conditions in exchange for abandoning a union drive.If you had planned to improve benefits or wages before you learned of the union drive, then you should meet with a lawyer to discuss whether or not to go through with your plans.
It is possible to continue to go ahead in some situations, e.g., if you had informed the employees of the change before learning of the union drive. Nevertheless, proceed carefully under a lawyer’s guidance.
 You shouldn’t question employees in any way about whether or not they want to join a union. For example, you should avoid the following:


Don’t ask, “How do you feel about the union?”Although you can give your own opinion—“I don’t think you should join a union”—don’t follow up with a question about what the employee thinks.
Also avoid asking, “Did you attend the union meeting?” Don’t try to get employees to tell you the status of the union drive or who is participating, either.
 No member of management should attend a union meeting. This looks like spying. Also, if the employees know that the supervisor is there, they might claim to have been intimidated.If an employee voluntarily comes up to you and tells you what happened at the union meeting, then you are free to listen. Nevertheless, you shouldn’t say anything in response., Unless you have a legitimate reason (such as the employees wear a uniform), you shouldn’t try to prevent employees from wearing union buttons or clothing.