 Don’t put on make-up, play with the radio, or talk with friends in your rearview mirror while on the road. Keep asking yourself, “Am I watching the road?” If the answer is “no,” then refocus or pull over and take a break., Turn your phone off or place it on silent before you even get into the car. Bluetooth or other “hands-free” devices are one option to consider, but even they increase the risk of getting into an accident. It’s not worth the risk, so just make calls before and after you drive.Many states have passed bans against texting or talking on cell phones while driving. If you break this law you could risk losing your permit or license., Just don’t do it. If you’ve been drinking alcohol, then your reflexes are likely impaired, making it very dangerous to get behind the wheel. Go ahead and call a friend to pick you up or a ride service, such as Uber or Lyft.Also, don’t make the mistake of accepting a ride from anyone else who has been drinking.
Some medications can make you drowsy or unfocused, too. Talk with your doctor about non-drowsy drug options.
 Getting on the road when you are drowsy or fatigued can be hazardous to you and everyone else. Pull over to a safe spot or call a friend or family member for assistance if: you start yawning constantly, your eyes keep closing, you can’t keep your eyes on the road, or if you hit the rumble strips.If you are on a short drive, sometimes simply stopping, stepping out of the car, and getting a soda or coffee can keep you awake enough to get home safely.
 This may sound a bit odd, but listening to loud music can actually be a huge distraction on the road. You may miss important warning noises, such as honking horns or even emergency sirens. Dial the volume down until it is simply background noise when you are driving. Or, better yet, keep the radio off while you are learning., Some apps, like TextArrest, will disable your phone automatically when you enter your car. The basic mode of this app, as with many others, is free. You pay a fee to upgrade and unlock more features. Other apps, such as DriveScribe, track your driving habits and offer rewards based on safe behaviors.