


Use a leadership development program to take your career to the next level if you have been in your profession for some time, and you want to become a manager or director.
Find a program that recruits promising students right out of school if you are preparing to graduate. Many business and financial leadership programs recruit MBA students.
 Make sure you are eligible for the types of leadership development programs you want to pursue. Some will require a certain number of years of experience or a particular degree.
 You will need support from your current employer, especially if recommendations are necessary to get into a program.
 Some leadership development programs can cost as much as college tuition.


Find out if your company will pay for your leadership development program.



Gather the necessary application materials and pay attention to deadlines.
 Organizations such as Walt Disney Co. and Marsh & McLennan Companies offer their own internal leadership development programs.
 If you expect to leave your current organization in the near future, or you are looking for a career change, consider an external program instead.
 They can help you apply.


Ask if you would be an ideal candidate for the program. Some companies look for particular qualities in their potential leaders, and others open the leadership doors to all staff.
 This will help you understand the program's strengths and challenges, as well as what people in your company gained from it.
 Such groups include the Center for Creative Leadership (CCL), Leadership IQ, and PDI Ninth House.;
, Schools such as Harvard, University of Michigan, Wharton at the University of Pennsylvania and Stanford provide leadership development courses for executives and mid-career professionals.
 For example, if you are interested in nonprofit leadership, look for a program that is run by nonprofit leaders. If you are interested in advancing your marketing or finance career, look for a program hosted by a business school.
 If your leadership development program includes travel or a lot of time away, you will need to convince your supervisor that the work of your department will not suffer.
 Leadership IQ provides teleconference and webinars in addition to in-person training courses.

