 You can usually pick up a pamphlet of rules for free, and sometimes rules are also posted outside the shooting range buildings. Make sure you know and are following all the rules before entering the shooting range.


The only common requirement of every shooting range in the US is that the shooter must be at least 18 or 21 years of age (or have a legal guardian present) and have signed a waiver beforehand.Know that a "hot" range is when the range is active and people are shooting downrange. A "cold", or inactive, range is when absolutely no one is allowed to shoot, all guns must be completely unloaded, and no one is permitted to even touch their guns.;
, This usually includes but is not limited to the following.


Eye protection
Ear protection
Gun case
Targets (sometimes you can purchase these at shooting ranges, other times you'll need to bring your own and some way to set them up)

, Check to make sure its unloaded once, twice, and three times. Being thoroughly unloaded means there should be absolutely zero ammunition in the gun or the gun's cartridge.
 This is mandatory at some shooting ranges, at others it isn't mandatory but is a very good safety practice.
 Anyone can make a mistake and a gun's safety mechanism can be faulty. Never trust that a loaded gun won't go off, and place yourself accordingly.
 If you, or someone else, is doing something that could be unsafe, he should tell you to stop. If he does, listen to him.
 This is almost always mandatory, and even if not, it's best to protect your senses. Sometimes prescription glasses or sunglasses are allowed as eye protection, though at some ranges you'll need actual safety glasses. For ear protection, both foam/plastic inserts and shooting ear muffs should be okay.
 These rules differ from range to range: Some ranges will penalize you for collecting empty ammunition shells or cases, while others' rules state you must clean up after yourself. Sometimes the latter type of ranges will have a container you can 'donate' your emptied shells into, other times you'll have to take them home to dispose of them.
 Set your gun at an empty bay or empty table, and set your stuff along the wall behind you. People at shooting ranges are almost astoundingly polite and friendly; you'll probably never need to worry about someone messing with your stuff.
 Generally shooting ranges are set up with two repeated types of usage: one when the range is hot and people are shooting at the targets; the second when every person is done shooting, all the guns are unloaded and not being touched, and people are permitted downrange to check, set up, or tear down targets.



If a shooter or spectator doesn't know the rules or isn't practicing proper gun safety and could harm others, kindly tell them so. Explain the rules and why they're in place, and any other gun safety if applicable.
 This isn't always required but is a good precaution. Just remember that safety's don't always work and you should never treat a loaded, "safe" gun as if it's actually safe. It isn't.
Practice muzzle control at all times. Never point your gun's barrel near any people, wildlife, or anything like metal or rock where a bullet could ricochet.
Keep your finger off the trigger. This is a very good habit to form, and you should never touch the trigger at all until you're aimed and ready to shoot.
Don't shoot at other people's targets unless they left it up. Sometimes people will leave their targets hanging for others to use, but that's sometimes considered rude.
Don't shoot the wildlife. Some wildlife such as deer will venture close to shooting ranges. These are not intended for targets and should not be shot at unless you want to face high fees or penalties.
 Step back from your gun and have a seat along the bench wall, letting other shooters know that you're done shooting for now and are waiting for them to finish before going downrange.
 When the range is cold, people can go downrange to check, set up, or tear down targets.


Some nicer gun ranges will have a flag or light system set up to indicate when the range is cold.
 Communicate with the other shooters and try to do everything in a timely manner. (Do note that some shooting ranges have designated times for the range being hot and the range being totally cold and inactive; if so, follow these designated times along with everyone else.)


If all the other shooters have their guns emptied and unloaded and are waiting to go downrange, don't spend forever shooting more rounds. Instead, finish off the rounds you have loaded, triple-check that your gun is empty and the action is open, and let the other shooters know that you are done shooting.
If you aren't done shooting and the other shooters are asking how many more rounds until you're done, indicate the answer by holding up your fingers. This is often easier and more efficient than trying to shout above the ear protectors.
When you do go downrange to examine, set up, or tear down targets, try to do this quickly. Don't have everyone waiting on you.
 Sometimes shooting ranges will allow a member to invite a guest, but only for a limited number of times. Know the rules for your shooting range before driving out there.
 Even if you aren't shooting and even if this isn't required, it's still best to protect your senses. Sometimes prescription glasses or sunglasses are allowed as eye protection, though at some ranges you'll need actual safety glasses. Both foam/plastic inserts and shooting ear muffs should be okay.
 Don't touch or mess with anything that you didn't bring with you.
 This is due to the possibility of the ammunition containing lead (some still does), and is a rule at some shooting ranges.
, Guns are a very controversial topic in some areas and there's no need to start strife in a community. This is common courtesy.

