 The best way to figure out what should be in your bio or CV is to read the bios of other people who practice ADR. Go to different websites and read 30 to 40 bios.Choose which ones you find effective. Which ones are easiest to read? Also, which ones sound the most professional?
Check how much space each person dedicates to their education, professional experience, and publications.
Also pay attention to layout. Do certifications appear at the beginning or at the end? Is general legal experience mixed in with ADR-specific experience or are they kept separate?;
, If you already have a CV or resume, then make a copy. Delete everything but your name and contact information. If you don’t already have a CV, then find a template online that you can use.


See Write a CV (Curriculum Vitae) for more information.
 There are very few generalist mediators or other ADR professionals. Instead, you will increase your chances of standing out by picking a specialty, such as family law or business disputes.Spend some time looking at your experience and deciding what areas you have sufficient experience in.


If you are an attorney, then look at your practice areas. It is common for ADR specialists to work in the same fields that they practice in as attorneys.
You might also need to get more experience in certain fields if you want to practice ADR in them.
 Begin creating your own bio. As you work, you may realize that you have certain gaps with respect to education or experience. Make a note of those gaps. You can work on filling them.If you don’t have any ADR specific training, then you can begin by taking a basic introductory mediation or negotiation class.
Contact your local or state bar association to see if any training programs are offered.
 You can join many different ADR organizations. You can note your membership on your CV or bio. For example, you can think about joining the following:


ABA Section of Dispute ResolutionA state or local bar association dispute resolution group

, After finishing your bio, you should proof it for clarity and for any grammatical errors or typos. Have another person read it as well so that you will know there are no errors.


You can publish the bio on your website and include a link to a PDF version of the CV as well.
 One good way to increase your visibility is to create social media profiles. Social media accounts give you additional online presence. Set up a LinkedIn profile and create a Facebook page.If you are already a practicing attorney with a non-ADR practice, then you should add your dispute resolution credentials to your existing social media profiles.
Remember to keep your social media accounts active. For example, you can provide links to interesting ADR-related stories in the media on your Facebook page.
 You can increase your name recognition by writing articles about ADR techniques. You can then publish them in legal journals, bar journals, or online. Choose ADR topics that interest you so that the research and writing will be informative.


For example, you can pick a topic you don’t know a lot about. By writing the article, you increase your own working knowledge and also get your name out in the public.
Avoid paying someone to write an article and then putting your name on it.This is a trend in the legal profession. Unfortunately, you can’t guarantee high quality work by buying an article. Also, you forego learning the details of the subject that comes with writing the article yourself.
 You should look for opportunities to give speeches on ADR topics.Doing so will increase your visibility in the profession. It also will allow you to make contacts.


Try to give talks on ADR to groups of people that might be potential clients. For example, if you want to practice environmental arbitration, then give talks to environmental groups, businesses, and your local government. Giving a talk to a group of senior citizens might be less effective.
 There are few opportunities to act as a junior mediator or arbitrator. Instead, most mediators and arbitrators work alone. However, always try to seek out opportunities to collaborate with an experienced professional in your field. After they get to know you, they could send work your way or recommend you to other people.


One way to collaborate is to give a presentation along with a more established ADR professional.
You could also work with an experienced professional to get more funding for public mediation or arbitration services. These are good ways to build relationships with more experienced mentors.
 If you don’t have much ADR experience, then you might want to get your feet wet with pro bono service. Your local courthouse might have a volunteer mediation program to handle small claims issues.Stop into the courthouse and check to see if there is a program and whether you can join.
 Many courts also keep lists of approved ADR specialists who people can hire. If someone contacts the court, they may be referred to someone on the roster. In order to join, you probably need to complete an application in which you talk about your experience.You may want to get substantial pro bono experience under your belt before applying to join a court roster.
Check with any court near you to see about joining. You should look at both state and federal courts, including bankruptcy courts. They all keep rosters.
 Business cards, flyers, bookmarks, and handouts are all effective marketing tools. Someone might take one and then hand it to someone else. Also, people tend to keep marketing materials lying around the house or office. If someone needs ADR services, they might look for your promotional materials.


Try to develop a theme or logo that you can use across all materials.This will make them look professional. Also, a logo is instantly recognizable as you.
Create high quality marketing materials. For example, have professional business cards made, and make sure that flyers are glossy and not simply printed on regular paper.
 Advertising can take many forms and can reach different audiences. Consider the following forms of advertising, which will help you increase your visibility with the public:



Google Adwords. This is a pay-per-click advertising system that allows you to target certain cities, regions, or countries.Phone book ads. You can put your name in the Yellow Pages and also buy an ad. The ad does not need to be large. Instead, it can include one or two lines that identify your specialty.Online websites. You can advertise with websites such as Mediate.com.
Newspaper ads. People still read newspapers. You can purchase a small ad in a local newspaper. Try to run it regularly, since people have to see an ad multiple times to remember your name.
 An elevator pitch is a 20-30 second speech where you sell yourself. It’s great for networking events where you don’t have a lot of time to make an impression. Nothing is worse than floundering around as you try to describe your ADR practice. Your pitch should consist of the following:your name
your business name
a tag line
two sentences in which you explain why someone should choose you

, Once you identify your specialty, you can begin marketing by meeting people, face-to-face. It is important not to sit behind your desk, assuming clients will come to you because you ran some Google ads. Instead, identify where your potential clients are likely to congregate.If you specialize in business mediation, then you can meet people at small business associations and gatherings, such as the Chamber of Commerce.
If you are specializing in construction arbitration, for example, then you might want to give a talk to a contractor’s association, discussing litigation issues and how arbitration can resolve them.
Sometimes, the people who will feed you clients will be lawyers. For example, divorce attorneys might recommend you to clients who want to mediate disputes. You can meet attorneys at bar association events.
 Choose two or three people who are doing well in ADR in your specialty and analyze what marketing they are using. Are they purchasing ads in journals or magazines? Do they use Google ads?


Try to build your marketing strategy using the same techniques that have helped propel the competition to the top.
You can also talk personally to other mediators and ask them what has worked in terms of marketing.They might be hesitant, since you are a competitor. If so, then you can talk with other ADR professionals who don’t work in your niche.
 If you are already a practicing attorney, then you probably know a lot of people—former clients, other attorneys, and business professionals. You should let them know that you now offer ADR services.


You can send an email explaining that you have expanded your business. Attach a flyer that explains the services you offer.
Better yet, you could reconnect over a lunch. You never know who will have an issue they need to resolve using ADR. Seeing people in person is usually a better way to make an impression.
 You can also market by drafting a press release. Keep it short: three paragraphs or less. You can explain that you have started a mediation practice and say something unique about it.For example, you might be the only mediator practicing environmental mediation in your community.


You can send the press release to the business editor of your local newspaper.
 You don’t commit to a marketing plan for all time. Instead, you should constantly reassess it and make necessary changes.In the beginning, you can reassess after every month.


Try something new. If your current marketing isn’t working, then try something different at least once a week or even every day.
For example, you could send out emails to attorneys asking to set up a lunch. Or you might just want to send them some promotional materials so that your name will be familiar if they are ever looking to hire an ADR professional.

