 It is possible for castor oil to interact with certain drugs, and you should be sure that you won't experience any harmful drug interactions before taking it.Tell your pharmacist about any allergies you may have. Castor oil contains certain ingredients that may affect you if you are allergic to them.;
, Pregnant, breastfeeding, and menstruating women should not use castor oil. Other people who should not use castor oil to treat constipation include:People experiencing severe abdominal pain
People with intestinal blockage or gallbladder disease
People with nausea or vomiting
People experiencing undiagnosed abdominal pain or rectal bleeding
Castor oil should not be taken with a diuretic unless supervised by a physician. Electrolyte imbalances can result, particularly regarding potassium.
 Most people take castor oil without any trouble, but you should be prepared to experience a few possible side effects. Most of these are harmless and will go away before too long, but some are more serious.Minor side effects include abdominal pain or cramps, nausea, diarrhea, and weakness. These are generally short-lived. If they persist, contact your doctor.
More serious side effects include vomiting, irregular heartbeat, dizziness, and confusion. Also be on the lookout for a rash or itching affecting a large portion of the body, as this may indicate that you are having an allergic reaction. Stop use and contact your doctor right away if you experience these symptoms.
 Though usage of castor oil is not as common as it was in the past, most drug stores and supermarkets carry it. It typically comes in a small brown bottle, and is displayed in the gastrointestinal section.


When buying castor oil, look for keywords on the label like cold pressed/processed, virgin, 100% pure, and USP food grade to ensure that you are getting a high quality product., There are a few different guidelines for determining the proper amount of castor oil to take.


If you're taking castor oil under a doctor's guidance, take the proper dosage she prescribed.
Some bottles of castor oil come with specific dosing instructions. Read the label to see if there is a recommended dose.
If your doctor hasn't prescribed an amount and the label doesn't recommend a dose, the general rule is 15-60 mL for adults and and children over 12, 5-15 mL for children age 2-11 years, and 1-5 mL for children younger than 2 years., This will make the medicine work more quickly. If you want a slower result, take it with food., It is important to not use a kitchen spoon as a substitute for a measuring spoon or cup. Silverware is not accurately sized and could result in an improper dosage., Castor oil is known for its notoriously bitter and unappealing taste. You can make taking the dose more enjoyable by diluting the medicine with juice.


Be sure to use only cranberry, orange, prune, or ginger juice for mixing. Other juices may dilute the medicine's laxative effects.You can also chill the castor oil for at least an hour to reduce the unpleasant taste., Castor oil may work in as little as 2 hours or as much as 6 hours. If you don't have a bowel movement in this time, you may have a more serious problem like an intestinal blockage or impaction. Consult your doctor right away.Don't take castor oil at night, as the laxative effect is usually very rapid., Castor oil is known to clean out the entire intestinal tract rather than just the colon. Because of this, it is common to not have another bowel movement for 2 or 3 days after your constipation is successfully cleared., Follow the steps in the section on taking your first dose.
 Staying consistent with your dose will help you have regular and predictable bowel movements. Because castor oil tends to work within a few hours, it is usually best to take it first thing in the morning rather than at night., Castor oil is usually considered a temporary treatment for constipation and is not meant to be taken long-term. Unless under a doctor's supervision, you should not take castor oil for more than 7 days at a time. This could risk an overdose or increased dependence on castor oil to stay regular.Overusing castor oil can also cause dehydration and electrolyte imbalance.
 As long as you take castor oil as directed, this shouldn't be a problem. If you experience any of the following symptoms, however, you should stop use and contact your doctor.Prolonged diarrhea.
Serious abdominal pain.
Dizziness or confusion.
Vomiting.
Shortness of breath or chest pains.
 If you've taken castor oil but are still having digestive issues, you may be suffering from a different condition than simple constipation. Visit your doctor and see if there is another cause for your constipation.

