 Toss your burlap into the washing machine and add half a cap of gentle liquid laundry detergent. Set the machine to a "delicate" or "hand wash" cycle using warm water and start the washer.


Machine washes are a little rougher, even if you use the delicate cycle, so the burlap will take more of a beating than it will if you hand wash it. As such, this method works well if you are pre-washing yards of burlap for a project or if you are washing burlap with hemmed or sealed edges, but it should be avoided if you are washing delicate bags or other pieces.
 If you want to brighten the burlap or remove any stains, add a splash of bleach to the bleach cup of your washing machine before starting the cycle. To make the material softer, add a standard amount of liquid fabric softener to the machine.


Note that you should not add bleach or fabric softener if you plan on painting the burlap. These treatments can make it more difficult for the paint to adhere to the material.
A little bleach can go a long way. Bleach is potent, and using too much can actually damage the burlap.
 After your first washing cycle ends, smell and handle the burlap. If the odor and texture are still not to your liking, put it through another warm water delicate cycle.


You can repeat this once or twice, but putting it through too many washes can cause the material to weaken and unravel.
Add detergent to the additional washing cycles but do not add more bleach or fabric softener.
 If you want to make the burlap softer, toss the damp material into a dryer and set the machine to a regular setting. Machine dry the fabric until it dries completely.
 For a gentler approach, drape the wet burlap over two wooden or plastic chairs and allow it to dry by air for several hours.


Air drying is actually preferable to machine drying since it uses less force and causes no additional damage. If the burlap does not appear damaged after you pull it out of the washer, it's likely safe to machine dry it. If the material seems worn or frayed, however, air dry it.
 Burlap leaves a lot of fuzz and lint behind after you wash it. Thoroughly wipe out the washer after you clean the burlap and clean all the lint out of your dryer's lint trap.


If you have a dryer snake, you should use that to make sure that no burlap fibers get into the dryer vent.
Failing to remove the lint and fibers from your machines can cause permanent damage.

