 Yeah, it sounds obvious, but it is the most important step. Without a strong password it makes your account easier to hack. Some tips for creating a strong password are:


Make your password long. The longer the password, the more time consuming and harder to "crack".
Use UPPERCASE and lowercase letters. A mix of these provides more protection to your account, since passwords are case sensitive.
Use numbers and symbols. This adds another layer of protection, and makes your password stronger.
Using a word that isn't in any dictionary, or isn't even a word will also add more protection!
Don't use anything people close to you can guess. Sometimes they are the ones that can hack your accounts the easiest. Why worry? Arguments, and betrayals happen. Besides it's your account not theirs.
Check out this article for more ideas!;
, Yes this may sound less feasible if you have multiple online accounts. At the very least be sure your email and bank accounts have totally different passwords. Especially your bank account, because if someone gains access to your account they have access to your money. Not a good thing.
 Some security questions such as "What was the name of your first pet?" is a topic that could have been brought up in past conversations. Choose a question that your best friend, mom, or sibling wouldn't know the answer to. Having a good security question will minimize the chances of someone close to you changing your password, or gaining access to your account.
 Phishing is when emails or websites claim to be the legitimate site you use, but are not, and actually are websites that gain your log-in information and use them for malicious purposes. If you get an email that looks suspicious, or doesn't seem believable, call the company (i.e. your bank) or do not click the link.
 Viruses, Trojans, and "Worms" can get your password, some are designed to do this. Even if the virus doesn't pose this risk it is still a great idea to keep your computer protected against security threats.

