 Some people who want to go on a diet don't need to (and perhaps shouldn't) lose any weight, and those who could benefit from shedding some pounds should strive to do so in a healthy, responsible manner.


Work with your healthcare professional to determine your current health status, any underlying or potential health conditions, your fitness level, and the type of weight loss regimen that is right for you.
Let them advise you on finding a diet suitable to your needs. Low carb, low fat, whatever it may be, it is important that your diet is tailored for you and emphasizes healthy food and regular exercise.;
, Don't expect to find a realistic, healthy diet plan in which chocolate is anything more than either a complementary food or occasional treat.


The internet is full of “eat more chocolate” diets, most of which should be treated with a healthy dose of skepticism.Chocolate, like many of the good things in life, is best in moderation.
Regardless of your Willy Wonka fantasies, you're going to be adding some chocolate to a healthy diet, not making a diet centered around chocolate!

, Your physician or nutritionist can help you to tailor your plan appropriately to make room for this treat.


You can point out, for instance, that studies have shown that both overweight and obese women have managed to lose weight while eating chocolate. You should also note that Hershey’s sponsored this study.That said, there is legitimate evidence that the higher calorie counts in chocolate are at least partly counteracted by its boost to your metabolism, and that allowing yourself an occasional treat while dieting helps prevent bingeing on unhealthy foods., Consumed in purer forms and in moderation, in deference to its higher fat and calorie content, chocolate has been demonstrated to benefit the body in several ways.


Up to seven ounces per week of dark chocolate (see the importance of this distinction elsewhere in this article) has shown the ability to potentially decrease blood pressure and “bad” LDL cholesterol, increase blood flow and improve mood, and provide beneficial nutrients such as calcium, magnesium, and potassium.The primary “do-gooders” in dark chocolate are flavonoids (also found in tea and red wine, for instance), which act as antioxidants that help remove cell-damaging free radicals from the body., Barring particular medical conditions or a need for surgical intervention, for instance, your healthcare professional will almost certainly advise that you lose weight by consuming fewer calories, burning more calories, eating healthy, and exercising regularly. As discussed in this linked wikiHow article on losing weight:


Learn to track your calorie intake, perhaps by keeping a food diary that tracks what you eat daily. Knowing how many calories you consume gives you a better picture of the reductions required for weight loss.
Establish a meal plan and schedule. Planning a daily, even weekly, menu ahead of time makes it easier to track calorie intake and prevent spur-of-the-moment, unhealthy eating options.
Drink lots of water. It is good for your body and can be surprisingly effective as an appetite suppressant.
Spend your daily calorie allotment on fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins. Get the most nutritional benefit from each calorie you consume.
See also How to Eat Healthy for more ideas.
 A diet is only as good as the exercise accompanying it. And what makes a better reward for a good bout of exercise than chocolate?


Be sure to discuss the exercise routine that is appropriate for you based on overall health, age, weight loss goals, etc., with your healthcare professional. Some general advice, from How to Lose Weight:
Focus on aerobic, cardiovascular exercises as per your fitness level. Start just by walking for 30 minutes three times weekly if necessary, and add time/frequency/variety as your progress. Try other cardio workouts like swimming, biking, dancing, and so on. Regular aerobic exercise is critical to burning calories.
Join classes if that helps you. Aerobics, yoga, cycling, martial arts, you name it. Burning calories alongside others can provide more variety, interest, and motivation.
Don't ignore weight training. It is also beneficial to weight loss and overall health. Start slow, as appropriate to your fitness level and to reduce injury risks, and focus on major muscle groups. Leg presses and bench presses are good examples of exercises to try.
See also How to Lose Weight Just by Exercising


