 Make it professional, but not boring. It should be creative and it should showcase your talents and some unique (yet professional) things about you. Have several of your friends or family members watch it and offer you feedback for improvement. Remember this will be seen by Donald Trump, so you want it to be fantastic!;
,,, You don't want them to think you are too stuck up to appreciate this opportunity, yet you don't want them to think you are an airhead.
 Don't get wacky colors or patterns. Also, you want to make sure to have clothes for any task that might come up, so pack a wide variety of items. Make sure you have lots of suits, a few polo shirts, some khaki pants, jeans, a bathing suit, whatever you sleep in, and appropriate shoes for all outfits, at a minimum. You must have enough clothing! It won't impress Donald Trump if you show up in the boardroom wearing the same suit every time.
 Always Donald Trump as "Mr. Trump" and be respectful. That being said, have a personality and don't let yourself be treated like a doormat. If a teammate is accusing you of something, rebut and somehow deflect the blame on someone else. Don't call them a liar, stupid, etc, but do defend yourself. Often times, people are fired because they couldn't deflect the blame from themselves. Honesty is a treasured trait too. If you made a mistake, admit it but don't take more blame than you should be and share how you tried to fix it.
 You will not get too much glory, and you will get all of the blame. Hold off on being project manager until there are less than 10 other competitors. Once you volunteer, work hard and win!

, This way, if your team does not win, you can tell them you did the job you were assigned to do and you can focus the blame on the other people who were not as good as you. Project managers do not usually blame the team members who followed their direction because it makes them look bad. That being said, use common sense. If you are trying to sell something in a mall in a primarily Hispanic city, it is obvious that you may need a translator unless you or a team member can speak fluent Spanish. If the project manager tells you not to get one, getting a translator anyway may just save you in the boardroom.
 This will give you ammunition to use in the boardroom, if your team happens to lose.
 The reason most people get fired is because they do not deflect the blame off of themselves well enough. If your team members start picking on someone else, jump on board, that way no one will pick on you.
 Don't brag if you're team just kicked butt in the challenge, and don't mope if you lost. It is also not advisable to get into any romantic relationships with a person on set, teammate or otherwise. Everything is caught on camera, and it won't look too good to Mr Trump or your significant other back home.

