 You can wait for a sale when the supermarket is overstocked and get pineapples for $.99 per lb. or less.;
, Once the pineapple starts to have a strong, sweet smell, the sugars are concentrated and it is ready for dehydration. Drying it too early will result in sour pineapple slices.
 Set the pineapple on its side on your cutting board. Slice approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) below the spiky green top of the pineapple and 1 inch above the bottom section.
 Set the pineapple upright on your cutting board. Cut straight down from the top of the pineapple to the bottom in 1 slice.


Try to cut just inside the hard outer layer.
Turn the pineapple and repeat until you have exposed the flesh of the pineapple.
 Take your knife and cut approximately 1/2 inch (1.3 cm) into the pineapple at an inward angle from the right.


Go to the other side of the line of eyes and cut at an inward angle from the left.
Peel back the strip of eyes and discard it.
Then, find the next diagonal strip and repeat.
When you finish cutting the eyes out of the pineapple, the surface will form a spiral pattern around the entire parameter.
This method of cutting a pineapple takes some practice, but it will result in more flesh being saved than cutting deep enough to remove the eyes and the skin together. , If you want your pineapple to be dried in rounds, slice the pineapple horizontally and thinly. Then, cut out the center with a paring knife.


If you want to dry the pineapple in chunks, cut vertically, separating the flesh from the hard center, then cut into thin chunks.
The thinner, the better when drying. It will dry faster and more evenly.
 Try to aim for 150 degrees Fahrenheit (66 degrees Celsius) for best results. Set the oven no higher than 200 degrees Fahrenheit (93 degrees Celsius).


Dehydrating works best when set at low heat for a long time. You do not want to cook the pineapple.
 Use as many baking sheets as you can fit in your oven.
 Set it for 24 hours. It may take up to 36 hours.


Test to see if it is done. If it is chewy throughout and slightly flexible, it is done. 