 Most institutions will offer to send PDF versions of your official transcripts to your recipients. These are sent over a secure network to the email address of the recipient. The PDF transcripts are considered official documents and are secured with a digital signature.To order PDF versions and have them sent to the recipients, you will need to provide the recipients’ email addresses, and verify that the recipients will accept an electronic transcript before you send them PDF transcripts.
The recipient will need to use an access code to view the PDF transcripts. The transcript may also contain a warning that the document is intended for the recipient’s use only and is considered a confidential document.
The cost for PDF transcripts are the same as paper transcripts (around $10-$15 per transcript).
 Once the recipient receives and downloads the PDF transcript, you should get a confirmation email. If possible, send the recipients a brief email telling them they should expect an email from the university with the transcripts attached to ensure the PDF transcripts do not end up in their junk folder.Most institutions put a limit on how long the recipient has to access the PDF transcript, usually up to 30 days. If the recipient does not download the PDF transcript after several weeks, they should receive a reminder email prior to the expiration date.
 Receiving transcripts by regular post can take five to seven business days, so you may want to consider getting a FedEx delivery if you need the transcripts within two to three days of your request. Most institutions will offer FedEx delivery of official transcripts for a flat fee anywhere in the United States. This fee may be $10 for the transcript and $20 for the FedEx shipping.If you choose FedEx delivery, your transcripts will be prepared and sent out on the next business day. So, if you requested the transcripts on a Monday night, they will be processed and prepared Tuesday, to be delivered on Wednesday.
 If your transcripts do not arrive at their destination within five to seven days, call your university’s enrollment office or go the office in person.


If you are expecting the transcripts by mail, they should have a tracking number that can locate the transcripts to determine why you have not yet received them.

