 Determine where you want to lay your tin tiles. Use a tape measure and get an accurate measurement of the space where your tin tiles will lay. Mark the space on your wall where your tiles will lay with blue painter's tape or a pencil. This measurement will also indicate how you will cut your tin.


Measure any spaces you may need to cut due to electrical outlets as well.;
, If you are installing tin tiles over existing tile, you may not have to remove the tile unless you want an entirely even wall. If you need to remove wall tiles, you need to remove the surrounding grout first, then use a tool like a chisel to dislodge the tile from the wall. The surface of your wall should be clear of dust and dirt. Try to make the wall as even and smooth as you can by sanding it.


If you have cracking paint, you need to sand off the cracking paint before proceeding., If you are working with an uneven wall or a wall that needs to be sanded, you can screw in a piece of plywood to the area as an alternative to sanding before installing your tin tiles. This will give you a flat surface to work on and will give your adhesive something to stick to. Measure a piece of plywood that will fit your space and attach it to the wall before placing your tiles.You can screw, nail, or glue your plywood to the wall.


If your wall is already a smooth and even surface you can skip this step.
 Draw lines on your tin tiles that correspond to the measurements that you took. These lines will help guide you when you make your cuts. Use a sharp metal cutting tool like tin snips or metal shears to cut through the tin. Consider overlap and make sure to remember to cut holes for electrical outlets or other things that need to be visible on the wall. When you've completed cutting, use sandpaper to dull down the sharp edges of your tin backdrop.


If you are cutting thicker metal tiles, you can use a utility knife to score a straight line to weaken the tile. Then work each side of the tile back and forth until it breaks on the perfect line.Wear thick leather gloves to protect you while using your cutting tool.