 One of the most effective ways to get rid of a cough and cold is to rest. This means getting extra sleep, up to 12 hours a night.Take a day off from work or school if you need to, which will have the added bonus of avoiding getting coworkers and classmates sick.
 Keeping the air humid can help make you feel better when you have a cold. You can use a vaporizer or humidifier. Another way to breathe humid air is by taking hot, steamy showers.Put essential oils in your humidifier, like eucalyptus oil. You can also place a cloth with eucalyptus oil on it in the shower with you. Let the water hit the cloth and release the scent., Drink plenty of warm fluids, especially water. Drink lots of water. At a minimum, try to drink eight to 10 8-ounce glasses of water a day. Drinking water helps with congestion and mucus.You can also drink juices, clear chicken broth, herbal teas, or vegetable broths.
Avoid alcohol and caffeine.
You can add honey and lemon to the water or tea.
 When you are sick, it is important to get the nutrients your body needs to heal itself. Good food full of vitamins and minerals also boosts your immune system, which can help you fight your cold.


Make sure you are getting enough vitamin B complex, vitamin C, zinc, and copper. You can take supplements to make sure you get enough of these vitamins and minerals., Sipping, or eating, warm liquids like soup is a traditional remedy in many cultures. This includes chicken soup.Hot, spicy soups are used in Asian healing treatments. The soups include red pepper, lemongrass, and ginger.Spicy foods can promote sinus drainage and help ease cold symptoms.
Garlic, onions, and mushrooms are foods that help with inflammation and provide anti-oxidants.
 The salt water helps reduce any swelling in your throat, making a cough less likely. Add one teaspoon of sea salt (or table salt if you don’t have any sea salt) to about six ounces of water. Stir to dissolve and gargle.The sea salt may also help supply various minerals that can be useful for the immune system, like zinc, selenium, magnesium.

