 Some people have luck with taking fish oil supplements, particularly those with EPA and DHA, which are omega-3 fatty acids. The idea is that the Western diet is low in omega-3 fatty acids. These acids may have anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, a supplement may help with tenderness and stiffness, particularly in the morning.However, take fish oil with caution, as it can decrease your blood's ability to clot.
You can also increase your intake of these acids from natural sources, such as flax seed and algae.
Some evidence shows GLA (another omega-3 fatty acid) may also be helpful.Borage, evening primrose, and black currant seeds all contain GLA, which you can take in a supplement form. However, be aware that these can interact with other medications you may be on. For instance, evening primrose may interact with psychiatric drugs, while borage can increase your risk of liver damage.Try 2.8 grams a day of borage oil, 10.5 grams a day of black currant seed oil, or 6 grams a day of evening primrose.;
, Curcumin is found in the spice tumeric, but you can also take it as a supplement. It is said to be anti-inflammatory. Some people who take a supplement of curcumin find they have less swelling and stiffness. Some also find they can walk farther.Try 1200 milligrams a day of curcumin.
 Cat's claw, also known as uncaria tomentosa, can help with inflammation. In fact, there is some evidence it works like prescription rheumatoid arthritis drugs. Some people who take this supplement notice less joint swelling. It may also help with the pain.You can take 250 milligrams to 350 milligrams daily.You shouldn't take cat's claw if you have low blood pressure, leukemia, kidney or liver disease, or if you're on a blood-thinning medication., Some patients with rheumatoid arthritis take a supplement of feverfew. They believe it helps with grip strength. You can take this supplement in powder form, as much as 70 to 86 milligrams of the powder daily., This supplement has been used in China for hundreds of years to treat joint pain. It also may help with stiffness, grip strength, and swelling. You can take 60 milligrams a day. Most people begin to see results within a month.