 Measure the first piece of tape as the length between the middle of your fingers (with your palm facing upwards) to the bend of your elbow. At one end of the piece, fold over a section about 1” long. Use your scissors to cut two small triangles out of the end of the tape, on the fold. This means that when you unfold the 1” piece on the end, there will be two diamond shaped holes in the tape.These two diamond-shaped holes should be right beside each other and maybe 1 centimeter (0.39 in) wide at the middle.
The end with the two holes is considered the “anchor” piece.;
, Take the backing off the tape only at the ‘anchor' end where the two holes are. Holding your arm in front of you with your palm upwards, slide your two middle fingers through the two holes in the tape. Be sure to keep the sticky side of the tape facing towards your palm.Press the anchor end of the tape onto your skin, around your fingers.
 You will probably need a second person to help you put the tape on your arm, as you’ll need to keep your hand and wrist fully extended while applying the tape. Once your wrist is fully extended, take the backing off the rest of the tape as you stick it to your skin.To fully extend your wrist hold your arm directly out in front of you, palm up. Then use your other hand to pull your hand downwards so your wrist bends. Your hand should be at a 90 degree angle to your arm.
Do NOT pull or apply any tension to the tape when applying it to your skin, just take off the back and press it down onto the skin.
When you straighten your wrist and hand you should notice the tape has some natural folds or ripples in it at your wrist joint. This is to ensure you still have full motion of your hand and wrist while the tape is on.
 The second piece of tape should be exactly the same length as the first piece of tape, including the two holes in the end for your fingers. The same two middle fingers are going to go through the small holes again, but this time the adhesive side is going to go across the back of your hand and arm — so your arm needs to be palm down.As with the first piece of tape, remove the backing from the anchor piece only and slide over your fingers.
Press the anchor end of the tape onto your skin, around your fingers.
 Fully extend your wrist again, but this time you want your palm facing downwards and your hand is going to fold towards the inside of your arm. Slowly remove the backing from the tape as you stick it to the skin while in this position.Do NOT pull or apply any tension to the tape as you attach it to your skin.
 The third piece of tape should be the same length as the first and second piece, except it does not need to have any holes cut in it for your fingers. Instead, once it’s cut to the right length, break the backing of the tape exactly in the middle so you can access the adhesive side., Hold your arm out in front of you again, with your palm upwards and fully extend your wrist. Place the middle part of the tape over your inner wrist, right at the bottom of your palm. Because of the width of the tape, it will likely also cover a piece of your palm. Slowly remove the backing from one side and attach it to your arm. Do the same for the second side.Do NOT pull or apply any tension to the tape while taking the backing off and attaching it to the skin on your arm.
Because of the angle of your hand, the tape ends may cross over each other on the back of your arm.
 The purpose of the tape is to pull open the carpal tunnel and ease the pressure on your median nerve. The purpose is not to apply any additional pressure (which is why you didn’t apply pressure when attaching the tape to your skin). As such you should still be able to fully move your hand and wrist once the tape is on. If you can’t, you will need to re-do the tape.