 Depending on how bad the bullying is, you might choose to walk away. This is very effective, especially for one-time cases. Most bullies seek a target for their anger. They will most likely lose interest if they don’t get a reaction from you. Ignoring the bully sends the message that he has no effect on you.Walk away as if you are walking away from a friend so as not to give away a sense of fear.
When walking home from school, stick with large groups, especially if the bully’s behavior is escalating. Try not to walk home from school alone. Walk in high-traffic areas instead of dark or isolated walkways.
If you are being chased, run to the nearest place with lots of people. Bullies are usually afraid of being caught and will most likely leave you alone.;
, Talking to a bully can be challenging but might bring awareness to his demeaning behavior. Perhaps he doesn’t know how his words or actions have on others. When you do, try to build him up, instead of putting him down. For example, say, “I think you are too smart for behaving this way and know you can do better” or "Be really cool and don't talk to me this way." Show confidence. Confidence is expressed through the words you choose and your own body language. Remember to stand tall, with your head held high.
Speak assertively when engaging with the bully. Such as maintaining eye contact, being mindful of tone of voice and posture, or using appropriate language.
Remind yourself that you do not have to resort on picking on anyone to feel good about yourself.
 Stay away from people that spread rumors or gossip. As a rule, if you tend to feel nervous or stressed around the people you hang out with, they are probably not good friends.
 An important quality in a friend is her ability to be trusted. Also, you want to make sure that you have their support and unconditional acceptance. Be mindful of how dedicated they are to you and notice their acts of kindness.


Stick with friends that stand-up for one another. Bullies are less likely to harass you if you have strong friends that support you.
 Bullies are scared of confronting people who they think are stronger than them. Remember the phrase, 'bullies are cowards'? at the time you probably didn't understand why this was true, but the truth is that bullies are cowards because they will always pick on people that they perceive are weaker than they are. Show that you are stronger than they are by not backing down, and the bully will leave you alone.


Stand up straight, look them in the eye and talk to them in a strong, confident voice. If you can't manage a confident voice, then just don't speak to them in a small or quiet voice.
Respond to the bully with comebacks. If you're not good at these, then ask yourself why you are better than the bully and throw it back at them. (Eg: Bully: "You're so ugly". You: "Want to know who's ugly? Look in the mirror"). The bully is being mean to you; being nice isn't going to do anything.
Respond to the bully by telling them to stop. Show the bully that you don't care by saying: "Tell that to someone who cares" and walk away.
If a group is bullying you, they may laugh and whisper to each other. This may make you feel small, but stand up to them. Say something like "Why don't you just act your age and stop giggling and whispering like a bunch of five-year-olds" and walk away.

