 Good news! Experts say that playing might actually be good for you. A great way to boost your mood is to make time to do something fun.Think of some new ways to enjoy yourself.Organize a game night. Invite your friends over for board games or cards.
Head to the park. Swinging is just as much fun for adults as it is for kids.
Make more jokes. Try something as simple as saying, "Lovely weather, isn't it?" while you're waiting for the bus in a downpour. It may not be original, but the act of making a joke can improve your mood.
 Try to get in touch with your artistic side. Creative activities can be very therapeutic, and can also serve as mood boosters. Consider sketching as a relaxing activity.Take an art class. Contact your local community center for details. This would also be a great way to make new friends.
Get a coloring book. Kids aren't the only ones who enjoy coloring. Adult coloring books can help you relax and unwind.
Listen to music. Or, learn to play an instrument. You could find a group class or hire an individual teacher.
 Giving back to others is a great way to make yourself feel good. Volunteering can boost your mood and improve your emotional health. Plus, it's important to help others. It's a win-win.Choose something that interests you. For example, if you love animals, consider volunteering at your local animal shelter.
Volunteering can also serve as a way to meet new people. You might even make some new friends!

, Nature is a natural mood enhancer. Being outdoors can help you slow down and relax, which is great for your mental health. Make it a point to head outdoors frequently.Take a break from work. Instead of eating at your desk, walk to a nearby park to eat lunch on nice days.
Go exploring. Check out nearby state parks and head out for a hike.
Ask a friend to join you on a bike ride.
 Meditation is a great way to reduce stress and tension. Commit to adding meditation to your routine. If you're not ready to try it daily, begin by adding two to three brief sessions per week. They can be short--even a 5 minute meditation is helpful.Download an app that has guided meditations. You can choose the length you want.
Morning and night are both great times to meditate. Just make sure to choose a quiet spot and wear comfortable clothing.
Try to clear your mind. Choose a mantra to repeat, such as "Om".

