 Go ahead and plug in the hot rollers so that they're fully heated by the time you're ready to put them in your hair. If this is your first time using your set of rollers, read the manufacturer's instructions to make sure you use the equipment properly.;
, Start with dry hair, since your hair won't hold curls if you use this method with wet hair. Spray your hair all over with hairspray, which will help define your curls as the hot rollers go to work.
 Divide it into three sections: a middle section, a left section and a right section. You can achieve this by using a comb to create two parts, one on either side of your head, and holding the different sections apart with hair clips.
 Roll your hair back toward your head so that the front of your hair pulls away from your forehead and over the roller.Secure the roller in place with a roller pin of the appropriate size. Continue rolling your hair until you've rolled the entire middle section of hair.


Roll your hair in different directions if you don't want uniform curls. Roll some sections of hair forward and some sections of hair backward. This will result in curls that look more natural.
For small, tight curls, be sure to use the smaller rollers in your set. Use medium rollers for larger classic curls.
 Start at the top of your head and wrap a section of hair around a hot roller. Roll it tightly toward your head so that it rests horizontally just above your forehead, then pin it in place with a pin of the appropriate size. Continue rolling sections of hair, working your way down your head to your neck. Repeat with the hair on the other side of your head until all of your hair has been rolled.
 Use firm-hold hairspray to spray your entire head, making sure to cover every roller. This will ensure that your curls stay intact when you take down the rollers. Keep the rollers in your hair until they are completely cool, about 20 minutes.
 Take off the pins and let your curls fall away from the rollers. Use your fingers to separate and fluff up your curls. For added hold, spray your hair once more with hair spray.

