 Use a long rectangular scarf with fringe. This is 1 of the easiest methods that will work with winter or summer scarves.


Fold the scarf in half vertically. Fold it haphazardly, rather than in a uniform way. A messy fold creates a fuller accessory.
Place the scarf around your neck, with the looped half hanging down the front of your chest in front on and the 2 ends hanging down the other side.
Insert the 2 ends through the looped end. Tighten it slightly. It can be as tight or loose as you desire.
Make a pretzel loop in place of the traditional loop. Instead of pulling both ends through, pull a single end through. Wrap the other end over the top of the first loop and pull it through the opposite side, making a pretzel.;
, A long, rectangular scarf also works best for this style.


You can buy infinity scarves that are already sewn together, or you can create your own with this method.
Place the scarf around the back of your neck. The 2 ends should be hanging on either side of your chest.
Tie 1 corner from either side to each other.
Grab the tied end. Twist it and loop it over your head. If it is a very long scarf, you can loop it a third time.
Adjust the loops in the mirror until the scarf sits how you want it.
 Cashmere and pashmina scarves that are long and rectangular look the best.


Place the center of the scarf in back of your neck. Allow the 2 sides to hang evenly on either side of your chest.
Loop the right side of the scarf around your neck.
Tie the scarf together with the other end of the scarf, forming a loose knot.
You will have 2 loops around the front of your neck. Grab the lower, unknotted portion of the scarf and pull it over the knotted portion.
Pull it away from your neck if you want a bigger cowl. The top cowl should cover the knot, allowing the ends to hang equally in front of your chest.
 Use an oblong or rectangle silk or satin scarf.


Hold a shorter end of your scarf over your right shoulder.
Loop the longer end around your neck 2 to 3 times, until the ends are even.
Knot the scarf once or twice so that it sits to the right side of your neck.
 Use an oblong or rectangular scarf that is either silky or finely woven.


Place the center of the scarf around the back of your neck.
Tie the ends of the scarf together loosely. Pull the knot up approximately 1/2 the way up your chest.
Wrap the extra material around the ends until you reach the end. Knot it around the scarf.
Repeat on the opposite side. You should have a thin, wrapped necklace. Adjust the knots to be symmetrical or asymmetrical.
 Use a very large square scarf for this version.


Grab diagonal ends of the scarf. Allow the other ends to come together and hang in a triangle.
Bring the ends around either side of your neck. Adjust how long your scarf is by pulling the triangle in closer to your neck.
Knot the scarf in front of your neck loosely.
This style will look best with a patterned scarf.
 Choose an extra long and thin scarf.


Rest the center of the scarf on the back of your neck.
Tie a bow tie, as if you were tying your shoelaces or a bow.
Pull the top of the bow as wide as you would like.
Let the bow rest against your chest.

