 The number one thing you can do to become more curious is to ask questions. Try to avoid taking material for granted. For example, if someone tells you, "Immigration reform is important", don't just accept that as fact. Ask questions, and figure out why. Then form your own opinion.If you are a student, you should ask questions about the material you learn in school. If your teacher says, "The Great Gatsby is the great American novel", don't be afraid to say, "Why? What makes it great?".
Ask follow-up questions. Don't accept simple answers. If your landlord raises your rent, ask why. Make sure to get specifics. You'll learn more and be more informed., You can ask questions in one of two ways: begin with a broad question, and then ask gradually more specific follow-up questions. Or, do the opposite; begin with a narrow scope and gradually widen your focus. Both ways are known as "funneling" questions, and are great ways to spark new ideas and learn more about the topic.Imagine you are curious about women's rights. You could begin with a broad question, such as "When did people start thinking about equality between the sexes?" Then you could gradually get more focused, and ask something such as, "What was life like for women in Oklahoma during the 1980s?"
To funnel the opposite way, you could reverse the order of those questions. Funneling is useful because it can help you brainstorm new questions to ask.
 Once you have a good question, figure out how to further break it down. Use your original question as a starting point, and then branch out. Thinking of new questions will encourage your creativity, because you'll be coming up with new angels from which to consider the topic. For example, you could start by asking, "Why do Americans vote along party lines?" Keep going by asking, "Does religion influence voting?" Then you could continue with, "To what extent does morality influence voting?" Each question can lead to another. The more questions you ask, the more things you will find to be curious about.
 One of the most important lessons to learn is that there is no shame in not knowing something. The only way to learn is by asking questions and gathering information. Don't ever be afraid to be humble and admit that you don't know something.At work, your boss might ask a question that you don't know the answer to. Instead of trying to pretend that you are knowledgeable, say, "I don't know. But let me brainstorm some ways to figure out a solution." Then let your curiosity guide you as you explore new ideas.

