 Is there anyone you may be bullying, even unintentionally? Everyone exchanges sharp words now and then, but if there's someone you tend to pick on, stop, even if you aren't doing what you would define as bullying. Make it your policy to be nice to other people, even if you don't like them very much.


Don't tease someone else unless you know them well enough to understand their sense of humor.
Don't spread rumors or gossip about other people - that's a form of bullying.
Don't purposely leave someone out or ignore them.
Never spread pictures or information about someone else on the internet without consent.
 If you see someone getting bullied in your school, stand up to the bullies. Not participating isn't going far enough. Make sure that you are actively taking a stand to prevent the victim from getting harmed further. You can interfere by speaking with the bully if you feel safe doing so, or telling a school administrator what you saw.


If your friends start gossiping about someone, make it clear that you don't participate in that kind of thing. Try saying something like, “I don’t like gossip. Can we talk about something else?”
If you're part of a group that's intentionally leaving someone else out, tell the group you want to include everyone, because it's the right thing to do. Try saying something like, “I think we should be nicer to Catherine. It must be hard to be the new girl in school.”
If you see someone getting picked on and fear for that person's safety, tell a school administrator right away. Try saying something like, “I am worried about David. I have noticed that some of the older boys harass him when he is walking home from school.”

, Many schools have anti-bullying campaigns led by students who want to keep their schools safe and friendly. Join a group or start one at your school to spread awareness about the problem of bullying and figure out ways to solve it.


Try starting a conversation with your friends about bullying. You might say something like, “Did you know that bullying is still happening at our school? I think it is terrible and I would like to do something to stop it.”
Talk with your teacher or school counselor about ways you can help. For example, you might be invited to give a presentation on bullying in your class or you might be able to help organize an event to raise awareness about bullying.

