 Open your Internet browser and click the address bar at the top of the screen. Type in www.bubblews.com, hit Enter, and you will be redirected to the Bubblews home page.;
, Do this by enter your email address and password on the fields provided.


Once logged in, you will be on the news feed page of your Bubblews account.
 Scroll through the news feed until you find the post that you want to share.
 Once you find it, click on the title to open the Bubblews post.


Once you have the post open, you can share it using five different social media sites. These share buttons are to the left of the article.
 This is the first share option. If you want to share the post to your Facebook account, click the blue-and-white “Share” button.


Log into your Facebook account by typing in your username (or email address) and password on the fields provided.
Once the Facebook window pops up, there will be a white box asking if you want to say anything about the article. Feel free to type in any commentary, and click the “Share” button to share it to your page.
 Simply click on the “Tweet” button located directly below the Facebook’s “Share” button. This will cause a login window to open on your screen.


Log into your Twitter account by typing in your username (or email address) and password on the fields provided.
A new window will ask if you want to comment on the article. Type in your comment, if any, and when you are finished, click the “Tweet” button to share the post on Twitter.
 Your next option is to recommend the article on Google+. All you need to do to share the post on your Google+ account is click on the G+1 box below the Tweet box.


You will be asked to log into your Google+ account, if you’re not already. If you’re not logged in, just type in your username (or email address) and password on the fields provided.
 Click on the “InShare” button. A small window will appear asking you to log into your LinkedIn account, if you’re not already; just type in the needed information on the fields provided, and a box will pop up asking you a few questions:


The first thing you need to do is type in any comments in the first white clickable box on the screen.
Now select who you want to share it with on LinkedIn. Below the comment box is a drop-down menu. Click on this to pick whether you want the post to be public or shared amongst your choice of groups.
When you’re done, click the “Share” button at the bottom of the pop-up box.
 The last share box is “Share on Tumbler”; click on this to open up a new window. From here, log into your Tumblr account if you’re not logged in yet. Afterwards, you can type anything you want to share with the article.

When you are finished, click “Share” to put the post on your Tumblr page.

