 A good way to begin seeing auras is to practice sensing them. That means paying attention to how you feel in someone's presence. Take a deep breath, exhale and then focus on the physical sensations in your body and your gut reaction. Ask yourself how being around the person makes you feel--serene? jumpy? agitated? Think about what color your would attach to this person. As your abilities are enhanced, sensing and seeing auras will become easier. , Our peripheral vision is less damaged than the central part of our retina and has healthier photosensitive cells. Also, since we've trained our central vision to be used in certain ways over the years, it can be difficult to call on it now to see in this new way of viewing auras. One simple exercise you can do is to practice concentrating on one spot for 30-60 seconds. This will increase your sensitivity to light. , Doing some training with bright, primary colors can help you develop the ability to see auras. Cover a book in blue or red paper and stand it upright on a table several feet away from you. Be sure the wall behind the book is white or neutral and the light in the room is soft but not dim. Close your eyes, take a few deep breaths, relax and then open your eyes and look at the book. Don't focus on the book, instead look a little to the side and past it. After a while you'll see a pale narrow aura coming from the book that will change to a bright yellow or green as you hold your soft focus. When you get comfortable with looking at one book, try covering several books with different color paper and looking at them. As you get better at seeing colors, work your way up using plants, animals and then people.






It's okay to blink normally and quickly while doing this exercise. The aura may disappear for a second when you do, but it will reappear quickly if you stay relaxed and hold your focus.






Keep practicing to get used to the way your eyes must maintain that steady, un-focus. Don't strain your eyes or tense your eyes or forehead.
 Have a partner stand 18" in front of a blank, white wall in a room that's not too brightly lit. Look at the wall behind the person and a couple inches away from his or her body. Do not look at the person, or you'll lose the aura's image. Instead, look beyond where he or she is standing and try to notice an area around the person where the background wall may look lighter than the rest. Try to see the color; ask yourself what color you would use to describe this area.


Once you've identified the color, you can ask the person to sway from side to side. Their energy field should move with them.






If you saw different colors in different areas of the person's aura you eyes weren't necessarily deceiving you; an aura can definitely be different colors depending on what's happening in different areas of a person's body. Practice for only a few minutes eye and avoid straining yourself. Each individual develops this skill at a different pace.






The brightness of a person's aura has a lot to do with how they feel. If they feel happy and full of life their aura is stronger, larger and brighter. Try playing your partner's favorite music to help energize his or her aura and make it easier to see.
 Sit in a dimly lit room and relax. Take a couple of deep breaths. Set in your mind the goal of seeing your own aura and focus on that goal. It's important that you believe this is something you can do. Touch your index fingers together, rubbing them and pushing them against each other. Aura is “sticky”, and once one finger sticks with another one, the energy will “hang” between fingers. Now, focus on the area between fingers as you continue to rub them together. After a bit, move your fingers apart leaving about a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of space between them. Focus on the space between them and see if you can make out a colored mist, or fog or smoke between your fingers. With continued training, the aura will get more clear and easier to see. When it does, repeat the exercise with your hands, rubbing them together and moving them apart to see the aura between them.

