 In order to get more sleep, you need to make sure your bed is associated only two things: sleep and sex. To ensure that, use your bed only for activities that should be done there.


Try not to watch TV, do work, read, or eat in bed. This will make you look at your bed as a place for activity, which may cause you to lose sleep., Caffeine is a stimulant, which can help you get through your day. However, if you drink caffeine late in the day, it can keep you awake. Try to avoid caffeine late in the day.


The specific time you should stop drinking caffeine depends on your sensitivity to it. For some, any caffeine after noon can cause sleeplessness. For others, caffeine can be consumed later in the day without sleep loss.Learn your limits and cut off caffeine early enough so that it won't affect your sleep. And remember that chocolate contains caffeine, so you should avoid it late at night as well!

, Eating large amounts of food or heavy foods late at night can make you lose sleep. The digestion can cause restlessness and your body will gain energy from the food you ate. Try to avoid eating at least two hours before bed.However, if you need to eat late in the day, try foods that can help induce sleep. These foods include milk, almonds, oats, eggs, and bananas.
Also try cherries or cherry juice. Cherries are one of the only foods that naturally contain melatonin, which is the hormone that encourages sleep. Drink a glass of cherry juice or eat a small bowl of cherries if you are hungry before bed., Exercise in the morning or early afternoon to work off your excess energy every day. However, make sure it is earlier in the day instead of late at night. If you exercise too late at night, the extra intensity and body activities will keep you up.


If you do have to work out later in the day, choose less strenuous activities such as walking, stretching, or weight training., If you are struggling to fall asleep, don't stay in bed. Instead, get up from your bed to avoid additional frustration. Try to redo part of your nightly routine to get you back into the sleeping mindset. If this doesn't work, try any relaxing activity, such as reading a book, drinking warm milk, or deep breathing exercises described later.


If these don't work, try stretching to help you relax. Just make sure it is calm and gentle stretching., Exposure to too much light at night can actually impede your sleep. This can be from outside lights on the street, from a TV, or from electronic devices. Getting too much light late at night reduces the production of melatonin, which is a hormone naturally produced by your body that induces sleepiness.


The more darkness you are exposed to, the more melatonin your body will produce.