 Knowing is the first step towards understanding. Thus, you need be reading, listening and reflecting to grow more understanding, no matter what the task. The more you learn and expose yourself to, the more question you can ask and conclusions you can reach. Understanding, whether it is yourself, others, or other countries, is when you can take the facts and use them to draw broader conclusions, but you can only do that if you first study the facts.


It sounds cliche, but make an effort to learn something every single day. Read a news story, watch a documentary, pick up a skill, or test out a new song on guitar. Knowledge is power -- start accumulating it!, Don't worry if you don't have concrete plans for you future just yet -- most people don't. The people that do, however, have spent time thinking about what basic things they need to be happy. You can then figure out ways to achieve that happiness. If you don't have plans yet, start with the basics:


What sort of work do you enjoy doing, even if it seems "unrealistic" for a career. What sort of work do you detest?
What sort of environment do you ultimately see yourself in, rural or urban? Hot or cold? Near a city or near the middle of nowhere?
What is important to you outside of work? What hobbies and passions are important to you and you can't live without?, One of the best ways to learn about yourself is to look back on how you do under pressure. Do you thrive under challenges, or prefer a more laid-back approach to life? When under stress, do you like to take private time to collect your thoughts or do you seek out the comfort of close friends? Life is not always easy, and thinking about how you handle the difficult parts is a great way to deal with them more effectively next time.
 Sometimes honesty isn't easy in the short term. But by acting and talking to others with openness and honestly you make these two traits a bigger part of yourself. By thinking honestly about your goals, biases, and ideas, you get a good idea of who you are. By putting them into actions and words you start to reveal new roads towards self-understanding and awareness., The trick is to understand your biases, since they point, generally, to what is important in your life. Take political bias, for example. Perhaps you consider yourself a conservative -- minimal government intervention in life, lots of personal freedom, lower taxes, etc. Knowing this, ask yourself why? Were your parents conservative? Have you had bad experiences with government regulators or taxes? Thinking about these causes will help recognize the personal reason behind your beliefs, creating greater self-awareness.
 Consider the common but profound realization that you actually like a food that you've "hated" your entire life. People change, and you are no different. Just like you should recognize biases when dealing with others, know that you have a personal bias as well. When you said you "hated" tomatoes, you were likely basing this on one bad experience you had as a kid. Realizing that you have your own biases will help your explore new ideas and parts of yourself.


We are just as often wrong about ourselves as we are about other people. Keeping an open mind is the best way to avoid issues of misunderstanding.
While the tomato example is on the lighter side, think about something like politics. How often have you become friends with someone, even briefly, only to realize later that they are the exact opposite side of the political spectrum as you?, You are an incredibly complex, interesting, and multi-faceted person, and you'll only keep changing as life continues. Never assume you "know everything about yourself," otherwise you close yourself off to greater understanding as you grow older and wiser. The process of "knowing thyself" is one that will continue revealing little insights about yourself every year as long as you keep trying it.


Read over old notes, journals, or scribbles from your past. How have you changed, and how have you stayed the same?