 A card is enough to show him/her that you've loved being together for the past seven days and that you'd like to stay together for many more. Get a card with something cute and funny. No need to get too serious since it’s only been a week!Making a card shows her that she means enough to you that you'd take the time to personalize the card with your own words and feelings.
Write a silly poem or song about your relationship.
Write cute notes to each other, and drop it off secretly at their locker or backpack. ;
, This will show that you're listening during the conversations that you have. It'll also demonstrate that you care about him/her.


If you both like a sports team, buy him/her a hat related to the team.
Buy a bouquet of flowers for him/her, and let them know you’re just happy to be with them.
Buy them their favorite candy or soda for lunch that day.
Bake them home-made cookies you made from scratch.
Make yourself and your boyfriend matching bracelets or t-shirts.
 Say something like, "You don't have to worry about a gift, I just want you to know that I'm grateful." The small gesture of kindness may go a long way in keeping you guys together for the long run.


Don’t hold the gift or card over their heads if they didn’t get you something for your one week anniversary.
Be nice about the gift, and just move on.
 Make it a special dinner or maybe a picnic in the park. Plan for something enjoyable, inexpensive, and special.


If he/she enjoys riding bikes, go on a new trail together in the park.
If you don't enjoy biking, go rollerskating, ride scooters, or visit an amusement park.
Pack sandwiches for the end of your bike riding trip.
Go watch the movie he/she wanted to watch last week.
Go to the school dance together, and take photos to remember your fun night.
 It’s not about keeping score, but try to keep your relationship balanced.


At this stage, it's truly the thought that counts. Always genuinely say thank you for the gifts.If they gave you something special or planned a cute date, try doing the same for them next week.
 Don't be afraid to show that you're with someone and proud of it. Make it official on your profile page, and take things seriously even if it's just been a week.


Change your profile status from single to taken.
Take a selfie together, and upload it onto social media.
Make a special hashtag, and tag every photo you share with your friends and family.
Put on a funny filter when taking photos, and save the photos as the background on your phone or computer.

