 At this point, since you don't have a name sign, you can introduce yourself by fingerspelling your spoken name. First, learn how to fingerspell the ASL alphabet from this wikiHow article, online videos, or a Deaf contact. Spelling your name is as simple as signing each letter in turn. Practice until you can sign it at a steady pace, holding your hand in the same position in front of you.


Signed languages are not based on alphabets, so spelling most words (signs) is not important. Fingerspelling is useful for situations like this, when you need to introduce a proper noun (your name) that doesn't have a sign.
If your name is short and easy to fingerspell, this might be your permanent name.
 Your "name sign" is a special word invented for you personally. There's no such thing as a translation of an English name into a name sign. Instead, it's up to Deaf signers to invent a name for you, when they feel you are part of the community. Here are a few patterns that name signs tend to follow.



The arbitrary name sign: One common way to create a name sign is to form one hand into the fingerspelled letter that begins your name. Tap this letter a couple times against a specific spot on your body, usually your forehead, cheek, chin, shoulder, or chest. Alternatively, move your hand between two nearby locations, or move it back and forth in "neutral space" a short distance in front of your chest.






There's no reason to choose one spot over another, which is why this type of name sign is called "arbitrary."The descriptive name sign: These name signs reference a characteristic, usually an obvious, physical one.For instance, you could sweep your hand along a scar on your face, or twirl your fingers down past your neck to refer to your long hair. Novice signers often prefer these to arbitrary signs because they seem more fun. However, it's even more difficult to make one of these up on your own. Signed languages use a visual grammar that limits hand shape, location, and movement. Unless you've taken courses in ASL or practiced it for a long time, the name you make up might not look like a word at all.







The hybrid name sign: There's a third and final type of name sign: a sign that refers to a physical characteristic, but uses the hand shape for the first letter of your name. Although this is common in many Deaf circles, some people see this as a modern, hearing introduction that doesn't fit in the traditional naming system.It's entirely possible that a Deaf person eventually gives you a hybrid name. Trying to invent one of these yourself could come across as annoying or rude, even more so than inventing a different type of name.
 When a prominent Deaf adult gives you a name sign, she has decided you are a part of the Deaf community. This is a major moment for a non-native signer, and in many circles it can take years of friendship to happen. Even if you aren't convinced by this argument, there are several risks to inventing your own name sign:You might use a hand shape or motion that's difficult to follow, or breaks grammar rules. ("Hi, my name is Zzxqbub.")
You might invent a sign that looks like a rude word.
A local signer might already be using that name sign.
Your name sign might look like the name of a prominent person. (Imagine a foreigner trying to adopt the name Martin Luther King.)
It also goes against Deaf culture for a Hearing person to create their own name sign.
 If you learn ASL and get to know experienced signers, you might notice people referred to by multiple name signs. This usually happens when they receive a name sign from several different communities.Over time, a name sign might shift in location or hand shape to keep it apart from a similar name, make it faster to sign, or remove a reference that's become embarrassing or irrelevant.

