 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need" but a few of the items will be explained in more detail here.
 A solar pathfinder is needed to measure the estimated amount of sun that will hit the point for the collectors. Directions to how to use this device is located in the instruction manual provided with the device. This device can be found online and is relatively low cost. It measures the amount of sunlight one will receive at that location for over a course of a year. This is necessary information to have to insure that the location chosen is valid and will provide enough sunlight over the year., A loop system will be needed in order to maintain flow for the system., Temperature sensors must be installed at multiple points on the system to ensure it does not freeze., A heat exchanger is needed to make sure the system does not overheat., Ball and check valves are needed in case maintenance is needed. The valves will allow for the water to stop and the fixes can be made., Preferably somewhere with plenty of open space and limited tree shading.,,, Depending on where you locate the collectors, the piping will need good though put into the runs.

If need be, call a plumber for their opinion on ease of access for runs.
 The two choices are: a flat plate collector and an evacuated tube collector.

Evacuated tubes collectors are recommended for this practice, due to the fact that they are more efficient at higher temperatures.
 Attach the steel framing to the panel to provide support to the building.

Welds will need to be placed at the connections of each 90 degree bend in frame.






Bolts can be used instead of welding but be sure to get a Unistrut one-hole 90 degree angle fitting with bolt stud to support between each piece of framing. A local hardware store should have these.
 Be very careful when dealing with wires; these should only be fitted if you know what you are doing (and are sufficiently qualified according to your local regulations) or by a professional. (Refer to Warnings below.),,, Add sealant as needed. Use sealant tape when screwing on the pipe connectors.
 This ensures that the water will constantly flow in and out and will not cool.
 Consult a plumber and he or she can help with identifying the best locations., The heat exchanger will need to be provided before the tank and after the water passes through the collectors.
 These will provide the necessary readings that enable you to take corrective actions when needed., This will provide electronic readings of the data.


Once again, only do wiring if you're qualified or do it through a professional.
