 If a party organization like the Young Democrats or the College Republicans (or even a county party) is missing from your area and you want to change that, you should contact the closest local party organization in order to find possible members. The leaders of your local party can give you the best leads on possible members in a new party affiliated organization.The local party is also likely to be populated by current and former organizers. They can give you great tips on how to successfully recruit members.
 Facebook groups are probably the easiest and most cost-effective way of advertising an event and gauging interest in a new organization. With the leads from your local party, you should be tapped into some related Facebook groups that can spread the word to sympathetic members of the local community.If you’re looking to start a party-affiliated organization, you probably have friends who would fit the organization’s profile. Start by inviting them into the Facebook group, then move on to state and local party leaders. This way, word of the new organization should spread quickly.
 Organizations like “Drinking Liberally” (or its conservative equivalent), can be great places to find possible members for a party organization. While a group like Drinking Liberally isn’t actually affiliated with the Democratic Party, the members are predominantly socially minded Democrats. Therefore, they are excellent candidates to join a social group affiliated with the Democratic party., Your next step is to get as many interested people as possible in a room together all at once. Make sure to give plenty of lead time between the announcement of the meeting and the date of the meeting.Once you’ve set a date for an initial meeting, advertise it through the Facebook group you’ve created and the other party organizations you reached out to find interested candidates for membership.
You should also go one step beyond reaching out to groups you’ve already made contact with. Print out some flyers advertising the initial meeting and post them in public places like coffee shops, community centers, and college campuses. This way you cast a wider net, and bring people into the party who haven’t previously been affiliated. , It might sound like quite a task to come up with a charter and by-laws by yourself, and it probably is quite a task. Luckily, it isn’t a task you’ll need to do. Young/College/High School/ Democrats and Republicans in all 50 states have templates you can use for charters and by-laws. All you’ll need to do is fill in the blanks and change relevant details.Just in case you can’t find a template, your charter should contain the group’s mission statement, dues, meeting times, and the group’s name. The bylaws are just the operating rules of the group—how to conduct meetings, how to elect and remove officers, and what the length of the terms of office are. Almost all organizations use Robert’s Rules of Order to conduct meetings. You can find a copy at http://www.robertsrules.com/.
Most organizations will simply borrow the other bylaws from larger parent groups of the organization. In this case, a parent group might be a state or county party. You should be able to find the state and county party bylaws by contacting the state and local parties.
Once you’ve created the charter and the by-laws, the membership needs to approve it through a majority vote according to the agreed upon bylaws.
 You’ll need to elect a chapter President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer, along with any other offices you think are important. Elect the officers from the membership by a majority vote according to the agreed upon bylaws., All 50 states have chapters of local parties and affiliated organizations. Once you’ve lined up members, voted on a charter, and elected officers, submit those documents to the state party or party affiliate., You want your group to be more than a club where people complain about current events--you actually want to take steps to promote the party. So make sure you take steps to advance the message.


Coordinate with other party organizations to launch canvasses, phone banks, and donation drives.
When you sponsor debates, town halls, or invite speakers to your meetings, you raise the profile of your organization. The higher your profile, the more members you'll be able to attract, which will allow you to sponsor progressively larger events.

