 One of the common hurdles in being a fan is when you are unable to pronounce or spell the name. Evanescence is pronounced "Ev·eh·NES·ence". The spelling can be tricky, but is easy to get used to after a while. Just remember the first part, Evan, and then ad on essence, like two separate words. The word means to fade or disappear; something fleeting, only there for a moment. The lead singer of the band, Amy Lee, says they chose the name because it was "Beautiful and creates an image in the listener's mind".;
, The face of the band is vocalist Amy Lee, who is also the pianist and main song writer. Jen Majura and Troy MacLawhorn are the guitarists of the band. Will hunt is the drummer and Tim McCord is the bassist of the band.
 Past members include: David Hodges- He was 2nd vocalist and did most of the piano work on the group's smash CD "Fallen." He left because he wanted to make Evanescence more of a Christian band, and Amy and Ben didn't want that. Ben Moody was the band's original lead guitarist, then he quit. There are many theories as to why Ben left, but the only people who know what really happened are those who were there. The solid facts are quoted from some interviews with Amy: basically Amy said that Ben had many personal issues, was putting a lot of tension within the band and could be very controlling. Then in 2011 Ben wrote an open letter to fans about his departure of the band citing that he acknowledged his behavior toward Amy and there were times he tried desperately to kick her out of the band and replace her. He had apologized for his actions and had reached out to Amy but it was to no avail. On a lighter note he did make a review video on the self titled Evanescence album and said "I love it, it's much better than 'The Open Door'. Or whatever it was called". William Boyd was the bassist, but left when they were about to start The Open Door tour; he didn't want to go on tour again, preferring to stay home to be with his family. John LeCompt was the 2nd guitarist, but Amy fired him because she felt that he and Rocky wanted to leave Evanescence, and were just staying in it for the money. Rocky Gray was the band's drummer from the beginning, but decided to leave in January over unknown reasons. (NOT because of Amy firing John, as many people believe. Rocky decided to leave Evanescence months before this.) Current members are Terry Balsamo the lead guitarist (joined after Fallen was recorded and Ben Moody left, but before The Open Door), Tim McCord the bassist (joined in 2006), Troy McLawhorn the rhythm guitarist (joined in 2011), and Will Hunt the drummer (joined in 2010).
 Listen to the songs. The Evanescence albums are quite easy to find in good music stores. Don't illegally download the music off the internet: actually buy the albums so you properly own them. Plus if you buy all the CD's you can get bonus tracks and video features. The three studio albums: Fallen (2003), The Open Door (2006), and the most recent - their self titled album released. There's also the live album Anywhere But Home (2004), as well as several EP's from earlier years, and the full length demo CD, Origin (2000) in 2011 There are several sites on the internet which let you download the EP's for free, such as The Evanescence Reference. Notice the change from the EP's all the way to Evanescence (2011) - from gothic rock right through to a massive change in music and lyrics. In order, it would be:


Evanescence EP (1998)
Sound Asleep EP (1999)
Origin (2000)
Mystery EP (2002)
Fallen (2003)
Anywhere But Home (2004)
The Open Door (2006)
Evanescence (2011)

