 While you're waiting for it to heat up, you can ready your other ingredients and clean out the teapot you'll be using.

See our guide to boiling water for stove and microwave suggestions.;
, The recipe calls for about 2 teaspoons (10 ml), but you can use more or less as needed for a stronger or weaker flavor.


Hibiscus does not contain caffeine, so adding a lot won't give you a sudden "jolt" of energy., Fill the teapot to the brim (or simply add as much as you plan to drink).


Use oven mitts and/or a tea cozy to protect yourself from burns here. Pour the water slowly and steadily to avoid splashing.
 As noted above, hibiscus tea doesn't have any caffeine on its own. If you'd like to get some energy from the tea (or if you just like the taste), you can carefully add a bag of your preferred caffeinated tea to the hot water at this point. Hibiscus tea tastes great on its own, however.

For extra caffeine, add multiple bags.
 This is the easy part — all you need to do is wait. About five minutes should be long enough for the flowers to give the water a somewhat tart taste and a pleasant red color. Let the tea steep longer for a stronger flavor. Let it steep for less time if you want a weaker flavor.
 Now, you just need to get the flowers out. If your teapot does not have a built-in filter or mesh, pour the tea into your cup through a fine metal strainer. In a pinch, you can also use a paper coffee filter.


You can also simply leave the hibiscus leaves in the tea if you like. They won't hurt you — there is no current evidence that they are poisonous in any way., Your tea is now ready to enjoy. If you like, you can add as much of your preferred sweetener as you want (or none at all). The smooth, sweet taste of honey goes especially well with the tartness of hibiscus. Sugar and zero-calorie sweeteners are also good choices.
 If you want to give your tea a little "something extra," try one of these garnishes (or all three). The flavor and aroma of these substances complement hibiscus tea for three different delicious combinations.

If you're using mint, lay the leaves face-up in the palm of your hand and give them a slap by clapping your hands together. This is a technique used by bartenders in drinks like mojitos to release the flavor and aroma of the mint.