 People tend to be attracted to people who are fun to be around. If you're trying to attract someone, try to relax and have fun with them.Be open to being silly around the person you want to attract. Do not be afraid to make goofy jokes while watching a movie, for example.
Be open to adventure. If the person you're trying to attract wants to go out and get dinner, for example, go along for the ride and try to enjoy yourself.;
, People are attracted to those who are confident in themselves. When you're around someone you want to attract, try to have some self confidence. Do things that make you appear confident, such as sharing your opinions and personality without hesitance.If you have issues with self confidence, find ways to work on them. You can try engaging in an activity to boost confidence, like working out regularly. If you have chronic issues with self confidence, consider talking them over with a therapist.
 People are attracted to funny people. When you're around someone you want to attract, work on making that person laugh. Do not be afraid to crack jokes or make humorous comments about your surroundings. If you have any funny anecdotes, try sharing those as well.If you're unsure how to be funny, work on cultivating your sense of humor. You can watch stand up routines online or listen to funny radio shows or podcasts. If you immerse yourself in humorous material, you will learn how to be funny yourself.
 If you're attracted to someone, you may be inclined to lean on them and flatter them to get attention. However, people are actually attracted to people who are more independent. Instead of focusing all your energy on the person you're trying to attract, focus on yourself more. Do not be afraid to bring up your interests, careers, and passions. People are attracted to those who have their own goals and life.In conversation, never hesitate to bring up yourself. You can feel free to talk about your own passions and interests if the person asks.
In a large social event, do not dedicate all your time to the person you're trying to attract. Make rounds throughout the room and mingle with others. A sense of independence will make you more attractive.
 Think about your core values and beliefs. People are attracted to people who have a solid moral center, even if it differs slightly from their own. If you're able to develop your own beliefs and stand by them, you may be more attractive to others.If you're discussing something with the person you're trying to attract, it is okay to disagree. This may make you more attractive to that person. Just make sure you do so in a respectful way. For example, say something like, "Oh, that's interesting, but I actually see that issue in a different light."

