 To send your email blast, you'll need to do research on popular email blast websites and choose one that works for your team. Consider the amount of training that would be required, if it automatically links to your current database or CRM, how much it costs, and how easy it is to use. Write down pros and cons of each provider and determine the blasting software that's right for you.


Popular sites allow you to create email blasts include Mailchimp, Constant Contact, and Vertical Response.Some content management systems or databases have email blast capabilities built into their software.
 After you've written your email blast, you should go over it again for grammar and spelling errors. An excellent way to help you edit your email is to send it to colleagues to ensure that there aren't any factual or grammatical mistakes, and to make sure that the messaging stays on brand. Ask people on your team to look over your blast and provide you with feedback.


Sometimes colleagues won't have the most useful feedback, but they can give you an idea of how others perceive it, and what you need to fix before you send it out.
 Audiences can be split up in a variety of ways including gender, age, geographic location, or buying habits. Before you send your blast, you want to make sure that you can segment people into different lists so you can target your blasts to the right people. Consider what demographic you want to target, and what they will need to fulfill your call-to-action.


For example, sending people in New Jersey a coupon for stores located in Alaska is not useful or helpful.
Another example of sending an e-mail to the wrong people is if you are marketing a product to women age 50 and above, but include men in their 20's in the blast.
The more that the recipient receives useless content or emails, the less likely they will open future emails from you.
 You should write your email blast in another software application that checks for spelling or grammar errors. Once your text is ready, you can paste it into the body for your email blast. Take note of formatting, spacing, and links because some of these don't transfer over correctly from one software to another.
 Before sending an email to a list of people, send one to yourself. Read over the email carefully and keep an eye out for poor formatting or incorrectly sized pictures. Check the email in multiple browsers and use different devices to see if it works across different platforms. Click all the links within the email and make sure they are working as intended.When you fix a mistake, be sure to send another test email to see if it saved correctly.
This is also a way to see if your email will be flagged as spam by an email's spam filter.
 Once you've uploaded the contacts that you want to send the email to, it's time to send the email to the list. Go over the recipients one more time before sending the email and then send it out. Another option that you have is to schedule the blast to go out at a later date and time. This is a great idea if you may have to make last-minute revisions or want to choose a specific time to send it out.


Best times to send an email blast are Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday around mid-day.

