 Daily values are assessed according to the approximate daily recommended amount of a specific nutrient for a healthy adult. For vitamin B12, the daily value is 6.0 mcg. If you consume meat daily, you’re likely already consuming this amount; however, absorption of vitamin B12 can be complicated by several factors. In any event, monitor your diet to ensure you’re getting enough vitamin B12.


See the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Nutrient Database website for more information. The website includes extremely specific lists of food organized by nutrient content.;
, There are several animal products and fortified foods that are sources of high amounts of vitamin B12. Fish and other seafood, meat, eggs, and dairy are especially good sources. If you’re a vegetarian, opt for cereals or nutritional yeasts that have been fortified with vitamin B12.Clams and beef liver each contain over 10 times the recommended daily value of vitamin B12 in a single 3-ounce serving.
Rainbow trout, sockeye salmon, and tuna are the next three natural sources of food with the highest content per serving.
If you’re vegetarian, eat a serving of a breakfast cereal that contains 100% of the daily value of vitamin B12 every day. Check to make sure the cereal includes this vitamin in particular, as some fortified cereals vary.
 Aside from lifestyle decisions such as not eating meat, there are other factors that increase your need to consume extra vitamin B12. For instance, if you had a poor diet as an infant, or you are currently pregnant or breastfeeding, you need to closely monitor your vitamin B12 intake.The recommended daily allowance of vitamin B12 for a pregnant woman is 2.6 mcg, and 2.8 mcg per day for a nursing woman. These should be considered minimum amounts to consume daily.
If you are thinking of getting pregnant, you should consider taking vitamin B12 one month before you plan to conceive. Choose a prenatal vitamin with 400 of folic acid. Show your doctor your prenatal vitamins to make sure it is right for you.
Recall that the recommended daily value for a healthy adult, which better reflects the relationship between food servings and access to the nutrients they provide, is 6.0 mcg.
 If you’re know you’re not meeting the recommended daily value of vitamin B12 or other vitamins, consider taking a multivitamin. While eating a healthy diet is a better way to get the vitamins your body needs, multivitamins are a good option if your diet is restricted.Talk to your doctor if you’re unsure about which types of vitamins to take, and whether this may be the best approach to ensuring you’re getting sufficient nutrients.
Know that your ability to absorb vitamin B12 from a dietary supplement is limited by your stomach's natural contents. For example, taking a 500 mcg supplement orally will only lead to the actual absorption of only about 10 mcg of the vitamin.
In addition to oral supplements, you can also get tablets or lozenges that will dissolve beneath your tongue, and even liquid supplements. While different mediums are said to provide greater "bio-availability," there is not a considerable difference between your body's ability to absorb oral vs. sublingual forms of vitamin B12.
 Both smoking and drinking alcohol can interfere with the absorption of vitamins and contribute to various forms of deficiency-related anemia.If you smoke, begin the process of quitting by talking to your doctor about the options to help you do so. Drink one to two drinks a day, at most.

m ,