 Rest assured that your new neighbors are at least as curious about you as you are about them! The best way to make a good first impression is to introduce yourself and start a conversation. By making the first move, you will reassure them that you want to be a good neighbor to them, so head on over and introduce yourself!

, Be open and speak in a pleasant tone of voice. To break the ice, give your neighbors a compliment on the flowers in their yard, the color of their window shutters, or the kind of car in their driveway. When all else fails, comment on the weather!, A great way to encourage conversation is to ask simple questions. Without being invasive, ask your neighbors how they like the neighborhood, how long they’ve been in their home, what kind of work they do, etc.


Once you start talking with your neighbors, don’t try and force the conversation. You will find that sometimes you really connect with people right away. If so, just follow the natural flow of conversation. You might end up talking about things you didn’t plan on!, A short introduction just to exchange names and perhaps arrange a time later to meet for coffee or drinks would be a good idea. You don’t want to go overboard and spend too much time during your first interaction.
 If you have kids, you know that they can be a great conversation starter! Take them along when you introduce yourself to your neighbors. You may find that they have children as well and you could set up a play date. This is a great way to make new friends both for yourself and for your kids. You can also use this as an opportunity to ask about community schools, play groups, parks, etc.
 Take over a plate of freshly baked chocolate chip cookies or brownies when you first approach your neighbors. Everyone loves dessert, don’t they? This will show your new neighbors that you are both friendly and thoughtful. If you aren’t selling anything and you’re bringing delicious treats with you, your new neighbors won’t turn you away!