 Whether it's a scavenger hunt in your house or it's gathering Disney Parks-esque clues, or one of the many other ideas, prepare everything you'll need and bring it with you. in the case of the scavenger hunt however, you'll need to pre-load the locations with the proper "next clue" card along with the "clue" itself.;
, Whether these children are super young or teenage or slightly older, they all need to be nearby to gather the same information at the same time.
 Children will tend to leave the area before the big reveal if the surface is too hard.
 These items should include both the classic "Disney-ears hat" and "Disney Parks map". Tell them you have a map, and they must reveal what it says/means(make sure the Walt Disney World text at the top of the front of the map is scribbled out so they can't read it at a quick glance.
 As the first step initially stated, make sure the items are placed in the order you want your kids to go around to and from them. For them to end up at the right place each time, you too need to place them in the same corners that you want, for them to be able to decipher them well enough. Make sure there is also a Disney-esque prize waiting at each location. Make sure the last stop will end with the most-popular "Now, guess where you're going?" and tell them either out loud, or on the paper.
 Whether it's to fly to an unmarked location elsewhere in the US (when in real life it's really to Orlando International Airport/Walt Disney World), it'll become apparent when you get there.
 You may need several packages of these magnets, but you'll get the word out soon enough.
 The main attraction on the puzzle should be the reveal. For most older children, this is often fun for them to do, and shouldn't take them too long to complete.
 Set the glasses or plates, or even set pancakes on a plate in the style of a Hidden Mickey, and see if they can decipher what these styles of "writing" are. If you can't, you'll have break the news to them what they are. But use that type of reveal at last resort.
 Although their street address has their name in them, their DDMMSS location or decimal location of the park won't give this information out too quickly. They'll have to zoom out of the device, to see more clearly what place they are going to.


Touch-screen cellphone maps work better at showing the kids this. However, if you don't have one, a GPS or the like will have to do.
 When they discover the destination being "Orlando", they'll realize that they are going to Disney World.


The only thing kids think about when they hear "Orlando" is "Walt Disney World" (unless they live down in Orlando, in which case, they'll be puzzled).
When most parents plan a trip to Walt Disney World, they tend to choose to fly into Orlando's main airport hub: Orlando International Airport. Make sure you know it's three-letter airport code that all airline companies use (MCO). This three letter code can be quite confusing to a child, if they don't see the name of the city spelled out on the ticket.

