 There are countless ways you can dress as formal or outrageous as you want. A simple rag doll dress can be found at a store, or if you want a flowery dress, you can buy/make one!

If you are going for a crazy psychopathic look make sure there's lots of colors! In this case you may want to search thrift stores for those psychedelic colored dresses with crazy patterns.
Another option is the Gothic look. Look for anything that has a lot of black in it in a pattern such as lace or consider going all white or all black.
Another great idea is dressing up like a bride doll! Find a white formal style satin dress with lots of detail,get some tulle fabric or a tiara and add on the glamor with rhinestones in any color.
If you need to, add buttons and stitches on seams to make your costume more authentic.;
, You can buy a wig, normally red or black pigtails. You can also put your own hair in two braids, or any hairstyle you think suits the look. A simple long head to shoulder look will give you an instantly ghostly look., Apply a white or very very pale foundation all over your face. Apply this base in thin layers all over your face smoothing it out as you go.Make sure that everything is concealed and you look like porcelain.

Second apply make-up to other parts of the face. To the cheeks add lots of pink blush. You want your cheeks to really stand out. Do your lips a similar pink, or bright red. You can always change the colors to further suit your uniform and the character you're trying to portray.
For really creepy eyes remember, do one eye only! Or you can do the eyes in an uneven size as well or do an even look which is highly exaggerated with special effects like teardrops, spikes and other designs. Do a bright smoky eye, with a large wing of eyeliner.Add fake lashes, and bright contacts if you wish.Make the eyebrows very thin and on point.
 Put bruises and cuts on the face. Add blood coming from the mouth. If you are doing the one made-up eye look emphasize it by drawing a light circle around that eye as a reference. Then, make cracks so it looks like there is a smashed hole where that eye is. In that same hole, make your skin black and bloody with dark make-up.

Make more cracks on your face, and one coming from each side of the mouth.
All cracks can be made with eyeliner.
 Wear stockings over the legs and wear little flats for shoes, preferably with bows. Fashion a bow into your hair.If you want, put on lace gloves.Complete the look by holding a teddy bear.