 Poison ivy can be recognized as:


A vine with groups of three pointy leaves. – Remember the saying, "Leaves of three, let it be.'
The middle leaf has a slightly longer petiole (stem) than the two leaves on the side.
The leaflets are larger at the base.
There are no thorns on the stem.
Berries, if present, are a grey-ish white. – "Berries white, take fright."
It has three distinct forms:

a vine that climbs trees – "Hairy rope, don't be a dope."
ground cover up to 1–2 feet (0.3–0.6 m)
large shrub – This form is mostly found on sandy dunes.


Leaves are green during summer, red during fall.
It can grow just about anywhere.
If you have trouble recognizing poison ivy, practice by taking the photo quiz at the end of How to Prevent Getting Poison Ivy or Poison Oak.;
, Humans and perhaps some other primates are the only known creature allergic to poison ivy.If it is not growing in an area where people walk, let it be.
 If you are not particularly allergic or know someone who is not, pulling poison ivy works great. Repeated pulling will likely be needed as some roots will have been missed.



Wear long sleeved shirt, pants, boots, long, heavy duty rubber gloves.
Use long handled garden tools to handle the plant. Never touch any part of the plant with your gloved hands. The more distance between your skin and the plant, the better!
When up rooting, chop long roots and vines into short sections, lift with a "reacher" and deposit into a trash can lined with a plastic bag. (You can buy a "reacher" at some drug stores that carry medical supplies.)
Pull up roots only with long handled pliers, again in short sections. Long sections of vine will bounce around and eventually tap your face or other exposed skin.
 If you really need to remove or work in sites with ivy, follow these steps to cover.
 Eye protection and hand protection are required.
 The boxes appliances come in are ideal; use these to walk on, over the patch.Those may be free from a local store but you have to ask to get them before they do their recycling.
 Use U-shaped landscape anchor pins and a sheet of 4 ml black plastic. This is sold in small to large rolls. Have one piece to cover, if possible. The pins must be close together and plastic should be bigger than the area you are covering.
 Consider concrete edging or rocks to reduce the likelihood of vine escape. Put pots of flowers if you want some color in the spot.
 Tools also can be contaminated. Tecnu lotion or other remover should help. Oils last a year on most items.
 Shower. Repeat the Tecnu wash three times or more.



A natural herbicide that works is St Gabriel Labs' Poison Ivy Defoliant®, which is made from plant oils.
Another solution is to use a glyphosphate-based herbicide to kill the plants, such as Roundup™, Kleenup™, or a specific poison ivy killer.
Mix the concentrate herbicide with water, three times the normal strength. Don't use ready-mixed herbicide, as it's not strong enough to destroy poison ivy.
Put the herbicide concentrate (or other brand) in a sprayer, like an empty window cleaner sprayer. Read the instructions on the herbicide label. Label the sprayer and keep this sprayer for only this purpose, in a safe place.



Wear long pants, long-sleeve shirts, plastic gloves over cotton, socks, and fully enclosed shoes or boots.
Try not to get solution on any other plants, or they will die too. Plants take the herbicide in through their leaves, then the plant dies.
For poison ivy high in trees, cut the vine off 6 inches above the ground and treat the stump with the glyphosate after cutting. Spray any leaves that re-sprout.
If it keeps coming back on the ground, look for it up in some nearby trees. It will keep reseeding itself as long as you don't get the parent vine.
The poison ivy should turn yellow and die in a couple of weeks.
 This will help prevent future regrowth. Be sure to go right to the end where the roots are growing.Make sure you keep your gloves on when digging, or you will get a rash, as even dead stalks can give you the rash from urushiol. Wearing a mask and safety glasses is also a good idea.Pick up the roots wearing gloves and use plastic bags to stuff the roots into for removal by garbage collection.
Use a hoe for stubborn or difficult root removal.
 Use cardboard, black plastic, newspaper, mulch, etc., to cover up the area where the poison ivy grew to prevent its regrowth.,


Do this for several years, because where there is poison ivy, there is probably more you haven't seen yet.
Poison ivy is very persistent; it will come back from roots that are not killed or removed. It may be necessary to spray the vines two or more times to succeed in removing it completely. Watch for seedlings dispersed by birds carrying the seeds.
 When removing your clothes later, be sure to use clean gloves and drop it all right into your washing machine. Wash these clothes separately.
 The initial cleanser will remove the poison ivy irritant.

