 In fact, your parent may choose to undergo a process of unburdening to cope with grief and relieve feelings of guilt. Your parent may find emotional and spiritual relief by discussing their regrets and fears.


Anticipate this possibility, and be ready to listen. Withhold your reactions or judgments regarding any confessions or surprising revelations that come to light during this time. The process of unburdening is a form of closure for your parent—don’t take it personally. It’s about them, not you.
 The best thing you can do for your parent as he or she considers the imminence of death is to be an active and willing listener. Refrain from trying to fix or resolve issues for your parent. Minimize your own comments and simply allow them to unload whatever emotions, thoughts, or memories they may be experiencing onto you.


Active listening is listening to understand, rather than listening to reply. Be an active listener by turning to face your parent, keeping your body language open and inviting (e.g. arms and legs uncrossed and at your sides), and offering encouragers such as nods or prompts like “Oh?”Active listening also includes summarizing (e.g. “It sounds like you’re saying…”), reflecting (e.g. “It seems like this is a really important matter to you.”) and using silence to slow down the interaction.
 Validation is a terrific way to improve your communication and build a better relationship with your ailing parent. Validation merely tells the other person that you accept what they are saying. It does not imply agreement or approval.Using this technique will come in handy during the process of unburdening because it is unlikely that you will agree with or feel comfortable with everything you discuss with your parent. But, doing this allows you to show support for their point-of-view.
Let’s say your mother confesses that she never wanted children. She wanted to be a painter and travel the world, but she got pregnant by accident. You can validate this confession by saying “I can tell this must have been hard to tell me. You must feel some level of regret or loss about the life you could have had. I can see why you might have felt this way, but I am glad you chose to have me.”

, Before your parent becomes too ill, sit down with them and your siblings to have a discussion about their personal wishes regarding their healthcare and legacy. This helps ensure that their wishes are followed at critical moments, and also puts all the siblings and other family members on the same page.


Call a family meeting and start by saying “I think it’s important for us to talk about your wishes…If you were on a respirator would you want to be left alive? Do you want to donate organs? Do you have a living will? Do you have a burial plan? Let’s talk about this so we don’t have to fight about it later.”