


This will make your paper easier to write.
Choosing a topic is the most important step in starting a reflective research
Is there enough research available on this topic?
Is the topic new and unique enough that you can offer fresh opinions?
Is it pertinent to your class/occupation?
Successful writing a paper about something you enjoy.;
,


Consider what the other students are writing about.
How likely is it that someone else also chose the same topic as you?
How can your paper be unique if other people are writing about the same topic?

,


If you can't come up with a topic ask your teacher of classmates for help.
Your teacher and classmates are most likely to have great ideas or maybe they will inspire you with an idea.
They want to help so don't be scared to ask.



If you begin researching and you realize you need to change your topic, don't worry.
Don't be afraid to change your topic.
It will take some more time but there is no problem changing your topic after you already chose one.



To begin research, look into your school’s professional resources and academic databases to find some sources.
Try to find at least 5 sources.
Find sources with different information in them.
Look at journal articles, books, newspaper articles, academic databases, web articles.
Do not rely on 1 or 2 sources.



Experts in you field of interest write peer reviewed articles and books, which means they are vouched for by other experts in the same field.
Look online or in scientific journals.



There’s lot of useful information here such as books, newspapers, magazines, and journals.
Librarians will always be able to help so ask them questions if needed. They know where everything is and will be able to help you locate what you’re looking for.



Don’t just pick the first three results as your sources.
Read every source and determine if it is legitimate or not. Not everything on the internet is true or factual.
Blogs and forums aren’t usually trustworthy sources.
Websites that end in .edu, .gov, or .org usually have good, factual information.
Try changing up what you type in the search engine to find different results on your topic.



These databases have thousands of peer-reviewed or scientific journals, magazines, and books.
Your school should have access to some academic databases, ask your librarian about them.
Look for databases specifically cover your topic to get more tailored results
Take advantage of the ability to ask for specific information by using the advanced search options that the database offers.



Make sure to include the author, page number, title, and publishing information for each source.



Print out your sources.
Take notes and highlight important parts in each article; doing a thorough job annotation will make the outlining and paper writing process much easier.
Write down your thoughts and questions; this will make writing your paper much easier because you will have something to refer back to.



Provides more clarity once you get to the outlining process.
Try writing down a list of all the notes you are using from each individual resource then highlight each category of information in a different color.



Who will be reading your paper? Is it just your professor or will other people read it too?
Does your audience know much about your topic? This will help you determine how specific you need to explain your basic ideas or main points.
It is important that the tone and focus of your paper reflect the audience who will be reading it.



Sum up your feelings in a statement that outlines your main points that you will discuss in the body paragraphs.
Make sure it is only 1 to 2 sentences.
The thesis should express the main idea of the paper without listing reasons of outlining the whole paper.



The body paragraphs revolve around the most crucial points.
Go through your annotations and choose the most important points that you want to talk about in your body paragraphs.
Think about what ideas you can write an entire paragraph on.
Which main points have plenty of information to back up with evidence?
Outline your main points, putting the strongest points at the top.
Also, one main point doesn’t have to be restricted to one paragraph.



Outline your most important points into separate body paragraphs.
Put your strongest points at the beginning of the paper.
Figure out with sources of information you want to use in each paragraphs.
Note what your thoughts or understanding of each main idea in the outline.
Indent subsections and notes from your research below each main point
Include in-text citations at the end of each point so you know where the information came from.



Write a brief summary narrating your experience with the research you performed.
Introduce the larger topic then focus on the area that you researched.
Note some of your feelings, impressions, and some factual information.
Talk about your preconceptions of the subject.
Include your thesis statement.



Arrange the body paragraphs in a logical order. 
Analyze your experience and research.
Elaborate on your reaction to the outcome of the research.
Support each statement with evidence.
Explain why or why not you agree with the results.
Each paragraph should flow into the next by building on the ideas you present; use transitions and topic sentences.
Compare your experience and data with previous knowledge or other articles that performed the same research.
Avoid long direct quotes.
Add commentary when possible to make your paper more unique.



Tie together all of you main points together.
Summarize your main points and your concluding feelings on the topic.
Briefly discuss the implications of the main points that were made.



Edit and proofread your paper; have 1 or 2 other people proofread your paper.
Make sure the paper has a clear thesis that is continued throughout the paper.
Make sure the paper meets all of your teacher’s requirements.
Make sure your paper meets your teacher’s formatting requirements.
