 It is important to work with a diabetes educator or a nutritionist who specializes in diabetes to develop an appropriate eating plan. Follow the eating plan that your diabetes educator or nutritionist designs for you. Also, make sure to let them know if you are struggling with any part of the plan.
 By trying different types of snacks such as raisins or nuts, you will get a feel for which snacks work best for avoiding low blood sugar at night.Try eating peanut butter on apple slices.Try a food product designed specifically for nighttime hypoglycemia. There are a variety of snacks designed specifically to prevent low blood sugar levels at night without inducing any excessive rises in blood sugar levels.You might try Choicedm, Ensure or Extend.
Try eating some Greek yogurt.Greek yogurt is a great source for protein, although you should keep an eye on the sugar content especially in flavored varieties.
Enjoy a stick of beef jerky at night. This snack has loads of protein, but you should keep an eye on the sodium content in these snacks., You can try eating eggs and bacon or eggs and beans in the morning.A protein rich breakfast will help you stabilize your blood sugar levels through the day. By having consistent blood sugar levels during the day, you will be less likely to experience problems in the evening.
 You should try to avoid simple carbohydrates such as white rice or white bread. A diet high in such carbohydrates can cause rapid rises in your blood sugar levels, which are followed by crashes.Instead, try to eat a limited amount of complex carbohydrates such as brown rice or seven grain bread., Consume whole grain, complex carbohydrates to control blood sugar levels.Whole grain, complex carbohydrates with lots of fiber include lentils, brown rice, brown bread, and whole grain cereals.


Try integrating peas, lentils, and beans into your diet, since these foods include carbohydrates, fiber, plenty of flavor and keep you full for a long time.Enjoy whole grain cereal in the morning.Eat a slice of whole grain bread as a snack.Serve a cup of brown rice with lentils for dinner., Instead of pop or juice, which contain lots of sugar, try drinking herbal tea, like hibiscus, cinnamon, rooibos, or mint tea, in the evening. A cup of herbal tea will calm your nerves and get you ready for bed. Chamomile is another good choice.If you do not like hot tea, try drinking a cup of iced herbal tea in the evening.