 If you are just casually curious about your pup's breed makeup, you might be able to figure it out based on their appearance. If you want to know if your dog is predisposed to any health issues based on their breed, however, then you may need to go to the experts.If so, relying on documentary evidence, expert assistance, and/or scientific analysis will prove more helpful.


For instance, if you find out your dog is part Doberman Pinscher, you will know that they are predisposed to heart disease and certain neck and spine issues. You can then inform your vet so they know to watch for any signs and symptoms as well as educating yourself on these health issues.;
, Most purebred owners are well aware of their prized pup's pedigree, but sometimes records are lost or forgotten. If your dog is a purebred but that's all you know, you may still be able to find out more information.


If you are confident your dog is not purebred, skip to the next step.
If you acquired your purebred according to the regulations of the kennel club to which it belongs, you should be able to retrieve pedigree information either online or in hard copy by contacting the club with your dog's registration number.
If you don't have this information, you may still be able to figure out which kennel club is likely to have the relevant records, and you may still be able to retrieve pedigree information through an online search of their records.
 Your vet sees dogs all day, has a lot of experience with a wide variety of breeds, and can probably provide some valuable insights about your dog's background.


Ask his or her opinion about what breed your dog might be. They may have a very good idea or they may give you some suggestions that you will have to further investigate.
You could also ask a groomer or breeder and see what ideas they have about your dog’s breed. They see dogs all day as well, after all.
 A quick online search will reveal that several companies now offer DNA testing kits for dogs, which can determine which breeds are present in your canine. Remember that not all home tests are created equal — the accuracy of the results depends on the size of their reference database. A less expensive test may save you money, but will likely have a smaller database, which will provide less accurate information.


For instance, a test might be able to tell you that your mutt is 60% lab with 30% dachshund and 10% of "other" in the mix.
 If you decide to go this route, there are several options that vary by precision, complexity, and price (all of which tend to increase together).


Tests ranging from $60 and up are available both online and in many pet supply stores. Most of the kits require a cheek swab sampling. Some more expensive ones may require a blood test from a veterinarian's office.
To swab your dog's cheek, first check to make sure there is no food or debris stuck between their cheek and gums. Open the swab that comes with the kit (avoid touching the bristles) and lift your dog's lip. Place the swab against the inner surface of your dog's lip, then lower the lip. Twirl the swab and move it back and forth a little, gently holding your dog's mouth shut. Allow the swab to dry for about five minutes, then place it in the container provided.The results come in two to four weeks either by mail or email.For a list of reputable labs, visit the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals site (http://www.offa.org/dna_labs.html).
Regardless of the limitations and costs associated with DNA testing, this is the most scientific, and likely most accurate, way to determine your mutt's breed profile.

