 You and your members can take turns bringing food to the meetings, but make sure that the place you're using allows it. The group can eat some during breaks, which will help keep them alert. Avoid snacks that are messy or difficult to eat. Discourage people from eating while studying, as it may become too distracting for others.
 If you cram too much information in your head, you'll be less likely to grasp it. Giving everyone time to breathe is important, as it'll reduce the risks of them becoming frustrated or exhausted. Set a timer so that you don't lose track of time, and allow everyone to take a moment to relax. A break lasting five to ten minutes should suffice. Make sure that everyone starts studying soon after.
 Remember to ask questions or opinions about the topic you're studying, as this is a study group. Have some educational talks and talk about different concepts together, as this may help people understand the subject even more. Don't be afraid to ask for help or solve problems together if necessary. You could also create study guides together and use them to test each other.
 It's easy to lose focus and begin talking with your members. However, remember to keep your attention on your goal, which is to understand the information for your final exam. Set a good example for others by not wasting time and focusing on studying. If you see others talking, you may want to warn them and gently guide them back to their studies.


If there are certain members that are distracting your entire group, give them a warning. If they continue wasting time, you may want to talk with your classmates and consider banning them from the group. Although you should be polite and kind, you should know when to stand up and be firm. Let them know that you mean business and that they aren't helping the group.
 Keeping a friendly, calming atmosphere around everyone will encourage people with their studies. Being warm and helpful to others will not only boost your reputation but also make them feel comfortable and welcome in the group. Avoid keeping a serious, rigid environment around you, as it will make your classmates feel wary and perhaps distract them from studying.

