 In order to prevent injury after such a long period of time off work, you must always warm up your horse prior to heavy exercise. Walk your horse around for five minutes, followed by a bit of light posting trot. This will help to increase heart and respiration rate without putting their ligaments and muscles (the parts most likely to become damaged) at risk.


If your horse is too out of shape to be put under tack yet, you can longe them for 10 minutes or so at differing speeds.
 Trotting, or hacking, is very helpful in getting any horse into shape. Western or English, gaited or stock, a horse can build endurance and stamina by trotting. Start out at a brisk trot (extended trot) for about 2-5 minutes straight. Stop your horse. Is he winded? You can tell if a horse is winded or out of breath by feeling with your legs. If they are rapidly heaving in and out, then walk the horse forwards or in a circle and wait until his breathing returns to a normal rate.


Once the horse has recovered, trot him again for a couple of minutes. Let this go on for about 45 minutes to an hour of stopping, walking and starting again.
Over a couple of months, you will increase the time you spend trotting by a few minutes here and there (assuming your horse is ready for it), and continue trotting for longer periods of time.
 This will condition both the muscles in the hindquarters and many other muscles the horse doesn't use often. It is very important that you maintain a walk. A horse that is trotting or jogging up hills will not build as much muscle, though most horses prefer to move quickly up hills and avoid straining their muscles. You might have to hold them back a little.


Steep, short hills are best for building muscle, but you can go much farther on a hill that slowly inclines. If you find a tall, steep hill then go a quarter mile or so up the hill, turn around, and go back down.
When going up a steep hill, never heave back on the reins or use them to keep your balance. This could cause the horse to lose his balance. Lean far forward in the saddle when going up a hill, with your feet back a little, sit deep in the saddle, and tip your feet slightly forward going down a hill.
Stop every 10-15 minutes to check your horse’s pulse and respiration. If both are very high, give your horse a few minutes to cool down before continuing. Don’t do this for longer than an hour at a time.
 Loping circles is a good way to condition a horse; it will help them make quicker turns and will build stamina. Some horses take a while to catch on to loping circles and may require training to be able to lope a good circle. You may want to begin by walking the circle, since this gives you a chance to establish the size of your circle. Start out with a large circle. Move up to a trot. Once your horse is comfortable trotting a circle, you can move up to a slow, steady lope.


Once your horse can lope a good circle (keep in mind it can take a few training sessions for them to learn this), you can increase the amount of time they can maintain a lope.
A horse can't keep a lope or gallop for more than 1–3 miles (1.6–4.8 km), so don't push too hard with this exercise.
Make sure and work the horse on circles going in both directions, so that they don’t become one-sided.
 The same concept as warming up, cooling down lets the horse slowly return its heart and respiratory rates back to normal. This also helps it to literally cool down, as their sweat begins to evaporate. Cool down by walking along level ground for 5-10 minutes after your workout., After several weeks performing each individual exercise or task, you can increase the difficulty of the workout. Your options are threefold: choose to increase the duration of your workout, the speed at which it is performed, or the distance you go. Increasing two or more of these simultaneously puts your horse at risk for constant fatigue and physical injury.
 Equally as important as conditioning regularly is taking enough time off from work. Working your horse too hard is a recipe for disaster; there are several very dangerous ailments (azoturia, tying-up, thumps, etc.) that can arise when a horse is overworked. For the first 2-3 months, work should consist of 3-4 days on, and 1-2 days off.

