 The Crossbowman is a ranged infantryman armed with a crossbow and arrows that is especially effective when defending against heavy infantry like Musketeers. Crossbowmen are available in Age of Empires 3 (including The Warchiefs and Asian Dynasties expansions).


Before you can train crossbowmen, you must have a Barracks, which requires 200 Wood. So check your resources stockpile, which is displayed in the bottom left corner of the screen next to the map. If you don’t have it, command your villagers to gather enough wood.
Also make sure that you have enough resources to train a Crossbowman. 1 Crossbowman costs 40 Food and 40 Wood. If you don’t have enough resources, select a Villager and instruct him to gather the resources.
 When you have enough resources, left-click the Villager to select him (or her) and then click the “Barracks” button (a square icon with two pistols on it) from the build panel that appears in the bottom right corner of the screen.


Move your mouse to position the building’s foundation where you want and then left click to place it. Your Villager will now construct the Barracks.
 To select the Barracks, simply left-click it. Alternatively, you can select the Barracks by pressing Ctrl+B. A panel with icons representing the different types of units you can train from the Barracks will appear in the bottom right corner of the screen.
 The very first button, one with a soldier dressed in blue and holding a bow, is the button for Crossbowman. Click it once to train one Crossbowman or multiple times to train many.


It takes usually 27 seconds to train one Crossbowman.
For convenience, it is best to train military in batches of 5 soldiers instead of training one soldier at a time, since it takes the same amount of time to train 5 soldiers as it does one. To train a batch of 5 soldiers, just click the “Crossbowman” icon 5 times.
Once the training is complete, your soldiers will appear outside the Barracks.
 This is an icon showing the type of soldier(s) being trained, number of soldiers and the progress of the training using a green color.


If, for example, you chose to train 5 Crossbowmen, clicking this icon once will reduce the number of Crossbowmen in training to 4, and clicking it again will reduce them to 3, and so on.
Clicking the icon 5 times means the entire process is cancelled—no Crossbowmen will be trained—and the total resource cost for the 5 Crossbowmen will be returned to your stockpile.

