 Some sloppy kissers suck too hard on your tongue and others open their mouths too wide. However, it’s possible to fix a sloppy kisser and avoid another sloppy kiss.


Do this by taking the lead and showing your partner how you want to kiss. The key here is that you need to become the dominant kisser, at least for a time. If your partner is sucking too hard on your tongue, pull your tongue back, but do it gently.
Then, just start kissing the other person again but with lighter kisses. After you’ve kissed softly for a little bit, your partner will probably just naturally take your lead. Kiss your partner the way in which you want to be kissed back.;
, One reason for sloppy kisses is that there is too much tongue movement going on. You can encourage the other person to focus on the lips and not the tongue.


Do this by focusing on your partner's lips yourself, by sucking them and kissing them. Do this gently.
Hopefully, the other person will start kissing you back the same way. It’s the excess saliva produced by tongue kissing that can make kissing seem sloppy.
 When people are just getting acquainted, it can take time to figure out what the other person likes and to adjust to his or her kissing style.


You will need to practice kissing your partner a lot before you two settle into your own personal dance. That’s a good word for it, too. Each couple has to figure out what works best for both of you.
So, don’t give up fast. Just keep kissing your partner. Try to guide your partner toward better kissing early on, though. You don’t want to mislead the other person into thinking the kissing is working out great because then it will become the routine.
 One thing that causes sloppy kissing is that the other person has the mouth open too widely.


You can encourage your partner not to do this by keeping your own mouth closed a little bit more.
You don’t want to do this in a way that seems standoffish, but your partner will likely mirror you.
 If your partner is getting saliva all over you, that’s no fun. It’s best to start the kiss over than to let a really sloppy kiss continue.


Take a small step back to restart the kiss, take your partner’s face in both hands, stare into the other person's eyes, and say something endearing. Then restart the kiss with the mouth opened less. Take the lead on restarting the kiss, so that you can set the pace and the tone. You could break up the first kiss by nibbling on your partner’s neck or ear lobe, so it’s not so obvious why you’re doing it.
 Too much saliva on the face is the hallmark of a sloppy kiss! Try to avoid it. Too much saliva usually means the kisser had a wide open mouth or was kissing too forcefully.


Maybe you're the sloppy kisser? Or you're wondering if you could be? It's important to understand the parts of a sloppy kiss that the receiver does not enjoy. That's often too much saliva.
People usually consider a kiss sloppy when it leaves saliva on your face, especially outside of your lips. If you or your significant other has to wipe their face or has drool on it, the kiss is probably too sloppy.
You probably won't cause too hard of feelings if you say something like, "let's kiss so we don't get each other's faces so wet!" in a playful manner.

