 One way to pay for the expenses that come with the launch of a business is to simply use your own money. If you're wealthy, you may even be able to pay for all of your business's launch expenses yourself. Compared to other options, this way of raising business capital is generally considered one of the quickest, easiest, and most direct.However, the more of your initial expenses you pay with personal money, the greater the risk to your financial health — if the business fails, you'll end up losing your own money, rather than an investor's. Thus, in general, the less wealthy you are, the less of your business's start up expenses you should pay by yourself.
Many, many businesses (especially small businesses) get some sort of financial assistance to help get off the ground, so don't be too attached to the idea of paying for your entire launch yourself. For perspective, in 2014, the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) had loaned over five billion dollars to new businesses as of September 2014.;
, Banks are one of the major traditional sources of funding for new businesses. It's possible to get funding for your new business at the same bank you use for your personal banking needs. However, many banks and credit unions specialize in lending capital to small businesses. These institutions may offer multiple products that can help meet your financial needs, ranging from lines of credit to capital loans, so consider researching banks besides your own when looking for loans.


Note, however, that getting a loan is not always guaranteed. Banks want to lend money only to businesses that they know will be able to pay back the loan with interest, so all reputable financial institutions will ask for information on how you plan to make money, including a reasonable business plan. For more information, see the section on securing a loan below.
Generally, you'll want to avoid taking out a personal loan for your business. Apply for a business loan instead. Personal loans can have higher interest rates and are in your name (rather than the business's), making things like business partnerships more difficult.
 Commercial banks don't always offer loans to small businesses on their own — sometimes, qualifying new businesses can receive loans that are government-insured. In other words, the government agrees to cover some or all of the cost of the loan to the lending institution if the business fails. This allows a lender to be more generous about the sorts of loans it is willing to make, since it won't lose as much money if the loan isn't paid back. A government-insured small business loan can be a great way for a business that doesn't qualify for ordinary loans to secure funding, so check the official SBA website to determine your eligibility.Note that, while government loans offer certain advantages to new businesses, they can also have unique disadvantages. Most SBA loans have maximum limits and many can have relatively high processing fees compared to other loans., Investors are simply people who have capital and want to use their wealth to make more money. One way they sometimes do this is by investing in a business (that is, giving it some of their money). Usually, investors do this in return for a share of profits in the future — in this way, a smart investor can make lots of money in the long term by spending money in the short term. Getting people to invest in your business is a great way to get funding without having to deal with the process of getting a loan from a bank. However, in addition taking some of your business's profits, most investors will also want some sort of say in how the business is run.


Investors come in many different varieties. Below are just a few types of investors who can offer funding for a new business:
Angel investor: A single wealthy person; usually someone the business owner knows. Usually gives a one-time, lump-sum "seed" payment to help the business get started.Venture capital firm: Large companies that exchange money for partial ownership or equity in the new company. May offer a single initial investment or multiple "rounds" of funding.
Family and friends. See below.
 The people who are close to you in life can potentially be sources of funding for your new business. Borrowing money from your family and friends can often be much easier than getting money from a bank or investor because you're (presumably) on good terms with them already. In addition, you may also be able to get an interest rate on the borrowed money that's much more generous than what you'd get from a lending institution (or no interest rate at all).


However, borrowing money from family and friends can potentially be very risky. If the business doesn't do well, you can lose money for the people who are closest to you in life. In addition, people that you're at first on great terms with can eventually become major annoyances if they clash with you over business decisions. These factors can easily lead to strained personal ties, damaged relationships, and even life-long grudges, so you may want to shy away from this source of funding except when absolutely necessary., One source of funding available today that wasn't an option for businesses a decade ago is the online "crowd" — that is, the global population of internet users. "Crowdfunding" sites (like Kickstarter and Indiegogo, for example) allow users to submit ideas for fundraising campaigns and try to solicit online donors. Because the success of a crowdfunding campaign is often tied to how well a business is able to communicate with its customer base online, this option may be best suited for technology companies marketing to tech-savvy users. Below is just a short list of prominent products and businesses that have gotten their start with this relatively new form of fundraising:Obsidian Entertainment (video games)
FormLabs (3-D printing)
Oculus VR (virtual reality)
Apigy (mobile apps)

, There's no "right" or "wrong" way to fund a new business. While the examples in this section are among the most common sources of funding, they're far from the only ones. If you're willing to expand your search, you may be able to find sources of money for your new business in unconventional places. Below are just a few additional ideas you may want to consider.


Community banks/local credit unions. Compared to larger chain banks, local independent banks may be more willing to offer loans to new businesses. Studies by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) have found that small banks give a disproportionate amount of business loans.Vendors. In a process called "vendor financing," the companies that you buy your business's supplies or raw materials from may be willing to offer you a loan to help cover the cost of buying their products.However, these loans are usually very short-term and can only be used to buy supplies.
Landlords. Some landlords may be willing to loan you money in return for a higher rent rate on the remainder of your lease.The willingness of your landlord to make this sort of loan is highly dependent on your standing with the landlord.
 When you approach a bank or another investor to ask for funding, you'll almost always be asked to prove that your business will be a money-making one. How well you're able to prove your point can make a major difference in how much money you're able to get (or whether you're able to get any money at all). Your most important weapon is your knowledge of the field you're getting in to. Know the barriers to entry you'll face, know the documentation and/or licenses you'll need to operate, know the sorts of expenses you'll be faced with, and, most importantly, know how you'll make money (and how much you plan to make).


Be ready to offer concrete figures — not educated guesses. For example, have an idea of exactly how much money your business will need to get off the ground — a request for "about half a million dollars" is not very precise and won't inspire great confidence in your business plan.
If you're unsure of where to start, try talking to an expert. Small business specialists at SBA and SBDC (Small Business Development Center) offices will be able to offer advice and resources for getting started on market research — usually free of charge., When applying for a business loan, having a clean financial history is a must. Good personal credit, a responsible loan repayment history, healthy debt levels, and other positive financial metrics can greatly increase your likelihood of getting funding. If you've previously owned businesses, having a record of steady profits is a major plus, while having one or more businesses declare bankruptcy can be a major hurdle to overcome.


To get a very rough idea of your personal financial health, try ordering a credit report. Under federal law, Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian, the "Big Three" credit report agencies, are required to give you one free credit report at your request once every year., Applying for a business loan can be a long, complicated, messy process. To minimize the amount of time it will take for you to get your loan, try to have all necessary documents ready ahead of time prior to applying. Different lenders and investors will require different types of documents, but, in general, you can expect to need at least the following:Personal credit history
Business credit history
Financial statements for existing businesses (plus any projected financial statements)
Cash flow projections (preferably for at least a year)
Personal guaranties from the partners/business owners

, A thoroughly-researched business plan is a vital part of any early fundraising efforts. Business plans should tell the lender or investor what products or services the company will sell, which markets it will target, how it will be organized, and, of course, how it will generate profit in the long-term.


Try to keep your language as easy-to-understand as possible — using short sentences and easy-to-understand words is fine. When possible, try to convey data visually (through charts and graphs), rather than through text.
Though business plans obviously vary from business to business, many contain at least 20-30 pages of text, plus appendices for graphs, charts, and so on.Writing an extensive business plan can be a major undertaking, especially for someone without a writing background, so if you're unsure of where to begin, try checking out online help resources geared toward this topic — the SBA, in particular, has useful guidelines available for free., If you're seeking a loan, your lenders will want some sort of assurance that they'll get their money back, even if you have a flawless history of loan repayment. For this reason, most business loans will require you to put up some sort of collateral (one or more valuable possessions, like a home or car) that the lenders will get legal ownership of if you fail to pay. If you have lots of collateral — that is, if you're wealthy and you own lots of valuable things — you'll have plenty that can be sold to repay the loan if your business fails, so getting a loan will usually be easier.


Though it's possible to get business loans without much collateral to your name, it's not always easy — you may need to get someone you know to offer their possessions as collateral instead.
Note that the rules for collateral can vary from loan to loan. For example, many private lenders will accept a house as collateral at 75% of the market rate (minus the balance on the mortgage), while the SBA offers a slightly more generous 80%., Believe it or not, the reputation of both you and your business can have an effect on how easy it is for you to get a business loan. Today, many prospective lenders and investors will research you online (this may include public or semi-public information on social media and so on) when you apply for a loan. If you're found to be associated with crime, scandals, or misuse of money, it will probably be harder for you to get a favorable loan package.Unfortunately, this means that events from your past can eventually come back to haunt you, even if they weren't entirely your fault. For instance, if a former partner has been spreading rumors and accusations about you online, they may be factored into your loan application even if they're totally baseless. Some companies offer services that help "clean up" your online reputation. However, it is unclear how effective these are.
Note also that being involved with businesses that the lending institution considers immoral or unethical can also keep you from getting a loan. For instance, many former pornographic actors have difficulty when applying for loans even long after they leave the field of porn., If you already have an established private business, one way to potentially raise lots of capital is to "go public." In an initial public offering (or IPO), a company offers up shares of equity (usually simply called stocks) to the public at large. Investors can buy shares from the company for a small percentage of ownership and to receive dividend payouts proportional to the amount of stock they hold.A lucrative company can get a major influx of capital from an IPO. In addition, publicly-held companies usually get better rates when they issue debt.


Note, however, that publicly-held companies are subject to additional financial regulation and scrutiny compared to privately-held ones., While you can potentially use a credit card or a line of credit from a lender to finance a new business, it's often an unwise idea. While established businesses often use credit accounts to pay for routine expenses (like office supplies and so on), using credit to get a business up and running can saddle it with unhealthy amounts of debt.Credit cards often have more unfavorable interest rates than business loans, so paying off this form of debt can choke your profits in the long-term.


If you must use credit for significant expenses early on, try to pay it off as rapidly as is financially feasible. Even a minor increase in your regular payment can save you lots of money in the long run and shorten your repayment cycle. For instance, if you have $1,000 in credit card debt with a monthly interest rate of 20%, it will take you a little over two years to pay off the debt if you put $50 per month towards it. However, if you pay just 15 dollars more, you'll be done paying off your debt in just a year and a half (and you'll have saved money on interest payments).
 If you can't afford to part ways with your home, your car, your precious heirlooms, or whatever other possessions you'll have to put up as collateral to take a loan, don't take the loan. Even the best-laid plans go awry — new businesses with excellent business plans sometimes fail due to forces beyond the owner's control, like local or wide scale financial downturns. For this reason, there's always a chance (however small) that you won't be able to repay your business loan. This is very important to keep in mind when choosing possessions for collateral.
 The relationship between a business owner and the business's investors is a very important one for any business. Beyond being able to provide money, an investor should ideally agree with your vision for how the company will grow and develop itself. If not, it's easy for leadership disputes to occur down the line when the investor doesn't agree with how her money is being used.Additionally, it's helpful for the owner and the investors to be on friendly personal terms. In the world of business, important decisions often get made at the golf course, on business lunches, and so on. Having a good rapport with the people who finance your business can make these decisions much smoother.
 While it may seem perfectly acceptable to use a business credit card for groceries after you forget your wallet, you'll never want to get in the habit of using your business's money for personal purchases (or vice versa). In certain situations, you can lose many of the legal protections that you enjoy as a business owner if it can be proven that you have done this.


For example, since a business and its owner are legally separate entities, if a business gets sued, the owner won't necessarily lose her house. However, if the plaintiff can prove that the owner has been using the business's credit for personal expenses, the business and the owner may be considered to be the same entity. In this case, the house may be in jeopardy.Note also that deducting personal expenses from a business tax return constitutes tax fraud., The people who give your business the money it needs to get off of the ground are the last people you'll want to lie to. Lying to one of these people isn't just unwise for your business in the long run because it can land you with financial obligations you're not ready for — it can also be illegal.Below are just a few activities you'll never want to take part in, no matter how tempting it may be:


Exaggerating the income potential of your business
Hiding unfavorable events in your credit history (foreclosures, etc.)
Lying about the value of your collateral
Allowing a lender to persuade you into bending the truth on your application (this can be a predatory lending tactic)

