 Once you’ve decided on what’s important to you and what you bring to the table, you’re ready to speak to people in the career fields you have an interest in. People already working in that field can provide valuable insight into what it’s like to have the job as well as the best way to get into the field.Seek out people that work in the industry you are considering a transition to and ask them about their experiences.
Ask people about what qualifications they feel are important in order to find work in their career field.
Remember to take people’s advice with a grain of salt. They may provide you with extremely helpful information, but what they have to say may not always be beneficial to your or your journey to find a new career.
 Once you’ve chosen a new career field, you will need to adjust your professional brand to aid in your search. Personal branding is all about managing people’s professional perceptions about you and your skill sets.Alter your professional social media presence on sites like LinkedIn and Google+ to highlight your qualifications that lend themselves to the career path you’d prefer.
Change your résumé to make it more pertinent for the career path you want to change toward.
 Despite how easy it is to apply for jobs online in today’s digital world, most new positions are landed through networking. Meeting people in your chosen career field can lead to job opportunities or references.Use social media platforms like LinkedIn to find professionals in the field you want to pursue and reach out to them. People are more generous with their time than you might expect.Don’t wait until you find the job you want to try to network with people within that company. Instead, network with people to get to know them first, then to aid in your job hunt second., You may be transitioning from a higher level of your current career field to a lower level in a new one. It can be difficult to accept such a reduction in authority or prestige, but it may be necessary.Focus on achieving long term success in your new field, that may require short term sacrifices.
Entry level positions offer great opportunity to learn about a new field and grow within it.
 Even if you feel sure about the exact career field or position you want to transition into, keep an open mind about other opportunities. You never know what may be around the corner.Take every opportunity to network with people in careers that you find interesting. You never know what may come of new relationships you establish today.
Trust your instincts and don’t be afraid to take a chance on a position you think could be right for you.

