 Most people tend to be more productive in the morning, when the brain is rested and there are fewer distractions. Try setting your alarm a bit earlier and create a morning ritual that will set a positive tone for your day.Try to make the morning your time. Eat a good breakfast, practice yoga or meditation, go for a walk or read. Creating space for yourself will make it easier for you to go into the workday feeling calm and focused.
 Making realistic lists for the day is a great way to promote efficiency. Don’t put too many things on your list. Instead, write down your top priorities for the day. This will increase your motivation to accomplish goals, and you’ll gain a lot of momentum and confidence from crossing things off your list once they’re complete.
 Let the evenings be your time to pursue hobbies and passions outside of your career. If you come home and fixate on mistakes you made that day or worry about projects that need to be completed the next day, you run the risk of letting your job consume you and burning out. One of the best ways to destress? Laugh! Call up a friend with a great sense of humor or watch a funny show to lighten your mood post work. Pick out a new hobby. Changing up your routine with a new, fun hobby will help you release tension after work. If you’re having a tough day on the job, having something to look forward to in the evening will keep your spirits up., Conviction is a firm belief in what you want to do. Make sure your career goals match with your company’s goals. If you believe in your company’s goals, you are more likely to stay motivated during the workweek. , A solid sense of self-respect will help you believe in your capabilities at work. High self respect and esteem are also easily recognizable qualities that will make your coworkers want to connect with you. It’s equally as important to show respect to others. When engaging with coworkers, even ones you might not get along with, showing them that you respect their opinion and contribution to the company will allow your relationships to develop smoothly.
 At work and in life, we are bound to meet colleagues or clients who we find unreasonable, uncooperative, or just plain frustrating. Take time to communicate with someone individually if you feel the two of you are clashing. Understanding a person better will help you see where their more aggravating qualities stem from, and will allow you to form a more positive relationship. Getting along with your coworkers instantly boosts motivation, since it makes you more likely to enjoy being at work.
 Dedicate yourself to a lifetime of exploration and learning. In your spare time, read books about things that interest you, take a class, learn a new language – do anything that gets you jazzed about your life. Exploring all the possibilities that the world has to offer lets you go through life with a sense of curiosity and excitement. This kind of attitude will keep you motivated in your career and help you figure out exactly what it is you want to pursue.