 If you want to move on from this person for good, you may want to keep your distance from them for a while. Creating space between you and an ex helps establish a new boundary with each other and move forward in your separate lives.Consider avoiding some of the places you went together. You don’t want to run into them, and you don’t want to be nostalgic for your relationship, either.
Avoid “accidentally” bumping into them. For example, if you know your ex is a regular at a particular coffee shop almost every morning before work, don’t make an excuse to run into them there.
Change up your old patterns to avoid seeing your ex. Shop at a new grocery store, go to the gym on a different day, or find a new favorite hangout.
Consider moving to a new town if necessary.
 Even if you intend to stay friends, it's a good idea to avoid contact with this person for a while after you break up. Otherwise, they could slip right back into their old role in your life and start the cycle all over again.


You could say, “Right now I think we both need some space in order to figure ourselves out again, so let’s not contact each other for a while. You can email me in case there’s an emergency.”
Do not drunk dial (or drunk text, or drunk email) your ex. You will only end up creating more drama for yourself.
You may want to delete or hide your ex on your social media accounts so you will be less tempted to contact them., Your ex may have been an extremely important emotional support in your life. They may have been the first person you turned to when you had a bad day or were feeling down. Now that you are broken up, you will need to find other people to fill that role for you. Relying on your ex for emotional support may find you back in a relationship with them. You may be more willing to re-enter a relationship when you are feeling vulnerable.Think of people in your life who could be emotional supports for you. Who could help you on a bad day, and be there to listen? Consider friends, family members, coworkers, teachers, coaches, clergy, or roommates.
It’s okay if you have more than one person to fill this role for you. Relying on one person to be your sole support can be stressful to your relationship.
 If your breakup was nasty, you may hear about your ex spreading rumors, calling you names, or trying to turn mutual friends against you. Correct people on what isn’t true and stand up against your ex’s bullying, but stay positive and try not to stress too much about it.


You could try setting a boundary with mutual friends and say, “I no longer care what Angela thinks of me, so please stop letting her words get back to me. Please don’t repeat them in front of me anymore.”
Don’t stoop to your ex’s level and engage in name-calling or backbiting behavior. If someone tells you something your ex said, you could just say, “I’m sorry to hear she feels that way,” or even just “Oh.”
Be cautious if your ex is manipulative, possessive, or controlling. Be aware that they may have the potential to harass or stalk you. Ask your friends and loved ones to help take steps to ensure your safety.

