 This is particularly important when you are selling or donating computers or computer parts. Wipe your hard drive yourself or take it to a professional, as you do not want a stranger to stumble across your private, personal information.Most computer repair stores also have the ability to wipe hard drives.
You can also contact your computer’s manufacturer for more information on how to wipe your hard drive effectively, or a technician who can do it for you.
 If you are hoping to recycle your whole computer rather than individual pieces, you can stop at this step and move on to donating your intact computer. Most recycling programs must recycle or dispose of batteries separately, so removing and disposing of your computer’s battery is both responsible and convenient for the company you are donating to., Keyboard keys can be used to replace broken keyboards, or they can be reused to create crafts. Whichever your preference is, removing them from the board will give you the option of selling, donating, or repurposing the keys., To properly take your computer apart, you will need to remove the bottom piece from your computer, as this is where all of the computer’s innards are stored. Screwing the bottom from the rest of the computer will give you access to everything, including the hard drive., Computers are filled with circuit boards. Some have a single, large board, while others will have numerous small boards. If your computer is in good working condition, these boards can be set aside and sold or donated to fix broken computers., Although you’ve already gone through the step of wiping your hard drive, you can further ensure your information’s security by removing the drive altogether. You can remove the hard drive and keep it for your personal records or you can destroy it., All working parts can be gathered together and set aside to be recycled. You could also reuse them yourself, or gift them to someone who works with computers.Check your local recycling center for needs and requirements.
If you do decide to go the reuse route, you may be able to make a bit of money selling spare parts.

