 Make sure that you keep your bread at a normal room temperature – preferably at 68 degree Fahrenheit or 20 degrees Centigrade. Ensure that it is kept away from direct sunlight in a dry and cool place.;
, Scientific tests have shown that storing breads in the refrigerator sucks out all the moisture from them thereby making them stale at a faster pace. This happens as result of a process known as “retrogradation” wherein the starch molecules start to crystallize together.
 There are a few rules of thumb that you can use while storing and packaging different kinds of breads. These are as follows.


Sandwich breads should be stored in plastic bags. Breads that are processed and sold as slices usually come pre-packed in plastic bags. As advised by manufacturers themselves, these sandwich breads should be stored in the plastic bags to retain their moisture. Even though moisture-laden plastic bags aid in the development of mold, these breads come with preservatives that slow down the early onset of mold growth.
Artisanal breads should be stored in paper bags. Artisanal breads remain crispy when stored in paper bags. Bakers that make crusty artisanal breads swear by this mantra. Storing these breads in a plastic bag will only make the crispiness turn spongy.
Use foil to protect the sliced ends of freshly baked breads. Foil is a great material to keep the sliced ends of freshly cooked bread soft.
Artisanal breads can also be left out in the open. Unsliced bread can be left on the counter with the cut side facing down. This is a tested method for home cooked bread or freshly cooked bakery breads. Cover the bread with a kitchen cloth to protect it for a longer time.
 Leftover bread should be frozen to prevent it from going stale. Slice the bread before freezing. Store it in an airtight freezer bag or wrap it in foil.
 Frozen bread would require room temperature thawing bread basket and thaw it properly. You can also toast it in the oven for a little while – not more than five minutes – to regain its crispiness.

