 You’ll likely be doing quite a bit of walking when you go window shopping, so make sure you dress comfortably. Wear shoes that won’t hurt your feet and clothes you can spend the better part of a day in. It is also a good idea to dress in layers so you are prepared for all kinds of weather.
 Window shopping is generally a laid-back, leisure activity. Leave yourself plenty of time to browse shops and make comparisons between merchandise and retailers. If possible, go window shopping on a day where you don’t have any commitments so that you can spend as much time as you want browsing window displays.Stop at each window display that catches your eye and study it. Think about what you like about it, what stands out most to you, and how you might incorporate this style into your wardrobe or décor.
 Inviting a few friends to go window shopping with you can make it even more enjoyable. Make sure you bring friends that want to look at the same kind of stores and intend only to window shop. If one of your friends plans to buy items while you’re window shopping, you could be setting yourself up for an unpleasant day.
 Depending on your window shopping goals, you might want to take some brief notes while you’re looking at window displays. Carry a small notepad and pen, or use a notes app on your phone to jot down ideas, prices, locations, and any other information you might be looking to gather that day. For example, take a picture of a living room set up you really like, or jot down how much a TV stand you love costs so you can compare it to similar items you find.


Be careful you don’t let note-taking take over your window shopping experience. Window shopping is meant to be a leisure activity so if you make it too much about gathering information it might not be as fun anymore., Window shopping is all about relaxing, so allow yourself to take breaks throughout the day. For example, meet a friend for coffee or lunch, or just sit down on a bench and people watch for a while. Staying relaxed will make your window shopping experience all the more enjoyable!

