 Look online and in the wanted sections of newspapers for available valet positions, once you feel prepared. If you have a specific business in mind, a bold move can be to personally bring your resume to the boss, and introduce yourself.


If going to an actual place of business, be sure to dress professionally. Ask about their application process and see if they have any open positions. Leave them with your contact information, or your business card, so that they can contact you if a job becomes available.
 Once you find the job of your dreams, you will need to provide personal information so that the employer can decide whether or not you are a right fit for the role. You may be required to fill out details about your past employment, your driving record, and your criminal record. Be prepared to give names and contact details of individuals who can speak on your behalf as references as well.
 Your cover letter, along with your resume, is a chance to introduce yourself to future employers. It should be a one-page write-up that highlights the skills you have that make you the perfect candidate for the valet job.Along with your qualifications for the position, your cover letter should discuss what it is that excites you about working for a particular employer. Be sure to customize each cover letter and proofread.
Include contact information on your cover letter so that the interviewer can easily get in touch with you.
 Wear clothes that are comfortable and conservative. A suit or pantsuit and dress shoes show the employer that you are professional.Valet attendants are customer-facing, and agencies will want to hire someone who will make their company look good.Get ready to answer questions about why you are interested in becoming a valet driver. If you have had a good experience with valet parking in the past, practice telling that story so that you can deliver it smoothly during the interview.
Bring all of the necessary documents to your interview. You will need to bring your driver's license and proof of insurance. You should bring your resume and cover letter to your interview as well. Bring a pen and a notebook to show your organization and professionalism. You never know when you might need to take notes!

, Emphasizing your interest in working for a specific company gives the employer assurance that you would make a good hire. Stress that you would want to stay with the company for a long time. Be sure to let the employer know why you’d be the perfect candidate for the job. An optimistic and energetic attitude can go a long way.


Introduce yourself with a smile and a firm handshake to exhibit confidence. Eye contact is also important to convey that you are present and attentive.Thank your interviewer at the end of the interview. They took the time to meet with you, so you want to make them feel appreciated.
 After your interview, send a thank you card to show your gratitude. This will make a memorable first impression. Reach out with a letter or a friendly email, and ask if there is anything more you can do in order to help them come to a decision.