 Ignition assemblies are easily replaced in most vehicles and can be done at home by most hobby mechanics. Before getting started, you will need to order a replacement assembly from your local auto parts store. Be sure to give them the exact year, make and model of your vehicle to get the correct replacement part.Vehicle manufacturers don’t change part numbers often and obtaining the correct replacement from part stores is not usually an issue.
Purchase a new ignition lock assembly prior to the removal of a failed assembly. Compare the two and verify the replacement is an identical match before attempting reinstallation.
 Generally, most vehicles have a split-plastic housing that covers the steering column and ignition lock assembly. Remove this plastic cover by first adjusting the tilt-wheel to its lowest position and then removing the fasteners holding the cover in place. In some vehicles, the cover will include the portion above and below the steering wheel, while in others the ignition cover will be separate.If it's not equipped with an adjustable steering column, remove the steering column support brace under the dashboard and allow the column to hang.
Remove the fasteners from the column cover, separate the two halves and remove the plastic.
 Identify the ignition assembly and remove any trim components that prevent access to the ignition wire harness connector and tumbler release hole. Insert a 9/32” Allen wrench into the release hole while turning the ignition key backward.Use the ignition key to pull the entire assembly out by pulling it toward the passenger side of the car.
Take care to unplug the ignition switch wire connector as you remove the ignition cylinder.
 Once the ignition assembly is removed, compare the new switch and ensure they match. New ignition switches come pre-lubed from the factory ready to install. Verify the presence of grease on all external moving parts and ensure the new key fits and that the cylinder rotates smoothly in both directions.If the ignition cylinder is not properly greased, apply liquid graphite or similar grease to the cylinder.
Purchase grease at your local auto parts store if necessary.
 You can make sure the internal lock pins move properly by inserting the key completely in and out of the keyhole several times. The key should not get caught or stuck on its way into our out of the key hole.Sticking lock pins are lubricated using powdered graphite that is applied directly inside the keyhole.
Graphite comes in small tubes designed to “squirt” the powder with enough force to reach the back of any keyhole. It can be added when needed.
 When satisfied the new assembly matches the old one and is properly lubricated, slide the cylinder into position and make sure it is locked in place. Reconnect the switch plug and reinstall any trim components previously removed.Rotate the cylinder forward using the key until you head it click into place.
Be sure to plug the ignition wire switch into the new cylinder before sliding it into place.
 Before securing the steering column (if disconnected) and plastic cover, check to make sure the engine will start and steering wheel lock will /disengage. Do so by inserting the key and turning it while applying pressure to the wheel in the opposite direction of the lock pin.Steering column bolts usually have torque specifications which are located in the vehicle’s repair manual, in the specification section.
If no torque specs are found, tighten bolts firmly using a long handled ratchet for leverage. Column bolts must be secure to ensure they don’t vibrate loose while driving.

