 There are two basic categories of ADHD medication: stimulants (such as methylphenidate and amphetamine) and non-stimulants (such as guanfacine and atomoxetine). Hyperactivity is treated successfully with stimulant medication because the brain circuitry being stimulated is responsible for controlling impulsivity and improving focus.Stimulants (Ritalin, Concerta, and Adderall) help regulate neurotransmitters (norepinephrine and dopamine). These medications can be short-acting or longer-acting. This means that the effects of the medication can last a short period of time, which can be useful for individuals who can manage their ADHD most of the time, or some medications can last throughout the day.Non-stimulants boost norepinephrine, a chemical in the brain that seems to help with attention span.These types of medications are longer-lasting as well.
 Stimulants have fairly common side effects of decreased appetites and trouble sleeping. Sleep issues often can be resolved by lowering the dosage.


Your child’s psychiatrist or pediatrician may also add a prescription to improve sleeping such as clonidineor melatonin.
For children ages 4-5, the primary treatment approach recommended is behavioral modification and parent training, with the option to use methylphenidate if behavioral techniques do not fully manage symptoms.Combination of behavioral therapy is recommended along with medication for all age groups, Non-stimulant medications may work better for some persons with ADHD. Non-stimulant anti-depression medications are often used to treat ADHD. These help regulate neurotransmitters (norepinephrine and dopamine).


Some of the side effects are more worrisome than others. For instance, youth taking atomoxetine must be monitored closely for the potential of having suicidal thoughts. Some side effects for guanfacine include sleepiness, headache, and irritability., Deciding on the right form, dosage, and specific prescription of medication is tricky because people respond uniquely to different medications. Work with your child's doctor and the most recent research to find the right form and dosage for your child.


For example, many medications can be taken in an extended-release format, which eliminates the need to deal with dosing at school. Some individuals decline regular usage of medication, taking it only in situations when they need the medication. In these cases, individuals want a fast-acting version.
For older children who learn to compensate for their ADHD challenges, medication may become unnecessary or be reserved for using during special occasions, such as when taking college entrance exams or finals.
 Children will probably need extra reminders and assistance in order to take their medication regularly. A weekly pill container can help parents keep track of medications.If you child is taking stimulant medication, it is highly recommended that parents control medication storage and monitor its use because the DEA classifies stimulants as having a high abuse potential.
 The medication’s effectiveness may change depending on certain factors. The effectiveness may change depending on growth spurts, hormonal fluctuations, diet and weight changes, and how fast your child's resistance to the drug builds up. 