 Preventing bad behavior before it even begins is critical. Learn the patterns of your child’s behavior so you can be prepared to take action. For example, if you know your child is going to call for your attention during an important phone call, engage her in a puzzle or a TV show that will hold her attention for the duration of your call.Be clear with your child, telling her exactly what is going to happen. For example, before your phone call, say something like “Mommy will be on the phone for ten minutes. I need you not to interrupt me. I have put in your Ice Age DVD and have some yummy apples for you. When I am done on the phone, I will come cuddle and snack with you!”
If you know that your child tends to act out when he/she is sleepy or hungry, make sure that he/she has enough snacks and gets a good night’s sleep.
 Good communication is the single most important tool in your parenting toolbox. When your child misbehaves, take the time to ask your child what happened, and listen to her when he/she explains.For example, say your son/daughter has hit his/her friend. Ask him/her what happened. You might discover that he/she hit his/her friend because the friend wouldn’t share a toy, or because he/she is hungry or sleepy and not able to express those feelings appropriately.
Restate what your child has told you. This is an active listening technique, and modeling it for your children will help develop their communication skills.For example, you could say, “I’m hearing you say that you felt angry that your friend wouldn’t share. Is that right?”

, Once you have listened, take the opportunity to point out areas for growth in your child’s behavior.For example, you might tell your son/daughter, “You were feeling angry because your friend wouldn’t share. It isn’t fun to feel upset, is it?” When he/she agrees, you can follow up with “When you hit your friend, it made him/her feel upset, too. Do you think he/she likes feeling upset?” This type of dialogue will encourage your child to think about how others feel and the consequences of her actions.
 It’s important to help your kids make a plan for what to do when they experience emotions that upset them and could lead to acting out. This type of behavior plan is often used for children with ADHD, but it’s a good idea for all children.For example, you and your son/daughter could come up with a plan that includes the following steps for the next time he/she feels upset:


Take a few deep breaths.
Spend some time in another room to calm down.
Explain what made him/her upset.
Work out the solution to his/her problem with a parent, or between his/her sibling or friends.
 Often, children will act out because they don’t understand why they are supposed to follow the rules and expectations you have set. Explain to your child exactly why he/she has to follow the rule you have set him/her.


For example, if your son/daughter throws his/her toys around, you could tell him/her: “We have a rule that you can’t throw your toys. Throwing your toys could break them or hurt someone. It’s dangerous, and that’s why you are not allowed to do it.”
Try reminding your child about the “why” the first time or two he/she breaks the rule. For example, if you see your son/daughter throwing his/her toy, ask him/her, “Why do we have the rule about not throwing toys?” This will encourage him/her to remember why he/she is not permitted to throw toys.
 Following through with your words and fulfilling your promises begins to establish trust and respect for you as a parent. If you tell your child you will cuddle with him/her, make sure to do so. Otherwise, your child will not trust you and will be more likely to act out and “call your bluff”.Children are smart and will remember what you say. They will also try to push the boundaries. You must stay true to your convictions and set limits for your children.
You also must follow through when you are correcting bad behaviors. If you tell your child that you will take away his/her toys if he continues to throw them, then be sure to take them away if the bad behavior continues, regardless of your child’s inevitable protests.
 Try giving the power to your child by giving him/her options in a situation. Be strategic in the options you provide him/her by making both options acceptable behaviors. For example, say something like, “You can either get dressed for school right now or eat breakfast first.” Either way, they are doing what you want in a way you deem acceptable.Try offering your children extreme options that give them no choice but to behave. For example, “You can choose to stay here with your friend but share and be nice, or you can choose to leave.” This way the child is forced to behave well if he/she wants to continue to have fun.
 Your child is likely throwing toys while you are on a call to get attention. If you teach your child to instead ask nicely and wait patiently for attention, he will get the same result while behaving appropriately.


If you are asking your child to wait a few more minutes before he/she will receive attention, try using a timer to give both of you a concrete idea of how long until the child gets what you promised.
 Children seek and need attention, and will look for it in both positive and negative ways. Providing positive reinforcement helps your child learn what they are doing well, and makes them want to repeat that good behavior.Be very specific in your praises, by saying things like “Great job cleaning your room like I asked. Thank you!” or “That was really wonderful how you shared your toys with your friends." Or, you can also try subtle positive reinforcement with smiles, nods, and hugs.

