 The beauty of this method is that you can make beautiful, brightly colored lipstick in just about any shade of the rainbow. Use broken crayons you already have lying around or buy a brand new box just for the purpose of making lipstick. You'll need one crayon per tube.


Choose a crayon brand that is known to make crayons that are safe to ingest in small quantities. Since kids often put crayons in their mouths, many brands are tested to ensure they aren't toxic. Choose a box of crayons that is labeled as such. Do not use oil pastels or other professional art supplies, since these are not regulated in the same way as children's crayons.Sniff the crayons before you buy the box. You're going to be putting this on your lips, after all, so you want to make sure you get crayons that don't have a strong smell.
 If you try to heat the crayon without using a double boiler, it will burn. Unwrap the paper label and discard it. Place the crayon in the top section of the double boiler and heat it over medium heat until it has melted.








You can make your own double boiler with two saucepans, a large one and a smaller one. Place a few inches of water in the large saucepan and set the smaller pan inside, so that it's floating on the water. Put the crayon in the smaller saucepan, then place the contraption over medium heat and let the crayon melt.
You might want to use an old pan to melt the crayon, since it can be difficult to clean off.
 You can use olive oil, almond oil, jojoba oil, or coconut oil. Stir in a little less than 1 tsp (5 ml) with the melted wax until the ingredients are completely combined.
 A few drops of essential oil help mask the smell of the crayon. Try rose, peppermint, lavender, or another type of essential oil. Make sure the essential oil is safe to use on or around your lips.
 Use an old lipstick or chapstick tube, a small cosmetics pot, or any other container with a lid. After carefully pouring the hot liquid into the containers, put them in the refrigerator to let the lipstick harden.







