 The foundation of every good relationship is solid communication. Whether you are communicating via e-mail, phone, or face to face, you want to make sure that you communicate clearly and effectively with your colleagues. Good relationships rely on open, honest communication.Choose your words carefully. Make sure that you clearly articulate your points and state exactly what you mean. This will help avoid confusion about goals or expectations.
Listen actively. Communication includes listening. Demonstrate to your co-workers that you are paying attention by asking follow up questions and paraphrasing some of their statements.;
, It is important to remember that everyone is different. Each person that you work with brings a different attribute to your workplace. While they might not be the type of person you are used to, try to focus on their positive characteristics.For example, you might not be used to working with members of a creative team. Creatives tend to work differently from others, which sometimes means they are not as structured. Instead of being irritated when someone does not immediately reply to your e-mail, remember that they are bringing something else to the team.
 Mutual respect means that you exhibit respect for your colleagues and they reciprocate. Find ways to show that you truly value your colleagues contribution to your workplace. Let them know that you consider them (and their work) important.One way to demonstrate respect is to offer positive affirmations. For example, you could say, "Sally, I really admire the way you handled yourself with that difficult client. Not everyone can remain so calm under pressure."

, Being mindful means practicing a deeper level of awareness. Pay careful attention to your words and your actions. If you act or speak without thinking, you might be damaging work relationships without even realizing it. Try thinking about your words before you actually say them.Take a 30 second break each hour. You can do this right at your desk. Take some time to reflect on how your day has gone so far, and what you have coming up next. Give some thought to how you will handle your next challenge.
Being mindful will not only help you feel more in control, it will make you look calm and collected to your co-workers.
 One of the best ways to build positive relationships is to make time to learn about people. The next time you are early to a meeting, take a minute to chat with those around you. Small talk might not seem like much, but it can actually help you discover things that you have in common with your office mates.Ask questions. People like to talk about themselves, so ask how their kid's birthday party was, or if they are enjoying their new puppy.

