 You want to have healthy, radiant skin. In order to achieve this, it's good to begin with a skin care regimen. Even if you do not have acne, it's still important to prevent it. Cleanse your face with a gentle cleanser. Fragrance-free cleansers are recommended.


Pat your face dry, don't rub.;
, This step is important because you do not want dry or oily skin. Moisturizing will control both of these. It will also help your makeup glide on smoothly.
 This step is optional. Mineral foundation will even out your skin tone and cover up any discoloration and conceal blemishes.
 These include under the eyes, the sides of the nostrils, and the sides of the mouth. Many people have under-eye circles, so concealing those will instantly add to your appearance. The sides of the nostrils and the mouth are areas that are usually red. Also, conceal other places that are red, or have blemishes.


Apply a wash of eyeshadow all over your lids. Use an eyeshadow color that is slightly darker than your natural lid color.






Now, take a color that is lighter than your lid color and apply it on your brow bones, and the inner corner of your eyes, including the area around the tear ducts. This will bring more light into your eyes.






Lastly, take a color slightly darker than your first color (the wash that you applied over your lids), and apply this lightly to the crease of your eye. This can be tricky, but practice makes perfect.






Blend. But not too much, you don't want it to look sloppy.\

, You can use liquid, gel, cream, powder, or pencil, it's up to you. Liquid liner can be difficult to apply, and too dramatic for this look. Brown or black works best.

Line your top lid, as close to the lash line as you can get.






You can wing it out if you wish, but do it subtly.
You can line the bottom waterline/lashline if desired.
 You can use eyebrow pencil/powder, or eyeshadow. Your brows frame your eyes and draw attention to them. Groom them with a brow comb and keep them neat and groomed. Pluck them if needed.
 Brown or clear looks most natural, but black is still suitable if you only apply one coat.


Skim over the bottom lashes if desired.
 It should be similar to your natural blushing color. Put it on the apples of your cheeks.
, Confidence is beautiful.

