


Get your passport ready. You must possess a valid Indian Passport at least one year before your planned travel.
You must have the prerequisite educational qualification. If you are applying for a MS course, you must have a requisite degree from a University Grant Commission affiliated, recognized, or listed University in India, with the required qualifying grades.
You must pass the GRE test. Most universities in the USA insist on GRE scores for admission to graduate programs.
You must take the TOEFL test and have the grades ready with you.
You or your parents must be financially strong to bear the costs towards your education, your stay and your other expenses. Depending on the School or University, the cost could be between Rs. 40 to 50 Lacks for two years of graduate school studies.
You need to show an amount equivalent to one year's cost in the form of Bank deposit, and the source to fund the second year's cost.;
,, Short list about 4 to 5 institutions.
Use the Free Guidance and information about the universities available at United States India Education Foundation (USIEF)
September - December - Get letters of recommendations (at least two) from your teachers. Complete your application forms. Attach all available Marks Memo transcripts. Attach copies of GRE, TOEFL, and other exam transcripts. Ensure that the form is complete. Check the attachments. Send the complete applications to the correct address through reliable international courier having regular service to the United States. Continue to check the status of the application online periodically.
April-June is the time you will get your I-20 or rejection letter. Select your school or university, fill the required form and send it to them. Please send a courteous regret letter to the institutions you have rejected.
,


Fill the form correctly and completely.
,, A VISA fee equivalent to $140 USD has to be paid in Indian currency at the designated branches of HDFC Bank. You should carry your passport to the Bank.
 Make your VISA appointment through the VFS website. Select the date from among the dates available, download the form, fill the form correctly and completely and submit.
 Wait patiently until you are called. Answer all questions honestly and confidently.

