 It is recommended that you make an appointment with your gynecologist before the procedure so that the procedure can be explained in detail. The doctor will explain how the surgery is performed along with the risks that are involved.


Any vaginal surgery best performed when the woman is not on her period, therefore proper planning is essential. This helps to reduce the risk of developing an infection.
As this procedure is performed in order to tighten the muscles of the vagina, it is usually only recommended for women who don't intend to have any more children, as giving birth puts a strain on the muscles.;
, Before your surgery, you will need to provide both blood and urine samples. The blood same will be tested to check the amount of hemoglobin in the blood and ensure that the patient is in good health.


It will also help to determine whether it is safe for the women to go through with surgery, as the woman may lose a lot of blood during the procedure.
The urine sample is used to ensure that the woman is definitely not pregnant before going ahead with the surgery.
 This is very important, especially for the patients who are on blood thinning drugs, because these medications increase the risk of bleeding after surgery. The woman should stop taking these drugs approximately two weeks before the surgery to ensure that there is no risk of increased bleeding.
 It's important to cut out smoking because the nicotine in cigarettes reduces the size of the blood vessels (this is known as vasoconstriction) which can prolong the healing process.


Alcohol also needs to be cut out before the surgery because it increases the amount of toxins in the body, which can also interfere with the healing process.
 This is important, as salt increases fluid retention in the body's tissues, which may lead to increased swelling after the surgery. Therefore, cutting down on salt helps to prevent excess swelling and speed up the healing process.
 The woman is advised to drink 6 to 8 glasses of water a day in the weeks running up to the surgery. This helps to flush toxins from the body which could slow down the healing process.
 It's a good idea to fill any necessary prescriptions before the surgery, so that any necessary medications will be easily at hand after the procedure. This is especially important when it comes to the antibiotic and pain medications that will be necessary after the surgery, as these will ensure that the woman remains free of infection and pain.
 It's recommended that the patient take a couple of days off work to go through with the procedure allow for recovery time.


The amount of time needed will depend on the type of work that the woman is involved in, as jobs that are very active or require heavy lifting can interfere with healing and will require more time off.
Most people will take approximately five days off before they resume work.
 This helps to clear the digestive tract, especially the small intestine and the colon. There are different methods that can be used to clear the gut and this will depend on the surgeon advice and the patient’s preference.


Some surgeons will prescribe laxative medications, while others will simply advise the patient to drink a lot of fluids. This helps to ensure that the bowel is clear when the operation is being performed.
It also allows the vagina time to heal after the operation because the patient won't need to pass stool again for some time. This helps to prevent infection at the incision side.
The patient will also be advised to drink plenty of fluids after the operation as this helps to enhance the healing process.
 This helps to reduce the risk of infection. It also provides a good working field for the surgeon as they are able to see the operation site more clearly.
 This may be a close friend or a relative that the patient can call when they are ready to be taken home. Keep in mind that this will usually be 24 hours after the procedure, as the woman will need to stay in the hospital for close observation immediately following the procedure to ensure that she is stable enough for discharge.
 A vaginoplasty can be performed under general anesthesia, where the patient is made to sleep throughout the procedure.


It can also be performed under sedation, where the patient is given a short-acting sedative drug which enables them to sleep while the procedure is being done but wake up just a few minutes afterwards.
The patient is encouraged to be honest with the surgeon and ask any questions. The patient is also encouraged to raise any fears or concerns that they may have concerning the surgery so that they can be explained in detail and their fears can be allayed.
 It is important for the patient (and her partner) to be aware that she will need to abstain from sexual intercourse after surgery in order to give the vagina time to heal and prevent infection


The woman should go for regular check-ups with her surgeon/doctor following the procedure to check on the healing. The doctor will then be able to advise on when it is safe for her to have sex again. This usually takes approximately a month but this can vary from one patient to another depending on how the procedure has been performed.
However, the patient does not need to abstain from sex before the procedure, in fact she can still engage in sex up to a day before the surgery.

