 Wedding photos are heirlooms the family will treasure for years. To produce high quality work, you should use high quality equipment. Start with mid-range products--you can always upgrade later. Talk to retailers and other photographers to see what they recommend.You’ll need a tripod and a monopod, camera bags, lenses, 4 GB memory cards, a flash, and a camera.
Rent your gear before you purchase. This will give you a trial period to see if it works for you.;
, You need to know your photography equipment in and out. That way, you’ll be able to focus on getting the perfect shot when the wedding day arrives. Go through your camera’s owner’s manual, take photos in tons of different conditions, and consider taking a photography class or workshop.Make sure you know how to handle your equipment in different lighting conditions and when the subject is moving quickly., While taking classes isn’t necessary to becoming a wedding photographer, it can definitely help. Consider taking classes at your university, local community college, or online.Photography classes can help you get a feel for technique and equipment fundamentals. If you are in college, consider majoring or minoring in photography.
 Every photographer has their own style. This style isn’t fixed. Rather, it’s constantly evolving as the photographer grows. To develop your own style, look to your favorite photographers for inspiration. See what elements you like, and try to bring them to life in your own work.

There are two kinds of wedding photography: traditional, which involves classic, posed photos, and photojournalistic, which involves more candid photos. Your own style might lean towards one, or blend the two., In order to grow creatively and develop your own photography style, you’ll need to take risks. Try different angles and color schemes, and test different techniques. Just remember that the wedding is not the place for radical experimentation.While you can--and should--experiment with some shots at the wedding, avoid turning the entire shoot into a creative experiment.
 Wedding photographers often spend more time editing their photos than they do actually taking them. It’s a good idea to become proficient in photo editing softwares like Photoshop and Lightroom by watching online tutorials or attending workshops, and practicing on your own, of course.Consider your personal photography style when editing your photos. Your finished photos should reflect your style.
 One of the best ways to learn is to watch others who have mastered the craft. Ask local wedding photographers you admire if you can shadow them during a photoshoot or work as an assistant. Pay close attention and take notes if you need to.Working as an assistant to an established wedding photographer is a great way to get into the industry.
 Having a portfolio of your work is key for any aspiring wedding photographer. A website is a great place to house your portfolio. On your website, clients can learn more about your business while browsing through your work.Your online portfolio is a digital representation of your business, so make sure it looks professional. Your website should have a consistent style and easy-to-navigate format.
One way to build your portfolio is to offer to work for free. You can help out a professional wedding photographer, or offer to shoot a friend's wedding free of charge. You’ll gain valuable experience while getting shots for your portfolio., Joining a photography organization is a great way to connect with other wedding photographers and learn more about your art. These organizations also offer great networking opportunities. Your new photographer friends can give you referrals!Organizations like Wedding and Portrait Photographers International (WPPI) offer strategies, tips, and equipment reviews for professional wedding photographers.
Try to find a photography group in your area. If you can’t find one, consider starting your own.
 Talk to you clients via phone or video chat before they hire you to make sure both parties know what to expect stylistically. Tell them about your style principles, and encourage them to look through your portfolio again.Maybe your clients want a more formal style, and yours is more candid. You can either refer the clients to a different photographer, or adjust your own style a bit for the shoot. However, don’t compromise too much--it’s important that you have a coherent style as a wedding photographer.
 The wedding day is brimming with photo opportunities, and you can’t seize them all. To ensure you don’t miss any must-have photos, sit down with the couple before the shoot to discuss the photos they want the most.Maybe the bride really wants a photo with her best friend, or one of her mother adjusting her veil. Talk about these essential photos beforehand so you can plan ahead.
 You should definitely give the clients access to the digital files of the photos, but you may want to include some prints as well. Discuss what is expected in your initial meeting with your clients.You should also establish a time frame for delivery. Should the couple expect the photos in 2 weeks, or 2 months?

, Visiting the venue prior to the wedding will allow you to get your bearings. Take some test shots to see how the lighting looks, and look for any especially picturesque spots.You should also attend the rehearsal dinner, if possible. This will help prepare you for the big day, and gives you another opportunity to get some great shots.
 Sometimes, you’ll need to move things along to make sure the wedding stays on schedule. If the family wants to take endless photos before the reception, but there simply isn’t enough time, it’s alright to kindly tell them so.Say something like, “We’ve already taken a lot of photos, and I think they turned out well, but now it’s time for the couple to head to the reception.”

, Known as “Uncle Bobs” in the industry, these are guests who threaten to ruin wedding photos by standing in the way, often holding Ipads or cameras of their own. If such a guest is in the way of one of your shots, politely ask them to move.Try saying something like, “Can you please move a bit to the side? I can’t see the bride, and I want these photos to turn out well for the couple. Thank you!”

, You’ll get the best photos when people feel relaxed around you. Be friendly and warm. Strike up conversations with the wedding guests. You’ll be rewarded with more natural-looking photos., While your photos should focus on the people at the wedding, don’t forget to photograph the little details, like a champagne glass on a table, or the wedding cake. While they may be small, these details can make a huge difference., Always back up your photos on another disc drive. This will ensure you don’t lose all of your hard work, and will give you peace of mind., Bring extra cameras and lenses on your trip. If anything goes wrong with your primary camera on the wedding day, you’ll need to be prepared., The job of a wedding photographer can be pretty physically demanding. You might be carrying up to twelve pounds of photography gear for eight to ten hours on the wedding day. Wear comfortable shoes on the job, and see a doctor for any aches and pains.You might need to hire a helper to carry some of your gear.
 As a wedding photographer, you’ll essentially be running your own business, so an understanding of business is key. Business classes, or even a business degree, can give you a better feel for the business side of the industry.Try taking business classes at your university, online, or at your community college. If you can’t take classes, try to read some books about business.
 If you are a novice or wedding photography is a hobby, you probably shouldn’t charge very much. However, once you have established yourself professionally, you should price your work according to the market. Avoid severely under-pricing in an effort to beat out competition, or as a favor to friends. Your business won’t be sustainable if you do.Calculate your profits by subtracting your expenses from your revenue to see how much you’re really earning. An accountant can help you keep your finances in order.
 Getting a business license can enhance the credibility of your wedding photography business, and depending on where you live, it may be required., A contract is a legally binding document that will protect you and your clients in case something goes wrong. If you are photographing weddings professionally, it’s important that you never take a job without a contract., Once you have established your professional wedding photography business, it’s a good idea to get insurance. Liability insurance protects you if, for some reason, you are unable to complete your normal duties, while malpractice insurance protects you in case of accidental injury or damage to your gear.Some professional photography organizations cover insurance.

