 By learning the same material in different modes, you will increase your ability to remember it.Regardless of preferences, everyone can benefit from learning the same information visually, aurally, textually, and so on.


Many people feel or have been told that they are more of a “visual learner,” an “auditory learner,” and so on. There’s no evidence to suggest, though, that learning mainly in your preferred mode is advantageous.Instead, it’s helpful to learn in as many different modes as possible.
 Music accesses different parts of the brain, and the ability to remember music seems to have evolved earlier than the ability to process language.Singing about your topic helps you store that information in a different part of your brain.


If you’re studying a foreign language, learn a familiar children’s song in that language to solidify vocabulary. For example, “Heads, Shoulders, Knees, and Toes” will help you memorize that language’s words for major body parts.
You probably learned to count partly through nursery rhymes such as “Five Green and Speckled Frogs.”Make up similar silly songs about concepts in trigonometry or calculus – it still works!
Share your song with your study group. Singing in a group has profound benefits for your brain., This method builds on the importance of creating mental associations with an idea in order to remember it. A short scenario or picture in your mind will create a richer set of associations and allow you to remember abstract ideas more concretely.


Memorize the difference between the mathematical concepts of “zero slope” and “no slope” by picturing a skier. When the skier gets to a vertical cliff, she will scream, “No slope!”

, This is a visual representation of a set of related ideas. Use words and drawings as well as arrows to indicate relationships.

Concept maps can be very helpful in representing and remembering hierarchical relationships. However, they can also foster creativity, because it’s possible to visualize relationships in many dimensions instead of along one single line.The flow chart is one kind of concept map.It represents a procedure or decision-making process, representing steps in symbols and connecting those steps using arrows.
 These are devices to aid memory, often using poems, sayings, or initials. They should be catchy, funny, and easy to repeat.For example, the order of the planets can be remembered using the phrase “My Very Educated Mother Just Served Us Nachos” (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Uranus, Neptune).
The fates of King Henry VIII's six wives is often remembered through a simple, mostly-accurate poem: “Divorced, Beheaded, Died; Divorced, Beheaded, Survived.”

