 All you are required to have is an email, Facebook account, google plus account or Instagram account. If you are using email, you will also need to create a username and password.


Certain characters are not allowed in making a username.
You will have to be 13 years or older, along with other requirements (see Terms and Conditions).;
, Shortly after signing up for Wattpad, you’ll receive verification email. Once you find the email, open the link embedded in the email. This will verify your account.
 After creating an account you’ll be asked to fill out some basic information for your profile. If you linked your Facebook, Google account, or Instagram, then your profile will automatically fill your profile picture. Upload a picture if you want to if you didn’t link a social network.Fill in a brief description of yourself in the bio section.
 The top menu bar has Discover (find stories, and you can search specifically), Create (write and share stories) and Community (clubs, awards, writing contests, writers and etc.). Along with these is a button with your profile picture and your username. Once that is clicked, it will have a drop down with profile, inbox (a messaging system, like texting), notifications (updated stories you read, comments on your profile and works, followers and following, etc.), works (your stories, shared and unshared, library (stories you read), invite friends, language, help, settings (username, password, email, profile picture, background picture, etc.) and finally, logout.
 Once you login to Wattpad, it’ll instantly take you to your library, showing all of the stories you’re reading. If you tap the small "w" in the top left corner, it has a drop down menu. In this is your name and profile picture (leading you to your profile), a bell icon (for notifications), a letter icon (for inbox), library (where you should be), discover, reading lists (you can create these, it's basically like making miniature, organized libraries), news feed (like community), create, invite friends and settings.

