 Don't stop at Twitter and Facebook. There is also the rest of the internet, your cell phone (and even the landline phone), word-of-mouth within your walkable community, chatrooms, posters, advertisements. While some of these are more old-fashioned than others, they're still forms of social or citizenry media when produced by the average citizen seeking to engage others in constructive political or social change. Neglecting these other tools can lessen your overall impact. Think laterally and make use of the many possible ways, including ones yet to be thought of – perhaps it's you who will come up with more ideas for inter-citizenry connectivity. For the moment, some great ways to get people interested, concerned, and motivated about a particular cause include (and while these could be alone, they're probably best done in combinations):



Facebook group: Make a Facebook group. This will let you maintain regular updates, links, and analysis.

Hashtags: Develop a hashtag on Twitter. And keep your own Twitter updates informative, thoughtful, relevant, and current as the issue unfolds and increases.

Photos: Use photos on sites like Flickr and Picasa, or through Twitter and Facebook. Graphic images can have tremendous impact on people; images of war have always helped people to better understand the horrors, for instance.

Videos: Use video. Add videos to YouTube that show the issue, or are discussions or analyses about the issue. Other successful methods might include photo collages with information superimposed, or even background information for those who might not yet grasp all the issues (never assume anything!).

Interviews: Use interviews with people directly affected. If you're in the thick of it, do some citizen journalism and post online, either video or audio. Provide some analysis if needed.

Email lists: For example, when your cause celebrates a victory, it's a great idea to do a round-up of the issues and outcome for all your supporters on your email list, such as when a law case is successful in preventing an environmental disaster, or a revolution succeeds and you'd like to thank your social media network for their engagement in the issue.

Surveys or petitions: Avaazis a great example of a site that gets people to sign petitions about major causes, with the aim of being a campaigning community bringing people-powered politics to decision-making worldwide. Sending an email out or using Twitter and Facebook and asking people to sign a petition can be another effective way of getting support and spreading the word.

Texting: Use texting on phones. Something as simple as the campaign used by Philippine protest in 2001 where people sent messages "Go 2 ESDA. Wear blk"can be very effective in getting people to one place, wearing colors of solidarity.

Advertisements: Fill commonly frequented spaces with ads, such as the current Washington DC metro ad campaign to close Guantanamo. This should segue into social media tools by providing web addresses, Twitter and Facebook links, etc., so that people can check out for more details online and continue following.

Good old print media: And don't forget booklets, pamphlets, stickers, and other print items if you're on-the-ground. These old-fashioned methods of information-spreading may be a lot older than the internet but people who rally or demonstrate are just as willing to accept a printed item that might update them on happenings or offer advice and resources. And if the communications systems are clogged by interfering authorities, then the printed word passed out by hand still counts.

