 Get two blank notebooks and label one the agenda book and one the solutions book. The agenda book will be for any issues or problems in the classroom and the solutions book will be for any solutions or answers to the issues or problems. You will collaborate with the class to address any issues noted in the agenda and work together to write down possible solutions in the solutions book.This form of discipline, known as democratic discipline, will help to reinforce critical thinking in the classroom and get your students actively involved in finding solutions to issues or problems. As the teacher, you will facilitate these discussions and make suggestions, but you will also rely on the students to provide ideas and feedback.
 On the first day of school, present the two books to the class. Start by explaining that the classroom is going to be a space where all students are respected and their opinions are heard. You can also reinforce that you will be depending on the class to come up with solutions to issues or problems that arise during the school year. You will help to guide these discussions, but you also want the students to feel they can discuss and create solutions on their own.You can then show the class an issue or problem from last year that you wrote down in the agenda book. For example, you may discuss issues that came up during the line up for lunch. In the line up, some students got annoyed or hurt when other students cut them off or pushed them as they tried to get in line.
 Ask the class for suggestions on how to line up in a respectful way. As students start to provide possible solutions, write them on the board. Write down every student’s solution, even solutions that seem silly or improbable.For example, you may have solutions like calling the students in alphabetical order to line up, allowing boys to line up first, having students run as fast as they can to the front of the line, or calling each table in random order to line up.
 You will then tell the class that because this is your problem, you will analyze the pros and cons of each solution and choose one to try out for a week. Explain to the class that: “whoever has the problem gets to choose the solution.” Analyze each solution out loud so the class can listen to your reasoning.For example, you might begin with: “If I choose the boys before the girls, then the girls will be left out and we don’t want that. But if I call the names in alphabetical order, the A’s will always be first. Running fast to the line up could lead to injuries or more students getting hurt. So, I think I’ll choose the calling each table in random order option.”
Use the solution for the following week when the students line up for lunch and ask the class before they line up, “Who remembers our solution for lining up for lunch?” or “Raise your hand if you remember how we decided to line up.” This will reinforce the decision and show the students that you are willing to put the chosen solution into practice.
 Now that you have established how to use the agenda book and the solution book to the students, encourage them to use the books to record any issues and to discuss possible solutions with the class. Check the agenda book every day and address any issues in the book.Ask the student who wrote down the issue to ask the class for possible solutions for the issue. Once the student has three to four possible solutions, guide her as she decides which solution to try for a week. Acknowledge the solution by asking the class to tell you the agreed upon solution throughout the week and refer to the student who choose the solution by name.
At the end of the week, check in with the student and ask her to tell the class how well or not so well the solution worked. If she discovers the solution works well, you may ask her to decide if that is the solution she is going to use from now on. If the solution did not work so well, work with her to come up with a better solution or to adjust the solution to make it better.
This will allow students to create their own solutions and to work through issues using critical thinking and self awareness. It will also allow you to discipline students in an open and productive way, and to get students to see each issue as having several potential solutions.

