 This then causes the acid to rise from the stomach into the esophagus, resulting in a burning pain in the chest. People with acid reflux may also experience nausea or a feeling like food is stuck in the chest or throat. It sometimes leaves an acidic taste in the mouth.


The condition is usually triggered or worsened by fatty or spicy meals, especially if you lay down after eating.
Alcohol, chocolate, red wine, tomatoes, citrus fruits, peppermint, caffeinated products and coffee can cause acid build up and reflux.
 Acid reflux happens in the esophagus, and lying down encourages stomach acid to flow through it. Sit up to help keep the acid from easily entering the esophagus.


You can also try doing some gentle movement, such as rocking in a chair or walking. This may help to improve your digestion.
 Take these drugs either after meals or after you begin feeling symptoms. You can also find antacids that can be taken before meals to prevent heartburn altogether. Read the instructions on the labels carefully, and take the drugs as directed.



Prilosec is an over the counter proton pump inhibitor that stops acid production in your stomach. Take 1 tablet at least an hour before your meals to slow down acid reflux. Make sure that you read the insert carefully to ensure you understand how this medication will affect your overall digestion.
Zantac works achieves the same effect by blocking receptors for Histamine. Place a tablet in a glass of water and wait for it to dissolve. Drink the mixture 30 to 60 mins before your meal to reduce acid production.
 A mixture of baking soda and water is also known as "sodium bicarbonate," and can be very useful in easing acid reflux pain.Simply mix 1 or 2 tablespoons of baking soda into a glass of water and drink it when you feel chest pain from acid reflux. The bicarbonate found in baking soda will help neutralize the acid.
 Make a cup of chamomile or ginger tea, or add ginger root to your meals. These two herbs can help with digestion, and have a soothing effect on your stomach.


DGL-licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) extract can help coat the mucous lining of the esophagus and prevent the damage and pain of acid reflux.Take 250 to 500 mg capsules three times daily, chewed either one hour before or two hours after meals.If you take this for a prolonged period, visit your doctor to have him check your potassium levels. Licorice can reduce the potassium content in your body, which in turn can cause heart palpitations and arrhythmias.
Buy deglycyrrhizinated capsules to prevent side effects such as swelling.
 Several studies suggest acupuncture can have a positive effect in the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. In a 6 week study, acid reflux patients were given traditional Chinese acupuncture at 4 specific points on the body. The acupuncture group had results similar to the group treated with traditional medication. Tell the acupuncturist to focus on the following areas once a day for a week:Zhongwan (CV 12)
Bilateral Zusanli (ST36)
Sanyinjiao (SP6)
Neiguan (PC6)

, The OTC medication Prilosec is also produced in prescription strength, and may be able to help ease your pain.


Be sure to follow the medication insert’s advisements on changes you may experience in digestion.

