 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of extra virgin olive oil to a small saucepan. Allow the oil to heat over medium heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.You can substitute vegetable or canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.;
, When the oil begins to shimmer, add 2 tablespoons (33 g) of tomato paste. Cook the tomato sauce and oil together over medium heat for 2 minutes.Stir the tomato paste and olive oil regularly as you heat the mixture to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 Once you’ve cooked the tomato paste for a couple of minutes, add ½ cup (80 g) of canned chickpeas that have been drained and rinsed to the pan. Allow the mixture to cook for another 2 minutes.Remember to stir the mixture regularly as you heat it.
 After you’ve cooked the chickpea mixture for another couple of minutes, remove it from the heat. Use a potato masher to mash the chickpea mixture until it reaches the consistency of lumpy mashed potatoes.If you don’t have a potato masher, you can use the back of a large fork or spoon to mash the chickpeas.
 For two grilled sandwiches, you’ll need 4 slices of bread. Set two of them out on your work surface and divide the chickpea mixture between the slices, spreading it evenly across each piece with a knife or spatula.You can use any type of bread that you like for the grilled cheese, but a hearty bread, such as sourdough, multigrain, or ciabatta, is the best option.
 After you’ve spread the chickpea mixture over the two slices of bread, divide ½ cup (115 g) of loosely packed fresh baby spinach between them. Set the spinach over the chickpea spread in an even layer so it’s not falling off the bread.You can substitute arugula or kale for the baby spinach if you prefer.
You can add other vegetables to the sandwich if you like. Sliced tomato, onion, and avocado are tasty options.
 Once you’ve arranged the spinach on bread slices, place two pieces of sliced cheddar cheese on top of the sandwiches. Position the cheese so it covers as much of the other fillings as possible.If you don’t have sliced cheddar, you can use shredded. Just be careful not to pile too much on the sandwich or it will drip out the sides as it melts.
If you are making the sandwiches for multiple people and everyone doesn’t like cheddar, you can substitute any cheese that melts well, such as Swiss, Muenster, provolone, or American.
 When you’ve added the cheese to the sandwiches, set the remaining two slices of bread on top to close them. Press down gently to compact the sandwiches just a bit., After you’ve assembled the sandwiches, add the remaining 1 tablespoon (30 ml) of extra virgin olive oil to a large skillet. Allow it to heat over medium heat until it is shimmering, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.If you prefer, you can substitute butter for the olive oil.
 Once the oil is hot, place the sandwiches in the skillet. Let them cook on the first side for 3 to 4 minutes, or until they are golden brown on the bottom.If you cover the skillet with the sandwiches inside, they will usually cook more quickly.
 When the sandwiches have cooked for a few minutes on the first side, use a wide spatula to carefully flip them over. Allow the sandwiches to cook for another 3 to 4 minutes, or until the other side is also golden brown.Make sure that the cheese is fully melted when you take the sandwiches out of the skillet. If it hasn’t melted, lower the heat and let them cook another couple of minutes.
 Once the sandwiches are finished cooking, use the spatula to lift them out of the skillet. Transfer them to plates, and use a sharp knife in half before serving.The grilled cheeses are especially good served with soup.z

