 They're called fads for a reason, but if you're looking for an...interesting...challenge, pick the one that appeals most to you:


Juicing. This diet takes your food and puts it in liquid form. 24/7, it's juice. You can buy juices just for this purpose at the store in a wide variety, but juicing your own fruits and veggies is much cheaper.
The Master Cleanse Diet. You only drink an elixir of 2 tablespoons (30 g) fresh-squeezed lemon juice, 2 tablespoons grade-B organic maple syrup, 1/10 (.5 g) teaspoon cayenne pepper, and 10 ounces filtered water. That's it.
The Sleeping Beauty Diet. Well, on the upside, you don't have to ingest a tapeworm, but all you can do for days on end is sleep.
The Maple Syrup Diet. Similar to the Master Cleanse, this is a concoction of maple syrup, lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and water. Again, this is all you're allowed.

Fad diets are not healthy. There are no two ways around it. Most people crash after a few days and gain back any weight (and then some) that they may have lost. If you want to lose weight permanently, fad diets are not the way to do it. All in all, they are injurious to your health.
 A trip to the steam room will quickly shed that water weight off of you. You won't lose fat, but you may lose inches.


It's important to stay hydrated and not visit the sauna too often. A 15-20 minute visit once a day is plenty. When you get out, drink a glass of water.
Saunas are not safe for children. It's best to leave them at home (supervised, of course).
 Most spas nowadays offer a plethora of wraps that claim to tone your skin and add to weight loss. Take a gander at what your local spa has to offer and give it a try.


The more common types are mineral, detox, slimming, and cellulite. Each one uses slightly different herbal remedies; pick the one that seems most catered to your needs.

The treatment is relaxing and skin-soothing more than anything. No research has shown that wraps actually pull out or eliminate toxins from your body.



