 Pay as you go minutes or daily rates can last for 30 days or up to a year, depending upon the brand. Prepaid cell plans are usually monthly rates without a contract.


However, sometimes these terms are used interchangeably, since you also "pre-pay" for minutes plans.;
, Taking out the necessity to buy a phone with a wireless provider will save you money.
 Since you can buy a card with a number of minutes on it, there is no need to check your credit for future billing.


Some pay as you go cell phone plans may ask for your billing information. This may be the case with daily rates with the major providers, such as AT&T and Verizon.
 Most places will accept cash payments and reduce your paper trail.
 In this case, a daily rate is ideal, because you will have unlimited calling that day for $3 or less; however, it can stay charged and unused without costing you money most of the time.
 If you have few calls dropped and you are pleased with the rates, you may be able to return and get a better contract.
 In this case, opt for a minutes card. When it is near expiration, the user will get a warning and have time to refill them.
 Some companies, such as Virgin Mobile will sell you a phone for $14.99 and you can use it with a talk and text pay as you go plan.
 If having a new cell phone number is not a problem, then you can avoid racking up roaming charges with your normal phone. It is also a good option if you travel to other countries where you only need it occasionally.
 The pay as you go model is not designed for heavy phone users, and you will end up spending more than you would with a prepaid plan or contract.
 AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon and Boost Mobile offer daily plans that are between $.99 and $3 per day.


Buying prepaid minutes can also be more expensive. In addition, some companies make you pay $20 every 3 months to keep it active.
 Pay as you go plans are best in urban centers, because cell phone towers are common. You may not have the opportunity to choose an affordable pay as you go option in all states.
 Most contracts exclude calls at certain times or to certain numbers. Prepaid phone options rarely have unlimited features.
 Newer models are most likely to work, although they do not need to be smart phones.
 Best Buy keeps all the prepaid and pay as you go options in 1 place so you can do your research.
 In most cases, text messaging will use up your plan quickly and ensure you are charged your daily rate. Make sure you are accounting for text messages ahead of time.



With a daily rate, scrutinize the text message rates and data rates. Ask about roaming charges if you are out of the area.
With a minutes card, ask about activation fees and expiration days. If the minutes expire after 30 days and cannot be used within a longer time, then you may lose them. Also ask about roaming and text message usage.
 Set up billing for monthly rates. You will be charged for what you used at the end of the month.
 Unless you are starting a prepaid phone plan with a company where you have previously had a contract, your number will usually switch. You can activate it from the store or home.
 You may want to switch to a contract or monthly prepaid option if you want unlimited minutes.

