 You can take steps to prevent fatigue by making some changes to your work area. Using a chair that properly fits and supports your body will greatly reduce muscle fatigue and pain caused by computer use. Your chair should have:Armrests that support the weight of your arms. They should be adjustable so that when your forearms are at rest, your elbows are aligned with your waist.
A seat that’s at least an inch wider than your thighs and hips. The seat bottom should also slope downward slightly.
An adjustable base, so that you can place your feet flat on the floor as you work.
Wheels, preferably 5 wheels attached to a 5-point base for maximum support.
A backrest that supports your lumbar (lower back). If your chair doesn’t have lumbar support, try rolling a towel and placing it behind you at your waist., If you do most of your computer work on a laptop, you’ve probably noticed that laptops are not designed for prolonged use. Extended laptop use will cause neck, hand, and wrist fatigue much faster than a standard setup. You can connect a monitor and input devices to your laptop, or use a docking station.
 Your workspace should be laid out so that you can use your computer without wasting energy.


Position the keyboard right in front of you (rather than at an angle) so that your wrists are straight while you type. Sit close to the desk so your arms rest on the chair’s armrests as you type.
Position your monitor at eye level, at least 18 inches from your face.
 Not only does glare make it difficult to see what’s on the screen, but it’s also a leading cause of eye fatigue. If there’s a glare on your screen, tilt it slightly until it’s glare-free (glare is a cause of eye fatigue). If glare is still an issue:


Switch from overhead lighting to lamps.
If glare is coming from the window, use a curtain or blinds to minimize the light.
Move your workspace to a location with less glare, if possible.
Buy a glare-reduction screen or glare-proof monitor.
 Research shows that this is the optimal temperature for productivity.Warmer temperatures can cause fatigue, while cooler temperatures can be distracting.

