 Find other box owners in your area. Talk to those owners about their start-up costs. Ask them how they decided on a first location, found staff and equipment. Also inquire about any difficulties they had to overcome in starting their boxes.Ask how much they pay their trainers so you can offer competitive wages.;
, Start with barbells and bumpers for it, a pull-up bar, medicine ball, kettlebells, jump ropes, gymnastic rings, and plyometric boxes. Add weight benches, rowing machines, and glute ham developers if you want to go a little beyond the basics. Plan to buy enough equipment to serve your initial clientele., Start by measuring your equipment. Then plan how you’d arrange the equipment to give your clients enough room to train. Use this information to determine the minimum square footage you’d need to accommodate the equipment and your clients.

You’ll also need some space for an office.
When you talk to other box owners, ask them about their space requirements.
 Decide if you can compete with other boxes in your area or if you should find a location further from them. Search for wide, airy locations with hard floors, restrooms, and good ventilation. Also make sure that the location meets your space requirements.Negotiate for the best rent price you can.
 Estimate how much money you will need for your first few months of business. List your one-time and ongoing expenses. Project the revenue you plan to earn through client fees. The difference between your planned expenses and revenue will show how much you’ll need for start-up capital.One-time expenses include equipment costs and the costs for mandatory training, licensing fees, and insurance required by CrossFit.
Ongoing expenses include rent and salaries.
When estimating revenues, keep the figure low because not everyone will pay their fees on time.
 Send in your application together with your annual $3000 licensing fee required to affiliate as a box owner. As part of the application, you must write an essay. Describe your background, what an affiliation means to you and why you want it, and your goals for your box.For example, start your essay by writing about your positive experiences with CrossFit.
Explain why it’s important to you to start a box.
Discuss some concrete plans for the first year of your box, like building a clientele and bringing CrossFit to your community.
 To open a crossfit box, you need to be certified as a Level 1 trainer. Look at the CrossFit affiliate website (https://affiliate.crossfit.com/) to find training opportunities near you. Trainings are held several times a year.

You can also meet this requirement with a CrossFit Level 3 Certificate.
Plan to pay $1000 for the training.
 Get insured through an approved company. Buy comprehensive general liability insurance in the US or public liability in the UK for $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate or £5,000,000.00 per occurrence/£5,000,000.00 aggregate. Also get professional liability in the US or professional indemnity in the UK for $1,000,000 or £1,000,000. Include your physical gym address on your application and add CrossFit, Inc. as additional insured.For CrossFit Kids, you will also need sexual abuse and molestation coverage of $100,000 or £100,000.
Only US and UK-based affiliates need proof of insurance.
 Make plans to develop and maintain a good website. Linking your site to the main website (https://www.crossfit.com/) is how CrossFit will promote you. Wait for your affiliate application to be approved before you register a domain with the CrossFit name.

Find additional guidance for your website on the main CrossFit website (https://affiliate.crossfit.com/how-to-affiliate).
 Start by planning an initial training schedule. Next, determine how many scheduled trainings you can lead while also running the business of the box. Figure out how many trainers you’ll need to lead any sessions that you can’t cover yourself. Also decide if you’ll need staff to help you run the business side of the box.If you plan to keep another job after starting your box, take that into account when figuring out how much time you can dedicate to training and office tasks.
Plan the initial training schedule around times when your clients will be available, for example before and after work.
Consult your budget to make sure you can cover salaries for the number of trainers and other staff you plan to hire.
 Post announcements for trainers with online job search sites, LinkedIn, and any local publications (including websites) for CrossFit in your area. Talk to other people about trainers you could hire. If you admire how they train, approach them about becoming trainers at your box., Tell them about the salary and the schedule you have planned. Ask about them, including their reasons for applying and their motivation to train others. Inquire about their availability to work in your schedule. Also ask them if they have questions about your box.

Interview potential office staff this way too.
 After the interviews, check your applicants’ references and CrossFit certifications. Call to offer jobs to the people you want to hire. Follow up with a contract.Consult the IRS website for information about tax forms needed for employees. See https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/employment-tax-forms

Talk to a lawyer about developing an employment contract that you can enforce.
 Open accounts on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for your box. Use these accounts to promote your business directly to interested clients through digital marketing. Also link to other social media sites, including Facebook pages and Twitter feeds, that align with your box’s purpose and that will attract the type of clientele you’re looking for.Advertise through your website too.
 Sketch out what you plan to accomplish through your advertising, like increasing membership or keeping new members committed to your box. Use these goals to plan your advertising campaign. Include information about these goals and specific examples of what you are offering in your advertising., Plan an opening event at your box, like a free fitness night. Contact local newspapers, TV and radio stations with some information about your event. Start by telling them pertinent information about your business in a sentence or two. Include information about your long-term goals and the quality of your trainers. Finish with a sentence about your grand opening events., Incentivize clients to bring new clients to your box through a referral program. Offer your existing clients a reduction in their monthly dues for a short period of time, like 3 months. Also offer a reduced rate for new clients who come in through this program.