 It is important to know that your changed feelings towards your friend are for real and are not just some flight of fancy brought about by a soppy movie or seeing other friends together as couples. This must be a genuine hit-in-the-gut experience, when you surpass the standard friendship reality and envision the two of you together for years to come. Ask yourself:


Is this real? Or am I just wanting something that I know isn't going to work out?
Do I have the fortitude to cope with being rejected if I suggest a more intimate relationship and he rejects me? Do I think things can be patched up should this happen?
Has he shown me any signs of interest?
Is he currently in a relationship?;
, It's no good barging in on an existing relationship he has with someone else, proclaiming that he's making a mistake by not choosing you instead. Not only will this seem very out-of-the-blue to him but it's possible that your friendship won't recover if he sees this as an act to destabilize and existing relationship.
 Nurture your friendship. If you still feel this way down the track and he breaks off with this person, you'll be there for him. If he doesn't break it off, then friendship it was meant to be. Hollywood movies aside, it is just not that helpful to go around busting up your friend's love life.
 If he still has a fire for his ex, you don't want him as a beau. So, how do you find out? Ask him! Do it casually, as part of your usual conversations. Get him to talk about his feelings for his ex, whether they're good or bad. Get him to reveal whether he's seen his ex lately, if they still keep in touch, and so forth. If he's not over his ex yet, back off. If he is, then consider him available (with caution, of course).
 Let your guy friend know in no uncertain terms that you are 100 percent over that "person" who broke your heart. Still being hung up on an ex is a major deterrent for any person seeking a close relationship; nobody wants the drama and disappointment that comes with that. Hence, if you want this guy friend to know that you're available, make your relationship health status very clear.
 Let your guy friend know how much you highly think of him and how much you think he would make a great boyfriend for someone one day. It is a subtle yet obvious enough clue to hear that you think he would actually make a fabulous boyfriend.
 But don't call it a date. In its place, invite him out to the movies one night, as friends. If he asks you out the following weekend and you ask him about again, the next thing you know, you both will find yourself dating.
 Send him comical text messages and e-mails. It's a fantastic way to build your friendship and future relationship. Guys want to feel that they can be themselves with you. By letting all hang out, you're letting him know that you're fun and cool at the same time.

