 After you have bleached your hair, you need to decide which color you want to have. The cuticle layers of your hair strands have been disrupted in the bleaching process, which allows hydrogen peroxide (a key ingredient in hair bleach) to penetrate the hair strand and strip out color. Depending on your hair's natural color and how long you left in the bleach, your hair now might be yellow, white or reddish. Dyes made from herbs and plants can give you natural-looking color without the risk of using harsh chemicals. Teas, henna and other herbs are useful and effective for dyeing hair. Tea can give you a range of color, from brown or black to blond or red. Use black tea to get dark colors, chamomile to enhance blond colors, and red or rooibos tea to get red colors. Henna will produce dark, rich colors and can be purchased at natural foods stores or herb supply stores. It can help make your hair feel thicker because it covers each strand of hair individually.Take into consideration the color of your bleached hair. This will act as an additional color in your overall color mixture.
 Use recipes listed here or search online for additional recipes to get the proportions correct for mixing up colors that will dye your hair the desired color.



Use henna powder. Mix henna powder with chamomile or another lighter herb to scale back the color that it will give your hair.Mix two parts henna powder with one part powdered chamomile into a nonmetal bowl. Add boiling water to make a thick paste. Then, stir in one tablespoon of vinegar and allow the mixture to cool.Use teabags or loose leaf tea. Put 3-5 teabags (or the loose leaf equivalent) in 2 cups of water. Boil for 3-5 minutes and let it cool down. Put tea liquid in an empty applicator bottle.

Use black walnut powder. To achieve very dark brown hair, mix ¼ cup black walnut powder in 3 cups of water overnight. Use this as a rinse on a daily basis to maintain a dark, rich color.Search online for other mixtures. Search for “natural hair color recipes” to locate recipes that use other herbs such as marigold petals, calendula flowers, rosemary leaves, and so on.
 Gather up a small hunk of hair from the nape of your neck. Brush the dye onto this strand, starting at the roots and working it towards the ends. Set your timer for 20 minutes and check the color. Add more time if it seems like the color is not quite where you’d like it to be. Rinse out or wipe off the dye and check the color against a white towel. This will enable you to check if you like the color before dousing your entire head in it. It will also help you gauge how much time to leave on the dye.
 Divide your hair into four sections. Pin back three of these sections while you apply color to the fourth section. Work the dye into your hair, starting at the roots and working towards the ends with your hands. When you’ve applied to all four sections, rub the dye all over your hair as though you were shampooing your hair.
 Cover your hair with an old shower cap and leave this dye on your hair for anywhere from 30 minutes to 3 hours, depending on the herb or plant and how dark you’d like your hair to be. Start your timer when you have put color in the last section of hair.
 Gently rinse your hair with warm water to rinse out the leftover dye. Rinse until the water runs clear.
 Use a towel or blow dryer to dry your hair. Alternatively, you can let it dry naturally. Because you haven’t used chemical-based color to dye your hair, your hair won’t be as dry and brittle and can therefore handle blow drying immediately after dyeing it.
 Water, soap and heat can lessen the dye’s hold on your hair and cause it to escape. Leaving your hair alone for three days will enable the dye to sink into the cuticles of your hair.