 Recent medical research has shown that different areas of the skin respond to sunshine differently, effectively tanning at different rates. No matter how perfectly you time your tanning, thicker patches of skin will always be a little paler than the surrounding area.


The same researchers have suggested sunless tanning as a safe, more effective method of achieving an even tan.;
, It's a commonly-believed myth that fair-skinned people must burn first to tan. While sunburns and tans are both reactions to damage from ultraviolet rays, they are two completely different processes.Not only is a burn not required for a tan, but burned, damaged skin often results in a patchy, uneven tan once it has healed up. If you see your skin turning red or start to feel a burn, you should get out of the sun.If you have light skin, wear a broad spectrum SPF 30 sunscreen while tanning. If you have naturally dark skin, SPF 15 is enough for protection.
Always be sure to reapply your sunscreen at least every two hours.
Remember that there is a maximum amount of tanning you can do in a day. At a certain point, your skin will produce no additional pigment but it will still be vulnerable to burns. This cut-off varies, but for most people it's generally about two to three hours.Sunburns usually don't show until well after the damage has occurred, so be sure to plan ahead.Don't ever fall asleep while tanning. If you think there's a possibility you'll start snoozing in the sun, be sure to wear a wide brim hat in addition to sunglasses. This will help to both protect your sensitive face in case your sunscreen isn't enough while also making sure those sunglasses don't cause embarrassing tan lines., The skin on your face tends to be more sensitive while also receiving more sun exposure than the rest of your body. Because body-formulated sunscreen can sometimes feel uncomfortable and leave behind residue, it can be easy to miss spots on your face, leading to an uneven tan. If you have this issue, try using a facial sunscreen. These are often formulated with less oils and feel lighter on your face., Try to expose as much skin as possible, but save your strappy classic bikini for after you've built up your tan. If you don't feel comfortable sunbathing topless, tube tops and bandeaus are good, strapless alternatives. You may still end up with tan lines, but they'll be low enough not to show when wearing most tops and dresses.If you must wear that strappy bikini top, when you're lying down to sunbathe, consider undoing your top's straps temporarily if possible. Just be careful not to let it slip off.
Give tan-through swimsuits and clothing a try. If sunbathing in the buff doesn't interest you, you can reduce and sometimes eliminate tan lines completely with these special sunbathing outfits. Just keep in mind that they still block out about 20% of sunlight, so they may not give you an even tan. Also remember to wear sunscreen underneath., If you're sunbathing lying down, flip over onto your back or stomach at regular intervals. Switch it up every 20 to 30 minutes.


Because the sun's rays vary in intensity throughout the day, this method won't give each side a perfectly equal exposure, but it should be enough for the most even tan possible.If possibly, try lying out on a reflective blanket. The reflected sun rays will help to even out your sun exposure, making sure to tan your sides as well as your front and back.