 Whenever you've been diagnosed with diabetes, it will be smart to meet with a Registered Dietitian who is also a CDE or Certified Diabetes Educator.


The dietitian will be able to teach you about diabetes, how food affects your condition and how to appropriately take your medication.
They will also teach you about what foods are beneficial and what foods are more harmful to your body with diabetes. In addition, they may also give you sample shopping lists or meal plans to use.
If you're having trouble figuring out what to eat exactly, talk to your dietitian for further support and education.;
, A balanced diet is always important to general health and wellness, but even more so when you have diabetes. Following a well-balanced diet can help keep your blood sugar in check.


A balanced diet is one that contains foods from every food group and a wide variety of foods from every food group.Always measure portions sizes as well. Part of a balanced diet is eating foods in the right proportions and in the appropriate serving sizes.
Appropriate proportions and serving sizes of foods are the top factors that will influence your diabetes. If you eat too much of a certain food or eat certain foods too frequently, you may notice you have trouble managing your blood sugars.
 Eating adequate protein is an important part to a balanced and nutritious diet. In addition, protein is naturally carbohydrate-free and can be eaten without worrying about your medications or insulin.


Include at least a serving or two of lean protein at each meal and snack. Protein helps keep you satisfied throughout the day.Like all foods, make sure to measure your portion sizes. Aim for a 3-4 oz portion of protein or a piece the size of a deck of cards.Choose lean protein sources like: poultry, eggs, seafood, legumes, tofu, low-fat dairy, lean beef or pork.
If you have diabetes, you're at a higher risk of high blood pressure, stroke and heart disease.Eating fatty cuts of meat regularly or in large portions can also increase your risk of heart disease. Stick to leaner cuts of protein to avoid this.
 Another food group that is very low in carbohydrates and sometimes completely free of carbohydrates are non-starchy vegetables.


Aim for at least 3-5 servings of these foods everyday.Not only are they naturally low carb or carb-free, they are also low in calories, but high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.
Many health professionals recommend including a serving or two at each meal or making half of your meal a non-starchy vegetable.
Measure out 1 cup or 2 cups of leafy greens per serving.Try vegetables like: salad, tomatoes, cucumbers, eggplant, peppers, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, broccoli, green beans, onions or mushrooms.
 Although there are certain types of fat you should limit, heart healthy fats like omega-3 fats can actually be beneficial for those who have diabetes.Studies have shown that including 1-2 servings of healthy fats each day helped decrease LDL (bad cholesterol) and decrease triglycerides in patients who had diabetes.Include some of these heart healthy fats on a daily basis: olive oil, canola oil, olives, nuts, nut butters, seeds, avocados, salmon, mackerel, tuna and sardines.
 Drinking adequate amounts of fluids and staying hydrated is essential for every healthy body, but also important for those who have diabetes.


Staying hydrated can help regulate blood sugar in your body.Drink adequate fluids daily to help prevent dehydration.
Health professionals recommend drinking 8-13 glasses of water and other hydrating fluids daily (the same goes for those with diabetes).Stick with caffeine-free and sugar-free beverages only. Try: water, flavored water, sparkling water, decaf coffee and tea.
 Starches (from foods like grains, starchy vegetables or legumes) do contain a high amount of carbohydrates. However, many sources are very nutritious and should be included in your diet to help maintain blood sugar throughout the day.Starches coming from foods like corn, potatoes, carrots, beans, lentils or whole grains are still nutritious foods. They offer fiber, vitamins and minerals that are essential to your overall health.You do not need to avoid to cut out these foods if you have diabetes. However, since they are high in carbohydrates, you need to monitor how much you're eating and follow appropriate portion sizes.
Making about a quarter of your plate one of these starchy, higher carb foods is a great way to still enjoy these foods, without over doing it. You can also measure out 1/2 cup of any of these foods for the appropriate portion size., Although fruit does contain carbohydrates (a sugar known as fructose) it can still be a nutritious and tasty addition to your diet.


Fruit is typically thought of an "OK" food to eat with diabetes in appropriate portion sizes because it offers minimal calories, high amounts of fiber and lots of vitamins and antioxidants.Although fruits are nutritious, you still need to count them as a carbohydrate and account for them in your daily total.
Fruits with the lowest amount of carbohydrates or sugars are berries like blueberries, blackberries, raspberries or strawberries. You can have 1 cup per serving.Dried fruit should be limited to 2 tablespoons since this is a more concentrated source of sugar.If you're choosing frozen or canned fruit in it's own juice or 100% fruit juice, stick to 1/2 cup per serving., Grains like bread, rice or pasta aren't something you need to avoid or skip if you have diabetes. However, you should choose 100% whole grains when you do eat these foods.


100% whole grains are minimally processed and contain higher amounts of fiber, protein and other essential nutrients.Measure your portion sizes of these foods to 1/2 cup or 1 oz per serving.Refined grains like white bread, white rice, plain pasta and other foods made with white flour or added sugars are lower in fiber and other nutrients. They're considered empty calories and can spike your blood sugar more than whole grains.
 One group of foods that you should limit and eat infrequently are those that are highly processed and contain a lot of added sugars.


Added sugars are those that are added to certain foods during their processing. They make foods higher in calories and carbohydrates.
In addition, these foods provide no nutrition and can spike your blood sugar.
If you choose to have a sweet treat, stick to a small serving. For example, 1 3" cookie, 1 tablespoon of honey or maple syrup or 1 small donut.Limit foods like: ice cream, candy, cookies, cakes and pies, breakfast pastries and muffins.
 The glycemic index is a way to measure different foods and their levels of carbohydrate. Using this can help you choose foods that have carbohydrates more wisely.


The glycemic index is a tool that can be used for diabetes. It shows how certain foods affect your blood sugar and insulin levels.Low glycemic foods do not affect your blood sugar all that much, whereas high glycemic foods can increase your blood sugar greatly.Examples of low glycemic index foods are: oatmeal, most fruits, starchy vegetables and 100% whole wheat bread.
Examples of high glycemic foods are: white bread, white rice, popcorn, rice cakes and candy.
The glycemic index isn't fool proof. Always use your best judgement when choosing foods to include in your diet.
 With diabetes, its essential to monitor your blood sugar regularly. This will help you manage your diabetes and help you decide what foods to eat.


Testing your blood sugar regularly and tracking your numbers is important. Always have this information ready to give your physician or other healthcare professionals so they can help manage your condition.
Also, testing your blood sugar will help clue you in on how your diet or certain foods affect your blood sugar.
 Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle for everyone. However, if you have diabetes it can help manage your blood sugar.


Regular exercise, especially aerobic exercise, helps to: lower blood sugar, improves insulin sensitivity, improves circulation and decreases your risk of heart disease.Aim to include about 150 minutes of aerobic exercise each week plus 1-2 days of strength training.Note that some exercises that are high in intensity or long in duration can cause a low blood sugar. Always track your blood sugar numbers and have a high carbohydrate snack or drink handy to help remedy a low blood sugar., With any chronic condition, it's important to keep in touch with your physician on a regular basis.


Your physician or endocrinologist will be your link to managing your diabetes. He or she will be the one prescribing medication, educating you on diet and giving you any additional advice or suggestions.
Always keep your physician informed of any new or worsening side effects or symptoms of your diabetes or diabetes medication.
Keep them updated on your diet, exercise and blood sugar numbers so they can treat your diabetes effectively.

