 It’s going to be a lot of work, but ultimately probably rewarding. You’ll make some money and learn a lot of valuable skills while you’re at it., What are you good at? Do you want to provide a service like babysitting, swimming lessons, or yard maintenance? Or do you want to make something -- baked goods, pickles, cartoons, etc.?, Particularly if you’re a young person, you’re going to need an adult to help you with some of the setup. You might need them to help in setting up a bank account or just as an advisor. In whatever capacity you need help, choose someone with whom you can work well., If your business will only exist during the summer, who do you want to target as your customers? It might work to do something geared toward children, who are not in school during the summer. Or you might live somewhere that tourists typically visit during the summer, and want to target them. It also might be something that is more geared toward the season -- picking and selling fruits and vegetables or yard maintenance tasks., For whatever you decide your business is, are there a lot of other people (or other young people) doing the same thing? Look online for advertisements, on community notice boards, and community listservs. If it seems like you will have a lot of competition, you might want to re-think your business. You also might want to come up with a way to differentiate yourself from the competition. Instead of making regular cupcakes, maybe you make vegan or gluten-free cupcakes. You would also need to do research to see if there would be enough interest in your more specific business before you go forward.
 This will include how you plan to structure your business, a budget, details about your market and your competitors, and how you are different than others in the same business. This might be necessary if you are looking for funding -- many investors would ask to see a business plan., Your business plan will require a budget, but you need to also figure out for yourself how much each element might cost. Do the research to find out how much it will cost to make posters or business cards, sign up at a farmers market, reserve time at the pool -- whatever the initial cost of the business will be., For some businesses, like babysitting or swimming lessons, you would need CPR trainings at minimum, and probably different certifications based on the age and level you would be planning to watch or teach. If you are going to sell baked goods, you will need to be using a professional kitchen and have a food handler’s license so that your food can be certified., Depending on the business, you might need a business permit. If you’re a young person, you will need an adult to help you file and sign the paperwork. Depending on your state, county, or city, you will have a different set of laws and requirements that govern new businesses. Be sure to properly fill out all the paperwork and submit it on time. If you are just in business for the summer, making sure things are done on time is key., For some businesses, you would be able to do it from home -- scheduling swimming lessons, etc. But others will need a physical location. Some summer businesses lend themselves well to farmers markets.Consider selling at a farmers market. These might be a good choice for selling fruits, vegetables, foods, and crafts. They make a lot of the logistics of a business easy. You pay the market for a table and location where you can sell your product for a few hours every week, typically with a lot of people passing through. Keep in mind that some farmers markets are competitive, and you will need to make sure that you are able to join.
 Most businesses need money, at least to start them. Where will yours come from? If you are trying to get financing from other people, what kinds of information will they want from you before deciding to invest? Write up a detailed budget, and then as you begin to buy items for your business, keep track. This could be another arena in which an adult advisor would help a young person starting a business -- they might have good ideas about possible funding sources.
 For a young person’s summer business, it might not be necessary, but talk to your adult advisor about it. These can be obtained from the IRS. This is often used for businesses with employees. However, it’s useful even for smaller businesses because then it can be your reference number on any business paperwork you have, rather than your social security number. , Are you a cash-only business? Will you accept personal checks? Do you want to work with a debit or credit-card reader? You will also need to figure out how to declare your earnings to the IRS., It’s a lot easier to keep track of your money if you don’t have your personal and business money coming and going from the same place. It’s also going to make keeping track of your money easier, both for you and for the IRS.


If you’re a summer business run by a young person (like giving swimming lessons or babysitting), it’s probably not a necessary step. But it does mean that you have to do an extremely good job keeping track of your earnings.
 How much are you paying out, and how much are you making? You need to keep track of all of your expenses and earnings so that you will be prepared when you have to file taxes. Use a spreadsheet to keep track and update daily.

