 It should define the objectives, importance and context for the study. This is typically done in one or two sentences that tell of the overall topic and its significance. A clear-cut way of doing this is by associating the reason you carried out these experiments with your particular area of research.
For example: “Artery biomechanics may play an important role during the development of atherosclerosis. Artery stiffness is used clinically to predict atherosclerosis risk; however, laboratory testing of whole arteries has produced ambiguous results. Atherosclerotic plaques extend through only part of the vessel wall; consequently, an accurate description of the biomechanics of atherosclerosis will require testing of local mechanical properties.” (Biomedical Engineering: Method to Expose Arterial Sub endothelium for Indentation Testing by John M. Peloquin; Advisor: Cynthia Reinhart-King)

, Take account of the hypothesis and objective or goal of the research.
For example: “The mechanical properties of the intimal subendothelium likely change as atherosclerosis progresses. To facilitate testing this hypothesis, we sought to develop a method to remove artery endothelium and expose the intimal subendothelium for indentation testing.”

, There is no need to give ample detail; keep it brief and to-the-point.
For example: “We evaluated and refined three methods from the literature: 1) filter paper imprinting, 2) soaking in saponin solution, and 3) gentle scraping with a cotton applicator.”

, Be sure to only include the key points that concern the objective you have mentioned.
For example: “Scanning electron microscopy and histology results show that scraping is the most effective method, achieving almost complete de-endothelialization. Immunohistochemistry experiments suggest that scraping specifically exposes the internal elastic lamina.”

, Be clear in describing how the results have contributed to the domain of the paper’s content.
For example: “Scraping is an effective and reproducible method to remove arterial endothelium and expose the intimal subendothelium. This result is an important prerequisite for high-resolution indentation testing to ascertain the role of subendothelial mechanics in atherosclerosis.”

