 Look for a lens that promises to block at least 99% of UVA and UVB rays. Most sports sunglasses come with this protection, but beware of cosmetic eyewear as it may not. This protection is especially important if you plan to wear you glasses for long periods of time.Cheap sunglasses that don't protect from UVA and UVB rays ay actually be more damaging than wearing no sunglasses at all, because they actually allow more harmful rays into your eye., You have a handful of options here: glass, polycarbonate, plastic, or polyurethane. All of them possess particular advantages in terms of visual clarity, durability, and cost. You will want to try on a few different lens types before making a final decision.


Glass lenses are often less attractive to athletes because they are more likely to break or chip if dropped. They are also a bit heavier, which can be an issue in weight-class sports; however, they do provide excellent visual clarity.Plastic lenses offer a similar visual appeal as glass without some of the breakage issues; however, they do scratch easily without a resistant coating. This can be a cheaper option for athletes looking for a pair of limited use or back-up glasses.
Polycarbonate lenses are a very popular option among sports enthusiasts. They are light and impact resistant. For optimal performance, add anti-scratch and anti-reflective treatments to these lenses.
Trivex NXT (NXT Polyurethane) lenses are the top-of-the-line choice. They are almost as clear as glass without the breakage concerns. They are lightweight and include the highest-level sunglasses technology. However be prepared to pay more for these lenses., Lenses come in all the colors of the rainbow. The color that you pick should depend on the sport that you play, the weather conditions of the sport, and the performance advantages that you desire. Be aware that you may also need to try on several lens colors before you find one that you prefer.Green provides some glare and contrast reduction. It is well-suited for general use, high-altitude sports, or boating/sailing.
Yellow is a popular lens color and it improves visibility in murky, low-light conditions. It performs especially well early or late in the day. This lens is suitable for aviation, tennis, and biking.
Blues and purples are often favored for fashion reasons and they also reduce glare and elevate color differentiation. They are often worn by golfers.
Gray is a solid, generic use lens color suitable for most outdoor sports. It is easy on the eye, reducing fatigue. It also provides true color awareness and is good to wear for almost all weather conditions.
Pink and red lenses lessen eye strain and increase depth perception. They are especially suitable for severe, snowy weather conditions. Many alpine and racing athletes prefer these lens colors.
 These lenses work to reduce glare. If your sport takes place on a highly reflective surface, such as the snow or sand, mirrored lenses can minimize the negative effects. These are also useful if you want to shield your eyes from your opponent. The reflective surface gives little to no indication of your eye movements.Because this is a mirrored coating be aware that your lenses may be more susceptible to getting scratched.
 These lenses are slightly more expensive, but they combine many admirable qualities. They block additional UV rays and they reduce glare from bright surfaces, such as a snowpack. Those persons participating in racing or fishing sports often choose these types of lenses as they improve the track and water visibility., This is a lens treatment that can be applied to almost any type of base lens, i.e. polycarbonate, glass, etc. These lenses adjust to changing light conditions. They grow lighter in low light. Their pigment/shade level increases in bright light, to resemble traditional sunglasses. These are especially useful for sportspeople operating in variable light conditions.Be aware that the transition between tints is not immediate and can be a bit slow in lower temperatures., This is a great add-on for watersports. It is an extra coating applied to the lens that repels water. Water droplets will essentially slide off the lens instead of pooling on the surface.Premium anti-glare coatings also have water, oil and dust repellent properties.
 Some frames allow you to customize your lens options depending on the weather conditions, the sport, etc. This is a great, but somewhat expensive, alternative if you like to play a wide variety of sports in varying settings. Also, if one set of lenses is damaged you can simply replace it and continue on.