 Look online to find recruitment agencies. Make sure to include your location and industry if you want a specialized agency. Do a quick search for something such as “recruitment agency in Los Angeles for IT jobs.” Some recruitment agencies also advertise specific positions in job ads, so be on the lookout for those as well.Alternately, you can search for recruitment agencies on an online map to see their location. Simply go to an online map of your choice such as google or apple and look for recruitment agencies in your area.
 If you know someone who has been successfully placed by a recruitment agency, this is a good starting point. If you learn from someone else’s experience, you can have a smoother and more successful search., Although you likely will not register with each employment agency, calling and speaking to recruiters will give you a feel for each agency's communication styles, placement services and pay structure. It is a great way to see if their services will meet your needs. The more that you compare, the better idea you will have of what’s out there.Ask about the availability of open positions. Listen for the details in the recruiter's response. An agency that has a specific position matching your qualifications is worth pursuing immediately. Recruitment agencies that interview large numbers of candidates in the event of a future possibility are less likely to find you a job right away., Before working with an agency, you need a clear understanding of these processes. You should know what is involved in registration and how long it will take. You should know what potential employers they will be able to connect you with and what kind of salary to expect. They should also give you a timeframe for the hiring process and an explanation of how they will market your skills to prospective employers. You should have a clear understanding of what the agency will do to place you in a job and what your role in this will be. By finding a recruitment process that you feel comfortable with, you will save yourself trouble down the road.To learn this information, you can look on their website or give them a call, but it is preferable to sit down one-on-one with someone from the agency. Make sure that they are willing to answer your questions and that they have answers to your questions. This will help to make sure that they are organized and willing to assist you.
 To find out information, simply call or set up a meeting with them. You could say something like, “I am a job seeker and I was hoping to talk to someone about your agency. I have a few questions.” They will connect you with someone who can help. Have your questions ready ahead of time.


You can ask things such as: “How large is your agency?” “What is your success rate in placing employees?” “Do you specialize in any industries?” “Do you have any positions currently available?” “Are there any fees involved?” “Do you help build and market resumes?” “Do you place temporary or permanent positions?”
Write down their answers so that you remember and can refer back to this information as you continue your search. After talking with several agencies, you might struggle to remember which said what.
 Some agencies will revise your resume, offer free software training or coach you for interviews. Find out if these services exist before registering with an agency. If there are any services that you know you need, such as editing your resume, make sure they are willing to help with this., It is important that they are not involved in any kind of fraud. Agencies should never offer to fabricate letters of recommendation or credentials. Agencies in the UK should be affiliated with the REC, The Recruitment and Employment Confederation. In the US, agencies might be affiliated with various universities, although there are not government sanctioned recruitment agencies. Look for agencies that have been around for at least two years.Ask around among your business colleagues to find out what they know about agencies. They might have worked with one before and had a positive experience.
 Recruitment agencies that charge fees, are uninformed, or make grand promises are likely problematic. Since agencies generally pay you directly and charge a markup to the employer, you should not be paying any fees. If an agency isn’t able to answer your questions, they likely will not be able to help with your job search. If an agency makes overly grand promises, like “I promise you will be making six figures here” when you’ve only been paid minimum wage, they are being dishonest. Pay close attention to what they say and make note of any red flags., After thoroughly researching and interviewing agencies, there should be at least one or two that seem like good options. Choose the one that best fits your needs, and you can use multiple agencies as well. Just be sure to inform them as soon as you have been placed in a job so that they are no longer looking on your behalf.

