 Before you go to the doctor, you should have some questions ready in case you get prescribed medication. You should ask about the medication you are taking and all the details involved in its administration. This includes questions about the name of the medication, how often you are supposed to take it, the manner in which to take it, what disease the medication is treating, and if there are any side effects you should expect to have. You can also ask about what to do if you miss a dose and when you should stop taking the medication. It's a good idea to write these out in advance so you don't forget them.You might also want to ask what taking the medicine will accomplish, if there is a less expensive alternative, or if there are any interactions with other prescribed or over the counter medications, dietary supplements, foods, or herbal supplements., When you visit your doctor, if you are not exactly sure how to read the prescription you are given, you can ask them to explain their instructions for the medication before you leave the office. Use the questions you prepared before you went to the office to understand more about your prescription. Make sure you fully understand any terms they use or any descriptions that you may not know the meaning of.


Make sure you write down the answers that give you so you will be able to compare this with what you get from the pharmacy. This way you make sure you are always taking the right medication in the right doses., One way to make sure that all the right procedures are followed in regards to your prescription is to have your pharmacist review it when you drop it off and when you pick it up. Mistakes can take place when a pharmacist reads the directions differently than what the doctor intended.


You can help prevent dangerous medication errors by double checking and asking the pharmacist to verify the prescription with your physician.If you have any questions about the prescription or the medication, ask your pharmacist.
 Once you get your prescription filled, you will get a pamphlet from the pharmacist that explains the medication you are taking, what side effects may occur, and many other medicine intricacies that you may have questions about it. The pharmacist will usually offer to explain the medication and answer any lingering questions you have about your medications.If you experience side effects or interaction effects, you should call your health care provider immediately to report them and ask for a confirmation of your intended prescription, as well as further instructions for taking the medication.

