 Opt for one that is flattering to you. Since there is an overwhelming number of styles, a good rule of thumb is to choose simple, elegant styles over revealing ones.The little black dress (LBD) is usually a safe bet for cocktail parties due to its timeless look and conservative aesthetic., Before choosing a minidress, consider the event you are attending. Have you been acquainted with everyone? If not, you might opt for something longer.If you do choose a mini, pay attention that the hemline is not too short by standing straight up with your arms at your side. If your fingers pass the hemline, you should reconsider if it’s appropriate., Be careful with this dress because its hem, which sits between the ankle and knee, can appear unflattering on some people. To break the long lines up, add dressier accessories, like a large necklace.Dresses that drop below the ankles become gowns and should be saved for very formal events, like white tie parties., The best outfit will showcase your personality and confidence, and sometimes dresses don’t do that. Opt for a slimmer suit with a womenswear jacket, which will hit at your waist instead of below it. For a less fitted style, choose a relaxed, slouchy style instead of boxy.Alternatively, wear tailored pants with a detailed top, but avoid fabrics like jersey and denim, which can be too casual.
 Unless the shoes are used to highlight or accent something, choose heels or boots that don’t distract from your outfit.If you don’t wear heels, try ballet flats, but don’t wear sneakers.If your outfit is black, choose colorful shoes for a pop of personality.
 You should only bring the essentials to a cocktail party. Large purses packed full can both feel and look weighty.Go easy on yourself and lighten your load.
 Avoid over-accessorizing since it can be too distracting for people you’re talking to. Choose something that complements your clothing choices and your personality.It could start a conversation.


Cocktail rings have colorful precious jewels (either real or reproductions) that make a bold statement. However, the size of the stone can look gaudy when combined with a necklace, earrings, and a bracelet.