 If a third party wants to intervene in a lawsuit to which you are a party, you or your attorney will receive a motion to intervene, which is a written document through which the third party asks the court's permission to intervene in the case.The motion to intervene will identify the person or business entity that wants to intervene and describe the claims that party wants to assert.
The court documents you receive may include a notice indicating that the matter has been set for a hearing before the judge to determine whether the party can intervene in your case.
If the matter has already been set for hearing, there will be strict deadlines for when you must file a written response, if you decide to make one.
Depending on the intervening party, you may want to consider hiring an attorney if you don't already have one to represent you. This could be especially important if the intervening party is asserting claims against you and they are represented by an attorney.
On the other hand, if the other party is attempting to intervene on your side and they are represented by counsel, their attorney may work with you on some elements of the case. However, keep in mind that attorney doesn't represent you or your interests.
If you feel your interests are potentially jeopardized by the intervention of this third party, find an attorney to represent your interests directly.;
, A third party may intervene on the side of either existing party in the case, or may have separate claims that are only tangentially related to the existing lawsuit.There are two types of intervention, and the type of intervention the third party is asserting will have an effect on whether the judge will allow them to intervene.
If the third party is asserting an intervention as of right, this means they have a direct interest in the property or transaction that is the source of the dispute at the heart of the lawsuit.
A third party also may seek permissive intervention, which means they have a claim that involves a common legal question, and they believe it would be more efficient for the judge to resolve the cases at the same time.
A judge has broad discretion on whether to allow permissive intervention. However, he or she also has significant discretion when the third party is asserting intervention as of right. If the intervention would cause undue delay or add complexity to the lawsuit, it may be refused.
If you don't want the third party to intervene, your argument in opposition should relate to the difficulty and complexity their intervention would add to the case.
Since the goal of intervention is efficiency, if you oppose intervention you typically will find the best success in arguments that point to how the intervention would not increase overall efficiency or would actually be less efficient than handling the cases separately.
 Whether the third party is intervening on your side or against you, it can be easier to get the judge to make a decision if the existing parties in the case are in agreement on whether the intervening party should be included in the lawsuit.You want to find out what position the existing parties in your lawsuit are taking regarding the intervention. You stand a much greater chance of achieving your goal if you and the other party can present a united front.
For example, suppose you have a third party attempting to intervene on a case in which you are the plaintiff. You don't want the intervention. If you can get the defendant to agree with you and oppose the intervention, the judge likely won't allow the intervention.
However, if you want to add the intervenor to your case, you may be able to talk the other side into not opposing the intervention – even if they originally had planned to do so.
If you want to add the intervenor, when you negotiate with the other side, stress how intervention would be in their interests as well as yours.
 A judge generally won't grant a motion to intervene unless the court has subject matter jurisdiction over the claims the intervening party is asserting. This is fairly straightforward when the intervening party is seeking to join either the plaintiff or the defendant in the existing action, but can get more complex when the intervening party has independent claims of their own.Generally speaking, the court has jurisdiction if the intervening party could have brought a separate lawsuit in the same court.
To figure this out, you must analyze the claims asserted by the intervening party as though they were raised in a complaint in a separate case.
If you have questions about jurisdictional issues, consult an attorney. In this situation, you also may be able to talk to attorneys in your case that represent other parties – particularly if they hold the same position on the intervention as you do.
 A response to a motion is a written response filed with the court that details your arguments either for or against allowing the third party to intervene in the civil lawsuit. It's typically not strictly required that you respond in writing to the motion.The response typically begins with a paragraph that identifies who you are, your role in the case, and the position you're taking in response to the motion to intervene.
For example, if you're supporting the motion to intervene, your introductory paragraph might say "Plaintiff submits this Response to the Motion to Intervene, filed on June 4, 2016, and served on Plaintiff on June 5, 2016. Plaintiff supports allowing the Movant to intervene in this case."
Your response will have additional sections that go into the background of the case, the position of the intervening parties, and the legal and factual reasons you support their motion.
Because a written response includes substantial legal argument, it generally isn't a good idea to attempt to draft this document on your own unless you have extensive legal knowledge.
You can hire an attorney to draft the document for you without representing you in the case as a whole, which could save you in attorney's fees. If there's a particularly short deadline to respond, however, you may not have time to find someone.
Keep in mind that you don't have to file a written response at all – you just have to be ready to explain to the judge at the hearing why you either support or oppose the intervention.
 If you've drafted a written response to the motion to intervene, it typically must be filed with the clerk of court by an established deadline, typically a week or two after the motion is filed, or at least a couple of weeks before the date the hearing is scheduled.The deadline by which your response must be filed will be included on any notice form you received. If you didn't get a notice, you can check the court's rules or call the clerk of court and ask.
While the clerk can't give you any legal advice regarding your case, they can inform you about deadlines for filings and general procedural rules.
Take your original response to the clerk along with at least one copy for each party (including the intervening party) in your case and a copy for your own records.
The clerk will file-stamp your documents with the date. There typically isn't a fee for filing a response to a motion – but if there is, expect it to be $50 or less. You can call the clerk and find out before you take your documents for filing so you're prepared.
 A copy of your response to the motion to intervene must be served on all existing parties in your lawsuit, as well as the party that filed the motion. Typically service must be completed either before or within a few days after the date you filed the document with the clerk.These sorts of filings typically are served using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The clerk may have the forms available for you to complete this at the clerk's office.
Use the addresses for each of the parties – or their attorneys – that are provided on the court documents. The address to use for service typically is included under their names on court documents they've signed and filed.
Keep the green card you get back when your documents have been delivered – it serves as your proof of service.
 Although the judge has the right to make a ruling on the documents filed without holding a live hearing, typically a hearing will be scheduled so the judge can hear from the intervening party and the existing parties in the case.The hearing likely was scheduled on the judge's regular "motion day." In most courts, the judge has one day a week in which he or she hears motions filed in a variety of cases on the docket.
Take a seat in the gallery of the courtroom until your case is called or you are told to move to the tables at the front of the courtroom.
If the hearing is on a motion day, the time your hearing is listed may be first thing in the morning. However, this doesn't mean you're first on the judge's list. All parties for all motions the judge plans to hear that day must be in court at the same time.
The judge typically will start the day with a docket call and find out how much time each hearing will take. Then he or she will decide which motions to hear first.
 When the judge hears the motion, he or she typically will call on the moving party to first explain why they want to intervene in your case. Then supporting or opposing arguments will be heard.Be ready to explain to the judge why you believe the intervenor should be added to the case. If you oppose intervention, you likewise must be ready to explain why you think the intervention is a bad idea.
If you're going it alone, you may want to prepare note cards listing the points of your arguments and their supporting reasons so you can present your case smoothly and articulately.
Speak slowly in a loud, clear voice so the judge can hear and understand you. If the judge asks you a question, stop speaking and respond to the judge's question – you can pick up your argument again after the judge indicates he or she is satisfied with your answer.
 While the judge may hear all sides regarding the intervention, ultimately whether to admit a third party into proceedings already underway is entirely within the judge's discretion.The judge may make a decision at that moment, or may decide to take the matter under advisement, review the documents filed, and make a decision later.
Once the judge has made a decision, he or she will issue a written order that will be available to all parties in the case.
If the judge grants the third party's motion to intervene, he or she typically will sign an order that was already prepared by the intervening party.
 If the judge refuses to allow the intervention, and the third party is intervening to join your side of the lawsuit, other methods may be available that would allow that person to join the case.With joinder, you and the other party are both named as plaintiffs or defendants (whichever side you're on) in the lawsuit. Similar to intervention, joinder can be compulsory or permissive.
However, with compulsory joinder – contrasted to intervention as of right – the judge has no discretion on whether to add the new party.
Compulsory joinder generally exists where complete relief for your side of the case is not possible without this other party being present.
If the third party's claims arise out of the same property, dispute, or transaction that forms the basis for the lawsuit, permissive joinder may be possible.

