 Visit your local grocery store or farmers market and purchase some fresh fruits and vegetables. (Organic produce is best, if possible.) Pick up some lettuce, kiwifruit, banana, bell peppers, grapes, strawberries, blueberries, or any other fruits and veggies you like. Wash them thoroughly, and cut them up into very small pieces.Hermit crabs cannot eat citrus fruits (lemon, lime). It is toxic to them.
They also don't like herbs (peppermint, rosemary).
They tend to avoid "Prunus fruits" or "stone fruits" (cherries, apricots, plums).;
, If you have oak trees or red maple trees in your area, these trees provide a great source of nutrition for your hermit crab. Harvest a few oak leaves and some oak bark, or some red maple leaves. Be sure to wash your leaves and bark in dechlorinated water.Oak trees have leaves with a "lobe and sinus" pattern.
Maple leaves have three "fingers" (think of the Canadian flag).
Oak trees drop acorns, while maple trees drop "helicopters."

, In addition to fruit and veggies, it is crucial for hermit crabs to have some form of protein everyday. Your crab may enjoy cooked lean beef, chicken, salmon, or shrimp. Or you can add dried plankton, krill or any other dried sea creatures (available at most pet stores).Be sure the protein you provide has not been seasoned with spices or table salt.
 Your hermit crab can eat almost any kind of vegetables or fruit, but they are very sensitive to fertilizers and pesticides. Whenever possible, you should seek out organic produce and untreated leaves/bark. If this is not possible, all produce should be washed thoroughly in dechlorinated water., Combine a ¼ cup of chopped fruits and veggies with ¼ cup of protein. Add a few leaves or bark (if possible), and 1 tsp. of sea salt. Mix everything together. Serve 1/3 of this mix to your hermit crab each night and refrigerate the rest.Note that sea salt is different from conventional table salt. Sea salt contains natural, unrefined minerals that are healthy for your crab, whereas table salt does not.

