 Urination occurs by a complex arc of nerves communicating with the brain and causing muscles within the bladder and surrounding areas to contract and relax. If you have a neuromuscular disorder—such as multiple sclerosis (MS), for example—you may experience disruptions in these signals, resulting in a neurogenic bladder. People who have had a stroke can also have a resultant neurogenic bladder if the muscles that cause the bladder muscles to contract and relax are affected.
 Most of those who have a neurogenic bladder will already be familiar with the underlying causes. However, you should still see your doctor for a positive diagnosis. You doctor will also provide you with the best overview of treatment options and weigh in on which is likely best for your specific situation.
 Also known as timed voiding, physical-psychological therapy combines will power and exercise to help treat the incontinence. This combines Kegel exercises (outlined in the method on stress incontinence) and a voiding diary to help you avoid incontinence episodes before they occur.


A voiding diary is a daily record of the fluids you’ve taken in, the times and amounts you urinated, and the instances of leakage. You can use this record to help determine the best times to stay close to a bathroom, as well as times when you should force yourself to go, to minimize incontinence episodes.
 Though no drugs currently target the bladder sphincter to help with neurogenic bladder, some drugs do reduce muscle spasms or induce contractions. Your doctor will help determine if one of these classes of medications can help with your specific case.
 A variety of difference surgical options are available, depending upon the underlying cause for your neurogenic bladder. Your doctor may discuss:


Electrical-stimulatory therapy, which involves electrodes and a small stimulator implanted to help deliver the signals disrupted by the damaged nerves
An artificial sphincter, which is a cuff that attaches to the neck of the bladder and works in coordination with an implanted pump and regulating balloon to collect the urine.

