;
,, Click "OK".
 Change "Format:" to Photoshop (*.PSD, *.PDD). Set "File Name:" to GlassButton.psd. Click "OK".
 Type CTRL-N to create a new document. Enter 1 for "Width:", 10 for "Height", 72 for "Resolution:", and White for "Background Contents:". Click "OK".
 Click the pinstripe document until its at least %1600 bigger. Type SHIFT+CTRL+N to create a new layer. When the new layer dialog window opens, just click "OK".
 If for some reason the Circle Marquee tool opens, you can change to the square tool by holding down the left mouse button over the Marquee tool in the toolbox. A small window will open up next to the toolbox and you can select the square tool.
, Set "Use:" to Black. Click "OK". Now type CTRL+A to select the entire document.
 A window will pop up. Set "Name:" to Pinstripe.
 We don't need it anymore, and there is no reason to save it.
, Change "Use:" to Pattern. Change "Custom Pattern" to the Pinstripe pattern we created. Then click "OK". Your document should now look like this:

, When the small window opens up beside it, scroll to the Elliptical Marquee Tool.
 We want the circle to be a little smaller than the document. Click SHIFT+CTRL+N to create a new layer. When the New Layer window opens, change "Name:" to Button Shape.
 Click the Foreground Color swatch on the toolbar.
,, Set "Use:" for Foreground Color. Click "OK". Type CTRL+A to select the entire document. Type CTRL+X to cut out the circle, and then CTRL+V to paste it back. The cutting and pasting centers the circle in your document. In the Layers Palette, change the "Blending Mode" to Linear Burn.
, With our button, the background pinstripes are showing through, so we need to distort the lines a little bit.
 This draws a selection around our button shape. Now click on the Background layer in the Layers Palette. Click on "Filters">"Distort">"Spherize". Set "Amount" to 66%.
 Your document should now look like this:

, Type SHIFT+CTRL+N to create a new layer. When the New Layer window opens, change "Name:" to Reflection. Click "OK". A new layer named Reflection should have been created in between the Background and Button Shape layers, when looking at the layers in the Layers Palette. We need to move the Reflection layer to the top of the palette. Click and hold down the left mouse button on the Reflection layer, and drag it to the top of the palette.
 This changes the foreground and background colors to White and Black. Type G to change to the Gradient tool. Set the gradient to Foreground to Transparent.
 Hold down the SHIFT key while you are doing this to ensure you get a perfectly straight line. When the line has reached the bottom of the circle, let go of the mouse button. Now type CTRL+D to deselect the circle. Your document should now look like this:

, Type CTRL+T so we can Free Transform the Reflections layer. Grab the "square" that runs along the right side line. While holding down the ALT key, drag the square inwards until the Reflection layer is about 4/5ths the size it used to be. Now grab the "square" that runs along the bottom line. While holding down ALT, drag the square upwards until the Reflection layer is about 3/5ths the size it used to be. Hit ENTER to confirm the transformation. Your document should now look like this:

, Now click the reflection and drag it up until its nearly at the top of the circle. In the Layers Palette, change the Opacity to 85%.
, But lets add a wikiHow style check mark in the middle of the button.
 Now type SHIFT+CTRL+N to create a new layer above the Button Shape Layer. When the New Layer window opens, change "Name:" to Check Mark. Now we need to open the Custom Shape tool. In the toolbox, click and hold down on the Rectangle Tool until a window opens up next to it. Select Custom Shape from the list.
, When the Color Picker window opens, change "#" to 932200. Click "OK".
 You do this by clicking near the bottom of the circle, and dragging out a shape.
 Now change the opacity of the Check Mark layer to 80%. Your document should now look like this:

,, Type V to change to the Move tool. Now hold down the ALT key, and hit the keyboards down arrow 8 times. Now change the foreground color to A72903. Type SHIFT+F5 to open the Fill window. Make sure "Use:" is set to Foreground Color. Click "OK". Type CTRL+D to deselect the layer.
 The Layer Style window will open. Click on Dropshadow. Change "Angle:" to 90, and "Distance:" to 15.
, When the Layer Style window opens, click on Inner Shadow. Change "Blend Mode:" to Multiply, "Opacity:" to 75%, "Angle:" to 90, "Distance:" to 5, "Choke:" to 0, and "Size:" to 75. Click on Drop Shadow. Leave all the settings to what they are. Click "OK".
 Your final image should look like this:

