 Try an over-the-counter NSAID painkiller such as ibuprofen. Check the label and take the recommended dosage for your age. Take them with a little food to go easier on your stomach.


Take these painkillers only when necessary, and never for more than 10 days.;
, Most braces require warmth to become stiff and pull your teeth.Cold foods or drinks will lessen the strain for temporary relief. Try smoothies, yogurt, ice cream, or applesauce. Choose options without toppings or chunks. Sucking on crushed ice can help, but avoid ice cubes, which are too hard.


If you have temperature-sensitive teeth, or a less common type of braces, this may cause a different kind of pain. Warm liquids work better for some people. Don't eat warm and cold foods at the same time, as this can damage tooth enamel.
 Your teeth should recover in a few days, but until then forgo the raw vegetables. Eat meals of soup, fish, and white rice instead. Cook vegetables until soft, and choose soft fruits or applesauce. Sticky foods such as chewing gum or taffy can easily rip off braces, and should be avoided even after the pain is gone.After the initial pain goes away, you can eat hard foods in thin slices or small pieces.
 Pieces of food can always cause braces pain, but especially when you've just got them tightened. Use a "platypus flosser" to avoid snagging the floss on your braces.


Flossing daily will keep your teeth clean even if you don't notice stuck food. This is especially important with braces, since plaque builds up around the brackets.
 Gently move the toothbrush in circles over your sore gums.
 Taking some time off school or work may sound fun, but you might regret it. Get outside and follow your usual routine to take your mind off the pain.
 He may recommend a gel, paste, mouthwash, or physical barrier to lessen the pain. Many of these are available over the counter at drug stores, but your orthodontist can advise you on which product will be most effective.
 If you're not sure where the injury is, run a finger or your tongue along the inside of your mouth. You should feel a sore or swollen area. Figure out which wire, bracket, or hook rubs up against this area.
 You can find dental wax at a drug store, or your orthodontist's office. Wash your hands, then roll a small piece of wax until it softens and forms a ball. Press the wax over the irritating piece of metal, then smooth it down with your finger or tongue. This works for sharp wires, brackets, or rubber band hooks.


You can leave in the wax while eating. It won't hurt you if you swallow a piece., If you don't have dental wax, a small amount of nontoxic lip balm may soothe the irritated area. Swallowing too much can give you an upset stomach, but a little in your mouth is safe. Use this only for a short time before finding some dental wax.


Some people are allergic to para-aminobenzoic acid, occasionally found in sunscreen lip balms.Call an ambulance if you feel dizzy or if your mouth swells.
 Only try this with thin, flexible wires or rubber band hooks that are poking your cheek or gums. Push them gently back against your teeth, using a clean finger or brand new pencil eraser (rubber).Do not pick at the wires between brackets, or at any wire that won't bend easily.
 An orthodontist can clip the wire short in an instant. Most will not bill you for this, and may even let you drop in without an appointment.


This is a non-emergency, so your orthodontist probably won't see you outside of normal business hours. Keep applying wax until the office opens.
 The inside of your mouth will become tougher as the braces rub against it. As long as your braces aren't sharp or cutting into your mouth, the pain should go away on its own. This may take a few days or a few weeks.


Dental wax can slow this down. Once the pain is less severe, try using thinner and thinner pieces of wax to get your mouth used to the braces.
 Inhale deeply, filling your mouth with air. Pull your lips outward with your fingers. This may temporarily relieve sore areas of your mouth.


Don't try this in areas with dust, pollen, or car exhaust.
 Mix a small spoonful of salt in a glass of warm water. Stir until the salt has dissolved. Swish this around your mouth several times, gargle, and spit it out. Repeat as often as needed during the first few days of pain. This will relieve pain from swelling, and help fight off infection.


You can use a mouthwash with antimicrobial properties instead.Use as instructed on the label. Do not swallow.
 If the pain is too severe for you to function, call your orthodontist for an emergency visit. If the pain is moderate but lasts longer than a week, schedule an appointment with your orthodontist. She may discover a problem with your braces, or switch you to a less painful treatment.

