 You may realize that you find it difficult to feel joy. You may even frequently feel sad. If this is the case, take some time to figure out what is causing you to not feel joyful. Write these down and figure out how you can actively take steps to find your joy again.Be open and honest with yourself. Evaluate elements of your life such as your job, family situations, relationships with others, and your physical health.
Make a list of things that sap you of your joy and then ask, “What can I do to change this?” Then write an answer such as, “I’d be more joyful if I didn’t let my wife’s judgmental mother affect my mood.”;
, If you realize that you feel more sadness than joy, you may have depression or another disorder such as anxiety. Schedule an appointment with your physician, who can recommend a treatment to help you find more joy than sadness.Let your doctor know about what you’re feeling. Be as honest as possible. Remember that your doctor is there to help you and you have nothing about which to be ashamed.
Ask questions about what treatment your doctor suggests to find joy again in your life. She may suggest visiting a psychiatrist or other mental health professional to undergo psychotherapy. Your may also get a prescription for an anti-depressant, which can increase serotonin, the hormone that contributes to happiness, in your brain.
 You may realize that personal and professional relationships contribute to you not feeling joyfulness. The individuals with whom we interact regularly can impact our attitudes, including the ability to feel joy. Limiting or removing anyone who saps you of joy can help you recapture your joy.Remove a person from your life completely if he is a considerable drain on your joy. You can do so with kindness by saying something to the person such as, “I value you, but I need a bit of a break.” You can choose how much detail you provide.
Choose to limit your exposure to the person if you can’t remove him entirely. You can easily do this by saying some like, “Thank you very much for the kind invitation but I unfortunately can’t make it.”
Counteract negative attitudes, comments, and viewpoints by reminding the person of the positive side of what he said. This could help you feel a little joy and may even cause the person to move on from you.
 No person sails through life without difficulty. How you approach difficult times can have an effect on your overall mood. By seeking out joy during these difficult times, you may be able to find or retain joyfulness.


Avoid embracing any anger and/or rage you may feel. Find a way to get through situations that cause these emotions constructively so that they don’t become chronic.
Surround yourself with supportive individuals. Sharing what you’re experiencing can cue them into finding ways to make you joyful and happy. Even reaching out on social media may help since the people you love often want nothing but your happiness.
Feel compassion and kindness towards other people and beings such as animals and plants. Doing something nice for others can bring you—and the person or being—joy and happiness., Having a good idea of what makes you joyful can actually bring you more joy. Reviewing a list of what makes you joyful every day can help you focus on what makes you happy. It can also offer a bright spot in times you may not be feeling especially joyful.Write out a list of anything that makes you joyful. It doesn’t have to be anything detailed or fancy. Simple things, such as “my family and I have a comfortable home and plenty to eat,” are excellent. You can also put fancier things, too. Something like a great dinner, massage, or your team winning the playoffs are things that might also bring you joy.
Keep your list in a handy place like your handbag or wallet. This ensures that you can pull it out at any time, especially if you need a ray of sunshine in your day.
 Mornings can often be the hardest part of your day. You have to get out of a cozy bed and face things like work or school. But starting off your day right with elements such as soothing sounds, a good breakfast, and repeating positive words to yourself can help you have a relaxed, healthy, and productive day.Wake up to soothing sounds instead of a jarring alarm.Consider things like birds chirping or waves lapping up on the shore. Then repeat positive words to yourself such as, "Today is going to be a brilliant day," and, "I will have a really productive day.”
Establish some type of morning ritual so that you can leave your home with as little stress as possible. Your morning ritual could include things like having breakfast with your loved ones, taking a shower, or doing some gentle yoga.
Remember that eating a healthy breakfast can give you the energy and nutrients to get through your day. It also can keep you happy by preventing slumps in blood sugar.Try a slice of whole wheat toast with some jam, a cup of Greek yogurt with fresh berries, and a cup of coffee or tea.
 Exercise and physical activity are powerful ways to increase the amount of serotonin, a mood-enhancing hormone, in your system.Finding ways to move your body every day, such as a walk or swim, can help you stay joyful and be happy.


Get at least 75 minutes of vigorous activity or 150 minutes of moderate activity each week. Do exercises and activities that that you enjoy. Things like walking, hiking, running, yoga, swimming, or biking are a few example of what you can do. You can also do activities like jumping on a trampoline or with a rope. Even taking your dog outside to play works., Stress can put a cramp in anyone’s joy and happiness.Reducing any stress that confronts you can help you retain your joy throughout the day.Step away from any situation that causes you stress if you are able. A five or 10 minute break may do wonders for anyone involved. Use the time to take a short walk or something else you enjoy.
Try deep breathing for a few breaths for squeeze a rubbery stress ball if you cannot leave a situation that causes you stress.
Pull out your list of things that make you joyful to help diffuse your stress.

