 Before you even think about what to say to your boyfriend, make sure that you feel ready for sex in general. If you are considering becoming sexually active and have never had sex before, think about why you want to become sexually active. Consider your emotional readiness, knowledge of birth control and safe sex, your relationship with your boyfriend, and your personal beliefs and values., Whether you have been with other guys or not, your first time with someone should be special. Think about how you’d like the first time to be and make sure that you really want to take this step with him. , Purchase condoms and keep them on hand at all times, so that you are prepared for your first sexual encounter with your boyfriend. Store a couple in your purse and in your nightstand. You should also have a conversation with your boyfriend about contraceptive options, so that you are both taking responsibility for your sexual health.Keep in mind that birth control will only provide protection against pregnancy, but condoms can protect you from STDs and pregnancy. Also, remember that neither method is 100% effective. , Even if it turns out that he doesn’t feel ready to have sex yet, he will most likely appreciate your honesty. Just relax and make a plan to discuss your feelings with him., If you want to make sure he is committed to you before you have sex with him, you should talk to him to gauge his ideas about where the relationship is headed. Just make sure to have this conversation with your boyfriend before you start sleeping together. It will be much easier to discuss your hopes and expectations about your relationship before you have become sexual partners than after.During this conversation, make sure that you listen to his hopes for the relationship and respect what he has to say. You can strike up the conversation by saying:If you don't want to sound like you are trying to talk about your relationship you can ask him, "So what do you think you'll be doing this time next year?" If you're part of his vision for the future then he is probably interested in something long term.
If you want to be more direct with him, you can ask him, "Where do you think we're headed?"
Or if you just want to know if he considers you his girlfriend or not, you can ask him "So what should I call you if any of my friends asks about us?", You should have sex with someone only if you want to and are ready to.Don’t have sex with your boyfriend if you are hoping that by becoming sexual partners your boyfriend will want to propose, ask you to move in with him, or start treating you differently. Sex will not fix a relationship, but it may affect it negatively if one or both partners are not ready to become sexually active 