 You may want to keep a food diary of everything you eat before and after you make any changes. This will help you to identify the problem foods. There are several foods that give some people hives:Foods with vasoactive amines. These chemicals cause the body to release histamines, which can lead to hives. Foods containing them include shellfish, fish, tomatoes, pineapple, strawberries, and chocolate.
Foods with salicylates. These are compounds that are similar to aspirin. Foods that have them include tomatoes, raspberries, orange juice, spices, and tea.
Other common food allergens include peanuts, tree nuts, eggs, cheese, and milk.Some people also find that caffeine and alcohol can trigger hives.;
, If so, you may be able to get rid of your hives by minimizing your contact with these triggers. Some people react with hives to the following substances:Pollen. If this is your trigger, you are most likely to experience hives during times of high pollen counts. Try to avoid going outside during these times and keep the windows to your house closed.
Dust mites and animal dander. If you are allergic to dust mites, then keeping your environment extremely clean and dust free may help. Try vacuuming , dusting, and washing regularly. Change your sheets so that you are not sleeping on dusty sheets or pet dander.
Latex. Some people get hives in reaction to contact with latex. If you are a health care worker and think that latex may give you hives, try using latex-free gloves to see if your hives go away.
Other chemicals (cleaning products, perfumes, etc.) can also cause hives if you are allergic.
 Some people experience severe allergic reactions and carry epinephrine injectors in case they get stung. If you work outside, you can reduce your exposure to bites and stings by:


Avoiding bee hives and wasp nests. If you see bees or wasps, don’t antagonize them. Instead move slowly away and wait for them to fly away.

Applying insect repellent to your clothes and any exposed skin you may have. Do not get these chemicals in your nose, eyes, or mouth. There are many products available, but those with DEET are generally effective.
 This may involve protecting yourself from extreme temperature fluctuations until your body adjusts to a new climate or using a stronger sunscreen. Some people have sensitive skin which can react with hives to any number of environmental factors including:Heat
Cold
Sunlight
Pressure on the skin

, Some medications may cause people to break out in hives.If you think one of your medications is giving you hives, contact your doctor immediately. Do not stop taking it without consulting your doctor first. Your doctor may be able to recommend a different medication that will still treat your original condition, but won’t give you hives. Medications that sometimes give people hives include:Penicillin
Some blood pressure medications
Aspirin
Naproxen (Aleve)
Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, and others)

, Consult with your doctor to determine whether your hives could be a symptom of another underlying health condition. A wide range of conditions can give people hives. These include:Bacterial infections
Intestinal parasites
Viral infections including hepatitis, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, and HIV
Thyroid problems
Immune disorders like lupus
Lymphoma
Reactions to blood transfusions
Rare genetic disorders that influence the immune system and how blood proteins work

