 To avoid emotional withholding in the future, you and your partner should commit to healthy relationship habits. One of these habits should be sharing your feelings with each other on a regular basis. You should both agree to be upfront with how you are both feeling and avoid holding back or hiding any emotions you may be struggling with.For example, you may both agree to check in with each other on a daily basis with a simple, “How are your day?” or “How are you feeling?”
You may both also try to follow up on emotional issues that come up so you are both aware of what’s going on. You may ask your partner, “How did that meeting with the tough client go?” or “Did you resolve that issue with your friend?”

, You and your partner should both work on actively listening to each other. Doing this can ensure that your conversations are productive, engaging, and fulfilling for both of you. Active listening can be done in the simplest of conversations and in conversations with a little more depth and emotion.For example, you may encourage your partner to go more in depth in a conversation by asking thoughtful questions, such as, “Tell me more about that” or “How did you feel about what happened?”
You may also actively listen by nodding and making eye contact with your partner when they speak. Then, you can respond by saying, “What I hear you saying is…” or “I believe what you meant was…”

, Working together as a team day to day can greatly improve your relationship and make it feel more honest. You and your partner should agree to work as a team to tackle any issues that come up and come up with solutions to an issue together. Doing this will allow your partner to feel safe and supported in the relationship. This can then encourage them to open up and be more honest with you.For example, if you are both struggling with how to deal with a recent issue, you may say to your partner, “I think we can figure this out as a team. I believe we can come up with a solution together.”

