 Often the hardest part of making new friends is breaking the ice. Work on a generic, simple routine for introducing yourself to others and modify it to fit each new situation and person. Incorporate a question into your introduction so that the other person will have to strike up a conversation with you, even if it’s a short one.


Practicing your intro in your head is definitely helpful, but you must practice it on actual people to get it to really stick.
If you want to approach someone but you don’t feel prepared, go home that night and think about what you want to say, and try it the next day.
 Even if you’re feeling nervous, always try to start conversations with a smile. It immediately makes the other person feel relaxed and friendly toward you.


Walking up to someone with a blank or scared expression on your face is not a good introduction, and can make that person feel apprehensive about what you’re about to say to them.
If you approach someone with a relaxed demeanor and easy smile, they will want to know what you’re about to say.
 You’re probably going to feel a little nervous, but work on maintaining a relaxed demeanor. Always make eye contact when you are interacting with people. Stand up straight and don’t cross your arms, since that gives off the vibe that you are uncomfortable.


It will take a little practice, but once you start making it a point to keep your body language relaxed and confident, it will start to become second nature to you.
 Making friends with someone on Facebook first, or following them on Twitter or Instagram, can be a great way to start a face-to-face conversation later. Try to keep your interactions lighthearted and natural, not creepy and stalker-ish.


“Like” their status or a picture that they post. If they post an article, link, song or anything else that you find genuinely interesting, share it on your wall or repost it. Pay attention to what the person is into – then you can approach them and talk about that band you both like, or the movie that you both want to see.
Really strive to keep interactions on social media natural and simple. Interactions online can get distorted without the aid of a facial expression and tone of voice for interpretation, so avoid heavy topics and excessive comments.
If it feels natural to do so, use social media as a tool to plan a hang-out session. If someone posts a video by a band that you like, you could approach them and say, “I saw that you like such-and-such band, too! Are you going to their concert this weekend?” Shared interests are the foundation to almost every friendship.

