 You will want a napkin that has a darker tone, like a brown, if you want to replicate the look of a sailboat. However, you can also use whatever color napkin you have. This would be the best time to also decide whether you want a double-sided napkin. Your napkin should be colored on both sides, rather than just the outside.


Paper napkins are great for birthday parties, while cotton and linen napkins allow for a more professional look (hotels, restaurants, etc.).;
, A 20X20 inch napkin is the ideal size for your sailboat. Naturally, the bigger the napkin the bigger the boat. Your napkin should not be too thick, otherwise you will not be able to fold it properly. If you cannot find a perfectly square napkin, try one that is as close to square as you can get it. This extra half an inch or so will even allow you to make the folds easier.Another great option is to cut your napkin to a square size. However, you want to make sure to not leave any frayed edges when you do so. This is better for paper napkins, rather than nice family napkins used for holiday dinners.
 First clean the surface with a duster and/or glass cleaner. This will prevent your napkin from becoming stained. You can put it on a table, a desk, or a nightstand. Do not lay it on soft surfaces otherwise it will be hard to make the folds., This would be the best time to get out any excess wrinkles that might make your sailboat look bad. Only use an iron if you are using a cloth napkin. Do NOT iron a paper napkin. Use an iron on low, and gently press against the napkin. Make sure to get both sides.
 There are three different types of sailboat napkin folds: wind-drawn sailboat (upright), the stable sailboat (flat), and the party sailboat (upright). A wind-drawn sail is more for formal occasions like a dinner date. The stable sail can be used for any occasion, but typically formal. The party sail is mostly for festive, informal occasions. Check what event you are planning, and how each of the sailboats matches up.

