 Thrush is a candida infection of the mouth or throat. It’s most common in children, but it can also occur in adults, especially those with otherwise compromised immune systems. Your doctor will begin by performing a physical examination of your mouth and throat. She’ll look for raised white patches of film with red inflammation beneath. She may also look down your throat for similar white lesions.Ensure that you see the baby’s pediatrician for cases of thrush in infants. These cases often get better on their own, and the pediatrician may choose to monitor rather than immediately treat the infection.
It is quite common for infants to get thrush from breastfeeding, and it can appear on the mother's breast as well. This is because the infant often comes into contact with candida when passing through the birth canal (through the vagina).
If your breastfeeding baby has thrush, your doctor will likely treat it with Nystatin mouthwash in small amounts for your baby, as well as an anti fungal cream for your breasts to prevent the infection from being passed back and forth between the two of you. Diflucan is commonly prescribed to mothers when the baby has thrush.
 Your physician will want to confirm thrush as the diagnosis. He or she will ask you to submit to diagnostic testing depending on the severity of your case. Most cases are straightforward, and your doctor will scrape one of your sores in your mouth to look at the sample under a microscope.For more severe cases where the candida may have spread to your esophagus, you doctor will likely take a throat culture sample to have a lab determine exactly what germs are present., If your doctor determines that you have a very mild case of thrush (especially due to taking a recent antibiotic), then he or she may simply recommend that you eat yogurt with active cultures.This will help restore the balance of naturally occurring bacteria in your mouth and throat, making the environment less inhabitable by candida fungi.
 Acidophilus is one of the active cultures you’ll find in yogurt, but it’s also available in pill form. You can find these pills available without a prescription, and they’ll also help restore the natural equilibrium of germs in your mouth and throat., If your doctor determines that your case requires a prescription-strength treatment, then he or she may write you a prescription for one of several options. These anti-fungal medications come in a variety of forms, including:Anti-fungal mouthwashes such as Nystatin
Anti-fungal mouth lozenges (clotrimazole)
Pills or syrups, including fluconazole (Diflucan) or itraconazole (Sporanox)
If your child’s pediatrician decides that the case of thrush requires a prescription drug, then he or she will write a prescription for one of the options proven safe in infants, such as fluconazole (Diflucan) or micafungin (Mycamine)., To prevent the possibility of reinfecting yourself with the fungus once it’s cleared up, you should change your toothbrush. For infants, ensure that you sterilize any teething toys and all items used in feeding such as the nipples from bottles.