 See if he wants to sit close to you. If he's about 2 or 4 inches (5.1 or 10.2 cm) between you, there's something to consider. See how he uses his arms. If he puts his elbows on his knees, he's truly listening to you. Things like that you need to pick up on.;
, When you look at him, see if he puts his pelvis towards you while either are talking. If he does that, he's into and probably likes you. Does he lean a little when your talking? That means he's understanding on what you have to say. When he stands, does he stand tall and you notice he's doing a habit? Things like that you need to consider. He probably likes you, but just a little nervous around you.
 Sometimes when you hear what your guy has to say, he would take a simple question and make it a huge answer. He would just go on and on explaining/telling you something that should've been a few words shorter. In that instance, he probably likes you and nervous on what to say next. Try to break the ice slowly, then tell him what's on your mind. When it comes to texting, he may start saying "how was your day?" when you know he hasn't said it for a while until just recently. That means he's starting to have interest in you. When he starts saying things he hasn't done in a while and somehow starts saying something to you just recently, he's definitely wanting to take the next step up.
 Be mysterious. He would start to think, or wonder when you say something like "oh, it was nothing", or "never mind, just forget it". It would make him want more of you. It would also mess with his mind in a good way, and he probably might like that.
 Sometimes you would text him and he won't text you for about 3 or 4 days. But on the fourth day when he does finally reply to your text, he would just pick right up where he left off. It would make you wonder if he's just doing it for no reason, or if he's really busy. What I suppose is that it's just a guy thing. He's probably doing it so it would seem that your obsessed with him, but he could oddly like that. He probably also thinks that you do care for him, but you don't know if it bugs, or annoys him when your filling up his phone inbox. It could also mean that he wants you to think of him more So you would think that he's really special. However, when he talks to you in person, he seems like he's not playing a game on you.
 When all else fails, give him signs that you like him. Tease, flirt, smile, all that stuff you could do to tell him that you like him, He should understand what you're doing if you do it right. He could like you as much as you do to him.

