 Recent versions of Excel include a template for tracking personal expenses along with templates for common business applications. You can access these templates and use them to track your bills in Excel.


In Excel 2003, select "New" from the "File" menu. Select "On my computer" from the "New Workbook" task pane to view the "Templates" dialog box.
In Excel 2007, select "New" from the "File" button menu. This displays the "New Workbook" dialog box. Select "Installed Templates" from the "Templates" menu in the left pane. Select "Personal Monthly Budget" from the "Installed Templates" in the center pane and click "Create."
In Excel 2010, click the "File" tab, then select "New" from the "File" menu. Select "Sample templates" from the top section of the "Available Templates" pane, then select "Personal Monthly Budget" from the display of sample templates and click "Create.";
, If the personal budget template that comes pre-installed with Microsoft Excel doesn't work for tracking your expenses, you can select a template online. You can either download a template from a third-party site or use Excel to connect with Microsoft Office Online.


For Excel 2003, you can select a suitable template from the Microsoft Office Online library at http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/templates/. (You can also find templates intended for later versions of Excel here as well.)
In Excel 2007, choose "Budgets" from the Microsoft Office Online section of the "New Workbook" dialog box. You must have a working Internet connection to connect to the Office online template library.
In Excel 2010, choose "Budgets" from the Office.com section of the Available Templates pane. You must have a working Internet connection to connect to the Office online template library.
 The exact information depends on the spreadsheet template you're using.
 You can either use the name the template provides for your spreadsheet or change it to something more meaningful. Adding your name and the year to the existing file name should be sufficient.

