 A cheese omelette can be made using different types of cheese. It can also be enhanced with additional ingredients, such as mushrooms, herbs, and ham. What ever ingredients you add to the omelette will need to be already cooked, with the exception of herbs and cheese. This section will give you some recipe variations and ideas.
 You can experiment using different types of cheese in your omelette, such as Feta cheese and Parmesan cheese. Keep in mind, however, that different types of cheese pair better with different types of ingredients. Here are some examples:


Feta cheese pairs best with tomatoes, spinach, and broccoli.
Parmesan cheese works best with ham, onions, and mushrooms.
Cheddar cheese works well with almost anything, but especially bacon, ham, and tomatoes.
 When choosing your ingredients, try not to add too many; this may cause the omelette to fall apart when you try to fold it or move it to a plate. Instead, consider limiting yourself to two or three extra ingredients (excluding the eggs and seasoning)., Dice 1 tomato and mix it with ½ tablespoon of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of Cheddar cheese, 3 chopped basil leaves, and 1 chopped spring onion. Grease your skillet with ½ tablespoon of olive oil, and fry your omelette as usual. Once it begins to set, add the tomato and cheese mixture on top, and fold it over. Let the omelette cook for 30 more seconds before removing it from the heat and serving it., Cook your omelette as usual, but add a slice of finely-chopped ham to the cheese mixture. After you fold the omelette in half, but before your serve it, garnish it with a sprinkle of chopped up ham., Heat a handful of sliced mushrooms in 1 tablespoon of olive oil for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the mushrooms are golden-brown. Scoop the mushrooms from the pan and mix then with ¼ cup (25 grams) of grated Cheddar cheese and chopped parsley. Cook your omelette as normal, and add sprinkle the cheese-parsley-mushroom mixture. down the middle before folding it in half and serving it.