 Eggs are a healthy, protein-rich breakfast choice that is easy to whip up in the morning. You can have your eggs scrambled, hardboiled, poached, or fried for a delicious breakfast.Make sure you prepare your eggs in a healthy fashion. Cook them using heart healthy oils, like olive oil, over butter.
Add some vegetables and fruit as a side dish, or make an omelet full of veggies, to add extra nutrients to your morning eggs.
 Cottage cheese is a low calorie, protein rich cheese that tastes great when mixed with fruit. Just half a cup of cottage cheese contains 16 grams of protein. Mix in some fresh fruit with a little bit of cottage cheese for a quick, healthy breakfast choice.If you dislike the taste of cottage cheese, try mixing a small amount in with your pancake batter or in an omelet. This will add protein without making the cottage cheese taste overwhelming.
 If you love cereal in the morning, go for whole wheat cereals with high amounts of protein. In addition to choosing protein rich cereals, add milk or soy milk to your cereal for added protein. You can also mix in oats or nut putters, like peanut butter, to up the protein content.In addition to adding protein, add some fruit to your cereal for added health benefits.
 If you enjoy pancakes in the morning, you can increase their protein content with peanut butter. Simply add a few spoonfuls of peanut to the batter before frying up your pancakes for a healthy, protein-rich breakfast.To make pancakes even more nutritious, use whole wheat flour and add fresh fruit like blueberries to your batter.
 Tofu can be fried up for breakfast. If you don't eat eggs, use tofu in their place in something like a breakfast scramble. Try frying tofu with a variety of healthy vegetables for a quick, nutritious breakfast that's packed with protein., Chia and pumpkin seeds are a healthy option for breakfast that contain a large amount of protein. You can mix in seeds to cereal, yogurt, and oatmeal or buy bread with chia or pumpkin seeds included.