 Before you give your bunny oral medication, make sure to take her to the vet to get checked out. Give all medication as directed by your veterinarian and for the time period indicated.Veterinarians prescribe medication to rabbits for a variety of different reasons. Oral medication comes in both pill and liquid form.
If you have questions about the medication, how to administer it, or anything else, talk to your vet.;
, Before you give your rabbit the medication, carefully read the instructions on the pill vial or liquid container thoroughly. This ensures that you fully understand any specific instructions and how to administer the medication.Double check the dosage requirements so you give your rabbit the proper amount of medications.
 Before getting your rabbit ready for the medication, make sure you gather all the needed materials. You don’t want to have to leave your rabbit to go find something you need after you restrain her. Have the medication, any syringes and droppers, and a restraint towel available before catching the rabbit.Consider having good treats ready to reward a cooperative rabbit after the medication session.
 Your bunny is extremely sensitive to stressors. This means you need to keep her as calm as possible while administering the medication. Keep any extra people or other pets away from the area to keep a relaxed atmosphere., Measure out the proper amount of medication in the provided delivery device. This is usually a syringe or a dropper for liquid medication.


Make sure to keep a good hold on your rabbit while you are measuring out the medication so she doesn’t hop away.
 Liquid medicine can be hidden in favorite treats and fed to the rabbit. Bananas and raisins are good for this.Applesauce, strawberries, and other highly desirable treats can also be used to administer medication.
You can squirt the liquid medication onto the treat, especially if it is a wet treat, like applesauce.
 If your bunny needs to take a pill, you can try to work the pill in between the corner of the mouth. Be careful to keep your fingers away from the teeth.If this doesn’t work, give it to her in your hand like a treat.
You can hide or press the pills into softer treats, like bananas and strawberries.You can also sprinkle crushed pills onto a treat., If the bunny won’t take the pill, you can try to crush the pill. Then, you can sprinkle the pill over some food, like peanut butter, or mix it into treats, like applesauce.This can help prevent choking if your rabbit won't take a pill.
 If your rabbit is aggressive, resistant to taking her medication, or won't eat the medicine in the treats, you should restrain her. When you restrain your rabbit, you will be swaddling her in a towel or large cloth.You can also find a restraining jacket in a pet shop to place your bunny in.
Properly restraining your bunny is one of the most important parts of giving medication to a rabbit. An improperly restrained rabbit can kick out with its back legs and hurt itself to the point of breaking its back.
If you are uncomfortable with restraining your rabbit, have a veterinarian demonstrate how to do so.
 You need to use a towel large enough to wrap around your rabbit. Before you pick up your rabbit, place a large, thick towel on your working surface. Make sure to spread it flat.You can use a towel, blanket, t-shirt, or other kind of cloth.
The working surface can be the floor or a table top. Decide which will give you enough room to work on and which be easier for you to work on.
 Rabbits get upset quickly. Make sure to pick your rabbit up gently and calmly. You will have an easier time wrapping up your bunny if she is calm instead of agitated.Be aware your rabbit may bite or scratch you when you handle her. Remaining calm can help reduce this risk., Gently set your bunny on the towel. Since the towel is spread length-wise in front of you, place the bunny ⅓ of the way down the towel.


Your rabbit should be placed so ⅓ of the length of the towel is on one side of the rabbit, and ⅔ of the length of the towel is on the other side. The two ends should be long enough to wrap over the rabbit.
Handle your bunny so that you protect her hind legs. Rabbits can easily hop or jump, which can cause spinal injury.When you set your rabbit down, you need to calmly hold her in place. Put one hand on the scruff of her neck and the other hand on her hip, or place both hands on her shoulders. This not only helps prevent her from escaping, but it can also help to calm her., Take hold of the short end of the towel. Pull it snugly around your bunny’s body. You should wrap it around the neck, leaving the head exposed. Tuck the end under the rabbit’s body. Next, take the longer end of the towel and wrap it over the body. Snugly tuck it beneath your bunny’s the body.Only the rabbit’s head should be exposed.
You can also continue wrapping the towel by tucking the bottom of the towel around the rear to keep your bunny from escaping from behind.
 If you don’t want to wrap your rabbit in a towel, or you have someone who can help you, try the helper technique instead. Start by recruiting a person to help you. Have the helper hold the rabbit on the table by taking a firm grip on its scruff, which is the skin behind the ears. He should then wrap his free arm around the rabbit’s body to cradle it. This free arm should support the hind legs.Never lift the rabbit off a surface by the scruff or ears. This can injure your rabbit.
 It's common for a bunny to resist taking medicine even when it's hidden in treats. If this is the case, you can squirt liquid medication into the bunny's mouth with a syringe.Start by holding your bunny, making sure the back legs are secure so the bunny doesn't injure herself.
Carefully place your non-dominant hand over the bunny’s head to hold it still. Don’t put too much pressure on the head. You are just trying to keep the bunny from turning away as you administer the medication.
 Place your thumb and fingers on your bunny’s face just above the mouth. Use your thumb and finger to gently lift the lips or cheeks of your bunny. Do this gently and calmly.Make sure to keep your fingers away from your rabbit’s snout and teeth so she can’t bite you.
 With liquid medication, the nozzle end of the syringe or dropper can be gently worked in between the corner of the mouth. Place the nozzle in at an angle right behind the front teeth. This helps keep the medication from going into the lungs.Then slowly squirt the medicine into the mouth.


Make sure to squirt the medicine in the mouth slowly. If you go too fast, the liquid may go into the lungs, which can cause asphyxiation. Don’t squirt the whole syringe into her mouth at once.
Don’t shove the syringe or dropper too far into the bunny’s mouth. You could choke her. Just put it in enough so that the medicine gets in the mouth so she can swallow.