 In many cases a depressive episode can stifle creativity.You may feel like you don’t have the energy or the focus to be creative. However, studies indicate that being creative can actually boost your mood.In other words, even though you may not feel like, being creative can help you relieve your depression, which, in turn, can help you be more creative.


Even if it’s just coloring for five minutes, singing in the shower, or dancing as your dry off, try to do something creative every day.
Keep materials and supplies to encourage your creativity on hand. For instance, if music inspires you, keep your headphones and playlists handy. Or, if writing’s your thing, then keep pen and paper nearby.
 When you think of expressing your feelings, you might think of talking to someone or journaling. But, there are lots of ways you can express how you are feeling that also exercise your creativity. By using your creativity to express yourself you are managing your emotions and doing something positive.Write a song, poem, play, or short story that expresses how you are feeling. You don’t have to share it with anyone, but you can use it as a way to release tension and address your emotions.
Try your hand at photography or videography. There are countless apps and programs that can help make almost any picture, selfie, or video show how you’re feeling in a creative, artistic way.
 One of the signs of depression is withdrawing from activities you normally enjoy and spending less time with people you care about. Joining community groups, taking classes, or even performing can help you relieve depression because it encourages you to be around other people. It also gives you the opportunity and a reason to engage in activities you enjoy.Take a group class or private lessons to develop your creative skill and talent. For instance, you could take private dancing lessons or join a group class in your community.
Find a creative partner. This might be a family member, friend, or someone you meet at a class. You and this person can encourage one another to be creative.
 If you do creative activities with the goal of becoming famous or creating a masterpiece, you may be disappointed and get discouraged. Remember, though, that your goal is to use creativity as a way to manage your depression. Don’t worry about your finished product, or even finishing. Instead focus on the process of using your skills, talents, and interests to help you relieve depression.

