 There are many different ways you can make nachos and no single recipe is “right” or “better.” The two fundamental ingredients of nachos are tortilla chips and cheese. Some of the other popular items people use in their nachos include:Meat, especially ground beef
Beans, refried or whole
Pickled jalapeños
Olives
Salsa
Guacamole
Sour cream;
, Tortilla chips are often laden with salt and fat. As a way to make your chip base healthy, consider trying store bought chips made of grains such as quinoa or baked instead of fried options. You can also make your own chips or use a vegetable such as sweet potato or zucchini in place of corn chips.Look around the chips aisle at your local food store. You’ll likely notice standard corn and wheat chips, but may also see many companies are now providing healthier alternatives made of quinoa or flaxseed. Read the nutrition information on the product label to see which suits your health needs best.
Cut thicker slices of sweet potato, zucchini or even beet for an even healthier “chip.”Bake these before you make your nachos so they’re crunchy like a chip.
Make your own healthy chips by cutting 12 tortillas into 6 slices each. Then place each chip on a baking sheet in a single layer. Bake for about 6 minutes at 350° F (175° C) and turn over with a pair of tongs. Leave in the oven for another 6-9 minutes and sprinkle with a small dash of salt to flavor., Nachos wouldn’t be nachos without the ooey-gooey delight of cheese. Like chips, cheese can also be laden with fat. If you’re trying to be healthy, find a cheese that won’t hurt your meal but still give you all of the flavor of “regular” nachos. Finding options high in calcium and protein can also boost the healthy factor.Try cheeses that are naturally less caloric. These include Parmesan, feta, goat cheese, and part-skim mozzarella.Even a processed cheese such as Velveeta can be lower in calories than more traditional options.Buy low-fat varieties of pre-shredded cheddar, Monterey Jack, Colby or other cheeses.
Consider using less cheese on your plate if you want to stick with a favorite, possibly less healthy cheese. Grating it finely will cover the entire platter without adding excess fat. Good quality may be better than a huge quantity., The basic and popular ingredients of nachos can be very bad for any person’s diet. They may be lacking in important vitamins and nutrients in addition to being high in empty calories and fat. However, substituting less healthy options with healthier alternatives can provide you a satisfying and more nutritious nacho.Use lower fat beef as well as chicken or pork for your protein. You can also use other proteins such as tofu or tempeh.
Try whole kidney and black beans instead of refried beans. Soaking dry beans overnight and using them on your nachos increases their nutritional value significantly. Remember that you will need to cook them. You can also use vegetarian or vegan refried beans or mash you own beans for healthier options.Opt for low sodium canned beans.Sprinkle on only fresh vegetables that you chop instead of pre-cut or canned options.
Make your own salsa and guacamole with only fresh ingredients and no oils.
Choose low- or nonfat sour cream and cheese.
 An excellent way to further increase the health factor of your nachos is adding fresh vegetables to your platter. Not only can a variety of veggies make for more lively and eye-catching nachos, but they also provide you vitamins and nutrients to maintain your health. Some fresh vegetables you could add to make your nachos more healthy include:Diced red, orange, yellow, or green pepper
Grilled corn
Mushrooms
Diced red onions
Fresh tomatoes
Roasted squash or sweet potato cubesShredded lettuce
Limes or lime juice
Avocado chunks

, Tortilla chips—flour or corn— are the canvas for your nachos. They should be thick enough to hold your toppings while not overpowering your nacho platter. Try using freshly baked chips that are not laden in frying oil or processed in a plant. This can help make your nachos slightly healthier.Spread your chips so they cover the bottom of an oven safe baking dish or platter. They don’t need to be arranged in any special order because part of the fun of nachos is just throwing them together.
 Keep your heavier ingredients towards the bottom of your nacho platter. Things such as beans and meat can support the weight of smaller ingredients, your chosen toppings and the melted cheese.Spread on refried beans if you’re using them. If not, season your meat or non-animal protein as you like it before cooking it. Mix the cooked protein with any beans you may be using. Sprinkle this mixture evenly over the top of the chips.
Use less meat or non-animal protein in favor of extra beans or vegetables. These will provide just as much bulk to your nachos while upping the nutrition factor., For a little extra crunch, sprinkle on any fresh vegetables you like. These can enhance the layers of different flavors in your nachos while providing a nutritious boost. Avoid cooking the fresh veggies before you put them on the nachos so they retain more vitamins and nutrients and stay crunchier.Sauté onions lightly for a more subtle flavor. Consider adding a bit of garlic to the onions for another nutritious flavor boost.
Layer on as many different colored vegetables as you can. Vegetables are generally low in calories, which allows you to include more of them on nachos. This makes the nachos not only visually stimulating, but also good for your health.
 The crowning glory of your nachos is arguably the cheese. It hugs your chips, protein, and veggies with a heavenly and creamy layer of deliciousness. The melted cheese also sets the scene for whatever colorful toppings you may choose for your nachos.Shred your cheese finely. This will go farther in covering the nachos.
Spread your cheese over the top of your nachos sparingly. If you buy a better-quality cheese, you may not need as much because it is big on flavor. This is much healthier than wrapping your nacho platter in a dome of cheese.
 One of the best things about nachos is you can make them however you like. You may have some extra room at the top of your platter and extra ingredients to use up. If this is the case, make a second layer of nachos using the same formula as above. This can further enhance your eating experience and give you some additional nutrients.

Eat fewer nachos if you layer them to minimize the risk of getting too many calories and too much fat at one meal.
 Another great thing about nachos is that you can bake them in any type of oven. Your nachos will taste good whether you cook them in a conventional oven or microwave. Choose an option you have available or that makes it easiest for you to eat your nachos as soon as you want them.Preheat your broiler in a standard oven, toaster oven, or convection oven. Set the rack 6 inches (15.2 cm) from the heat source. Broil until the cheese melts or even let the cheese brown a bit. This may take 5 - 10 minutes. Let your nachos cool for a few minutes before serving them.
Set your microwave on medium for 2 minutes. Then let your nachos cook for the allotted time. Check the nachos to make sure that cooking is even across your platter. You may need to let the nachos cool for a few minutes after you take them out of the microwave., Many people like an extra layer of toppings on their nachos. These generally include salsa, guacamole, and sour cream. Toppings add another layer of flavor to already delectable nachos. Instead of using processed toppings, make your own and spread them on your nachos sparingly. Homemade toppings used sparingly can add lots of flavor and nutrients to your nachos.Consider setting your toppings on the side. This will allow you and your guests to decide how much of each topping to eat.
 Once you’re bubbly platter of deliciousness is ready, serve it to yourself or your guests. Use small individual plates to make your stomach think that you’re eating more than you actually are.

Make sure you’ve got plenty of napkins to clean off nacho-ed up fingers and hands. You or your guests may love the nachos so much that napkins aren’t even necessary!

, Every platter of nachos has two main ingredients: the chips and the cheese. If you’re making nachos for four people and want to keep it healthy, consider how much of each you’re placing on the platter. Try the following amounts and adjust as necessary for your guests or wishes:4-8 ounces of your chosen chips
1/4 cup of cheese, finely grated, Beans, meats, and non-animal protein are often go-to ingredients to any nacho platter. These are also a great way to get extra nutrients without extra fat and calories. Choosing one protein in the following amounts can keep your nachos healthy and delicious:1-15.5 ounce can of refried or whole beans or a pound of soaked an cooked beans
8 ounces of chopped shrimp8 ounce shredded rotisserie chicken breast
1/2 cup of chick peas
6 ounces shredded grilled pork tenderloin
8 ounces thinly sliced seared flank steak
15 ounces extra firm tofu, drained, Vegetables are loaded with lots of important nutrients and vitamins. They’re a great way to make nachos more flavor, add some extra crunch, and boost nutritional value. Add any of the following vegetables to make healthier nachos:1/4 of a red or yellow onion, diced
1 rib of thinly sliced celery
1/2 avocado, diced
3 ounces thinly sliced olives1 cup chopped tomato
1/2 cup chopped green onions
1 cup shredded red cabbage
1 cup chopped sautéed red bell peppers and onions

, After you’ve added all of your healthy ingredients to the platter, cook your nachos. You’ll likely want to top the melted deliciousness with even more toppings. This is a further chance to make them healthy without losing out on flavor. Just a little of the following toppings goes a long way:1 tablespoon fresh cilantro leaves
2 tablespoons sliced or canned jalapeño1/2 cup fresh salsa
2 tablespoons low fat sour cream or 1/4 cup guacamole

