 Getting enough water is essential for optimal body function, including your eyes. To stay hydrated, make sure that you drink at least six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day. This is about 1.5 to 2 liters of water every day.


Keep in mind that you may need more or less water depending on your activity level and sex.
 Protein is necessary for good health, but some sources of protein are better than others. High-quality proteins also contain less saturated fat, and they provide your body with many of the minerals and vitamins that it needs to thrive.Some high-quality protein sources include:


Eggs and egg whites
Turkey and other lean poultry
Fish, including tuna, salmon, sardines and mackerel
Meats including beef, buffalo and pork (trim the fats though!)
Nuts and seeds
Dairy products and cheese
Soy and soy products (e.g. tofu)
Lentils, peas and beans

, Complex carbohydrates are healthier for you than simple carbohydrates.Choosing complex carbohydrates can also help you to control health conditions such as diabetes, which can lead to vision problems if not kept under control. Complex carbohydrates include:


Whole grains, such as whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta, and brown rice
Beans, such as pinto beans, black beans, kidney beans, and chickpeas
Fresh vegetables and fruit

,


Make sure that your diet includes a variety of fruits and vegetables every day to ensure that you are getting as many vitamins and minerals as possible.
 Since these conditions may lead to future vision problems, it is essential that you limit your intake of sugar as much as possible.


Try to avoid processed foods, which often contain hidden sugars. For example, ketchup, salad dressings, crackers, and flavored yogurts all have added sugars.
Get into the habit of checking labels to see if an item has any added sugars. If it does, then look for a sugar-free alternative.
 A high sodium diet can contribute to high blood pressure, which is a risk factor for developing vision problems.Avoid adding salt to your food and try to choose foods that are low in sodium to help reduce this risk factor.


Try using a squeeze of lemon or a splash of vinegar to season your food instead of salt.
Herbs can also help to add flavor to your food without adding unnecessary sodium.

