 You will want a colored one and a sheer one, in yummy flavors. It never hurts to grab one with extra moisturizer or SPF to keep lips nice and protected.;
, Just one bottle. Note: Replace every few months if you can. If your school has rules against too much makeup, skip this step, or put add different products, like powder.
 Just in case you hit the snooze alarm too late. Again, don't pack too much makeup. Go for a natural look.
 From forgotten lunch money to buying something from the vending machine, money comes in handy! Make sure to bring a few dollars, not your life savings!

,

Bring a small lip balm that tastes and smells good for when your lips get chapped in the winter, or if you are looking for some color, without going overboard. (include tinted lip balm if you want a bit of color.), This can be used for tons of things, like fixing tights or pantyhose, touching up nail shine, coating jewelry that turns your skin green, or sealing something closed.Seal the bottle tightly, so nothing spills. You might want to put items that can spill in small baggies, or just close them tight.
 You never know! Wrap 3-4 ponytail holders around the handle, so you'll always have them.
 You can almost never have enough of them. Check every once in a while to make sure you haven't lost them all :)

, Just in case you missed patch of hair on your legs!

, Clammy hands can split. Ew! Once again, make sure your lotion doesn't ooze out when you are in class.
 Gym class takes its toll on you!

, Grab a few in different sizes. Big ones for things like broken zippers and smaller ones for positioning clothes and fixing holes.
 Just in case you need to dry off! Wash and replace every week or two.
 You never know when you might forget gym clothes, spill something on you at lunch, or any other situation. Roll or wrap them up super small (so they will fit).
 Small things such as feminine supplies, tissues, bandages, a toothbrush, toothpaste, hairspray, nail polish remover, make-up wipes, an emery board, nail clippers, sewing scissors, and earring backs (if you wear earrings)! - whatever else you want. It never hurts to be over-prepared!

