 This is fast, free, and Google place listings almost always come up first in Google search results. Go to places.google.com/business. If you don't already have a Google account, set one up by clicking the "create account now" button. Follow the prompts to create an account. Then click "list your business." Enter the business phone number and follow the prompts to create your profile. Be sure to use keywords in the description--words that people looking for your business would enter into a search engine. Make sure the address and map information are correct.;
, Local (local.yahoo.com.) Like Google, Yahoo! Local listings will come up first when users who have Yahoo! as their search engine do a search for local services.
 These include MerchantCircle.com, InsiderPages.com, UrbanSpoon.com, Mapquest.com and Local.com. Like Google places, enter your business phone number, and follow the prompts to set up your account. Search for other local businesses to find additional local directories and more opportunities to find out how to advertise locally for free on the Internet.
 Go to the site and click "advertise with us."

, These should be independent listings exclusively for your business, not based on your personal account. Be sure to list your full address. Keep your pages up to date by listing news, new products and services, sales and other events in a conversational way. Avoid hard selling or spammy content.
 It's completely free, and while it doesn't offer a lot of flash or graphics, Craigslist is increasingly becoming a source for people searching for services and products. If you offer a service, be sure to monitor the "gigs" section of Craigslist to find ads placed by people who are looking for services.
 Even a simple website is a source for listing your business' name, location, and services that can be found by search engines. A blog can be updated regularly, giving you more chances for putting your name out on the Internet.
 These sites often feature a directory of local businesses. If there is not a way to automatically list your business, contact them via email or phone and ask how to be included.

