 The first step is to read the customer’s information from the credit card. Credit cards either have a magnetic stripe or embedded microchips. These store the customer’s name, account number, the card’s expiration date, and the country.Whatever system you use, you need a method of obtaining this information from the customer’s credit card.


With a POS system, you manually enter the product information into the system or swipe a barcode. The register totals the sale calculates tax. You then swipe the magnetic stripe or scan the microchip with the card reader on your terminal.
With a mobile system, you open up your app and select the products from your products page that the customer is purchasing. The app totals up the cost of the sale including tax. Then, you read the customer’s card with the card reader that plugs into the headphone jack on your smartphone or tablet.
For online purchases, customers visit your website and browse the product pages. They select the items they want to purchase and add them to your shopping cart. When the customer is ready to check out, the software totals up the cost of the merchandise, tax, and shipping. Your shopping cart software provides an interface where customers can manually enter their name, credit card number, expiration date, and billing address.
 Once you have read the customer’s credit card, your payment processing system and merchant account begin the process of authorizing the sale. The payment processing system communicates the customer’s credit card information to your merchant account. The merchant account then communicates with the card issuer to approve or decline the sale. The approval or denial is sent from the card issuer to the merchant account and then back to you at the terminal., At the end of the business day, bundle all of your approvals and send them to your merchant account. Your merchant account holder will deposit the funds into your bank account. Your funds should be in your account within two or three business days.The customer’s card issuer pays the merchant bank for the customer’s purchases. Then, the card issuer bills the customer for the purchase plus any interest.

