 In the United States, there are over 36,000 Redbox locations, so the odds are that there's one near you if you live near even a moderately-sized town or city.To find a Redbox location, use the kiosk locator at the official Redbox site, Redbox.com.


At the top of the home page, click "browse a location" at the top of the page. In the "Search Locations" menu that drops down, input your zip code or address to get a list of Redbox locations near you.
Big metropolitan areas will almost always have many locations to choose from. For instance, there are 50 Redbox locations in San Francisco alone!;
, Once you've found a Redbox near you, travel to it to rent your videos. At the Redbox, choose from among the three options on the screen: "Rent a DVD", "Online Rental Pick up" and "Return a DVD". To rent a DVD, press "Rent a DVD".


To learn how to reserve a DVD online and pick it up in person, see the appropriate section below. Keep reading in this section to learn how to return a DVD.
 After hitting "Rent a DVD", you'll be brought to a screen showing some of the videos in stock at the kiosk. The titles you see on the screen aren't necessarily the only ones in the machine — press "More Titles" to see more.
 When you see the DVD you want to rent, press it on the screen. This will take you to another screen with information about the movie. Press "Add to Cart" to add it to the list of movies you're renting at this visit.


At this point, if you're renting more than one movie, you may want to return to the list of movies to browse for more. If you're only renting one movie, keep reading.
 After you've added the final movie you want to your cart, press "Check Out". You will be asked to swipe your credit card on the card swipe next to the screen to pay for your purchase.
 You will be asked to enter your zip code and your email address. If this is your first time using RedBox, the fields for this information will be blank. However, if you rent a DVD again, the machine will remember your information.


The email address you provide will be used to send you your receipt. You will not get a paper receipt (unless, of course, you print this email out).
 The DVDs you rented will come out of a slot on the side of the RedBox. At this point, you're free to leave with your movies, go home, and watch them!


The DVDs will come in small red plastic cases. Don't lose these — replacing them costs a small fee., Redbox rental periods are one day long — to avoid late fees, you must return your DVDs by 9:00 PM the day after you rent them. To return your DVDs, go to any Redbox machine (the one you use doesn't have to be the same one you rented from), press "Return a DVD" and put the DVDs back in the same slot they came from.


Note that returning a movie later than 9:00 PM the day after you rented it will cause you to be charged another day's rental fee. If you don't return your rental for the maximum rental period (21 days for DVDs), you'll be charged the maximum rental fee plus tax and you'll be allowed to keep the DVD.The maximum rental fees for Redbox products are $25.20 + tax for DVDs, $34.50 + tax for Blu-ray™ Discs, and $70 + tax for video games.