 After you have chosen the right parcel of land for your purposes, you will need to have the land surveyed to determine its dimensions and property lines. A survey will also reveal any easements for access to the property, which refers to neighbor's rights to travel through the property. Right-of-way issues are often critical to open plots of land because they are important for the purposes of improving or using that land over time and may affect your ability to get a loan.For more information on having land surveyed, see how to get a land survey.


In some cases you may be able to simply ask for a recent land survey from the seller.;
, Go to municipal offices and look through zoning records to get a better idea of how a desired plot of land could be legally used. If your intended use for the land is not allowed by zoning laws, you may be able to apply to seek a zoning change from the municipal government.You may also wish to secure any flood or hazard warnings relevant to the land. A potential lender may ask for these documents., Improvements are any existing or planned man-made additions to the plot of land. Adding improvements to the land or detailing planned improvements for the land may help you secure financing.It may be easier to secure financing if you plan to build structures on the land. These could be residential or commercial structures, depending on your needs and zoning laws. In order to secure financing more easily, have an architect draw up plans for whatever kind of structure you want to build. You may also wish to contact a general contractor for an estimated cost of building the structure.Note that 100% financing packages are rarely available for raw land, even those expected to be developed. Lenders will expect you to have a stake in the financing as well.
Whether a piece of land is close to water and sewer utilities may affect its value. Other types of access may also make a huge difference in valuation, and may affect a financing deal. If there are no utilities already installed on the land, contact the utility companies that service the area for an installation estimate.Even if there is no building on the land, existing wells, trails, roads or other items may increase the perceived value of the parcel. Any perceived improvement in value will make financing easier to get., Perhaps the most common one for unimproved land is timber value. Sellers and buyers often identify timber value for a piece of forested land in land calculations. This value may also influence a financing deal by convincing the lender that you will be able to profit from the land.


Grazing or farming rights may be another way to earn money on a piece of land.
 You'll need to put the information about the land and your plans for it together in a sort of loan application, sometimes known as a land portfolio. The more information you have, the better "story" you will be able to tell the lender and the higher your chances of securing financing. Your land portfolio should also include information about your creditworthiness (like a credit report or score).