 Haoris for women are characteristically bright with bold patterns, while haoris for men are dark or muted colors. Make your haori the centerpiece of your outfit. Pick a plain neutral t-shirt or blouse to place underneath it. Wear the haori over the plain shirt so the shirt doesn’t take the attention away from the beautiful pattern and colors.Try a thin t-shirt in white, black, or grey. You may also choose a solid color t-shirt that matches one of the colors in the haori.
Consider a neutral toned button up or blouse.;
, Haoris are versatile articles of clothing that look good with any bottom. Jeans look great with them because they are a neutral bottom that gives the haori a casual vibe.You can wear this outfit when you go shopping or out with friends.
 Though a haori is a jacket, it is lightweight and can be worn in spring or summer. Shorts with a neutral top and a bright haori can be a great combination for a warm day., For a soft look, try pairing your haori with a knee-length or maxi skirt. Both of these skirts work well with the long haori jacket since they will fall below the hem of the jacket., Haoris are oversized, so they make a great garment for the winter time. You can wear them over thick sweaters or cardigans for a fashionable and warm winter look.Try pairing a sweater, haori, scarf, knit hat, and boots for a fashionable warm outfit.
 Haoris can be dressed up to wear to formal occasions. Most traditional haoris are made of high quality fabrics with beautiful designs. Put on a haori with a simple dress, like a plain black dress. You can go bold, like pairing a red haori with a black dress, or keep it simple with a black haori., Male haoris are commonly in neutral colors like grey and black. In addition to wearing it with jeans for a casual look, you can put a haori with dress pants for a nicer outfit. Choose a contrasting neutral shade of pants and a matching button up.


For example, you can pair a black haori with grey pants and a solid shirt in white, blue, or even purple.

