 Most kitchen scales for home use are digital as they are more accurate and easier to use than analog scales.Look for a scale that can switch between measuring units. To give you the most flexibility when preparing food, a good scale should be able to weigh in grams, kilograms, ounces, and pounds.
Also look for a scale with a “tare” function that zeroes out the weight of measuring containers.
Most scales for home use have a capacity between 10 and 12 pounds. Unless you bake in large batches, you probably don’t need a scale that measures beyond that.;
, You should always use the tare/zero function to zero out the weight of the container before you add the food to be measured.


Use the appropriate type of plate or bowl. You might want to use a bowl when using ingredients that will need to be combined, such as when you’re baking, and use a plate when weighing things like meat.
You can also weigh foods directly on the scale. Always wipe off and clean your scale with a hot soapy paper towel before and after weighing, especially if you use it to weigh something like raw meat or poultry.
Zero out the scale after if using multiple ingredients. For example, if you’re baking a cake, add the baking powder, then press the “zero” or “tare” button to reset the scale to zero before adding the flour or other ingredients., Scales are great for a variety of reasons. Make sure you use your scale correctly and read the directions before use.


Liquid ingredients can be measured accurately using a volumetric method (like a measuring cup), but dry ingredients should always be weighed if you want the best control over your results.Control portion sizes with a scale. You can weigh just about any type of food. Make sure to weigh “deceptive” food items (foods that don’t fit well into measuring cups) like dry pasta and breakfast cereal. In addition, stick to the following portion sizes for the food groups: 3-4 oz of protein , 1 oz of grains, 4 oz of fruit or 8 oz of vegetables.Use a scale to divide portions equally. For example, if you’re baking a layer cake, a scale can help you divide the batter evenly between three pans: just zero out the weight of the pan before adding the batter.
If your recipe gives volumetric measurements for dry goods, find a reliable converter to help you determine what they weigh. You can purchase these or find them online.