 Pour just enough so that the stem is submerged in about 1/2 to one inch of water. The water will enter from the top of the chamber, the cylindrical tube that you also inhale the smoke from.


If there is too much water in your bong, it will splash up and possibly get in your mouth or drench the substance while you are inhaling.
Avoid this situation, as bong water can be extremely unpleasant when it splashes in your face.
Add ice to the chamber of the bong to chill the smoke as it rises through the chamber. Some smokers claim that this makes the smoke feel smoother as you inhale.;
, The bowl is the tablespoon-sized, well, bowl, on the side of the bong. Most bowls are removable and act as the carb for your bong, which you will need to remove later on in the smoking process to clear the smoke.


Pack the bowl full to just under the rim of the bowl with your broken up or ground up substance. You can break your substance up by tearing with your fingers, cutting with scissors, or using a grinder specifically designed for marijuana or tobacco.
Avoid packing too little, as very small grinds may get sucked through the bong as you smoke. Conversely, if you overpack the bowl, you may clog it and prevent air from getting through.
 Your lips should go inside the rim of the mouthpiece, not around it.


Avoid slobbering all over the mouthpiece. Doing so is bad etiquette, and let's face it, gross.
Make sure your mouth is firmly pressing into the mouthpiece so as to avoid allowing air to escape as you smoke.
 Some bongs have carbs that are simply holes located on the side of the bong or the bong stem. If you are smoking out of this style bong, cover the hole with one finger before lighting the bowl.


Many bongs do not have carbs. In the case that your bong does not have a carb, you will remove the bowl piece once you have filled the chamber with smoke.
If the bowl piece is not removable, you will not perform the carb function at all. It is not completely necessary for smoking from a bong.
 Hold a lighter or a match to the substance in the bowl as you inhale through your mouth with your lips on the inside of the chamber. You can release the fire as soon as the substance begins to glow red, which is called being "cherried" because of the red hue.
 You can take as big of a hit or as small of a hit as you want at this point. If it is your first time smoking, try only filling the chamber about halfway with smoke. Otherwise, "milk" the bong until the chamber is white with smoke.
 Doing so removes the substance and allows the smoke to clear out of the bong without resistance.


If you need to take a break from inhaling at any point, cover the mouthpiece with the palm of your hand before removing the carb.






If you take a break after removing the carb, some smoke will start to escape from the chamber.
 You do not have to suck hard to remove the smoke from the chamber after removing the carb because there will be no resistance.
,