 Every bro's gotta have a code. It's the thing that unites and binds and solidifies the concept of the bro, separating bro from the common beasts and squirrels of the world. Your bro code is up to you and your bros, as well as the punishments for transgressing, but a few rules are generally universal when it comes to bros.


Never mess with your bro's date, sister, or mother
Always have a bro's back
Always take wingman responsibilities seriously
Bros won't make other bros look bad in front of girls
Bros don't let bros drive drunk;
, Bros gotta stick together. The number one requirement for being a bro? Surround yourself with other brosephs, brahs, and brosiehs. Get a close-knit community of friends to hang out with and support each other. Leave no bro behind.


Lots of bros join fraternities in college, but it's not a requirement. Wherever you can, find like-minded male friends that you can bond with on a deep level. That might mean joining a fraternal organization of some kind, but you can also find male friends at work, church, the garage, or school.
Intramural sports are great for meeting guys with similar interests. Likewise, if you're a gym rat, hang around the weight room to meet up with lifting buddies. You can have some school bros, some gym bros, a different set for every situation.
 When two bros meet, they don't shake hands like a couple of preachers. And they certainly don't hug. They bro-shake. It's like a combination hug, high-five, and arm-wrestling match. In other words, perfect for bros.


To execute the bro shake, high-five your friend about chest high, at a 45 degree angle, grasping his hand as if you were about to arm-wrestle. Don't let go. Flex your guns. Think of the bicep-bulging scene in Predator where Schwarzenegger meets Carl Weathers.
Next, keeping your hands grasped, use your other hand to pat your bro's back one time, hard, in a half-embrace. Your arm-wreslte hand-shake will still be between you, so it won't be a full on hug. A bro-hug, a bro-shake, whatever you want to call it, it's cool.
 You get a call from your good buddies across town, stranded and beaten up after getting in a bar fight? Your date night is over, bro. You need to get in your car and go help out. A good bro is always reliable to be there for his good friends, coming through in a pinch with a helping hand, advice, or the right socket wrench.
 The world is full of too many complicated things. Conversing with your bros shouldn't be one of them. Communicate openly with your other bros and don't make talking a challenge, full of codes and misconceptions. If you're pissed that your bro borrowed your car and didn't fill it up with gas, say, "Dude, next time fill it up." If your bro's personal hygiene habits are falling off a bit, all you need to do is say, "Dude, it's called a shower. Take one." Get to the point, cut to the chase, speak from the heart.


Don't get offended when other bros cut you the same courtesy. Be thankful you can have friends who'll tell you what you need to hear without sugar-coating it. Think of it as a BS-free zone, not like your other bros are trying to be rude. Don't take it personally if it's the truth.
 Just like Joe Montana in the Super Bowl, Andretti at the Indy 500, or Michael Jordan in the playoffs, good bros can't stop and won't stop. Whether you're partying, working out, or plugging through another round of Madden on Xbox, a bro is always coming from behind and charging through the finish line. Work hard to improve your stamina so you can be full of energy, regardless of the situation.


Partied a little hard last night, but it's your buddy's birthday tonight? Probably best to make it a nice quiet night in and watch Dancing With the Stars. Kidding. Get off the couch, dude. Pop a Red Bull, take a shower, and get ready to celebrate your bro's most recent trip around the sun.
Feeling lazy at the gym? Pump your headphones full of Guns 'n Roses, Eminem, Led Zeppelin, and whatever tunes will get you pumped to work out to your fullest. Don't waste time in the gym. Sweat is just weakness leaving your body.
 Every bro should have some famous bros to look up to, swipe lingo from, and in general idolize as the pinnacles of brodom.Some classics bros include:


Ryan Lochte and Michael Phelps
Tim Tebow, Johnny Manziel, Derek Jeter, and Chad Johnson
Will Smith, Channing Tatum, Matthew McConaughey
The bros from Epic Meal Time
Dane Cook, Jim Belushi, and Joe Rogan

, A bro is just like a regular dude, except more exciting. You've got to be in constant search of that next epic moment, tweaking every situation to make it just a little more perfect.


Don't "go out for dinner" with your bros, but make epic eating occasions. Seek out 72 oz. steak-eating challenges, or spicy-food eating challenges to make it competitive. Never let the loser live it down.
Don't "go to class," seek out epic new ways of integrating information. Research optimum workout routines to maximize your learning retention and record lectures on your iPod while you multi-task in the lecture hall. Make your presence in class epic by answering questions, arguing with the prof, and making your presence known.
Don't "go on dates," go on adventures. Dinner and a movie? That's for regular dudes. Take the cutie from econ white water rafting, or ask the hot barista at your favorite coffee shop to go to a metal concert. Tonight. Take your semi-serious date to the racket-ball court and see what you're made of.

