 In addition to knowing what you want, list the qualities that a man may find attractive about you. Are you funny? Are you confident? Do you have a beautiful smile? Are you supportive? Recognize your strengths and know that you have something to offer.Knowing your strengths will also help you project confidence. This is key as men are attracted to confidence.
 Everyone has strengths and areas that need improvement. No one is perfect and both you and your potential partner will have shortcomings. Are you impatient? Do you have trouble compromising? Are you selfish?This can be a difficult list to create, but be honest with yourself.
If you feel comfortable, you can ask people that you have dated in the past about some of your shortcomings. They can offer some valuable feedback.
 You do not need to have everything together before you get with the man of your dreams, but you should be taking steps to improve yourself. There are many different methods to improve yourself such as reading self-help books, working with a therapist, taking a class, or setting goals and working towards them.Use whatever methods that will help you become the person that you want to be.
Also consider the areas that will help you attract the kind of man that you want. For example, if you want a man that is super fit and healthy, you may need to step up your healthy eating and exercise to be more attractive to him.
Remember that personal improvement is something you do for yourself not a man. Think of getting your dream man as an added bonus.
 Take time to examine your life and see if you are truly ready to meet the man of your dreams and be in a relationship. Are you still hurt or bitter about a past relationship? Do you have time to invest in the relationship? Are you willing to make room in your life for this man?If you are not ready, a relationship with the man of your dreams may not work out.
Before you can start with someone new, you must resolve all of your past relationship issues. You will not be able to start something new if you are not over your past.
 Men are visual creatures and your physical attractiveness will catch their attention at first.Your looks will not keep a man around, but can help you attract men. Think of your appearance as one tool in your it.


Everyone is not a supermodel or a beauty queen, but everyone possesses beauty.
Take good care of yourself by eating well and exercising. Wear clothes that make you look and feel attractive. Take care of your skin, teeth, and nails. Wear makeup that enhances your best features.

