 There are several activities that you can do to get your arms and back in shape for lifting and holding your baby after the birth:


Wall pushups. This exercise strengthens your pectoral muscles and your triceps. Stand facing a wall with your legs shoulder-width apart. Put your palms on the wall at shoulder height. Bend your elbows and lean into the wall until your nose touches the wall. Push yourself upright with your arms. Start small and work up to doing 15.Rowing with a resistance band. Sit on a chair with the band under your feet in front of you and hold the ends. Sit with your back straight. Pull the band back with your elbows as if you were rowing. Aim to build up to 15 repetitions. You can purchase a resistance band at your local athletics store., There are several variations on these exercises. These exercises are best done only during the first three months of the pregnancy.The following exercises are recommended for pregnant women by the Mayo Clinic:


Supported V-sits. Sit on the ground with your legs bent and your feet flat on the floor. Lean back so that your back is approximately 45 degrees from the floor. You can support yourself by putting a firm pillow in the small of your back or use a balance trainer (a piece of gym equipment that looks like a large stability ball cut in half). Lift one leg until your lower leg is parallel to the floor. Maintain that position for about five seconds and then put your leg down. Do this 10 times and then switch legs.V-sits. Sit on top of a balance trainer or a footstool so you are about a foot off the ground. Your legs should be bent and your feet flat on the floor. Lean back until you feel your stomach muscles working. Hold the position for approximately five second and then sit up straight again. Do this 10 times.Once you get good at the V-sit you can do them while lifting first one leg, then the other., These exercises will help you maintain your leg muscles, your flexibility, and your balance. Some of the positions, like squats, can even be done during labor to help the baby drop down into the birth canal.


Squats. Stand with your back against the wall and your feet shoulder-width apart. Bend your knees and slide down the wall until your thighs are parallel to the floor. Then push yourself back to a standing position. If you can’t go all the way down, that is okay. You can work up to it. Aim to be able to do 10 squats.Leg lifts. Get on your hands and knees. Then lift one leg so that it is out straight behind you and parallel to the floor. Hold this position for five seconds, and then lower your leg. Repeat this 10 times and then do the other side., Many women enjoy doing yoga and pilates to both stay in shape and to get in touch with their bodies. These activities focus on stretching and toning your muscles.


If you take a course at your local gym or community center, look for one that is specifically for pregnant women. Tell the instructor how far along you are in the pregnancy.
If you do yoga or pilates at home, discuss it with your doctor first to make sure the exercises are safe for you. Consider a pregnancy-specific video to do at home.
 Getting your pelvic floor muscles in shape can help you have an easier delivery and recover faster. It also helps women avoid having urinary incontinence after giving birth. Practice these exercises three times per day.Short squeezes. These exercises increase your strength. Lie on your back or sit with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Contract the muscles around your anus as if you are preventing yourself from passing gas. Then, at the same time, contract the muscles around your vagina and bladder like you do if you are stopping the flow of urine midstream. Do this without squeezing your buttocks together. Your buttocks should be relaxed throughout. Hold this squeeze for one to two seconds. Repeat it until you get tired.
Long squeezes. These exercises increase the endurance of your muscles. They are done the same way as the short squeezes except that you hold them longer. For some women holding it for four seconds will be enough to give the muscles a workout. Other women may be able to hold it for 10 seconds or longer. Overtime you will be able to squeeze for longer and do more repetitions.
If you are experiencing significant incontinence and can't do the Kegels correctly, there are physical therapists that specialize in teaching these exercises correctly. Your doctor can make a referral.

