 Compliment him about his ways and actions. Make him feel loved, seen, heard, and appreciated with compliments that appeal to his needs.Acknowledge him by complimenting his efforts. Say to him with a smile, “You’re so good to me.” If he’s cooked a great meal for you or paid for your lunch say, “Thank you for cooking for me/treating me. I really appreciate it.”
Tell him that you believe in him. You can also admire his drive by saying something like, “I love how driven you are.”

, Recognize that men tend to be more susceptible to listening and talking about relationship problems after being satisfied sexually. Save the long conversations for cuddling after love making.


He will feel accepted and understood by you when you show your effort to do things the way he understands them best.
Verbalize your willingness by saying, “I love knowing how you feel and love that you are able to share yourself with me more after we’re intimate. It makes sex with you even more wonderful.”

, When it comes to male interests, don’t be jealous, invalidating, or derogatory. Show him that he can always be himself, whether he’s with you or with the guys.Tell your guy that he does not have to be a more toned down version of himself with you. “I want to get to know you for who you are, not who you think I want you to be. Always be you.”
Be confident in yourself and unafraid of testosterone-driven men.
 Look at what he does for you to see how much he loves you. Men will say “I love you”, but as action-oriented people, they show it more often than they say it.Does he do little things around the house for you? Does he run errands to make your day or week a little easier? Instead of penalizing him for not saying it enough, appreciate his actions as his way of saying he loves you.
Touch his cheek gently and look into his eyes as you say, “I know how much you love me because I see everything you do for me without me even having to ask. I love you too.”

, For most women, love means security. Men are sometimes afraid of that security, fearing that with it comes possession and with that, comes a loss of freedom and independence.Show that you love him without control, entrapment, or the fear of losing him.
Genuinely say to him, “I never want you to feel obligated to be with me. I never want to own you.”
You can also say, “My love for you is not a prison. My love should make you free.”

, Tell your guy that the time you spend together is special to you. Use your words to tell him how much you enjoy spending time together.If you notice that he makes an extra effort to include you in his life, despite working, going to school, and/or having a family, say something simple yet effective. “You make me so happy baby.”
Wear a big smile on his face and say to him, “It’s amazing that you can make me smile even when I don’t feel like it.”

