 Long hair can "drown" shorter women. A hairstyle that stops above the shoulder prevents a woman's locks from overwhelming her stature.
 If you prefer or must wear long hair, consider putting it back in high ponytails, buns, and other up-do's. Hair styled several inches above the head adds inches to your height.
 Long, straight hair that hangs down in a single layer has the most overwhelming effect. Adding choppy layers or highlights breaks up the monotony of long hair, which may help prevent it from dwarfing you.
 Whether you choose half-inch heels or three-inch heels, these shoes add height and make you look taller. Opt for skinny heels over thick ones, since skinny heels are more effective in creating a slender vertical appearance while thick platforms can make your feet look weighted and heavy.
 Showing more skin on your foot is a simple way to extend the appearance of your height. The more skin an observing eye notices on your leg, the longer your leg will seem. The longer your leg seems, the taller you look.
 Ankle straps cut your leg off with a horizontal line at the top of the foot, reducing the length of your leg as well as the appearance of height.
 A deep v-neck keeps the eye looking up and down, while crew necks, scoop necks, and other horizontal necklines draw the eye side to side.
 A hemline that stops at the knee or above it looks flattering on women of short to average height. Showing more leg makes your legs look longer, which maximizes the illusion of height.
 Think A-line skirts and boot-cut jeans. Styles that flare out at the knee or lower leg help balance out the natural width of your hips. Tapered styles may make you look top heavy which, in turn, can make your legs look shorter. Shorter-looking legs may make you look shorter overall.
 If you plan on wearing a dress with bare legs, consider a nude shoe. Alternatively, if you plan on wearing dark-wash jeans or black slacks, try a black shoe. Keeping your shoes and leg coverings in the same color range makes it more difficult for the eye to distinguish where the leg ends and the foot begins, making your leg look longer as a result.
 The eye naturally assumes that the leg starts at the waistline. By having a waistline that rests above your hips, you help your legs look longer, helping you to look taller. For this reason, you should also avoid low-rise pants that may only make your legs look shorter.
 A skinny belt tied around your natural waist can help define your figure, and may look flattering. A wide belt will define your figure, but the heavy horizontal line will also divide you in half and cause you to look shorter, rather than taller.
 Try long scarves and necklaces that drape down your front. These pieces draw the eye up and down, causing it to take in your entire height.
 Bulky shoulder bags and fanny packs cause you to look wider at the waist and hip. Anytime you cause the eye to take in width, you reduce the amount of height it takes in. Small clutches and tiny shoulder bags on narrow straps are much better alternatives.

