 To start, you should get in the right position. Make sure you have a yoga mat or gym mat to work on in case you slip or fall. Place the mat before a wall and sit down.


Sit with your back pressed against the wall. Stretch your legs straight out in front of you and raise your arms above your head.You should form the shape of an "L." There should be a roughly 90 degree angle forming at your waist.;
, Once you've gotten into the above 90 degree angle, you'll need to get on all fours. You want to place your hands on the ground roughly where you heels were in the first position. This will allow you to guide yourself up the wall safely when performing a handstand.The soles of your feet should be pressed against the wall.Keep your arms straight and spread your fingers out.Pull your shoulders back, drawing them out as to broaden your collarbone., To shift into the headstand position, pull your bottom into the air while straightening your legs and arms. As you do so, tuck your toes onto the floor so your feet spread against the wall. This will look something like the downward dog position, if you're familiar with yoga., Now, you can begin shifting into the headstand position. Place one foot up the wall, curling your toes as you go. Lift your foot until it's about the height of your hips. When you feel balanced and secure, lift your other foot up until it's about hip height as well.Straighten your legs. This will push your bottom away from the wall, which may feel frightening. Try to stay calm as you go, remembering to breathe on occasion.Try to form a roughly 90 degree angle. It's similar to the position you started in, only reversed. Hold this until you feel comfortable and balanced enough to continue., Keep moving your feet up the wall. As you go, you'll have to move your hands closer to the wall for safety and balance. Keep going until your body forms a straight line parallel to the wall, with the tips of your toes touching the wall.You may have to stick to a 90 degree angle for your first few attempts.

