 The most essential elements of your vampire costume are your fake vampire fangs and fake blood. You can often find fangs and fake blood as a set at a costume shop or in the Halloween section of a big box store like Walmart.


You can also make your own vampire fangs if you are really trying to do-it-yourself. You can make vampire fangs by using fake nails, a straw, acrylic gel, or a plastic fork.
Most vampire fangs in stores will come with a way to keep the fangs in your mouth or attached to your top teeth, such as teeth glue or a mould that fits over your teeth. Make sure the vampire fangs include an adhesive of some kind in the package.
You can make your own fake blood as well out of basic household supplies if you are really looking to DIY your costume.
You can even do this step if you have braces. It will take a bit more work, seeing as you have to make your own that will work with braces. You can use orthodontic wax if you have any, or use denture glue for a more longer-last look.;
, To really get the vampire look, you will need to make your skin appear very pale. You can do this by using a foundation that is one to two shades paler than your normal foundation or by using pale face paint.The hue of the foundation will depend on your skin tone. If you already have a pale skin tone, you may not need to use that much foundation on your skin. If you have a darker skin tone, you will likely need to use a very pale foundation to make your skin appear lighter.
 The amount of makeup you use on the rest of your face, such as your eyes and mouth, will depend on the vampire look you are going for. If you are going for a more glam vampire look, you may decide to also apply dramatic eye makeup and lipstick. But if you are pressed for time and are trying to go for a more scary vampire look, you may decide to keep your makeup simple and minimal.


You may also want to consider the rest of your vampire costume, such as your clothing and your hair. If you are planning to dress up in a dramatic costume with a dark wig, you may want to go for a glam vampire look. If you are keeping your outfit simple, you may decide to also keep your makeup simple.
If you are going to do more dramatic eye makeup, you should have access to makeup brushes, makeup sponges, and a makeup palette that contains black, red, purple, and gray.
 Wash and dry your face so it is a clean palette. Using a makeup sponge or your clean fingers, apply a dab of foundation that is lighter than your skin tone on your forehead, cheeks, and under your chin. Blend in the foundation so it covers your entire face, but leave the area around your eyes and your lips bare.You can also use white face paint and apply it with a makeup sponge. You want to appear very pale and dead to achieve the ideal vampire look.
You should apply the foundation on your neck and your chest, especially if these areas are going to be exposed when you are in your vampire costume.
To give your face more definition, you can apply a light gray face paint or foundation under your cheekbones and your jawline so your face appears more hollow and skeleton like.
 Keep your foundation or face paint in place by applying a press powder in a very pale shade. You can use a brush to spread the powder over your face or press the powder to your face using a makeup sponge., Start by making your eyebrows appear more dramatic with a black brow liner or black eyeshadow. Apply the brow liner or eyeshadow to your eyebrows with a makeup brush. This will help to highlight your eyeshadow and eyeliner and give you a more bold look.Then, use the purple eye shadow to create dramatic eye circles under your eyes. Apply the purple eye shadow on your eyelids, on the area below your eyebrows, and under your eyes using a makeup brush. Do not be afraid to make the circles noticeable on your face; they are part of the dead look after all!
Alternatively, you can use the red eyeshadow to give your eyes a more blood like look. Apply black eyeshadow to your eyelids first, making the shadow appear darker on the inside area of your eyelids. Then, apply red eyeshadow above the black on your eyelids so it sits right underneath your eyebrows. Blend the red eyeshadow a little bit with the black eyeshadow. Finish your eyeshadow look by applying red eyeshadow underneath your eyes so your eyes appear spooky and dead-like., Finish your eye makeup by applying black eyeliner along your waterline, which is the line underneath your eye, and smudging the eyeliner with a makeup brush. Apply black eyeliner to the top line of your eyes and smudge this eyeliner as well. The eyeliner should appear smoky and blended against your eye shadow.For a glam vampire look, you may decide to create wings with your eyeliner. Use a small thin makeup brush to draw the eyeliner out into an upward wing shape on either side of your eyes. You can then darken this wing shape with more eyeliner and blend it using black eyeshadow.You can also apply black mascara to your eyelashes. This will make your eyes appear bold and dark. If you are familiar with how to apply false eyelashes to your eyes, you can also use fake black eyelashes for a very dramatic vampire look.
 Once you have completed the eye makeup, you can move on to your lips. For a dramatic effect, give your lips a blood red look using red lipstick or red lip color.Before you apply lipstick, use a lip brush to outline your lips and make your lipstick stay put. Then, apply the red lipstick to your lips, making sure you cover both lips well and evenly.
You can also use a lip brush to apply red lip color to your lips. Start by lining your lips with lip liner and then using a makeup brush to apply the red lip color.
 You can buy white contact lenses at your local drugstore or at a costume shop. They are not required for a vampire makeup look but they will make you look more scary and dead-like.Vampires are often depicted as having eye color that ranges from from soft, dark gray to blood red (if they're super hungry). If you want, you can get contact lenses that also change the iris color to one of these, or any color in between.
Insert the contact lenses using clean fingers. Be careful not to smudge your eye makeup as you insert the lenses.
 Complete the vampire makeup by applying your fake fangs and the fake blood. Use the adhesive for the fangs to attach them to your mouth or your teeth.Apply the fake blood by holding the open tube by one corner of your lips. Let the blood drip out of the tube onto your face so it rolls down your chin and dries. Use clean fingers to smudge the blood by the corner of your mouth slightly so it looks more realistic.
Repeat the same process on the other side of your mouth so it looks like you have two long drips of blood by your mouth. The blood will help you look like a more convincing and scary vampire.

