 A codec (short for coder-decoder) is a computer program used to encode or decode any sort of digital media. In this case, we need a codec that will allow us to decode and play MKV files. Luckily, a variety of free "codec packs" exist online that supply codecs for not just MKV files, but a large selection of other types of files. These codec packs have several advantages and disadvantages over other methods of playing MKV files.


Advantages: As mentioned above, the types of codec packs we're interested in usually contain codecs for a wide variety of video format types - not just MKV files. This means that you'll probably be able to play many different kinds of video files after you download and install the codec pack. If you get your video files from many different sources, using a comprehensive codec pack may be an appealing option because it will "cover" most of the file types you'll come across.
Disadvantages: Codec packs are the "brute force" method of playing a stubborn video file. They will usually work, but if you're only trying to play one type of video file, you're downloading a lot of codecs that you don't need, which means you'll be basically wasting hard drive space. Additionally, if something eventually goes wrong and you find yourself unable to play certain video files, it can be difficult to tell which part of the codec pack is causing the problem.
 If you've decided to go the route of codec packs, you will want to download one that is safe, well-regarded, and, most importantly, includes support for MKV files. The official Matroska website recommends the Combined Community Codec Pack (CCCP)for Windows computers. Another good choice for PCs is the K-Lite Codec pack, available for free download on codecguide.com. Download the codec pack of your choice, then run its installation file, following the on-screen prompts.


Macs may have more success simply by downloading a compatible media player. Perian, an open source project that adds expanded video functionality (including MKV support) to the Quicktime Player will probably work, but, unfortunately, the project hasn't been updated since 2012. It's worth noting that on the Perian site, the developers recommend several media players as alternatives: Niceplayer, VLC, and MPlayer OS X.Note - before installing a new codec pack, it's a good idea to uninstall any old or out-of-date packs you already have on your machine to help avoid compatibility issues.
 Once the codec pack is installed, you should be able to play your video file in most, if not all, media players. Most codec pack developers will recommend a free, frequently-updated option (like VLC, Media Player Classic, etc.) However, even your computer's default players (Windows Media Player, etc.) should work.


Immediately after installation, you may be prompted to adjust "filter" options. Unless you're tech-savvy and understand what you're doing, it's usually not a good idea to adjust the default options.
If you find that you still have difficulty playing a certain file, try playing other files of the same type. If you can successfully play these, the issue may be that the file itself is corrupted or otherwise unplayable.

