 This will help exfoliate your lips and stimulate blood flow which ultimately helps plump your lips.
 You can use lip balm, chap stick, lip Vaseline, beauty oil, facial moisturizer, etc. whatever your favorite product is., Do not take it all off, only if there is too much because it will make the application and blending process harder., Choose a color that will compliment your skin tone as well as a color dark enough to be able to ombre and make lighter. In this case, we are using a red color.
 It is helpful to have a lip liner for the base color to help sharply outline and darken the shape of your lips., Choose which color you would like to use to ombre and blend with to make lighter. In this case, we are using a nude with pink undertone., Line your lips all the way around, trying your best to keep a sharp line and avoiding smudging at all costs. If you do smudge your liner, try and gently wipe with a Q-tip. Or you can wait until the finishing touches stage to conceal any mistakes.


If you would like to over line your lip, now is the time.
 Start to shade in slightly with the lip liner, without coloring in the whole lip. This will help amplify the color of the base on the outside of the edges of the lips.
 Very carefully, apply the base (darker) color all over your lips. Do not apply too many coats. Remember, you are adding another color on top. We want to avoid having an excess of layering.
 If you are working with matte colors, you want to do this step quickly to be able to blend before drying occurs. Apply the lighter shade onto the center of the lip only, both lower and upper lips., First step of blending is to gently rub lips together slightly. Only do this once or twice. Try to only rub the center of your lips because by rubbing it all, you will simply blend both colors together and we want them to be distinct yet fade into each other. Then begin to pat lips together. This will help the edges of the two colors, where they meet, fade and blend together.
 This step is optional. If you feel you need further blending, use a lip brush, Q-tip, or even your finger to blend the two colors only where they meet by gently patting and rubbing in. Again we want the two colors to be distinct however, we need them to fade together naturally.
 Sometimes, lipstick can get on your teeth. Gently wipe it off with your finger., Wrap your lips around your finger, press gently, then pull your finger out. This will remove any excess lipstick on the inside of your lips and you will avoid getting any more lipstick on your teeth., If you messed up the lip liner, or smudged the edges, here is where you can fix it. Take your concealer and use a brush to outline the outside of your lip line. Blend properly. This will leave you with a clean cut lip line.

