 Prior to 1910, banks had no uniform system for identifying checks written from different banks. In 1911, the American Bankers Association (ABA) published a book listing all of the nation’s financial institutions and assigned identifying numbers to each of them. They established the Routing Number Administration Board govern the use and retirement of routing numbers.The two forms of routing numbers still in use today are the fractional form and the magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) form.
The MICR form is used for automated processing of checks. The numbers and symbols are printed with special shapes that can be read by automated reading equipment. This font is used on all U.S. and Canadian checks, deposit slips and e-commerce drafts.The fractional form is outdated and was used when checks were hand-sorted. It still appears on checks along with the MICR form and it can be used if the MICR number is illegible. You can find it in the upper right hand corner of the check.
The MICR form routing number is printed in the lower left hand corner of the check in a 5/8-inch band.
 The first four digits identify the location where the check was printed. The first two digits refer to one of the 12 Federal Reserve districts. The third digit identifies a specific office of the Federal Reserve bank within the district. The fourth digit refers to geographic areas within a territory., Each financial institution receives a unique four-digit identifying number from the ABA. This makes up the second four digits of the routing number. The ABA institution identifier may be anywhere from one to four digits. Because it must take up four digits in the routing number, a number with less than four digits will have zeroes before it on the check., The check digit verifies the accuracy of the routing number. It helps to maintain the integrity of electronic and telecommunications transactions. It can be calculated with the algorithm, or programmers can use a Java Script code to validate the routing number., This appears in the upper right-hand corner of the check. It is a multi-digit fraction that has a hyphenated numerator and a three- or four-digit denominator. It includes the Federal Reserve routing symbol and the ABA institution identifier.