 For making your birthday a memorable one, you need to do something different. Start with a perfect place where you can celebrate! Try choosing a beautiful hill station, or a station by the side of the waterfalls, which will completely change and cheer up your mood, and a place where you can enjoy the eternal beauty of nature. By celebrating your birthday there, you will get the completely awesome experience that you want to have!;
, Thus, we get the same experience. By having a change in the way of celebration, you get a different experience and perhaps a memorable one!

,, Maybe you have decided on the place (say a hill station) and you are celebrating there at a restaurant. Don't celebrate there in the party hall! Choose a place from where you can see the picturesque scenes of nature. Remember that fun and enjoyment, in your unique celebration, is linked with nature, so make sure you aren't celebrating away from it.
, Keep this in mind when deciding on a destination.
 If you like to celebrate at night, you may go with that. Usually, people like to celebrate their birthday at night, but if you want to have something different, go with a party in the daytime.
 Usually, we prefer to invite our friends and family. In order to have a good and quality time with everybody, choose to invite only the people who can make you happy and comfortable.
 The only person who is concerned about your birthday is you, so invite only those whom you really want to have with you on your birthday. Inviting people unwillingly will just spoil your mood and you won't be able to enjoy anything.
 By using a card rather than inviting people via the phone or email, you can have beautifully illustrated cards that will entice people to join you in your celebration.
 Since you are celebrating at a natural destination, you don't need much decoration. Your background should already be full of beauties of nature! If you want to give off a birthday feeling, you can use balloons of your favorite colors, but don't just stick them anywhere. You can just fly them in the sky (use balloons that fly high in the sky). You will really enjoy it, and your party guests will also love the scenes and will ultimately enjoy it.
 You can use beautiful night lamps, lanterns, or balloons that light up. Again, don't stick them in the sky; let them fly in the sky and enjoy the lovely scene!

, Choose a dish that is new, and something that everybody will love to have. You can have a wide variety of dishes and delicacies!

, For example, you can have the yummy and delicious Italian Gelato that will add sweetness to everything!

, If you do, nobody will want to play the games after having food. In that case, you can have light snacks.
 A birthday is incomplete without cake and candles! Have a printed cake that would attract everybody's attention to the cake. Have a flavor that everybody will certainly enjoy. Have different candles that will probably catch everybody's attention.
 Try distributing your old toys and clothes among the children of an orphanage, or any other random act of kindness. By doing this, you will really get that satisfaction and peace that one gets after doing an act like this.
,