 Gagnè’s (1985) theory identifies a clear distinction between talent and giftedness. Giftedness means the ability to use untrained skills with a seemingly natural ability. Talent, however, exemplifies the unnatural mastery of a skill at a young age. When determining the level of giftedness of your child, consider whether you are looking for giftedness or talent. This may be an important distinction if your educational district uses Gagne’s theories for placement or assessment.


Additionally, Gagnè’s theory has five domains: intellectual, creative, socioaffective, sensorimotor, and ‘others’ (for example, extrasensory perception). If following this theory, your child may be gifted in one or more of these domains.
If your school district uses Gagnè’s theory to diagnose your child as gifted, they might look beyond your child's ability to perform well on tests. Instead, they will be more interested in assessing your child's natural abilities. This might mean observing how your child interacts with the world around her before diagnosing as "talented" or "gifted.", Renzulli’s (1978) theory on gifted behavior is more specific than Gagne’s. This theory states that there is a clear gifted interaction between three clusters of human traits: “above average general and/or specific abilities, high levels of task commitment (motivation), and high levels of creativity.” Not only must children show aptitude in these areas, but they also must be able to apply them in appropriate situations. These behaviors are contextually dependent and may not manifest continually.


Renzulli's theories are more applicable in curriculum development for gifted children; it often opposes high-stakes testing in favor for more individualized approaches in teaching and learning., While Gagnè’s and Renzulli’s theories are certainly very popular when considering the nature of giftedness in children, there are other theories to consider as well. The 19th and 20th century heralded a number of theories in childhood assessments. While these theories may be archaic, they are essential in developing modern day theories and practices. As a parent of a gifted child, it is beneficial to know where such theories originated. Other popular theories and events include:


William Torres Harris’ (1868) early systematic approach to incorporated gifted learning in education.
Galton’s (1869) work, Hereditary Genius, which indicates intelligence is passed on from parent to child.
Binet’s and Simon’s (1905) early assessments, which revolutionize assessments in schools.
Stedman’s (1918) work on gifted opportunities.
Terman’s (1922) longitudinal study on gifted students in New York City.
The National Institute of Gifted Children is founded in 1954.
US Education Department established the Office of Gifted and Talented in 1974.
Dabrowski, a Polish psychologist, discussed emotional development and sensitivity in children in his theory of emotional development (1964, 1967, 1972).
The National Research Center on the Gifted and Talented is established at University of Connecticut in 1990.
National Association of Gifted Children published national education standards in 2006, which is then revised in 2013., If your child has been labeled or diagnosed as "gifted," ask your school system what theories they use to develop a curriculum. This will help determine future expectations.


For example, if a school district relies on Ranzulli's theory, you can probably assume that your child will receive individualized attention and perhaps a unique curriculum to fit her level.
 While there are many theories and approaches to assessing gifted children, each state in the US has its unique definition and educational approach. When enrolling or diagnosing your child, consider how your location will affect this definition.


Luckily, the National Association of Gifted Children has a state-by-state breakdown of regulations and terms for easy reference.You want to make sure your child is getting all the help they need. It is important that your child gets properly diagnosed per your state laws so you and your family may take advantage of programs and resources.
 Because these terms and ideas are constantly being challenged and changing, it is important to stay current on research, regulations, and laws.


There are a number of academic publications that frequently provide evolving news and research, including the journal Gifted Child Quarterly.Staying abreast on current information will help you better help your gifted child. A gifted child's needs are different than a normal child, so you may need to supplement his/her education on your own.

