 Before we break down each part, take a moment to look at a full citation example in APA Style, so you can follow it.


Example: Smith, P. (2012). Cut to the chase: Online video editing and the Wadsworth constant (3rd ed.). Washington, DC: E & K Publishing.
Here is an example without the specifics: Author last, first name initial. Middle name initial. (Year published). Book title: Subtitle (number ed.). City, State: Publisher.
In the specific example, Smith, P. is the author. (2012) is the year the textbook was published. The phrase in quotation marks is the title of the textbook. (3rd ed.) is the edition. Washington, DC is where the publisher is located. E & K Publishing is the name of the publisher.
You will need to follow this format with the specific information relating to the textbook you are trying to cite. Make sure to get all of the punctuation right. That matters too.
 Now, let's break down the sample citation by each of its parts. This is how you start the citation. Write the author's last name, and then the initial of the author's first name and then the initial of the author's middle name. As in: Author, A. A. Put the year of publication in parentheses after the author’s name, and end it with a period. As in: Author, A. A. (Year of publication).
Next, write the title of the work in italics. Capitalize only the first letter in the title. Use a colon if there is a sub-title, and capitalize and italicize the subtitle also. As in: Author, A.A. (Year of publication). Title of work: Subtitle

Include the edition of the book next. Don’t put the edition in italics, though. The edition should be listed after the title or subtitle if there is one, this way: (5th ed.)., For location, use the city and state using the two-letter postal abbreviation without periods.


Example: New York, NY. Remember not to write out the state name. Remember that the punctuation must be exact.
Multiple authors are handled the same way and linked with an & sign. Example: Helfer, M. E., Kempe, R. S., & Krugman, R. D. (1997). The battered child (5th ed.). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press., You can find online sites that will generate the correct citation style for you.Be aware that APA style differs if you are citing a film, magazine, newspaper, and other materials, instead of a textbook.
The sites require you to enter key information about the book, including author’s name, publisher, and publisher location, and so on.

