 To improve client efficiency, you can personally check in with your clients, or focus on specific high need clients, and discuss possible inefficiencies or issues. Ask your clients how their overall experience with the company has been, as well as how they feel their project manager, leader, or contact is doing in terms of time management and communication.You should also make sure employees are maintaining active communication with their clients and touching base on a daily or weekly basis. Though your employees may have a lot of projects on their plate, it is important that they keep communication with their clients open and accessible. This will show they can efficient with their time and maintain an efficient relationship with clients.
 You should be willing and ready to note any feedback from clients you receive in your weekly check in. Create a client feedback system where feedback is entered weekly or monthly in a survey or checklist. You can then review the feedback with your employees to give them a sense of client expectations and needs.You can also use client feedback to identify client inefficiencies, such as missed deadlines or failed communication. You can work with your employees to create possible solutions for these inefficiencies, such as scheduling deadlines one week early to ensure they are met or maintaining daily check ins with clients to keep communication open and accessible.
 While you do not want to micro manage your employees or your clients, you should have a good sense of where client projects stand and recognize when deliverables are being met. This may mean walking the floor of the office several times a day to check in with certain teams or areas or scheduling daily or weekly check in meetings for employees working on certain accounts or projects.Try to identify projects where clients are high need or high risk and keep a close eye on these. You may also want to ensure the employees on the account or project are prepared to tackle the needs of the client and can respond well to the client expectations. A big part of setting a project up for success is making sure the employee and the client work well together.

