 It is okay, and probably even best, to give your cat a joint supplement before they show signs of pain or arthritis. Supplements will keep your cat's joints healthy and help slow the process of deterioration as they age. If your cat is showing signs of arthritis and you haven't been giving them supplements, keep in mind that they take about four to six weeks to work and increase your cat's mobility. Signs of arthritis can be difficult to spot since arthritis shows itself differently in cats. Signs of arthritis include:Hiding more than usual (avoiding people)
Crying if you pick them up
Aggressive behavior
Running from people
Difficulty or a change in walking
Stiffness or difficulty jumping up or climbing
Remember that if your cat is in pain, you should take them to the vet. A joint supplement will not help ease their pain.;
, Before you give your cat a joint supplement, ask your doctor to recommend a joint supplement specific to your cat. If you think your cat has joint pain, your doctor will need to make a diagnosis. The vet will do a basic physical exam and will x-ray the joints that you think are affected by arthritis (like the elbow or hip). The vet will use the diagnosis to help you choose a joint supplement.Your cat will probably need to be deeply sedated before the x-ray. This will help the vet move your cat into the right position for the x-ray.
 Glucosamine and chondroitin sulphate are naturally occurring substances that can help your cat's joints. They heal the cartilage along the bones which improves your cat's joint mobility. Supplements that contain glucosamine and chondroitin sulphate come in a variety of forms and they're safe to give to cats. For example, you can buy gummy, powdered, or liquid supplements.You may need to give a glucosamine and chondroitin sulphate supplement for the long term. Discuss a long term treatment plan with the vet when choosing the supplement.
 Since most joint supplements contain the ingredients needed to heal your cat's joints, you should focus on selecting a joint supplement that meets other health needs of your cat. You'll need to pick a supplement that gives your cat its daily required vitamins and minerals. For example, you can find joint supplements for:Senior cats
Cats with other underlying health conditions (like diabetes or kidney disease)
Obese cats

, If you don't like the idea of giving your cat a joint supplement for an extended period of time, consider giving it a cat food that contains an anti-inflammatory supplement. Look for a cat food that's marketed as being anti-inflammatory. It should contain fish oils (Omega 6 and Omega 3 fatty acids).If your cat is trying to lose weight, look for an anti-inflammatory food that's also low in calories.
 Many joint supplements are available as powder in capsule form. To give your cat a capsule, simply twist it open and sprinkle the supplement powder over your cat's food. The supplement powder is easiest to eat if your cat's food is moist or wet. If you feed your cat dry food, try moistening the powder in one tablespoon of wet food and add it to your cat's meals.Follow the packaged dosing recommendations. For most joint supplements, you'll need to give one capsule a day (if your cat is under 12 pounds) or two or three capsules a day (if your cat is over 12 pounds)., Most soft chew supplements look like large pieces of kibble, but they're soft enough for your cat to easily chew. It may come in a flavor like chicken or beef to encourage your cat to eat it. You can give your cat the soft chew after a meal or just place it on top of their food dish at meal time.


Follow the packaged dosing recommendations based on the weight of your cat. For example, if your cat is under 10 pounds, you may only need to give one soft chew a day. If your cat weighs more, you'll probably need to give two or three soft chews a day., A liquid supplement contains the same joint improving ingredients as other supplements, but it may be easier to administer to picky cats. To use a liquid supplement, shake the bottle well and squirt it onto your cat's food. If your cat doesn't like it mixed into their food, you can also offer it directly to your cat to lap up.You'll need to give the liquid supplement according to your cat's weight. For example, if your cat weighs under 10 pounds, you'll probably need to give 1/2 teaspoon (one pump) of the liquid supplement.
 Read the manufacturer's instructions carefully regarding dosing. Many supplements want you to give a high dose during the first few weeks of supplementing and then you can reduce the amount of the supplement once your cat shows improvement.


Always talk with the vet before doubling any doses during the initial weeks, even if the manufacturer recommends doing so.

