 Although the department store chain is nationwide, the company's headquarters are located in Plano, Texas. You will need to call or email their corporate headquarters to find out who to get in touch with locally (and what number or email you can reach that local contact at) for more information about modeling opportunities. The online website for careers at JCPenney does not have any listings for models, so unfortunately you cannot use their website to get a job this way.Corporate's phone number is (972) 431-1000.Corporate's fax number is (972) 431-1362.
Ask them for the number of the local administrative office and the name and title of the person you need to speak with regarding modeling opportunities. Be sure to be polite (say please and thank them for their time).;
, You need to find out whether or not your local JCPenney is looking for new models, and how they go about hiring models. Ask if they cast for the models themselves, if they will only take models that have agents to vouch for them, and whether or not they go through a particular agency in the area. If your JCPenney hires directly, ask for an email or snail mail address that you can send a portfolio to and find out what specific requirements they have for talent submissions.


There is a high likelihood that your JCPenney will only take models from approved agencies for both their catalogs and printed ads, so be prepared to ask for the names of the agency or agencies that they have a professional relationship with, as well as their phone numbers and physical addresses.Ask questions to find out the criteria that they are looking for in current models; the look a company is looking for can change over time.
 If you've been told that your JCPenney only does business with select agencies, you will need to go through one of these organizations in order to work with JCPenney. If you live out in California, there is a list of approved agencies that JCPenney uses online. They include:Elite Management
Jet Set Management
L.A. Models
Nouveau Model & Talent
Shamon Freitas Agency
Wilhelmina Models, Inc.
Everyone else will need to contact the local administrative offices for JCPenney to find out who they work with.
You need to find out their specific submission guidelines, what address to send submissions to, and what looks they're looking for.
 If you've been told you can go directly through JCPenney's offices, submit your portfolio to them. It should showcase several of your best photos. Be sure that you follow whatever instructions you were given for submissions exactly and submit any extra information they may ask for like your age and body measurements.
 Sometimes announcements for fashion show opportunities at local malls pop up, so you'll want to keep an eye out for these. You can follow JCPenney's Facebook and Twitter accounts to watch for these opportunities, as well as checking websites like Paidmodeling.com and Backstage.com to watch for events. You can also stop by your local JCPenney's to inquire with the staff about a calendar for events like fashion shows and other similar opportunities.


Ask a salesperson for an event calendar. If they do not have one or know of one, ask if they can call a supervisor to a register to give you one.
JCPenney also occasionally hosts modeling competitions at local and national levels; keep an eye out for these while watching the various online pages, and submit to them whenever you have the opportunity.
Even if you are not able to actually model in a show, attending one as a viewer will give you the opportunity to approach either the models or someone hosting the event to inquire for more information and get your face and name out there. Introduce yourself and ask them how models get started with JCPenney and to whom can you submit your modeling portfolio for consideration. Again, remember to be polite.

