 Learn to move the flag in front of your body within a 45° plane. The common move goes by a variety of names, including figure eight, hourglass, cone, or witch’s broom.


Start with hands at a right shoulder position on the flag. Move your right hand out into a front present position (point one), then across your body to the left, with the left hand to the right so that the pole creates a diagonal across your body (point two).
Bring your left hand up parallel to the ground into a back present position (point three), then bring the pole down horizontally in front of your eyes (point four). Keep your hands in the same position on the flag to create the reverse of point one, with the stopper in the air and silk toward the ground (point five).
Create the reverse of point two by bringing your right hand across to your left hip and left hand across to the right (point six). Create right slam position, with your right hand down to the right and left hand up to the left (point seven). Finish with the pole horizontal, but with your right hand pushed out so that the pole is at an angle.
Repeat this circuit in one fluid motion to create the shape of a cone or figure eight with your flag., Execute a basic spin with the flag by alternating the hand that turns the flag to complete a full circle. There are a couple of different kinds of spins, but the drop spin is the most common.


Start in right-hand position. Let go of the flag with your left hand and swing the flag down with your right so that the silk is now toward the ground and the stopper is in the air (point one).
Meet the flag with your left hand in a cupped position to grab it, then let go with your right hand. Swing the flag upright again so that the silk is facing up (point two).
Repeat this sequence, alternating which hand controls the flag until you can do it in one fluid motion to create the spin., Try a simple toss of the flag, which you can execute by releasing the flag so that it spins once before catching it. You can also do this toss from a drop spin.


Hold the flag in right-hand position, then release your left hand and hold it outstretched with the palm upright, which is called a “money hand.” Place the pole of the flag in the crook between the thumb and fingers of this hand to begin the toss.
Let the flag drop down with your right hand at the same time that you push it up with your left hand to release it into the air. The flag should make one full rotation before you catch it upright with your left hand.