 Shoes made from leather and suede are more pliable and will mold to the shape of your foot. Because these materials are more flexible, you will reduce your chances of chafing. While synthetic shoes are more affordable, investing in quality shoes will pay off.Leather and suede shoes will also last longer than shoes made from synthetic materials.
Look on the inside of the heel to determine what the shoe is made of. Shoes that say "man-made upper" or "man-made material" are made from synthetic materials. "Shoes that say "leather upper" or "suede upper" are best.
 When you wear heels, more pressure is placed on the ball of your foot. Adequate cushioning in this area will make your heels feel much better. Check this area of the shoe before you buy them.If the shoe does not have very much built in cushioning, purchase insoles to wear in your shoes. Insoles can be full size, three quarter size, half size, or only ball-of- the-foot cushions.If you do wear insoles, be sure you still have enough room for your toes.
 Styles with a slight platform under the toe area tend to be more comfortable as they minimize the angle and pressure on the ball of the foot. Platforms, even thin ones, also maintain stability by keeping the soles flat.If you are wearing a higher heel, a platform can offset some the effects of wearing a high heel.
Platforms can be visible or hidden. If you like the comfort but not the look of a platform, go for a shoe that has a hidden platform.
 The more stable and secure your shoe feels, the more comfortable you will feel. In addition to the height of your heel and toe space, there are other design features that make heels more comfortable. Check your heels for the following:Wear a chunkier heel. The wider the heel, the more stability you will have.
Shoes that have wooden or hard plastic soles are more rigid and will be more difficult to walk in. Look for shoes with leather and rubber soles.
Slingbacks, heels with ankle straps, peep toes, and boots are easier to walk in than mules or super strappy sandals. The more your foot moves around, the more difficult it will be to walk.
 Do not wear heels every day of the week. If you wear heels on Monday, wear some flats on Tuesday. Try to minimize the amount of time that you wear your high heels, especially if you are doing lots of walking or standing. If you have to walk a good distance, change into some tennis shoes and then put your heels on when you reach your destination.



Stretch your calves and your feet when you take your heels off for the day.
Taking these steps will ensure that you can wear heels without damaging your feet and ankles.
 Correctly designed arches that are well balanced and match the natural shape of the feet make the difference between pain and all-day comfort.Improperly designed shoe arches rise in a straight ramp from just behind the balls of the feet to the backs of the heels. These do not support the arches of the feet and cause the feet to slide forward in the shoes. In this scenario, the majority of your weight is on the ball of your foot and your toes.


If you feel like you are walking on your tip toes, the arch of the shoe may be too high.
Better shoe arches rise in a curve to support the arches of the feet, and level off a bit so that the heels of the feet are not resting on so steep an incline.
The very best shoe arches rise high to provide total arch support for the feet, and then drop down into shallow cup-like depressions that hold and support the heels of the feet. This profile shifts body weight from the balls of the feet back to the heels where it belongs, and helps prevent the feet from sliding forward.

