 Take time to figure out what has you feeling the way you do. Being able to reflect on why you're feeling down or what specifically has you feeling depressed, will help you discover ways in which you can improve for the coming year and will help you move on.Try not to focus too much on the disappointments. If they come up during your reflection its okay to sit with them for a short time and then refocus your attention on more positive reflections.
Reflect on the past year month by month, being certain to reflect on one good thing that had happened in that month.
Review your year by life area, taking time to focus on family life, professional life, romantic life, physical life, spiritual life, and financial life. Identify at least one thing you are proud of from that area of your life.
Ask yourself a series of positive questions such as, “What new things did I find out about myself?” or “What was the best news I received?”, Depression is more than just a temporary “down mood.” Know the symptoms and as you are reflecting on your past or how you are feeling, be honest with yourself about where you stand.You do not need to experience all of the following symptoms or you may experience some atypical ones not listed here.Persistent sad mood, feelings of worthlessness, hopelessness, or pessimism.
Difficulty sleeping, early-morning waking, or oversleeping.
Changes in appetite or weight, more hungry or less hungry than usual or loss or gain of weight.
Activity level changes such as a loss of interest or pleasure in hobbies or activities you once loved.
Physical symptoms such as chronic pain or lack of energy.Family history of depression.
 Learn from what has happened and then try to leave it there. If you were unhappy with your previous year, take this as an opportunity to learn from the mistakes made and put solutions to action in the upcoming year. If there were no mistakes made, but rather a bad year because terrible things happened, reflect on what you have learned about your own resilience and ability to cope with the worst., It is often difficult to not get weighed down by bad things when they happen to you, or by circumstances in your life. The most successful people view these things as challenges or as circumstances they have survived or overcome.Think about what you have accomplished and overcome in the past year, changing any feelings of failure into a form of helpful feedback.
 Actively focusing on good will set you up to retrain your brain to focus more on the positive on a more regular basis.The power of positive thinking has truth to it and, much like any skill, you have to practice it to become good at it.The benefits include decreased cortisol (known as the "stress hormone") and increased serotonin in your brain, which creates feelings of well-being and helps support brain growth.Try listing ten things you are grateful for from the past year. This may be the great vacation you took with your family, discovering a new band or author you love, accomplishing a goal, making a new friend, or learning something new about yourself.
Practice mindfulness. Being mindful means slowing down and allowing yourself to fully experience and savor the moment.Watching fireworks? Really allow yourself to appreciate the color and the spectacle — don't strategize about how you're going to navigate your way home later or wonder if anyone liked your social media post about your New Year's resolution or anything else. Just enjoy the beauty of that moment.
Work on reframing. Sometimes, changing a negative thought to a positive one is just a matter of looking at it from a different angle. If you find yourself stressing out about the big crowds, worrying about traffic and how late you're going to get home, try reframing by thinking something like, "It's really great that so many people are coming together to celebrate tonight. If traffic gets too crazy and it gets really late, my friend said I can just crash with her tonight and we can make breakfast in the morning."

