 If you have never practiced meditation before, you can search the web for videos or for apps for your smart phone that can guide you through a meditation session.


If you choose to use a video to guide you, skim through several videos to see if you enjoy the tempo of the guidance, the length, and the content of the guidance. You don’t have to listen to the whole thing before you start, but try to look for a guided meditation for beginners as these will be much shorter and include much more verbal guidance.
 A full belly can make you sleepy and weigh you down. When meditating, you want to be awake, but relaxed., If you can find a nearly silent place to meditate, this is best.If you wish, you can use music to help you focus in your meditation.However, be sure to use music that is suitable for Chi meditation. If you don’t have any such music, you can search sites like YouTube for videos that play the correct music. Simply search for “Chi meditation music” (or try “Qi meditation music”), and you should find suitable music.
 If you can, sit cross-legged on the floor. If this is not possible for you, sit upright in a chair with your feet planted flat on the floor., Your hands should rest with your palms facing upwards either on each leg or with your left hand cradling your right hand just below your navel. If you choose the latter, have your thumbs gently touching each other., This can be challenging at first, but try not to slouch. Instead, practice sitting with your spine straight.While you should try to keep your spine straight, you should not feel tense. Thus, try to keep a straight, but relaxed position., You can choose to gently close your eyes, or keep your eyes open. Either way, begin by resting your gaze in front of you, not focusing too hard on anything in particular., Notice the way your body feels as it rests on the floor or chair, and take note of the thoughts and emotions you are feeling at this moment., Notice your breathe. Notice the way it feels as you inhale in through the nose (e.g. Is the air cold? Is one nostril more open than the other?) and then notice how it feels as you exhale (e.g. Is the air warmer? Does the air come out slowly or forcefully?).As you breathe in, imagine that you are breathing in good energy. As you breathe out, imagine that you are breathing out toxins and bad energy., With meditation it is best to practice every day if at all possible. This may mean that you have to reduce the time that you meditate, which is OK. It is better to meditate for 10 minutes each day than for 30 or 40 minutes only once per week.