 Don’t regret having spent too much time at work, and not enough time with your friends and family. The people who love and care about you can help to boost your self-confidence and make you feel happier with yourself.Cherish the joys of time with friends, loved ones, and family. Make sure that you have time on the weekends and evenings. If you don’t already, set aside time regularly each week to do something as a family or with your friends.
Have more one-on-one time with your spouse, friends, or kids. When you’re with someone one-on-one, that may help to deepen the relationship. You may be able to talk more freely about your interests, thoughts, and feelings.
Don’t be afraid to share your worries or concerns with trusted friends and family. Keep close those who love you unconditionally, regardless of your status, career, or money.
 You may have been trained to think that the only measure of success is to be respected at your job. Even if your work or life doesn’t exactly go as planned, believe that there are other things out there that are worth living for. See yourself as constantly changing and evolving, rather than static.If things don’t go as you’d planned, be flexible. Imagine what other things might work well for you, or make you happy.
Avoid people that make you feel worthless, and focus your time and efforts around those that value you regardless of what you do for a living.
Review the positive things that you have done in your life thus far. Be proud of the small or big accomplishments that you have achieved. Write down at least five things that you have done that make you feel happy about who you are.
 Cultivate your adventurous and curious spirit. Don’t give up on your dreams, whether it’s to build your own outdoor patio, bake decadent desserts, or do watercolor art. See your life as full of new and interesting surprises.Be confident that you are good enough, smart enough, and capable enough to try new things.
Consider taking classes at a local university or community college.
Join a club that has common interests, such as an outdoors club, a language group, or a knitting group.

