 If you notice any indication of skin problems, take your cat to the vet for a proper diagnosis. Your vet will be able determine the cause of your cat’s skin problems and provide a remedy.Your vet will first initiate a visual examination to check for fleas and examine the area of irritation.
If they don’t immediately find something, they will take a biopsy (a skin scraping) to check for mites and infections.
Your vet might also use a fungal culture to check for ringworm. This involves testing your cat’s nail clippings, fur, or body fluids for presence of the fungus that the vet suspects caused your cat’s skin problems.
 If the visual examination, biopsy, and fungal culture fail to identify anything out of the ordinary, your vet might take a blood sample from your cat. The process is not unlike that which you experience when getting blood drawn at the doctor’s office. Your vet will simply use a needle to puncture the skin and draw blood from your cat.Your vet might ask you or an assistant to reassure or restrain the cat when drawing its blood.
Blood tests might reveal allergies that could be the underlying cause of your cat’s skin problems.
 When you bring your cat to a vet for diagnosis, let them know of any recent significant changes to your cat’s lifestyle. For instance, if you recently changed your cat’s cat food or moved to a new home, share that information with your vet.Let your vet know if other cats or house pets are suffering from a similar skin condition. Whatever your cat has might be contagious.The more information about your cat you share with your vet, the better they will be able to diagnose the situation.
 Your vet will recommend an appropriate solution based on their analysis of your cat’s skin problem. For instance, you might need to apply anti-inflammatory medications or antihistamines (medications that control the immune system). Antibiotics or antifungal treatments might be necessary in the case of an infection. Non-medical solutions could include creams, ear drops, or a simple haircut for your feline friend.Always use medications as directed.
Contact your vet if you have questions regarding treatment.

