 It is important to do your research ahead of time to figure out what salary range is appropriate to expect for someone with your experience, level of education, and specific skill set. You need to have some idea what the position is worth and what your skills are worth in order to navigate the compensation question during an interview.You can search websites like salary.com, payscale.com, glassdoor.com, and others to find out information about what people are getting paid in equivalent positions.
You should also try asking around to various friends and colleagues, especially if they are in a related field, to figure out what an appropriate figure would be.;
, If you are asked about compensation for previous employment, use specific dollar values only if the situation requires them, and do so in a strategic and thoughtful manner. You do not want to appear as though you are boasting or prying into someone else's business.When in a professional setting such as an employment interview, avoid bringing up previous salary figures. Base your personal salary requirements on your education level, previous experience and skill set, and comparable industry statistics. Come prepared with updated and current data regarding average compensation for someone with your level of qualifications.
If the potential employer does ask you to provide a specific dollar value for a desired salary, be honest with your expectations. A common mistake occurs when employees propose a salary lower than they would really want to accept for fear of being turned away by the employer. Whether in a range or a single amount, a prospective employee should never offer an amount less than they are willing to take under the worst situation. A useful strategy is to offer a mid-range figure with the statement that is negotiable depending upon benefits, promotion opportunities, etc. That way, each party can save face.
 Let the interviewer know that salary requirements are not your only point of interest or concern. This will help you steer the conversation away from a discussion focused solely on dollar amounts. Express to the interviewer that aside from salary, other job-related issues such as career advancement, professional opportunities, or other benefits associated with the position are very important to you.If a potential employer asks you to disclose the salary level of your current or previous position, do not be afraid to include all forms of compensation. This could include health benefits, 401(k) contributions, profit sharing, or other benefits in addition to your base salary. State the amount of your "total compensation" including the value of the benefits package.
There is nothing wrong with this strategy, so try not to consider it misleading. In return, be sure to consider all forms of compensation when comparing a competing salary offer to your current or previous position. Employee benefits are an often overlooked but significant portion of a salary offer.

