 After hearing you did not get the job, you may feel angry or upset. It may be tough, but letting your emotions get the best of you will not help you understand why you didn’t get the job. It will also not help you learn what you should do when you apply for other jobs.


If you are speaking to the employer over the phone, it may also be a turnoff if you start crying or yelling.
Remember you may not have gotten this job but you could be right for another job with this company in the future. So stay calm and professional.;
, There are many factors that contribute to choosing the right person to hire. Yes, some of it may depend on personal traits such as approachability and personality but for the most part it comes down to who can do the job the best amongst the pool of candidate.


This is why it is important to probe further as to why you were not chosen for the job. There is no sense in getting upset thinking they just didn’t like you when it probably just came down to the fact that the other person had specific experience that you did not.
 As previously mentioned, your chances of getting the job depends on who else is interviewing for that same job. If there are multiple good candidates for the job, the employer must then make a tough decision.


Remember that you may have gotten the job if the other candidates did not interview so well. You may just have a few years less experience than the person who was offered the job or maybe the employer knows that they can get the other person to do the job for less money than you would.
Whatever the case may be, understand it is not always personal but just the luck of who is in the candidate pool and what they have to offer. Remember, you have no control over who else applies for the job.
 It is important to know where you stacked up against the other candidates, or more importantly, how you compared to the person who was offered the job. Think about asking the following questions to understand why you were not chosen and what exactly the employer was looking for:


Can you give me a particular reason why I was not chosen for this job?
What experience or abilities were you looking for that you felt I lack?
Did you feel I would have fit in to your company culture?
Were there any other factors besides my experience and abilities that prevented me from getting this job?

, If you handle taking some constructive criticism, it could prove very helpful for you in future. The recruiter or hiring manager understands your experience and has seen how you interview. There is always room for improvement in this area, even for experienced interviewees. Think about asking for constructive criticism on the following:



Applying for the right position. Should you continue to apply for this type of position with other companies? Do you have what it takes? For example, if you are applying for a director level position with only 3 years of management experience. At this point should you be looking for another management position or keep trying for director level?

Communication Skills. Can you properly communicate ideas and the extent of your experience in an interview?

Answering tough questions. Sometimes it is hard to answer questions about yourself. Do you just need some practice?

, If you have asked the questions stated above, you should make the effort to listen carefully to the answers. Staying quiet and listening to what they have to say is important and will help you in the future. Take notes based on their constructive criticism so you can refer back to these notes before applying for or interviewing for the next job that comes along.
 Although you are not guaranteed to get the next job you apply or even interview for, working on areas of improvement will reduce your chances of future rejection.


Think back to your conversation with the employer and look at any notes you have taken. Then, find ways to improve your skills based on the constructive criticism given.
For example, if lack of eye contact was an issue, work on your ability to hold conversations while maintaining constant eye contact.
 The more times you get rejected, the more your confidence will be reduced. It is understandable that every time you hear the word “no” you start losing hope. Deal with the rejection in the best way by learning from the experience. This will increase your chances of getting the job next time.


Remember, each “no” will bring you closer to a “yes” so long as you learn from your experience and do not give up. There is a job out there for you so long as you keep looking.

