 For typical small jewelry such as an earring, you'll want a strip of sterling silver at least 2.5 inches wide and no more than 3.5 inches long. You can adjust these dimensions if you have a specific design in mind, but it may become a little harder to work with. 22 gauge and 24 gauge sheeting are commonly used.


Sterling silver may be labeled "ster" or ".925.", Silver is soft enough to be cut by a jeweler's saw, but will need buffing afterward to smooth out the sharp edges. These specialized tools can be found at craft stores, hardware stores, or online.


A jeweler's saw with a saw blade numbered 2/0
A small buffing machine with canton flannel wheels (or a bench grinder with the grinding wheel replaced)Jeweler's rouge or blue polishing compound. (Scratched silver may require white rouge or brown Tripoli polishing compound instead.)
For earrings: sterling silver ear hooks, a drill, and a number 64 drill bit
For surface designs: a metal stamp and hammer.
 Insert the saw blade into the upper end of the jeweler's saw and fasten the wing nut. Insert the lower end and tighten the wing nut while pulling on the frame to add tension. The buffing machine may already come pre-assembled, or you may need to consult to add the buffing wheels according to your model's instructions. Mount the buffing machine on your workbench.


To test the saw, stroke the blade with a fingernail and listen for a "Ping" sound. If it does not make this sound, tighten the saw until it does when stroked.
 You can sketch out the shape yourself, or find a design online or in magazines. For a pair of matching earrings, make two identical copies.
 Tape the design over the silver sheeting and use the saw to cut through the outline.


Use a slightly forward tilt to the saw as you cut.
Move the saw up and down as you cut.
 The easiest way to add detail to the surface is to purchase a stamp designed to imprint silver. To stamp a thin sheet of silver, lay the stamp over the metal and hammer it in firmly. Make sure the stamp stays flat and in position while you hammer it several times.
 Following your model's instructions is recommended. Generally speaking, the jeweler turns on the machine and applies polish (jeweler's rouge) sparingly to the wheel. Gently touch the jewelry to the surface of the wheel to smooth out rough edges and polish the surface., This will remove polish residue. Dry with a soft, clean cloth, preferably wool or chamois., Drill a small hole near the top of each earring, insert one end of the hook, and twist the hook around itself or tuck it over the earring edge to attach it firmly. Obviously, you can skip this step if making jewelry that does not require a hook attachment

