 If it looks nasty, or smells horrible, then don't just leave it there without trying it! It could be delicious, or if you don't like it then you'll know for next time.;
, Is everyone else eating it? If so, then your taste buds just might not be agreeing. So look around for options.
 You can either eat it, because (likely) it won't kill you.
 Ah, so you've decided to go to the dark side, huh? Well now you have to start looking for alternatives. If eating it isn't an option, then look for another way to dispose of it.
 Hey, it's not fair that we get this gourmet food, while all they have is kibble! Right? If you sneak it smoothly to your dog, then you're good. Just make sure it's not something they can't eat like chocolate, grapes, tomatoes, etc.
 Shoot. Still got some tofu pancakes, but unfortunately, you don't have a dog. Maybe you should consider getting one? Anyway, you can almost always hide your food. Look for vacant spots in napkins, glasses, pockets, dog's mouth, etc.
 So you're sitting with your family for a Friday might dinner.Dad to your right, sister to your left. Take a small portion,(bite size) and carefully put it in someone else's plate when they aren't looking. A parent exchange might be risky, because moms are forever looking with the eyes in the back of their head to see if you're eating her fried Shiitake burgers. But if you put a little bit, slowly, then you're safe.
 This method is only in extreme disgust of your meal and only mastered experts can even attempt this. If you aren't then STOP.
 Ask a parent if you can use the washroom. This is one form of destroying your food. Before you go, take a big chunk of whatever it is, and put it in your mouth. When you go to the bathroom, close the door, and quietly spit the whatever it is inside a small wad of toilet paper or a napkin. Drop it in the toilet, and flush.
 This is basically the same as the last step, however you must do it when nobody is looking or no one is hanging around. Or you could request to use the washroom, and instead of putting it in the toilet you can drop it in the bottom of the trashcan. Voila!

, Be careful. If by now everyone has left the table and has given you the usual routine saying: "You can't leave the table without eating all of your food!" Then you are in luck. Simply open the door to your backyard,preferably you have a fence or a park behind you. At least some kind of fence to hide it. Wind up you good arm, and give it a hearty toss. Hopefully, it makes it over the fence and out of your site!

, Talk to your parents about your amazing B+ in algebra, or you could arrange your fried tentacles in a happy face, making your parents think that you are an artistic genius.
 Tell you mother in law you love her new hair cut. Ask your wife if she's lost any weight.
 Say that you just ate, or that you don't like to eat when you feel sick. Say you're a vegetarian, or that you declare today opposite day, so you should desert first.

