 Get a copy of your credit report by visiting annualcreditreport.com. This report is free to obtain once per year. When you have your copy, check it closely to see if there are any misreported or duplicated debts on your credit report. If so, contact the credit reporting agency (Experian, TransUnion, or Equifax) and go through their error disputing process. If they cannot remove the debt, you may have to contact the lender listed on your report and have them change it. Removing these types of errors can dramatically improve your credit score., If you have any late payments or delinquent debts on your credit history, this is likely negatively impacting your credit score. Contact the lender to work out a repayment plan so that you can eventually have the bad debt removed from your credit report. When paying off debt, start with the debt with the highest interest rate and then, once that is paid, move on to the debt with the next highest rate. This can help you avoid accruing additional interest debt while you work to repay your debts., Creditors are not required to submit information about your credit history to the reporting bureaus. You may be able to convince your creditor to remove or modify certain statements on your credit report. Talk to your lender or loan officer to see if you can negotiate a solution.

If you have made good payments recently, you may be able to convince them to take off an older mistake. Alternatively, if you only missed one payment, you might be able to use your strong history of paying on time to convince them that it won’t happen again.
If you have missed many payments, you may be able to offer the creditor a settlement, where you pay the amount due and avoid late fees and high interest rates. If you pay back the money due, they may be willing to remove it from your statement., If you feel like you are unable to fix your credit on your own, help is available. You can visit a credit counselor. Most credit counseling services are non-profit, and you can receive advice in person, over the phone, or online.Credit counselors can help you figure out a debt management plan, and also help you create a workable budget.
When you contact the office, ask what kind of services they provide and what qualifications the counselors have.
 In general, you should avoid applying for new credit frequently. Applying for new credit cards or other types of credit can have a negative impact on your credit score if you do so frequently. If you need more credit to make a purchase, ask for a credit increase on a current card instead.

However, if you only have one or two open credit lines, opening others can help decrease your credit utilization ratio, which can improve your credit score., A bad credit score can be a major setback in achieving your financial goals. However, you can take steps to repair your credit. Just be aware that there is not a fast, simple way to raise your score.It can take several months, and even years, to raise your credit score. You need to pay all of your bills on time and demonstrate your financial responsibility.
Be honest. Do not try to hide your poor credit from potential landlords, lenders, or employers. Instead, honestly and openly explain your circumstances.