 The shotgun is likely to be a main choice for close encounters, so getting good with it is vital. Aiming with the shotgun is sometimes good.Sometimes firing from the hip is better. This way, you can move and turn whilst fighting your opponent. If they come too close hold (yes, HOLD) B button to hit them twice. If you don't hold down B, the second melee will not hit. Active reloads are your best friend with this weapon. Beware, against the host you are likely to lose unless you are extremely skilled, as the host can shoot you before you could shoot him. It IS possible to head shot with the shotgun.;
, The lancer is the main weapon of the game learning to utilise it efficiently is important. With the latest update, the Lancers power was increased, in order to make Gears of War a more tactical based game instead of a shotgun party. It takes precisely 15 shots to the body to down with a lancer, 10 to the head. with active, it becomes 8 shots to the body and 6 shots to the head. Chainsawing is an easy instant kill if you know how to use it. If someone is coming towards you, tap B, not rapidly but don't hold it down for too long, this way you're less likely to get stunned and killed. Pressing the right trigger whilst holding B will give your chainsaw priority over anyone else's, and if you moving towards your target you're more likely to chainsaw them than they are you. Obviously getting shot whilst revving is a bad situation, so use chainsaw sparingly.
 The snub pistol can be a last-resort weapon or it could be a preferred weapon, depending on your skill with it. 7 shots to the head will be a headshot, 4 with active. The pistol will shoot as fast as you can pull the trigger. 2 Shots and 1 melee will down; or 2 melees will down. If you're feeling lucky, go for the shot-melee-shot and maybe, just maybe, you'll land a headshot.
 The long shot can take skill, or be exceedingly noobish depending on the way its used. Headshots take skill and practise. Get used to lag, it could spare you some ammo if you hit them first try. Active reloads with the sniper are SHAMEFULLY strong. one shot to the chest (or the legs if shooting a Theron guard/sentinel, or General RAAM, they appeared to be glitched in this way.) The longshot is a key weapon to master.
 The Torque bow is exceedingly powerful, with one hit kills, but off host landing a moving target is slightly more difficult than on host. An active reload will decrease the time it takes to tense the bow, meaning the arc will straighten much quicker, but the time allowed to take your shot is decreased greatly. The torque bow is the only weapon to have a downside with the active reload. The torque bow will not kill unless it hits, or is an active at someones feet. It is possible, but exceedingly difficult, to stick opponents without the arc being straight. Once the arrow has hit a wall, it can bounce and stick into an opponent as well as a fully straightened arc. This weapon can shoot round corner. The arrows power increases when it hits an enemy, and any enemies nearby will likely suffer the same fate as the target.
 The boom shot is seen as a "noob" weapon. Direct hits will increase power of the boom. Hitting the floor near an enemy may result in the enemy being downed, with an active the enemy could die. The boom shot is similar to a grenade launcher, in that without an active reload its line of fire is arced, making it possible to shoot over objects. With active, it turns into a sort of rocket launcher and shoots in a much more straight line. Active reload will also increase blast radius as well as damage.
 Grenades are possibly your best friend, again depending on your skill. Grenades can be bounced round corners, blind thrown in case of emergencies, aimed for a more accurate throw (and somewhat further). Meleeing with a grenade equipped is known as a tag, and will eliminate the enemy and any enemies (or anyone else) nearby. However, if the enemy gets downed just before the grenade goes off, he will not die and it is likely that the downer will die fro the explosion. Friendly fire is not advised when using grenades.
 Similar to the Snub pistol, only much more powerful and much slower to shoot. Off host it can be difficult to hit your target. 1 Shot and 1 melee will down, but a melee-shot is more likely to produce a headshot. 2 Shots to the body will down, and a Boltok kill will result in a nice, Gibby kill if not an execution. 2 Shots to the head will result in a headshot kill. Getting an active reload will not change this.
 The hammer-burst is a greatly underestimated weapon. When the fire button is held down, it is devastating if the shots hit. 1 Burst and 1 melee will down. You cannot headshot with the Hammerburst. With active reload is is almost impossible to stop. Be careful when facing a Hammerburst-adept user, they can kill very easily if you don't be careful.
 The HOD is a very, very powerful orbital beam cannon. Due to its strength, its melee has been toned down to 3 instead of 2 hits to down. The moment it hits the ground is the most powerful part, totally destroying anything nearby, and is nearly impossible to get away from. Staying under an HoD beam will kill you in less than a second. Be very careful using it at close range for obvious reason. Not a good choice if friendly fire is enabled. HoD users are vulnerable to snipers, as they have to expose themselves from cover to use.
 An effective visual blockade to aid you and your allies in getting power weapons. Blind snipers often miss. Smoke tagging is generally a bad idea, but funny if pulled off. On rooftops, people will often smoke out the torque bow. If this happens, get to the torque bow and chainsaw the enemy that picks it up before the animation if over.
 The troika on war machine is often unused, however it is extremely powerful and quick to kill. Be warned, however, a half decent sniper could headshot the troika user very easily. It can fire indefinitely and will not run out of ammunition.

