 Feces from an infected cat contains coccidian oocysts. If your cat comes into contact with the feces, such as when using the same dirty litter tray, she may become infected when she grooms fur that has oocysts stuck to it. To decrease the risk of exposure to infectious feces the following litter tray hygiene measures should be followed strictly:


Remove feces from the litter tray every day. This reduces the opportunity for cross-cat contamination.
Provide one tray per cat in the household, plus a spare : this makes it more likely each cat will use their "own" toilet facility and are thus less likely to be contaminated if another cat has coccidiosis.
Clean litter trays twice a week (minimum) : Be sure to empty all litter trays and either steam-clean them, or use an ammonia based disinfectant to rid them of harmful bacteria.
 Try to avoid crowding your cats together. Pet shops, catteries, and animal shelters need to be especially careful to keep cats in groups of four or less, and, where possible, house them individually. In a domestic setting be sensible about how many cats you own.


For example, three-bedroomed house (with access to the outside) is suitable for no more than five cats.
 Coccidian oocysts are resistant to low temperatures and many disinfectants. They are, however, killed by high temperatures, desiccation (drying-out), and steam.


The following steps are effective ways of cleaning litter trays, play pens, and floors.
 "OO-cide" is a disinfectant manufactured by Vetoquinol, which is effective against coccidians. The product is made up of two packs. Pack number one is dissolved in water and applied to the surfaces that need cleaning. Pack number two is dissolved in water and applied after Pack number one.


This causes ammonia to be released, which is the active coccidiocide. Take extreme care when using this product because harmful vapors are released when this product is in use. When cleaning, you will need to wear a respirator and rubber gloves, and avoid spending time in the treated room until the surfaces are dry.
The room will need to be ventilated as well, so open up all windows and doors.
 Steam cleaning is effective at killing oocysts and safer for the operator than OO-cide. Be sure to expose all surfaces to the steam when steam cleaning.


You can hire professional steam cleaners to come into your home and steam clean.
 Cats can become infected by eating infected prey. Thus, preventing cats from hunting prevents infection from this route.


One way to keep your cat from hunting is to keep her inside.
 Oocysts can cling to your cat's coat. Thus, it is possible for a cat that is successfully treated with drugs, to re-infect herself when grooming. To avoid this it is best to bathe your cat in warm water with a mild baby shampoo or shampoo specifically meant for cats.


This should be done on the first and last day of treatment, in order to physically wash away contamination from your cat’s coat.

