 Depending on the show and the network, you may receive a script, or you may get lines to read right on the spot, sometimes known as a cold-read.If you've received the script, make sure to study and memorize your lines carefully. If you have to select the material yourself, make sure to pick out a piece that will allow you to show a dynamic range.


Don't choose a script that only shows one emotion like anger or sadness.
Use personally relevant pieces and stay away from experimental scripts, or scripts that don't show off your true acting ability. , The more you practice cold-reading, the more you'll become accustomed to taking on a new role with only a couple of minutes to prepare. When you receive a script to cold-read, don't panic and try to memorize the entire script. Instead, relax, read the script carefully, then try to understand the circumstances of the story, your characters motivations, and how the scene affects the plot.


Do not look down at your script while the casting agent is reading lines. Casting directors want to be able to gauge your acting abilities, which includes reacting to events in the story or lines in the dialogue., TV is a visual medium, and much of your acting will take place in your face. You can also see how your acting looks on film and alter it to become a better actor or actress. Take note of your facial expressions and any bad habits that you have so you can try to alter them.Bad habits include a noticeable twitch or facial gesture that you do habitually. Take notice of the way you pronounce words and make sure that you enunciate.
 A TV actor who has experience can provide you with valuable insider knowledge of how auditions and casting work in your area. Talk to friends in the industry or ask a teacher if you're taking an acting class. They can also help you with your audition.


You can ask by saying, "Hey, I have an audition coming up, and I wanted to get some feedback on my performance. I need someone to be completely honest and objective so that I can land this role."

, You should choose an outfit that embodies the character that you are auditioning for, but also remember to wear something that's comfortable. Coming in with an unrequested costume will not win you over to casting directors, and could cost you the audition.Wearing something comfortable will put you at ease and give you the confidence to concentrate on acting.

