 While this method is the gold standard for teaching children with dyslexia, it is beneficial for all children. MSL teaches phonemic awareness, phonics, comprehension, vocabulary, accuracy and fluency, and writing and spelling. Students are encouraged to use all of their senses (touch, sight, movement, and sound) as part of the learning process. Phonemic awareness is the ability to hear, recognize, and use the individual sounds in a word.A child that can identify that the words pat'', park, and "pump" all start with the same sound would be demonstrating phonemic awareness.
Phonics is the relationship between letters and sounds.Knowing what sound the letter "B" makes or that "ph" makes the same sound as the letter "f" is an example of phonics.
You can receive MSL training and certification. The International Dyslexia Association and the Institute for Multi-sensory Education provide information about training and certification requirements.
Visual cues help individuals with dyslexia to understand written material. Use color on the blackboard or marker board. Write decimals in math problems in a different color. Grade in a color other than red, as red carries a universally negative connotation.
Write note cards. This provides something tangible for students to look at while also giving them something to hold. Having them read the note card out loud also engages their motor and auditory skills.
Make sand trays. Sand trays are simply tray-like containers that contain sand (or beans or shaving cream). Students can use these to spell words or draw pictures in the sand. This engages their sense of touch.
Incorporate fun activities into their learning time. Games and other creative activities get the dyslexic child more involved in the learning process. This makes learning more fun and rewarding, as it gives them a sense of accomplishment.
You can use music, songs, and chants to help students learn and remember rules.;
, Explicit teaching includes describing and modeling the skill, breaking down the skill into steps, providing clear instructions and feedback throughout the process, providing examples and demonstrations, clearly stating the purpose and reasoning behind the skill., and presenting the information in a logical order.This process is done until students master the skill.


You should not assume that student has any previous knowledge or understanding of the concept.
If you are using explicit teaching to teach a child about the letter "s," you would begin by clearly stating what he or she will be learning that day. You would then demonstrate the sound that the letter "s" makes and have them repeat it back to you. You would then model different words that begin with "s," and have them repeat the words out loud. You may also use songs, chants, or pictures of things that begin with the letter "s." You could ask them to think of some words that start with the letter "s." You would provide constructive feedback throughout the lesson as well., Since dyslexic children may struggle with short-term memory, it is challenging for them to remember what you say. Repeat instructions, key words, and concepts so students are more likely to remember what you say, at least long enough to write it down.When building on new skills, continue to incorporate previously learned information. Repetition will help reinforce older skills and create a connection between concepts., You should continually assess how well a student understands what is being taught. If something is not clear, the skill should be retaught. This is an ongoing process. Students with dyslexia often require more time and more intense instruction to learn a concept.If you wanted to teach children phonemic awareness, you might start by giving them some words and asking them to identify all the sounds in the words. You would note the strengths and weaknesses and then develop your lesson and teaching strategy based on the assessment.As you are teaching, you would provide correction and feedback by asking the child questions and noting any progress. You may also conduct small quiz at the end of each day to monitor progress. When you feel the child has learned the skill, you would give them the original assessment and compare the results. If the child has mastered the skill, you would move on to something more difficult. If the child did not master the skill, you would continue to teach the skill.
 Dyslexic children often struggle with focusing. Other things may distract them, or they may have a hard time listening to a long lecture or watching a lengthy video. Dyslexic children may also struggle with short-term memory, making it difficult for them to take notes or understand simple instructions.


Take your time. Do not rush through a class lecture. Give students time to copy anything written on the board. Make sure dyslexic students understand you before moving on to another section.
Incorporate short breaks regularly. A dyslexic child often struggles to sit for long periods of time. Take short breaks throughout the day to divide long lectures. You can also move from activity to activity. For example, lecture, game, back to lecture, followed by a learning activity.
Use appropriate time limits. It takes dyslexic children longer to complete assignments other students may have no problem completing. Allow dyslexic students more time to take exams and quizzes and to complete homework so they do not feel rushed.
 Schedules help dyslexic children know what to expect and what is coming up next. If possible, post your routine, using both words and images, on a classroom wall for students to refer to.Your daily routine should also include a daily review of previous information. This well help the students connect previous lessons to the lesson you are currently teaching.
 Do not feel like you are the only teacher for a dyslexic student. There are several resources available to help dyslexic children learn. Seek out other teachers, dyslexia specialists, or tutors who have experience working with dyslexic students.You should also ask the child and the parents about preferences, learning styles, and the strengths and weaknesses of the student.
Encourage peer tutoring. Peer resources and social support are probably one of the strongest resources you can offer. Students can read aloud to each other, review notes, or conduct lab experiments together.
Different forms of technology are a great way to enhance learning. Games, word processors, voice activated software, and digital voice recording can all be very useful for a child with dyslexia.
 An IEP is a comprehensive plan that identifies the educational needs of the child, provides specific recommendations, and defines specific curriculum adjustments.The IEP is a collaborative document to ensure that the school supports the needs of the student. This document will also make sure parents, teachers, counselors, and the school are on the same page.


The IEP process is long and complex, but it is worth it. If you are a parent, you should talk to someone at your child’s school about starting the process. If you are a teacher, let the parents know that you think an IEP would be helpful.
 Many children with dyslexia struggle with low self-esteem. They often feel that they are not as smart as other students, or they are perceived as being lazy or problem students.Try to be as encouraging as possible and highlight the strengths the student has as well.

