 Know that signing essentially provides a way for babies to express themselves. Especially prior to the development of the verbal skills humans usually rely on to communicate, the inability to convey what you need or what you’re feeling can be incredibly frustrating. By offering a way for your baby to communicate, you will likely reduce the distress they may otherwise feel.If you’re not convinced yourself: It’s a certain fact that babies develop both an understanding of language and their physical motor skills – not to mention the operation of the full operation of their hand muscles – before they are able to speak.
 Stated simply: there are lots of claims made about baby sign language that are not based on anything other than the fact that a lot of websites – and companies – like to repeat the claim. More to the point, signing with your baby has not been proven to accelerate speech development or increase your baby’s intelligence.Further, it is unlikely that your baby will learn from signing videos, despite websites and apps that promote this idea and sell materials that purportedly teach your baby to sign. You baby is far more likely to learn signs from your positive association of certain signs with certain things., Your baby may simply stop signing out of nowhere, or simply use the same sign for all sorts of things. Babies can become entirely focused on certain things – especially the ability to execute a new physical feat like standing, that they will sometimes abandon other energy or attention demanding things like signing.If your baby uses the same sign for different things, don’t worry about it. In fact, this reflects a developmental process similar to that you will observe as your child begins to speak – much like using sounds that are similar before words are completely grasped.
Stay consistent with how you’re signing and they will develop a more nuanced understanding of differences between either signs or concepts that they may associate with one another at first.
 There are plenty of sources of information online that cover how to learn and teach ASL to your baby, as well as more commercially-motivated organizations that sell materials as well. Default to the freely available information provided by organizations who base their materials off of American Sign Language website.