 For an ambient mosquito repellent that's similar to a mosquito lamp or candle, gather together an empty tin can with lid, an unused dish sponge, and one or any combination of the following essential oils: lavender, pennyroyal, eucalyptus, citronella, peppermint, or lemongrass.


Saturate the sponge in one or any combination of the essential oils.
Place the sponge in the tin can, close, and let stand for 24 hours.
Use the ambient repellent by opening the lid of the can and letting the essential oils waft out from the can.
 This is a very basic recipe than you can expand and elaborate on. This recipe calls for eucalyptus oil, but feel free to use any combination of oils listed above for proven relief.


Into a spray bottle, mix together:

1/2 cup witch hazel.
1/2 cup apple cider vinegar.
30-50 drops of essential oils. Choose any combination of citronella, clove, lemongrass, rosemary, tea tree, cajeput, eucalyptus, cedar, catnip, lavender, or mint.


Shake ingredients together and spray over uncovered portions of your body. Avoid getting repellent in eyes or mouth.
 This recipe uses boiled herbs and witch hazel as a base. It is effective because insects, particularly flies, dislike the strong smell associated with the herbs.


Bring 1 cup of water to boil and add to it 3-4 tablespoons of any combination of dried peppermint, spearmint, citronella, lemongrass, catnip, lavender, or cloves. Cover pot.
After two minutes, remove pot from the element and, leaving the cover on, let rest until lukewarm.
Strain water into 1/2 cup witch hazel (or rubbing alcohol) and store in a spray bottle in your refrigerator.
Use on skin as needed.
 Lavender is a natural fly repellent, and is even great at repelling your cat's or dog's fleas. Daub a little lavender oil diluted with a carrier oil onto your wrists or on exposed areas as needed.
 Mint is another natural fly repellent, and it has that classic, sweet mint fragrance. Peppermint, spearmint, catnip, pennyroyal are fantastic at shooing away unwanted flies and keeping you smelling great.
 Basil is another strong-smelling herb that flies generally dislike, and basil is especially helpful against moths., This one is a little less popular, but only because garlic leaves a very distinct smell. But if you're absolutely at wit's end, and you only have garlic to use as a repellent, rest assures that a little bit of garlic rubbed on open skin will keep the flies away.

