 Keeping areas of plaque psoriasis moisturized will help to minimize the dry, scaly skin of the condition and will reduce itchiness. Find a moisturizer that is very thick or use an ointment that can seal in moisture, such as petroleum jelly.Make sure that all products you use are fragrance free. It is a good idea to look for products that are labeled for "sensitive skin," as they are likely to have little or no fragrances or added chemicals.
You can even use olive oil or coconut oil like a lotion on your plaque psoriasis. The oil will help moisturize the skin by keeping existing moisture trapped in the skin.
If you are having a hard time picking a moisturizer, talk to your doctor about products that will work well for your condition and that will be compatible with your medical treatment.
 While baths without additives can actually dry out your skin if you take them too often, adding nourishing items to the bath can help to moisturize the skin. Items you can add to your bath to help treat your plaque psoriasis include fine ground oatmeal, oil (such as olive or coconut oil), or salt.Epsom salts are a great addition to these nourishing baths because they add magnesium and sulfate to the skin.
Try adding apple cider vinegar to your bath. Soaking in a nourishing bath that has apple cider vinegar added to it will help minimize redness and itchiness.
Right after your bath dry yourself off lightly with a towel but don't rub. Then immediately put on your thick lotion or ointment to seal in the moisture from the bath., Smoking can cause symptom flare ups and it generally hurts your health, which impacts your body's ability to fight off the plaque psoriasis.This is an especially important part of treatment if you are coping with a particularly severe case of plaque psoriasis.
 In addition to using home remedies to ease your symptoms, you can adjust your lifestyle to minimize symptoms and to minimize the risk of flareups. Drinking too much alcohol can cause your plaque psoriasis symptoms to flare., There are a variety of dietary changes that you can make that will help your plaque psoriasis. In general, try to cut out fatty and sugary foods and eat more healthy foods, such as vegetables and foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids.Foods that are high in omega-3 fatty acids include fish, flaxseeds, olive oil, and pumpkin seeds. These will help to reduce inflammation.
Avoid eating fatty red meats, dairy products, processed foods, refined sugars, and nightshade vegetables. Nightshade vegetables include potatoes, tomatoes and peppers.
Try adding dietary supplements to your diet. Natural dietary supplements, such as fish oil, vitamin D, and milk thistle, can help ease your symptoms.