 While there are literally countless ways to work your core, you can begin to stabilize and strengthen your core simply by holding your body in certain static positions. Maintaining a stable trunk while holding a static position that engages several muscles groups in your core is a great way to initially strengthen your core. A great position to start working your core is the plank.To place yourself in plank position, lay down on your stomach, with your upper body propped up on your elbows. Clasp your hands together, palm-to-palm. Place your elbows directly beneath your shoulders and make sure they’re shoulder-width apart.
Raise your hips off of the ground, pushing into the floor with your forearms and toes. Hold your hips at the height which allows your body to make a straight line from your neck to your ankles.
Hold the plank position for at least 15 seconds. Repeat the position five times.
Increase the duration of the hold by 15-second intervals. Try to get to where you can hold a plank for an entire minute. You can also increase the number of times you hold the position.;
, You can vary plank exercises to work your core more aggressively. Once you can hold a plank for over a minute, start making your plank routine more challenging. Do this by raising one of your arms, as well as the opposite foot, off of the ground while in plank position. This will focus the weight of your body on particular muscle groups, and give them a more targeted workout.At first, just lift your right arm and hold it out in front of you for a few seconds. If you can do so while maintaining stability, raise your left leg and hold it out behind you simultaneously, for as long as you are able. Lower these limbs and switch to holding your left arm and right leg out for as long as you are able.
 Side planks will target more specific muscles groups along either side of your body, particularly in your abdomen. To start, lie on your side with your forearm perpendicular to your body and your feet stacked sideways. Tighten your abdominal muscles and push your forearm downwards into the floor. Raise your hips until your whole body is aligned.Hold the position for as long as you are able — at least 15 seconds — and repeat the process on your other side. Do 5 side-planks in each side.
Add to the duration of the amount of time you hold the position in increments of 15 seconds. You can also add the number of reps you do on each side.
You can increase the challenge of a side plank by raising your arms and legs on the side of your body that is off of the floor for 15 seconds to a minute.
 While crawling might not seem like a workout, rest assured it can quickly provide an effective and rewarding core workout. Avoid crawling on your hands and knees. Instead, do an army crawl, resting your weight on the inside of your upper legs and lower arms. Go slow and focus on how you’re moving your body, noting how different muscles in your hips, abdomen, and back engage with each movement.Keep your hips horizontal to the ground, and do not allow them to rock from side to side.
Focus on bring your knees forward with each “stride,” as opposed to splaying them out to the sides of your body.
 Lay down on your back with your knees bent and the soles of your feet flat on the ground. Tighten your ab muscles and raise your hips off the floor until torso and thighs are aligned and hold for five seconds. Your knees should be bent at about a 90° angle when your hips are raised. Repeat the position ten times, adding reps as you are able to do so.Do not allow your hips to drop or rotate while holding the position.
Initially, place your arms at your sides, with palms against the floor for added stability.
To increase the challenge of this exercise, cross your arms across your chest and keep them there through the exercise.

