 Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin from the sweet potatoes, then rinse the bare sweet potatoes with running water. Cut each one into 2-inch (5-cm) chunks.Since you'll be removing the skins from the sweet potatoes, there's no need to scrub them clean beforehand. A simple rinse after peeling the spuds should be enough to remove any residual dirt from the flesh.
Try to keep the pieces evenly sized to promote consistent cooking. If you cut the pieces much smaller than instructed, they may disintegrate. If you cut them too large, they will take longer to cook.;
, Place the cubed sweet potatoes in a large stockpot. Add enough cold water to cover them by about 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Place stockpot on the stove over medium-high heat. Bring the water to a boil, then cook the sweet potatoes for 15 to 20 minutes.Test the sweet potatoes for doneness by piercing one chunk with the tines of a fork. If the sweet potatoes are ready, the fork should slide into the chunk easily and nearly break it apart.
 Pour the contents of the stockpot through a colander to drain any water, then return the chunks of sweet potato to the pot.


Keep the stockpot on a heat-resistant surface but do not return it to the stove.
It's best to return the sweet potatoes to the empty stockpot than to place them in a separate bowl. The residual heat should help dry any remaining water lingering on the surface of the sweet potato chunks.
 Roughly mash the softened sweet potatoes using an electric hand mixer, immersion blender, potato masher, or fork. Add milk and butter, then continue mashing until combined.


If you prefer chunky sweet potato mash, use a fork or potato masher and limit the amount of milk and butter you add. In fact, you can omit the milk completely to make the mash as hearty as possible.On the other hand, if you prefer creamy sweet potato mash, you'll need to use an electric hand mixer or immersion blender. Add the full amount of milk and butter, and beat the sweet potatoes until smooth.
 Add your desired seasonings to the sweet potato mash. Stir well to incorporate the seasonings into the mash.


For basic sweet potato mash, add salt and pepper to taste, starting with 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) pepper and adjusting as needed.
For a conventionally sweet taste, stir in maple syrup, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg.
If you prefer savory sweet potato mash, use salt, pepper, paprika, and garlic powder.
If you enjoy spicy foods, try mixing in a little chilli sauce with some cinnamon and nutmeg.
 The sweet potato mash is finished. Enjoy it while it's still hot.

