 Canadians adults who are at least 16 years old who own a recently valid passport may be able to renew their passport rather than fill out a new application form. Check the requirements at the start of the Simplified Renewal section for more details. If you do not meet those requirements, continue with this method.


Applicants under 16 should use the child general application method instead.
 Download the form by clicking [http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/passport/forms/pdf/pptc153.pdf
, If you are able to fill out forms on your computer's pdf viewer, you may do so before printing. Alternatively, you may print the forms first and fill them out in capital letters using black or dark blue ink.



Note: If you don't know how to fill out a section, leave it blank for now. The requirements for supporting documents and Declaration of Guarantor are described below.
 If you are going to a passport office in person, you may pay then using a debit credit, credit card, money order, or certified cheque (not a personal cheque). If you are mailing in an application, either include a certified cheque or money order with the application, or fill out section D, Credit Card Information. Debit cards are not accepted for mail applications. Cash and personal cheques are never accepted.


To find out how much you owe, check the official page for up to date information and additional services you can purchase. As of July 2014, a standard 10-year passport for an applicant located in Canada costs C$160, while a 5-year passport costs C$120. Fees are higher for applicants outside of Canada.
 Find a commercial photographer that offers passport photo services and request two identical copies of a new photo to include with your application. The photo should include your face and shoulders, with eyes open and a neutral expression (no smiling). It should measure 50 mm wide X 70 mm high (2 inches x 2 3/4 inches).


If the photographer is located outside of Canada, let them know that they should follow Canadian passport photo requirements. You may wish to print these instructions for them.

Note: The name and address of the photographer or photography service must be included on the back of one of the photos. Handwriting, stickers, or stamps are all acceptable.
 Only original documents are accepted, not photocopies. If you were born within Canadian borders and have a birth certificate, it will be accepted. Otherwise, learn about your other options:If you were born inside Canada but do not own your original birth certificate, visit this website for information on obtaining it.
Alternatively, submit a certificate of citizenship, which can be obtained through a separate application process

If you have been issued one of the following, you may submit that instead: certificate of naturalization, certificate of retention of Canadian citizenship, certificate of registration of birth abroad.
 If using your previous passport as document to support identity, it cannot have expired longer than one year ago. Alternatively, use another government-issued, valid document with your name and signature. This document must contain your full name as it appears on your passport application.


This must be issued by a government office within Canada, not another country.
This document may be a photocopy instead of an original, although both sides must be photocopied.
Examples include a driver's license, non-driver's license, government employee ID, or certificate of Indian status., This person will be your "guarantor" who certifies that you are telling the truth on your application. This must be a Canadian citizen who has known you for at least 2 years, and received their current, valid Canadian passport when they were at least 16 years old. You are not legally allowed to pay someone to be your guarantor.The guarantor fills out section 2 of the general application form.
The guarantor writes the following on the back of one of your passport photos: "I certify this to be a true likeness of (your name)."
If you are submitting any photocopied documents (not originals), the guarantor signs and dates each page.
If no one qualifies to be your guarantor, request a Declaration in Lieu of Guarantor form (form number PPTC 132) by contacting a passport office as described here.
 If you have an existing passport or travel document, include it with your application. If you have changed your name or if you are replacing a lost, stolen, or damaged passport, fill out the linked forms as well.
 To present in person within Canada, find a passport office or receiving agent by clicking this link. Note that a receiving agent, unlike a passport office, may charge an additional fee, and will not be able to provide all extra services, such as urgent pickup.Mail documents from Canada or the U.S. to "Passport Canada Program, Gatineau QC K1A 0G3, Canada" or, if using a courier service instead of ordinary post, to "Passport Canada Program, 22 de Varennes Street, Gatineau QC J8T 8R1, Canada"/
If you are located outside Canada and the U.S., find the nearest consulate or embassy by clicking this link and ask them for mailing instructions.
 Allow at least 10–20 days for your application to be processed, plus mailing time each way. When the new passport arrives, sign with ink in the space provided on page 3. Include contact information for someone in case of emergency on page 4.


Note that you are expected to pick up your passport in person if you delivered the application in person.

