 If you are using a Wi-Fi connection, decreasing the space between your gaming device and your router will increase your Internet connection strength, which will in turn decrease your ping.

While this step isn't likely to fix your ping issues entirely, it's a good rule of thumb.
Items such as walls, floors, and other physical obstacles will impede your wireless signal.;
, Having bandwidth-heavy programs like Netflix, YouTube, torrenting services, and even other games running will severely affect your ping. This applies to background programs and websites on all devices, not just the one on which you're gaming.

If you have any background downloads, pause or cancel them.
Non-Internet-based programs won't affect your ping, though they may affect your game's performance.
 Routers and Internet connections can only support so many devices, and each in-use device will detract from the available connection speed and increase your ping.

If you live with multiple people, this might be impossible. The next-best thing is using an Ethernet connection.
Consider putting your mobile devices in Airplane Mode while you game, since doing so will pull them off of the Wi-Fi network without forcing you to use cellular data.
 Playing on a server in your country (or, more specifically, on your side of the country) will dramatically decrease your ping if you're used to playing on other countries' servers. While you may have to sit in a lobby for a few minutes before you can join a game, the higher performance is worth the wait.

Many games allow you to sort game servers by location or country. This can help you connect to the closest server possible.
Most games display your ping or a series of bars representing your ping next to specific servers.
 As long as the router isn't the problem, your ping will almost always be lower on a wired connection than on a wireless one.

If this doesn't lower your ping, your router is most likely causing your low ping or the internet connection coming directly from your ISP could be to blame.
 If your network equipment has been running non-stop, it may not be functioning properly. Removing the power cables from both the modem and the router, waiting thirty seconds or so, and then re-attaching them will refresh your Internet connection and potentially lower your ping.

It may take a few moments for your network to come back online after plugging the router in.
 Before taking action toward replacing your router, call your ISP to make them aware of your latency issues. They may have a less expensive answer for you.

This is easier and cheaper than replacing your router, which is the logical next step.
 Especially if your router and/or modem is more than a few years old, replacing your unit will have a noticeable effect on your Internet connection strength, speed, and consistency. Similarly, your ping will also likely go down when you install a new router.

Be sure to research your router thoroughly before purchasing it.
You may want to invest a little extra in a gaming-specific router, especially if you game with multiple people on the same network at once.
 Unfortunately, if nothing else has helped decrease your ping, you'll have to select an Internet package with higher upload and download speeds from your ISP.

ISPs often have year-long deals on specific plans. If your current ISP isn't working for you, you might consider switching ISPs entirely.
Many Internet providers have a "Gamer" package with increased upload and download speeds.

