 Since colicky babies may seem to cry nonstop, feeding – or even just being around – one can be exhausting and stressful. In order to reduce your stress, take turns feeding your child with someone else. For instance, you could ask your partner or another family member to feed your little one.Don’t alternate breastfeeding and bottle feeding too often. Feeding is an experience that babies use to build trust with the person who feeds them.If you are the mother of the baby and wish to only provide them with breastmilk, you can use a breast pump to bottle your breastmilk. Your partner or another family member can then feed your little one and give you a break.
 Whether you’re breastfeeding or bottle-feeding, it is important that your child receives enough milk. If bottle-feeding, ensure the bottle is full in order so that your baby can get enough milk without having to refill a bottle. If breastfeeding, wait for the colicky baby to release the breast of their own accord before switching to another breast..Try to feed a baby as soon as they show signs of hunger. If you wait too long, they have may have a harder time feeding.
The amount of time a colicky baby will take to consume all the milk in a particular breast or bottle depends on the baby and the mother.
Offer the opposite breast (or another bottle) only after the child has emptied the first bottle or detached themselves from the breast.
If the baby is still hungry, they will continue to feed when offered the other breast or the second bottle.
Mothers who switch breasts on their children too quickly during the feeding process might be preventing their child from getting the fat and nutrient-dense milk that is only available after feeding continues for a longer period of time.
 Since colic might be worsened by swallowing too much air, you may be able to alleviate your colicky baby’s symptoms by burping them more frequently.Sit upright with your colicky baby against your chest. The baby’s chin should rest on your shoulder. Use one hand to support your colicky baby and pat the baby gently on their back using your other hand.It might be easier to burp your baby if you do so while in a rocking chair or while gently rocking your baby.
Burp your baby both during and after feeding.

