 Many cultures have traditional arts and crafts that could help your child connect to their native culture. For instance, China is well-known for its calligraphy and brushwork. If your child demonstrates an interest in taking up calligraphy, you could provide a set of calligraphy brushes and enroll them in calligraphy classes.If your child is not inclined toward creating art forms of their native culture, they might still enjoy learning about them. Take your child to museums and cultural institutions where they can see art of their native culture on display., Many countries have unique dance traditions that could help your child connect with their native culture.For instance, if your adopted child’s native culture is that of China, you might be able to get your child lessons in traditional ribbon dancing through a Chinese heritage organization or dance instructor.Contact relevant heritage organizations and dance studios to find out if dance lessons pertaining to available.
If lessons are not available, help your child check out performances – either live or recorded – of their native culture’s dance traditions. For instance, if your child was adopted from China, you could run a word string like “Chinese traditional dance” through your preferred search engine.
Offer an age-appropriate explanation of the dance tradition so that your adopted child understands that the form of dance they are engaged in is from their native culture. For instance, when floating the idea of learning Chinese ribbon dance to your child, explain, “The Chinese ribbon dance is a traditional type of dance from China, where you were born.”

, There are several ways to introduce your adopted child to music of their native culture. You could provide your child with lessons for a musical instrument native to their birth country. For instance, if your child’s birth parents were from Armenia, your child might find that learning to play the duduk helps them connect to their native culture.Visit your local music shop to find out if they offer lessons in the duduk (or whatever the native instrument of your adopted child’s culture of origin are).
You might also choose to provide your child with recorded music. Visit your local library and ask for recordings of music from your child’s native culture, or check out relevant recordings online.
Offer an explanation and discussion (appropriate to the child’s age) to have them understand that the music or instrument is from their native culture. For instance, if you want to share the music of Armenia with your adopted child, explain, “This is music from Armenia, the country in which you were born.”

, Food is an important cultural product. If your child (and, hopefully, you) can enjoy a great meal inspired by your adopted child’s native culture, they might feel more connected to that culture. It might inspire them to try other dishes and learn more about their native culture.If you and your child don’t feel comfortable in the kitchen, locate an appropriate restaurant in your area and visit it. For instance, if your adopted child is from Ethiopia, find an Ethiopian restaurant in your vicinity and make a reservation for your family to eat there.
Do this regularly and teach the child about the culinary traditions of their native culture.
 Many cultures around the world engage in unique cultural traditions beyond artistic expressions. Contact organizations that encourage and promote your adopted child’s native culture and find out what sort of cultural practices they value that your child might also be interested in. If possible, arrange opportunities for your child to engage in these cultural practices.For instance, in certain Native American tribes, tanning hides is celebrated as an important skill. If your child is Native American, you could connect them to others who practice traditional Native American tanning.

