 Les Miserables has many different translated versions. Choose one that suits your needs for reading and that has been accurately translated.


In general, academic versions of Les Mis will offer the best translations with useful annotations. You can usually purchase these at specialty bookstores and even online retailers.;
, You can make reading Les Mis a chore by forcing yourself to read it either out of personal or societal expectations. Avoid pressuring yourself and you will be able to truly enjoy reading this work about imperial France and redemption.Keep the book available around your home or office. This may encourage you to pick it up if you’re bored or instead of watching TV.Take Les Mis with you on vacation, to a pool or amusement park, or on your morning commute. Having the book with you can entertain you when you’re bored or need a distraction.
 Steer clear of reading when you are stressed or in a hurry. Reading Les Mis when you’re relaxed may help you enjoy the story more.Studies have shown that a positive and relaxing environment can motivate you to read.For example, keep your copy of Les Mis next to your bed. This will allow you to reach for it before you go to sleep.Or, make a date with yourself to bring it to the coffee shop on Saturday morning and read as you sip a cappuccino.
 If you are having a hard time getting through Les Mis because it deals with complex historical events, consider consulting a study aid to help you get through the book. This may help you understand the text and its topics as well as actually enjoy the book.Most major works of literature have study aids with annotated comments that can explain difficult sections of the book. CliffsNotes, Shmoop, and Masterplots can help you unpack the harder thematic and historical elements.
You may also want to peruse a history textbook to provide you with vital context on imperial France, which can also help you to better understand Les Mis. Mark Traugott's The Insurgent Barricade provides a fascinating look at the origins of Parisian barricades and how they were used in political rebellions.Discuss any difficulties with your instructor or friend. They may be able to suggest effective ways to get through the book.

