 Many people like to drink alcohol at weddings. You can avoid long lines at the bar if you provide passed drinks – an arrangement in which drink are brought around by the waitstaff on a platter or in a cart. Your guests can then choose what they want as the drinks come around to them., Some of your guests might have special dietary needs. For instance, you might have guests who cannot consume gluten, or who choose not to eat dairy, eggs, or meat. You might also have guests with allergies to peanuts, soy, or another allergen. In order to ensure all your guests can find something they want to eat, provide options that allow everyone to dine together and enjoy themselves.Provide ingredient labels in front of baked or cooked dishes identifying what is in each item.
 Your wedding guests might need to step into the bathroom to adjust their wardrobe or fix their makeup, among other reasons. Provide a small basket at the front of each bathroom in the reception hall with bandages of varying sizes, mints, a miniature sewing kit, and other items you think might be useful., Tell your DJ to be flexible and prepared to accept song requests. If your guests want to hear a certain song, encourage them to speak with the DJ. If your guests can hear a special song, they’ll be able to have lots of fun dancing and singing along.You can solicit song requests via your wedding website, or just ask your friends to make a list of a few songs they’d like to hear during the reception.
 There are several options for surprising your guests at the reception. For instance, you could hire a group of singers and have them dress as waitstaff or guests. You could also sing a song with your new spouse. Giving your guests a pleasant surprise performance will add an element of whimsy and you’re your wedding memorable., Guests will love the opportunity to document the wedding by taking lots of pictures with you and your spouse (both separately and together). If you have a large wedding, especially, it can be hard to make the rounds with everyone and pose for all the pictures. But you will make your guests very happy if you allow them to take pictures of or with you.Plus, all the free photography means you’ll have loads of pictures to choose from later when your friends post the images online.
Encourage your friends to tag you in the pictures they take of the wedding events.
 If you ask friends or guests for favors well in advance of the wedding, they’ll almost definitely be pumped to help you. But if you wait until the reception is winding down, they’ll probably be tired, tipsy, and worn out after the whole wedding ordeal. If you need help breaking down tables, setting up chairs, or doing any other sort of arranging or decorating for the wedding events, request their assistance at least a week before the wedding.The best people to ask for help are immediate family members, maids of honor, and best men.
 Everything from the food to the decorations to the vows should be personal and unique to you and your spouse. Don’t get an extravagant five-tiered cake if that’s not who you are as a couple. Don’t go for a giant reception with tons of drinking if you and your spouse are bookish types that don’t even like drinking. If your guests see you and your spouse having fun together and can see the heart and soul you’ve put into the wedding and reception, they will enjoy themselves and cherish the experience they got to share with you., After your wedding is done, write each guest a sincere thank you-note. Thank your guest not only for attending the wedding, but for the gifts they gave you at the reception.You can buy thank-notes in bulk from a printer’s shop or wedding supplies retailer.
It is in good taste to send your guests thank-you notes even if you thanked them in person at the wedding.

