 This involves stretching heavy fabric over a frame and then attaching the tapestry to the stretched fabric. This also provides a kind of border for your tapestry. 







, You can make a wooden frame using four thin pieces of wood cut to the desired lengths and widths and gluing or screwing them together. Use corner brackets to increase the stability of the frame.









You can also use a piece of painted plywood as your backing. Simply cut the piece to the size you desire for your background.
The frame should be at least one inch (2.5 cm) wider on each side than your tapestry but you can use any border size you think looks appropriate.
You can also use foam core for your background instead of plywood or a wooden frame. Foam core is particularly easy to stitch through and thus makes an ideal base, but it is not suitable for heavy tapestries. Rather use a foam core only for smaller sized tapestries. , Use a heavy material such as canvas and stretch it over the frame or plywood. Ensure that the piece of material is at least 1.5 inches (3.75 cm) long on each side so that you can fold it over the edges easily. Use wood staples to staple the material onto the frame.









If you want to use a lightweight material such as silk as your border then you should stretch it over a sturdy canvas or other material. This way the canvas underneath will provide support but you can also create the look you desire. You can also use a middle layer of soft cotton flannel in between. , Use heavy cotton thread with large staggered stitches to attach the tapestry to the background material. Make sure the stitches cross at least two warp stitches each time.









Pick a color thread that matches the dominant color on the tapestry so that you cannot see the stitches from the front.
Sew along the edges as well as in other areas to fully support the weight of the tapestry.
You can also combine the frame and Velcro methods by stitching Velcro to the frame and tapestry instead. This way if you get tired of your tapestry locations and want to rotate them you can simply un-Velcro and switch them. , You can also use a purchased frame if you choose for your tapestry. This frame should provide ample space for the canvas and tapestry to fit inside. You do not want the glass or plexiglass cover to touch the tapestry or else if can cause a build up of moisture.









Many museums use a shadow box frame or plexiglass box to frame their tapestries.
Make sure there is air circulation as well so that no moisture builds up in the frame. , Use normal methods for hanging pictures to hang your frame on the wall. Find the studs in the wall and partially screw two screws in at a distance suitable for your frame. You can then simply rest the edges of your frame on these screws to hang.









Make sure you hang the frame using a level so that it hangs straight.
You can also use a variety of hardware designed for hanging picture frames on the walls. Be aware that if your frame is particularly heavy you will need to use heavy-duty hardware or else the frame will fall. 