 Obsessing over regrets will leave you looking to the past and the mistakes that it contains. Although there are appropriate times for self-pity and regret, the emotions are ultimately unproductive and may even cause you to repeat the behaviors that caused you regret in the first place. Rather than doing this, focus on the future and ways in which you can overcome the financial situation you find yourself in.Planning a financial recovery can also provide a sense of mental clarity and feeling of control that will improve your mood and outlook on life.


As part of focusing on the financial future, you may wish to speak with a financial advisor who can help you deal with any debt you may have.
 While guilt and regret and negative emotions and need to be let go, they can also help motivate you to avoid financial mistakes in the future. Optimism about your financial future can be helpful psychologically, but it’s also important to start implementing practical financial choices that will reduce your risk of future financial mistakes:Take action sooner rather than later. This applies to many aspects of financial life: don’t get behind on credit card or car payments, as interest will pile up quickly.
Tackle one task at a time so you start to gain momentum and avoid feeling overwhelmed. This momentum will help you push through each obstacle as it comes and decrease guilt.
 If you feel stressed out by the number of payments you have to make, take the pressure off (and make sure bills are paid on time) by using an auto-pay feature or setting payment alerts for yourself.Most credit card websites allow you to set up monthly automated payments, as do websites for utilities and services like electricity and internet service.


If you prefer to make your payments manually, some of the credit card and utility websites can send you an automated reminder a few days before a payment is due.
 A monthly regrets budget is essentially a balance system that allows you to track your overspending and compensate appropriately. For example, imagine you splurged at dinner and spend $100 on the meal when you only meant to spend $40. Since you’re now $60 in the red, you’ll need to save $60 on other expenditures. You could bring your lunch to work (saving the ~$7 you might be spending to buy lunch) and compensate for the $60 “regret” in five to seven work days.The monthly regrets budget will give you room to make mistakes and overspend each month by giving you a system to compensate for these oversights.

