 Great choices include poster paper and cardstock. They can be both the same color or different colors, such as purple and green. In a pinch, you could also use construction paper as well., Use a large paint brush or foam brush to paint the paper a solid color. You don't really need to do this, since you will be decorating the mask later on, but it's a great additional step to keep young crafters entertained!

You can paint the mask any color you want, but purple, green, and yellow/gold are traditional Mardi Gras colors.
 You will need to trace both your left hand and you right hand. Be sure to spread your hands and fingers apart, like showing someone the number 5., Be sure to cut neatly between the fingers. If a young crafter is doing this project, it would be best if an adult or older child helped them with this step!, Place the hands side-by-side so that the bases of the palms are touching and the fingers are pointing to the sides. Overlap the palms by 1/2 inch (1.27 centimeters), then secure them with a strip of clear tape. You can also use glue instead.A staple is not recommended because of how close it is to the eyes.
 Place the mask over your face with the thumbs pointing down. Gently feel where the eyes are, and make a mark with a pencil. Use the pencil marks as a guide to draw almond shapes, then cut the shapes out.Young crafters will need adult help on this step.
 Let your imagination run wild. You can paint the mask or draw on it with glitter glue. You can add rhinestones, beads, or feathers. Be sure to decorate the area around the eyeholes to make them stand out!Be sure to let the mask dry once you decorate it. How long it takes depends on what you used to decorate it.
Don't get too carried away. If the mask is too heavy, it will flop down!

, Flip the mask over so that the back is facing you and the thumbs are pointing down. Place your stick on the side of the mask so that it is parallel to the base of the fingers. Secure the stick with some tape or hot glue.You can also use a chopstick instead.
Decorate the stick with ribbon and/or rhinestones first for an extra-fancy mask.

