 When a person is addicted to drugs, it affects their brain and behavior in a multitude of negative ways. Before you can begin to help your child, it's important that you try to understand their problem so you can relate to them and understand what they need a little better.


Drugs increase the level of dopamine in the brain, which triggers feeling of pleasure. The brain wants to repeat these feelings of euphoria, which is how the drugs become addictive.
Because of chemical changes to the brain, the person finds it very difficult to quit even when he is ready to do so. These changes to the brain also impair the person's perception of their own behavior and makes them think that they are in control of their problem.
Over time, drug intake becomes as essential for the person as eating and drinking - their cravings start to dominate all other areas of their lives. Long-term use leads to issues like cognitive impairment, poor judgment and irrational thoughts.;
, Don’t wait for the things to settle down on their own, if you suspect that your child has a drug problem, it's important to intervene as early as possible and get them the help they need.


Signs that your child may have a drug problem include: behavioral changes, sleep disturbances, secretive behavior, demand for privacy, dropping grades, hostility, angry outbursts, absence from home with places, new friends
Try to talk to your child and get them to admit that they have a problem. Rather than being angry, let them know that you are there for them and just want to help them get through it.
 If you find that your child has a problem with drugs, be aware that you won't be able to solve the problem just by making your child go cold turkey. There are other issues that need to be addressed:


Your child needs to change the way he thinks about himself. His friends and company should be changed. The friends and group that he is keeping presently might be a major reason behind his addiction and hostility.
Your child's stress management skills need improvement. You will need to find healthy ways for your child to handle their stress, rather than turning to drugs.
Make sure your child's free time is spent in some useful activity. Give him a task or project to complete. Hopefully he will learn how to gain satisfaction from hard work and effort, instead of looking for instant gratification.
Encourage your child to change their lifestyle and preferences. Help them to make new connections and abandon old ones that support addiction.
 Denial is the first and foremost thing that is encountered by families when they try to get their teenager through a drug abuse problem. In order to help your child to overcome denial and deal with their addiction you have to follow some simple steps:


Seek counseling for your child from a psychiatrist or through a counselor at a rehab center, as they can address the specific problems associated with seeking treatment.
Help the child realize what his or her condition is before and after using drugs. This will help them to understand how necessary it is to seek treatment.
Help the child to accept the challenge to change and encourage them to lead a normal and healthy life. Remind them of the dreams and goals that they had before the drug problem and push them to get back on this healthy track.
 There are many worries which can make the child reluctant to receive treatment or get through the treatment successfully without relapse. You have to consider the following factors in order to address this:


You child may be apprehensive about the mode of treatment and how it will affect them. This is essentially fear of the unknown and it is completely normal and understandable.
Your child may believe that they are unable to control their urge to take drug, which can limit the effectiveness of treatment.
Your child may be concerned about the management of withdrawal symptoms and whether they will be in a lot of pain.
Your child may also be apprehensive about leaving old friends from a circle that abuses drug.
Your child may be apprehensive about being socially isolated or being ridiculed by their peers etc.
All of these concerns need to be addressed if the child is to get through treatment effectively

, During the treatment, your child will pass through a lot of different phases. You have to understand the mood of your child. The detoxification, withdrawal effects and cravings are not easy to handle and the child may behave aggressively, become irritated easily or feel depression and anxiety. Deal with all these mood swings as best you can in order to help the child pass through the treatment process in a positive way. Some common ways to deal with mood swings and aggression are given below:


Do not argue excessively with the child, it can lead to mistrust and aggression.
Be assertive in conveying your point of view, but avoid being aggressive as it will not help them to understand your viewpoint.
Do listen to the child carefully and address his or her needs. This will help them feel like they are worth the effort.
Give hope and encourage the child frequently. This will motivate him or her for change.
Be patient and polite with the child, this is the time you can help them gain back trust which is usually lost during addiction.
 Cravings can lead to easy relapse during treatment. In fact, cravings are one of the most frequent causes of relapse. You can help the child get over the craving through the following ways:


Gain the trust of the child so that he or she will tell you when they are experiencing cravings and you can help them through it.
Keep him or her away from the company of old friends and places where he or she used to abuse the drug.
Keep them busy with a schedule, including activities which they like to help them think less about drug.
Help the child get regular exercise as this can help them to get over cravings.
Help them feel more positive about change.
Help the child to identify the long term benefits of getting through treatment without relapse, such as going to college.
 This is one of the major problems which children face when it comes to drug abuse treatment. The company which they kept while abusing drugs becomes very dear to them. It is quite hard to keep away from the memories of that time. Help the child get over these feelings and help them to get back in touch with a safer group of friends.


Help them identify how bad company can ruin their treatment.
Introduce them to new friends and peers of their age through positive activities.
Create a strong social circle around the child so that he or she does not feel alone or crave going back to the old company.
 Whenever the child shows signs of relapse immediately contact the consultant and rehab center so that counseling can be provided as son as possible. Remember that there are certain signs of relapse which you should look for when the child is passing through drug abuse treatment. The common signs are listed below:


Excessive cravings for drugs, which is manifested through physical signs of body aches and sleep problems.
Mood swings and aggression due to inability to take drugs.
Contact with old friends who used to abuse the drug too.
Complaints from school because of lack of concentration and attention .
Strained relationship with parents and siblings because of aggressive mood and inability to deal with drug cravings.
 Even if it seems as if all of your time is taken up caring for and worrying about your child, it's important to take some time for yourself. Make sure you are getting enough sleep, go for a long walk to clear your head or have a relaxing bath at the end of a long day.


If you are tired and worn out, you will have less patience in dealing with your child and may even behave aggressively or angrily with them, which is the last thing they need.
When you are in a calm, rested state of mind, you will be much better prepared to deal with your child. Being mentally and physically strong is important right now.
 It's very common for the parents of a drug-addicted child to experience overwhelming feelings of guilt and shame when they find out that their child has a drug problem.


If you are having difficulty living with these emotions and it's affecting your relationship with your child and/or spouse, it's important to seek the help of a counselor or therapist who can work through these issues with you.
Keep in mind that there is no point in torturing yourself with questions like "where did I go wrong?" or "what could I have done differently?" What's done is done. The important thing is that you are there for your child now, when they need you the most.
 When one of your children is going through a drug problem, it tends to take up most of your time and attention. However, it's important not to neglect your other children during this difficult time, as they also need your love and care.


They might feel forgotten or even envious of their addicted sibling who is getting all attention and love. They might even act out and start misbehaving themselves just in order to get your attention.
Therefore, it's important to try to maintain balance by spending time with each of your children individually.
 If you feel like your child's drug problem has caused problems between you and your spouse or forced you to drift apart, don't be ashamed to seek marriage counseling.


The marriage counselor will help you to work through your problems and allow you to understand that there is no need to blame each other or allocate responsible for all that has happened to your child.
The important thing is that you work through it together and provide your child with a strong support system.

