 Write everyday. Even if some days result in nothing useable, you'll make writing habitual. Keep yourself accountable by joining writing groups. Write Pomodoro style to break your writing sessions into smaller chunks with breaks. Write for 25 minutes. Take a five-minute break. Write for another 25 minutes.;
, Direct your writing to constructing characters and story lines. Writing is not completely about typing on to a blank page. It's about teaching an audience about a character and making an audience relate to that character. Stories have a beginning, middle, and end. Learn to construct each of these acts to the best of your ability.
 All movies use a standard format when writing a screenplay. Using it shows future employers that you know what's expected of you. To learn the basics of the standard screenplay format, you could:


Check out the free resources at the New York Film Academy (NYFA.edu).Look for software that helps you to master the formula. Some examples are Celtx, Trelby, and WriterDuet.
 Look through industry magazines to see the top recommendations. Borrow the books from your local library or buy them from booksellers. Keep in mind that some books are genre-specific. Some general recommendations are:Save the Cat by Blake Snyder.

The Art of Dramatic Writing by Lajos Egri.

Screenplay by Syd Field.
 Taking a class or two will help you to sharpen your skills. Even if you've already mastered the standard format, you’ll get to focus heavily on making your script as good as it can be.If you have the ability, take class at a film school. There, you'll be able to create screenplays with the help of professional writers.
 Undergraduate programs will teach you about important screenwriting elements like acting and cinematography. Graduate programs offer more intensive study. They’ll also pair you with professionals whose guidance can give you an edge in the industry.If you can afford it or can find the funding, apply to top film schools. Some of the best in the United States are:


The University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) School of Theatre, Film, and TelevisionThe University of Southern California (USC) School of Cinematic ArtsThe New York University (NYU) Tisch School of the ArtsThe New York Film Academy, If you’re taking classes or pursuing a degree, your professors will provide feedback in your graded work. If you’re not in school, your best option is to get a manager, who will work with you as you write your script. Satisfy every suggestion your professor or manager gives you. It will help you develop as a writer and improve your chances of success.
 This will allow you to see how the written word translates into a complete script. Start with movies you're familiar with. As you improve your skills and decide which genre (such as dramas, comedies, or documentaries) you want to focus on, buy screenplays that fit that genre. You can find screenplays by:Searching eBay or your favorite search engine using the key word “screenplay.”
Visiting specialty bookstores.
 Scripts are different from novels and academic writing. Watching movies will help you learn how screenwriters manage the pace of the film and deal with techniques such as intonation. Expose yourself to a variety of genres and a variety of producers to pick up on subtle and obvious differences., Look for contests that offer yearly fellowships. Good contests will also offer finalists meetings with professionals who can help them get recognition. Check out websites like The AFW.com and GoodInARoom.com for lists of the top contests to enter each year.
 You don't have to live in New York or Los Angeles to enter film festivals. Cities around the world host them. Make a spreadsheet of festivals that accept your genre. Order festivals by entry deadlines. Before you enter, read the instructions carefully. Some festivals only consider films that aren't under consideration at other locations., If you enjoy writing screenplays for super hero movies, try your hand at something different. Write a historical adventure or a short film. This will show producers that you're flexible. It will also keep you employed audiences get tired of certain genres.
 New screenwriters should get a manager before seeking out an agent. Managers help develop scripts. Some even serve as producers. They're always seeking new talent and will offer you tips for success that you won't find with an agent. Outside New York or Los Angeles, you can find managers through internet searches and industry magazines. Some top management companies include 3 Arts Entertainment, The Gotham Group, and Untitled Entertainment., Agents help you sell your films. If you live in the New York or Los Angeles area, finding an agent is as simple as opening the Yellow Pages. If you live outside these areas, you can find agents at film festivals, pitchfests, or seminars in your area. You could also talk to your manager for recommendations.Search screenwriting magazines or industry blogs to find out when these events are happening.
 Even if you're not a social butterfly, you can't rely solely on your agent or manager to get your script noticed. If you live outside Los Angeles or New York, search for networking events online. For example, Scriptmag.com has a page dedicated to physical and online meet-ups. Seek out producers, and perfect your pitch.Prepare to answer questions like:


“What makes your plot different from everything else on the market?”“What’s your projected budget for this movie?”“What is it about your screenplay that’ll make it a box office hit?”“In your opinion, who makes up the ideal cast for this movie?”, Ask them how they have coped with and recovered from rejection. Whether you find their advice useful or not, simply talking to others who have been there can help to relieve the sting. During your discussion, jot down any major points that might be helpful later on.
 Ask the original producer why they rejected your film. Work on improving the areas that held your film back. Get feedback from your manager and peers in the field. Once you're confident with the new and improved script, try your luck with other producers.
 One script isn't enough. It often takes several scripts for writers to get their big break.After you write a few screenplays, you can send each one to a different producer. This will increase your chances of success.

