 These are the charges imposed in a phone card that include maintenance, connection, and service fees. These are additional charges for the maintenance of the telephone line, whenever your call is connected and for the service provider of the card. Usually, cards with very low rates have hidden charges. Your calling time will be reduced. Better buy a card that has a smaller amount and then you consume in one call. If your card already includes hidden charges, be sure that your calls are made longer to avoid the connection fee. As much as possible, avoid hidden charges that limit every call that you make.;
, Some cards, when used in a mobile or pay phone, charge you with certain amount. Restrict your calls to fixed phones so that you will have longer time for your other calls.
 The billing increment in your card should be lower. Better phone cards have one minute rounding since these cards avoid extra charges and shorter talking minutes. When your call is less than a minute, your card will charge an amount corresponding to the next full minute of your call.
 When you have already purchased your chosen card for your calling needs, you should not forget that there are still important information you needed before you can make a call. You should confirm that you acquired the valid PIN for your phone card especially if you are going on a travel. Confirm to the retailer and service provider that your card is ready to use even to the place of your destination.
 Together with the PIN, these numbers must also be confirmed to be correct. When you are planning to travel, be sure that these numbers can be used in the place where you are going. To be sure that yo have the right numbers, dial the one access number and follow the voice instruction. You can try calling the customer service because companies do not impose extra charges for this transaction. With the correct access numbers, you can save from your calls because the rates are cheaper and you will have extra usable minutes.

