 In the heat of the moment when you feel tempted, call a friend. You can tell them about the situation so they can talk you out of it, or you can use them as a distraction to your desire. Once you get off the phone, you will likely have built up the courage to resist.You can say something like “Hey, remember when I was telling you about my coworker Alyssa? Well, she just invited me back to her place for drinks. I need you to talk me out of it.”
You might even call your partner to talk to them, too.
 If you cheat, you will hurt your family and the family of the other person, too. If this person is a coworker or friend, take opportunities to get to know their family. Use occasions like office Christmas parties to introduce yourself to their spouse and kids.If you won't have the chance to meet them, check out their social media so you know what their family looks like.
 If you are having issues in your relationship, avoid confiding in people you have feelings for. Rely on your partner or your platonic friends to discuss these things. You can talk to family, as well.You might call up your brother or sister and ask for advice or just vent about the situation.
 When tempted, step away from heated moments and agree to give yourself an hour to think. Often times, once this time limit is up, the moment will have passed and you will decide against making a bad choice., Spirituality or religion can be a great source of strength during this tempting time. Turn to your local center of worship for help with remaining faithful. Spend time in prayer or meditation at night.

You can also try becoming more spiritual with your partner. Invite them to places of worship and ask them to pray or meditate with you.
 You might have a regular flirtation with someone already going at this point. Imagine your partner’s face and feelings if they could see and hear what you are doing. Imagine also if the situation were reversed and they had an inappropriate relationship. Think on how that would feel for you., Reflect on your desire to cheat. You might want to cheat because you’re not being pleased sexually at home. You and your partner might be fighting a lot lately, as well. Think about what is truly motivating your desires and then work to address them.

For instance, if you are not happy with your sex life, suggest something new to your partner to spice things up.

