 Locate the app on your iPhone and tap on it. The app logo has a picture of a periscope on cyan background.;
, If you’ve used the app before, you won’t need to log in again; otherwise, log in by tapping “Log into Twitter.”


You will be brought to your main dashboard screen. The list of people you are following that are live and that have recently broadcasted will be shown.
 This will open the “Broadcast now” screen, but you are not broadcasting yet. You should set a few parameters to gain more followers or viewers.
 A text field appears at the top of the “Broadcast Now” screen. Before you begin broadcasting, it will be good if you type something about what you’re going to show in the text field.


Make this intriguing and attractive so that people who see it will be interested to watch and follow you. Do not leave this blank.
 Be more inclusive so that more people can watch and follow you. Under the note field are some icons. The padlock icon enables a private broadcast. Leave it blank so that your broadcast is made widely accessible.
 Another icon below the note field is for sharing your video over Twitter. Tap the Twitter icon to enable this. Once you start broadcasting, it will also be posted on Twitter, and everyone following you there can also see it. This way, users on Periscope and on Twitter can see your video.
 You are now live, and people can watch you live., In order to attract more viewers and a following, you should provide interesting content in your videos. If you’re catering to a niche audience, be sure to keep your focus on the subject to keep participation and interest. If you’re sharing breaking news or deals, be sure to keep your videos up-to-date and relevant.
 You should also upload replays of your live videos so other people can watch them again. This will also make it possible for other people who didn’t catch you the first time to watch your video and follow you. Learn more about how to replay your broadcast her.
 When people leave comments or feedback on your videos, be sure to address them. Never ignore your viewers. These messages appear in a chat stream coming from the lower left corner, going up. It’s visible to all your viewers, and it covers a portion of your video. You can respond by chat or directly on the video.
 People watching you live can send you hearts to show that they like what they’re seeing. The more people like your broadcast, the more hearts you will see fluttering on your screen. Show your appreciation and thank them for their support.
 Just like on Twitter, you should watch and follow other people on Periscope. Some of the people you follow might follow you back.