 You can take 500 mg of Vitamin C every day as long as you do not have kidney disease.You may also want to consider including vitamin C rich foods such as:Citrus fruits such as oranges and grapefruit
Berries
Cantaloupe
Kiwis
Broccoli
Sweet potatoes
Tomatoes

, Molybdenum is a trace mineral. The recommended daily allowance (RDA) of molybdenum for children up to 13 years is 22–43 mcg/day. The recommended amount for people over 14 years is 45 mcg. Pregnant and nursing women need 50 mcg/day. Most multivitamins will include molybdenum, but it can also be purchased on its own.You can also get molybdenum by eating certain foods, such as:Beans
Lentils
Peas
Leafy vegetables
Milk
Cheese
Nuts
Organ meats

, Selenium is necessary for the biochemical reactions involved in controlling inflammation.If you use a supplement, get a supplement that uses selenomethionine because this form is easier for your body to absorb. Don’t take more than 200 mcg of selenium a day because it can be toxic in higher doses. Food sources include:Wheat
Crab
Liver
Poultry

, Vitamin B6 is involved with over 100 different reactions in the body. Vitamin B6 can help reduce inflammation as well as support the immune system. As a supplement, children between the ages of one to eight years should take 0.8 mg/day. Children between the ages of nine to 13 should take 1.0 mg/day. Adolescents and adults should take 1.3–1.7 mg/day and women who are pregnant or nursing should take 1.9–2.0 mg/day.Foods highest in the most absorbable form of Vitamin B6 include:


Salmon
Potatoes
Turkey
Chicken
Avocados
Spinach
Bananas

, When vitamin B12 levels are low, supplementing with vitamin B12 may improve symptoms of asthma.As a supplement, children between the ages of 1-8 years should take 0.9-1.2 mg/day. Children between the ages of 9-13 should take 1.8 mg/day. Adolescents and adults should take 2.4 mg/day and women who are pregnant or nursing should take 2.6-2.8 mg/day. Food sources of vitamin B12 include:Meats
Seafood
Fish
Cheese
Eggs

, Omega-3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory. Aim for a total of 2000 mg every day of both EPA and DHA per day.You can get omega-3s from a variety of food sources including:Salmon
Anchovies
Mackerel
Herring
Sardines
Tuna
Walnuts
Flaxseeds
Canola oil

, There are some herbs that may be used to help treat asthma. Make sure that you talk to your physician before using these herbs because they may interfere with medications. If you take these as supplements, follow the manufacturer’s directions. To use herbs in a tea, steep one teaspoon of dried herb or three teaspoons of fresh herbs in one cup of boiled water for 10 minutes. Drink three to four cups per day.


licorice rootlobelia inflata (Indian tobacco)