 If you want to help reverse tooth decay naturally, try looking for natural toothpastes. These toothpastes contain a combination of all natural ingredients, which accomplish the same thing as fluoride. They work by reducing the bacteria in your mouth with xylitol, a sugar alcohol that reduces how much plaque-forming bacteria attaches to your teeth. These pastes also contain calcium and phosphate, which are lost during demineralization of your teeth.Common commercial natural brands include:


Redmond Earthpaste
Dr. Collins Restore
Apagard Premio
Tom’s of Maine Cavity Protection;
, If you don’t want to buy your toothpaste, you can make your own out of natural ingredients. Start with four tablespoons of calcium (carbonate) powder, which come as tablets or powder. Mix it with two tablespoons of baking soda, ½ to 1 packet of stevia or Xylitol powder, and one teaspoon sea salt. To the dry mixture, add enough coconut oil to make it into a paste. Next, add a few drops of peppermint oil to help freshen your mouth. Mix the ingredients completely.


To use this mixture, just dip your toothbrush into the paste and brush like normal.
You can make this in bulk and seal it in a jar to use over time. To avoid any possible spoiling of the ingredients, keep it in your refrigerator. , You don’t have to do without whitening if you make your own toothpaste. To make your toothpaste whitening, add two teaspoons of 3% hydrogen peroxide to the toothpaste recipe. When you use it, there will likely be foaming and perhaps some tingling, but this is how it should feel in your mouth.


Hydrogen peroxide works as a bleaching agent and is also antibacterial.

Don’t use anything stronger than a 3 % solution. The stronger concentrations may burn and irritate your mouth and gums., In addition to normal brushing, oil pulling can help reduce bacteria in your mouth. First thing in the morning, take one tablespoon of coconut oil or sesame oil into your mouth. With your mouth closed and without swallowing, swish the oil around in your mouth, getting between your teeth and around your mouth. Continue for 15 to 20 minutes. After you’re done, brush your teeth normally, then drink two to three glasses of water.


Do not gargle the oil.
Make sure you do this before you have eaten or drank anything in the morning.
This method has not been tested to see if shorter periods of time are beneficial, so try to perform it for the full length of time. 