 Backing up a hard drive can take more time than a laptop battery has charge. If you plug it in, you won't need to worry about how much battery life you have.
 Before installing your new hard drive, copy the contents of your laptop's current hard drive to the new one. This will save some time, because you won't have to reinstall all of your applications.


On Windows 8, System Image Backup is the program you can use to backup your hard drive. On Windows 7 and earlier, it's called Backup and Restore.On Mac OS X 10.5 or newer, you can use Time Machine to back up your hard drive.You can also use the Disk Utility to back up your hard drive to CD or DVD.If you want to start fresh with your new hard drive, don't backup to the new hard drive. Install your operating system, and then install and copy over any files that you need.
 You will need a SATA-to-USB adapter to connect the two hard drives. You can also put the new hard drive into an external hard drive case which will have a USB connection.
 Some hard drive manufacturers include their own cloning software, which may already be on your computer. You can also use a third-party application.


Clonezilla is a multi-platform, free, open source disk cloning utility.There is a large number of cloning software for all of the major operating systems., Before cloning the hard drive, be sure to read the help files to make sure you understand the process.


The cloning software will check to make sure the new hard drive is large enough to clone the old hard drive to it.
 Be sure to unplug and turn off the new hard drive too. Wait at least one minute for the electricity in the laptop to dissipate before continuing.
 If the battery is in the laptop, it can give you an electric shock. You may also need to remove it to reach the laptop's hard drive.
 As noted above, you may be able to reach the hard drive through the battery compartment. On other laptops, you may have to take off the entire outer case or detach the keyboard. A few laptops offer direct access to the hard drive through an access panel on the bottom.


If you're not sure how to get to the hard drive for you laptop, refer to the user manual or maintenance guide for your laptop.
 Put the new hard drive in, but do not force it.
 If you're starting up with a blank hard drive, you'll need to reinstall your operating system.

