 Studies suggest that singing offers many of the emotional, mental and physical health benefits provided by exercise. Singing loudly releases endorphins and relieves stress. If you don't feel comfortable singing in front of other people, do it when you're alone in the shower or in your car., A guilty conscience can weigh down your emotional well-being. Apologize to anyone you need to apologize to. Go out of your way to mend a relationship you damaged. You won't be able to turn back the hands of time, but by doing everything you can to correct your mistakes, you'll spend less time losing energy on guilt.


Likewise, if there is someone in your life who has wronged you, make a conscious choice to forgive that person. Anger and hatred can consume just as much energy as guilt., Recharge a depleted sense of self-confidence by sitting down and making a list of the things you've accomplished in the past week, month or year. Doing this on a regular basis will keep you feeling continually recharged, so remember to do it as often as possible.


Avoid thinking about the things you wanted to do but didn't get done. The point is to tally up your accomplishments and not to focus on where you fell short for the month. After all, most people base their lists on what they would like to accomplish for the day or week, but usually expectations actually outweigh what people can realistically accomplish in a 24 hour period.
 Everyone makes mistakes. Mistakes are an inevitable part of the human experience, but people sometimes get hung up on their own mistakes and dwell on them for extended periods of time. The next time you make a mistake, acknowledge it, then remind yourself to get right back on track.
 Life is busy, and in your quest to be responsible, you may find yourself postponing the things you enjoy doing or the experiences you would like to try. Doing this too often can make life feel less exciting. A tedious, uneventful life may make you feel more sluggish and less motivated than you want to be.


Schedule time once a week (or once a month, at least) to do something you truly find fun.
Take a vacation to a place you have never been to. Vacations can often be very restorative as you explore new environments, cultures, and experiences in a novel place.
 Most guilty pleasures are probably not worth your time—but in moderation, some guilty pleasures can make you feel better. Eat dessert or read a trashy romance novel. Watch several hours of a favorite TV show on DVD or streaming video. Find something you love to do but rarely allow yourself to do, and indulge in the activity.


Of course, unhealthy indulgences like drugs should still be avoided. The idea is to do something harmless that refreshes you, not something damaging.
 Everyone has to deal with something that is emotionally upsetting or tiresome at times. Avoid putting yourself in situations that require you to deal with exhausting people or activities as often as possible. If you cannot rid yourself of these things, at least give yourself a day's break from them.


Avoid phone calls from friends who introduce negativity into your life. You can call those people back another day. Let an e-mail from a fussy co-worker sit for an afternoon, and reply back once you have the emotional energy to handle that person.
Put your bills, bank statements, and other financial documents in a desk drawer, and don't look at them until tomorrow.
 Focus on supporting relationships that you don’t usually have the time to nurture. Make time to connect and have meaningful, face-to-face conversations with your spouse and children. Go to family and children's events together, and do things that make you all smile., Commit to spending five to 20 minutes in a state of meditation and/or prayer. Meditation works well for both religious and non-religious individuals alike, but if you are a person of faith, prayer adds a spiritually rejuvenating component to the process as well. Either way, the point is to let go of your grief and negativity during this time.

