 Generally speaking, inhaled growling sounds more "piggy" and slightly higher pitched, but it can also sound demonic and devilish, and you can do a whole lot with the technique. Really, it sounds a lot similar, but it's another little trick you can add to your extreme singing arsenal, to make your abilities a little rounder. It's only a minor difference from exhaled growls.
 Similar to the exhaled growl, your want to keep your focus on your diaphragm. With all singing, good breath support is important for a good tone. Put your hand on your stomach and feel your diaphragm going in and out as you breathe.


To inhale, expand your abdomen and lower back ribs, while not moving the chest and shoulders. Practice breathing from deep in your stomach, not from your throat, to make your growl as deep as possible.
 Make an "O" with your lips, open your jaw, and bring your tongue back in the same way as you did for the exhaled growl. Start inhaling in the same way you exhaled, breathing deeply into your diaphragm.


Increase the volume and force gradually to get a sense of how much you need to breathe in to get the kind of sound and pitch you're looking for. Play around with it for a while until it feels comfortable to you.
 The most common inhaled growl seems to be around the "we" syllable, because it feels the most comfortable. This is often used to start songs in the death or black metal genres, allowing you to let loose with a lot of volume. Start practicing around "we" until you get comfortable, then try more syllables as you're working on your growls:


Go
Ra
Die

, A good metal vocalist can alternate between the two, so you can sing a whole lot at once, as the song calls for. The more seamlessly you can shift back and forth between exhaled and inhaled growls, the more seamless and virtuosic your abilities as a growler.


Write out some lyrics and practice singing half in an exhaled growl and half inhaled. Try out some Opethfor practice: (Exhaled) "We enter winter once again" / (Inhaled) "Naked freezing from my breath."

