 Good nutrition is especially important for the mother following birth. You can probably guess why. Great protein options include finely chopped cooked eggs, plain boiled chicken, and tofu. Also feed her extra well chopped fruits and veggies, especially carrots and leafy greens. Wait to provide these foods until a few days after birth, unless she is low on food.Take care not to spook her when adding food to her enclosure, and try to slowly place the food away from her and her babies.
If you notice she is pregnant before she gives birth, stock the enclosure with a bunch of food that won’t go bad too quickly. This will include lots of hamster food as well as sunflower seeds.
While you usually want to limit sunflower seed consumption, their fattiness is actually ideal for a mother hamster. Also fill up the water bottle all the way so you can avoid doing so for as long as possible once the babies arrive.
 Do practically nothing for a week. After 7 or 8 days, the pups will first begin to move around their enclosure. At this point, they’ll also be able to nibble on solid food. Sprinkle well-chopped pieces of carrots, tofu, and leafy greens into their enclosure. They will enjoy discovering this food, and will also begin to eat from their mother’s dish.At about 3 weeks of age, the babies will be weaned by their mother. This does not mean they should be taken from the enclosure, though they will no longer be nursing.
 You can begin to handle baby hamsters when they open their eyes, at around 13 to 14 days old. Once all of the babies’ eyes are open, do a full cleaning of the cage as well. Don’t separate them permanently from their mother quite yet, as they still have plenty to learn., This is the age that the hamsters will reach sexual maturity. You may keep young dwarf hamsters of the same sex together. All Syrian hamsters must be kept separately from one another. When they’re 6 to 8 weeks old, Syrian hamsters will begin to become territorial. They will soon be able to seriously injure one another, and will do so as soon as they are able.