 While most places around the world require that disposable diapers be placed in regular waste bins bound for the landfill, some cities are attempting to reduce diaper waste by providing compost service. In Toronto, for example, you can dump your dirty nappies—along with cat litter and pet waste—into a separate bin that goes to the city compost facility.Be sure to read guidelines carefully to make sure composting services accept diapers. Portland, for example, runs a composting program that collects food scraps and other organic waste, but it does not accept diapers., If you have a back yard and a pre-existing compost heap, you can probably do your own dirty diaper compost. If not, consider hiring a compost service that will do the dirty work for you. These services pick up your diapers, take them to a large composting facility, and process the waste.Just make sure that you don’t dump your diaper waste into a food garden compost pile. Only put bacteria-laden diaper waste into a compost pile you use for flowers, shrubs, and other vegetation not intended for human consumption.
 Composting is a great way to reduce diaper waste, but you should only do so with urine-soaked diapers. Professional, large-scale composting facilities can accept both forms of waste because they can reach the high temperatures needed to destroy constituent bacteria, but your home compost pile cannot.Throw out the diapers containing solid waste in the usual fashion.
 Once you’ve accumulated two or three days worth of wet diapers, put on some gloves and take the pile out to your compost heap. Hold each diaper above the heap and tear it open, starting on the side that would have been worn on your baby’s front side. The filling is fully compostable and most often made of sodium polyacrylate and wood pulp, also known as cellulose.The rest of the diaper’s lining, plastic, and paper is not compostable. Set it aside and dispose of it with your other diapers containing solid waste.
 Using a shovel or long hoe, distribute the filling around the heap so that it’s not all lumped in one place. Mix it into the top layer of pre-existing compost so that the fibers will begin to break down., A successful compost pile will break down constituent materials while producing minimal odors. In order to make sure that your diaper filling begins to break down as quickly as possible, layer about half an inch of soil or lower-layer compost on top of it. If you do this correctly, you should see visible results within a month.

