 It’s so simple, and yet it is so effective.A smile immediately opens the door to a conversation. More than likely, she will smile back at you too. Smiling is very inviting and attractive.;
, If you make eye contact, smile and hold it for a second, then look away. This will let her know that you are into her, and she will be more likely to notice you.


Some say maintaining eye contact 50 % of the time while talking and 70 % of the time while listening is a good balance.Obviously there is no exact calculation, but it is a good idea to make eye contact early and often and maintain it for at least four or five seconds.For example, try to make eye contact with her periodically while you joke around and hang out with your friends. If you can catch her eye while you are smiling and laughing with your friends she'll be more likely to notice you. She'll see you are having a good time and that you are the life of the party.
 This is true for both genders.. If you come off seeming sociable and confident by taking up a lot of space in the room and engaging with many different people, you are much more likely to be noticed. If you’re shy and standing in the corner you aren’t doing yourself many favors. You need to be brave and put yourself out there.


Even if you aren’t very brave, this can be an easier way to get noticed. Your friends are probably the people you feel most comfortable around. Joking with them is much easier than making conversation with the person you want to notice you.
Some studies show that people think more highly of and are more responsive to you when you strike power poses.Power poses are stances in which your body is open to the group, rather than hunched or contracted.
 Stand in her line of sight at a bar or hang out near her. If you go to school with her, try walking past her in the hallway or talking to her teacher. This can at least make her acknowledge you, if only for a second.
 However, talking to other people around her while you are in a group is a good way to get her to notice you. If you are friends with some or one of her friends, you could talk to this person while they are with her. You could even ask this person to introduce the two of you.


For example, if you know someone that she is talking to come up and enter the conversation by talking to that person. Then, once you reach a break in the conversation, you can introduce yourself to her without any awkwardness.
 It’s been shown that female hitchhikers are much more likely to be picked up if they are wearing red. It has to do with the way our brains respond to sensory cues. Consider ditching your grey sweater and wearing some brighter clothing.