 This is especially important if the wound under the bandage has not had enough time to heal and poses a risk to open during the bandage removal. Dirty hands contain bacteria that can be transferred to the wound during bandage removal.Use warm water and soap to wash your hands. Be sure to remove all visible dirt on the skin as well as under the fingernails.
Scrub for at least 20 seconds, or about the time it takes to sing the “Happy Birthday” song to yourself twice.
After washing, dry your hands to remove all moisture.
If you aren’t able to wash your hands with soap and water, use a hand sanitizer that has at least 60% alcohol.
Do not attempt to remove a liquid bandage if your doctor has advised against it.;
, Remove all visible dirt and wash the skin around the bandage with soap and water. It’s okay to wash the bandaged area too, because the soap will not irritate wounded skin that has the liquid bandage over it.


It is important to have the skin around the bandage clean, especially if the wound has not had time to heal. Once the bandage has been removed, the wound is open and susceptible to bacterial infection.
Optionally, you can remove the bandage after taking a bath to ensure your skin is clean.
Do not use alcohol, iodine or other antiseptic liquids as these may cause skin irritation., Liquid bandages are meant to stay on your skin until they come off but you can remove the bond between the bandage and your skin by softening the bandage to loosen the bond.You can soften the bandage by applying a new layer of the liquid bandage over the old one. This will help soften the bond between your skin and the bandage. Optionally, you can place a clean, wet towel over the bandage to soften it and loosen the bond between it and your skin.
You can also soften the bandage during a bath, or by giving the bandaged area a soak in a bowl of water.
 After the bond is loosened, you can peel the bandage off. Be careful not to injure the wound or skin underneath.


If the edges are not “peeling off”, take a wet cloth and wipe the bandage away. Do this before the bandage begins to harden after being softened.
You may need to gently rub the area with a towel to help remove the bandage, but do this only if it does not injure the wound underneath. Try not to drag or scrub the towel over the area.
 Be gentle not to disrupt the wound. Use the first aid steps recommended for wound care if the wound begins to bleed (see below).If the skin (or wound) appears healthy, you can leave it as is after you have removed the liquid bandage; there is no need to apply a new bandage if your skin has healed. However, if the wound has not healed, you may want to re-apply a new liquid bandage (see below).
Do not apply alcohol, iodine or other antiseptic liquids on the wound as these may cause irritation.

