 There is a small set of Pokémon that require to raise their friendship levels in order to evolve. Friendship is affected by a variety of factors, including simply being included in the party.


The Pokémon that are evolved through friendship are Golbat, Chansey, Pichu, Cleffa, Igglybuff, Togepi, Azurill, Buneary, Munchlax, Woobat, Swadloon, Eevee, Budew, Riolu, Type: Null, and Chingling.
 Friendship is affected by a lot of different factors, and there are several activities that you can undertake to increase it quickly. The Pokémon must be in your active party in order to gain friendship. The actual values differ from generation to generation. Not every Pokémon needs a maxed-out friendship level to evolve.


Walking in all Pokémon games except the first generation raises friendship. You will gain one point of friendship for every set number of steps (512 in Gen II, 256 in Gen III/IV, 128 in Gen V/VI).
Groomings and Massages will raise the friendship value significantly. You can find NPCs to perform these at various locations throughout the games (after Gen I).
Gaining a level gives a good boost to friendship in every version.
Vitamins will give your Pokémon a quick boost in friendship.
 Just as there are ways to boost friendship, there are also ways it may get lowered. In general, you want to avoid having the Pokémon faint in combat, and avoid using herbal healing items like Revival Herb, Energy Root, Energy Powder, and Heal Powder.


Revival Herbs have the biggest negative effect on the Pokémon's friendship rating.
Trading a Pokémon resets its friendship rating to the base number.
 After you have a high friendship, you'll often have to do something else in order to trigger the evolution. For many, simply leveling up once while having a high friendship will start the evolution.


Some of them will only evolve during a certain time. Budew and Riolu must be leveled up with high friendship during the day, and Chingling during the night. Eevee will evolve into Espeon during the day and Umbreon during the night.