 Your cat may be urinating outside of the box to mark their territory. When you spay or neuter your cats, you will remove the source of the hormones that drive your cat to perform this behavior., Much of the time, cats choose to eliminate outside of the litter box because it doesn’t meet their standard of cleanliness. Try cleaning the litter boxes more frequently than you normally do to see if this helps resolve the problem.If you scoop the litter boxes once every two days, start cleaning them daily. If you already clean them once every day, start scooping them out twice per day.
 One possible problem with improper elimination, especially if you have multiple cats, is not having enough litter boxes. Try adding an additional litter box in another part of your home for your cats to use. This extra space may help resolve the problem.Typically, the rule of thumb is to have one litter box per cat, plus one extra. This means that if you have three cats, you should have four litter boxes.
Make sure the litter boxes are not right next to each other, or your cats will see them as one large litter box. Ideally the litter boxes should be in different rooms.
 It’s possible that your cats don’t like the kind of litter that you have selected, so try switching it up. If you have multiple litter boxes, use a different kind of litter in each one to see which type your cats prefer.Try using clumping litters, fine grain litters, and larger crystal litters.
 Some cats have clear preferences about what kinds of litter boxes they use. Your litter box may be too big for the cat, or too small. Perhaps it has a hood that the cat doesn’t like. Maybe your cat feels uncomfortable with a fully enclosed litter box. Provide your cats with a variety of litter box types to prevent future problems.You should try to have one enclosed litter box, one open air litter box, a larger box, and a smaller box. This kind of variety will give your cat the ability to choose its preference.
If your cat is older, they may not be able to comfortably step inside a litter box that has high sides. Provide one that has shorter walls so they do not need to step so high to get in.

