 Your boss is insecure and making your work life uncomfortable, but your boss does have lessons to teach you. Focusing on your boss’s strengths has two benefits: it shows you behaviors and skills that you can emulate in the workplace, and it gives you an opportunity to compliment your boss and boost their ego.Boosting your boss’s ego should help them overcome some of their workplace insecurity.
“Ms. Cantor, you have such a talent for seeing the larger picture and envisioning potential pitfalls. I’m really learning so much from you.”

, Your boss’s insecurity has nothing to do with you because it’s an internal conflict. Because of that, there’s nothing you can do to fix the problem and make them feel better or more secure. Instead of focusing your energies on making your boss feel better about his or herself, do your job well and with transparency, which should help them feel more comfortable., It’s a good idea to stay away from office gossip and people with negative attitudes in the workplace. If you fraternize with the negative folks and the gossipers, you’ll ultimately be associated as one of them, even if you do nothing more than listen. This crowd certainly bothers your insecure boss the most, and you want to avoid being associated with them.If coworkers approach you with gossip or persistent complaints about the workplace, your best course of action is to consistently redirect them to another topic of conversation.
If they persist, tell them that you’re not comfortable with that topic. You can say, “Jane, I really like your company and respect you as a coworker. I’d like it if we don’t discuss office politics, though, and focus instead on this exciting new project that we have.”

, This can help you to process the situation and you may even feel better just from talking about what is going on.


Try meeting a friend for coffee over the weekend or on your day off.
Call up a parent, sibling, or other caring relative and ask if you can talk with them about something that has been happening at work.
 Workplace frustration can take a toll on your overall well-being, so make sure that you are making plenty of time for self-care.You can do this by remembering to eat healthy, exercise, get plenty of rest, and making time for your hobbies.


Avoid using alcohol, drugs, or other unhealthy substances to cope with how you are feeling.
Try doing something special for yourself now and then as well, such as getting a massage or buying yourself a new book.

