 Irish Setters are active dogs and need at least one brisk, 30 to 60 minute walk per day. In addition to walks, it’s important to play fetch and other energetic games frequently, since Irish Setters were bred as hunting dogs.If you’re thinking about getting an Irish Setter, make sure you live an active lifestyle. If you’re looking for a more relaxed or lap dog, consider finding another breed.
Irish Setters do best if their owners have a good sized yard and ample space. If you live in an apartment, make sure you have the time and energy to give your dog the exercise it needs.
Since it’s such a high energy breed, Irish Setters need to spend lots of time with their owners. If they spend several hours or more by themselves, they can be prone to destructive behavior or separation anxiety.;
, When you take your Irish Setter for walks, switch up the route to expose your dog to different sights and smells. Take it hiking, swimming, to dog parks, and do other special activities as often as possible. If you have a yard, try hiding treats and toys in spots where it’s okay for your dog to dig.Like other energetic, intelligent breeds, Irish Setters love new or different activities and exercises. They can get bored and become mischievous if they do the same thing every day.
 Irish Setters, especially younger dogs, will often let out a big, quick burst of energy when playing, then suddenly get tired. When you’re playing or out and about, try not to push your dog if it needs to rest for a minute.Irish Setter puppies in particular will let out lots of energy then get tired. In addition, their joints are still forming, so take special care not to overexert your Irish Setter puppy by jogging or running for long periods of time.
Since they mature slowly, be aware that Irish Setters still act like puppies or juveniles and quickly wear themselves out even past two or three years old.
Fenced dog parks or yards are great options, since they let your dog play and rest as it feels the need.
 Intelligent dogs like Irish Setters benefit from obedience training. They do best when their owner is their alpha, and need lots of mental stimulation to keep them from becoming bored or mischievous.Teach your dog command words, like sit, come, and heel. Say the word, then physically guide the dog to help it do the command when you’re first starting out. Give it a treat as soon as it’s in the correct position, and repeat the process ten to twenty times so it becomes automatic.
Since they have relatively short attention spans, keep training sessions short, fun, and positive. They will become easily distracted and less trainable after fifteen or twenty minutes.