 Once you have determined what type of school you will be attending, you should look into what kind of aid you will be eligible for. There are many different kinds of state and federal aid available to students with financial need. Talk with a counselor at your school or a financial aid supervisor at the institution you are thinking about attending.You can ask your counselor things like “what financial aid do I qualify for?” or “how do I apply for financial aid?”
Financial aid can include scholarships, grants, and loans.
 The U.S. Department of Education offers a variety of financial aid options to students planning to get a post-secondary education. In order to qualify for this financial aid, you will need to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This form takes into account your financial background to determine if you qualify for government assistance.You should complete the application the January before you start college.
Completing the FAFSA will help determine what types of federal grants and loans you qualify for.
 Grants and scholarships are basically monetary gifts that do not need to be repaid.Research and determine which scholarships and grants you may apply for. Many scholarships and grants are merit-based, so you will want to keep your grades up and be an active member of your community.


Depending on your background, you may qualify for federal Pell grants, which do not have to be repaid.Consult with your guidance counselor or a financial aid adviser at your prospective school.
 When looking for scholarships as a culinary student, your state’s restaurant association might be a good place to start your search. You may also want to see if you qualify for any scholarships from groups like the International Food Service Executives Association or the American Institute of Baking.Scholarships from these organizations can help you meet the cost of attending a four-year college or vocational school.
 Because of the high price, many people take out student loans to pay for their education. These can be federal or private loans. Federal loans tend to be a better option because they have lower interest rates, offer flexible repayment plans, and, in certain instances, allow loan forgiveness if you work a certain job.Consult with your counselor or a financial aid adviser.
 The Federal Work-Study program allows students to work part-time jobs in order to help pay for their education expenses. These programs often encourage students to work jobs that meet community needs or are related to their course of study. As a culinary student, you may find yourself working in a food service position on campus., Military service is another option to look into when considering how to pay for culinary school. The GI Bill, which helps pay for the educational expenses of active and former members of the U.S. military, can be used to pay for culinary school.In fact, the different military branches offer culinary arts programs that can prepare you for a career in the food service industry.If you are interested in being a culinary specialist in the U.S. Army, you will need to score at least an 85 on the Food Operators section of the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB). Your scores on this exam help determine what role you will serve in the U.S. Army.

