 You may find that your itemized deductions don’t constitute a larger deduction. Some deductions have limits, so even if you have one or more categories with high expenses, you may not be able to deduct the full amount. In general, expenses in the following categories will usually result in a higher deduction after itemizing:


Large uninsured medical and/or dental expenses
Mortgage interest
Real estate taxes
Substantial unreimbursed employee business expenses
Substantial uninsured casualty or theft losses
Large charitable contributions

, The rules limiting deductions apply to:


Medical and dental expenses. Your deduction for unreimbursed (not covered by insurance) medical and dental expenses is limited to the amount that exceeds 7.5% of your adjusted gross income (AGI). For example, if your AGI is $10,000 and your medical expenses total $1,000, you are eligible to deduct no more than $750 (7.5% of your AGI of $10,000.)
Charitable contributions. If you had charitable cash contributions that exceeded 50% of your AGI, you will have to carry over the excess for a deduction on the following year’s filing. For example, if your AGI is $100,000 and you gave cash to charities totaling $60,000, you can deduct $50,000 and the following year, you may deduct the remaining $10,000. Non cash contributions cannot exceed 30% of your AGI.
Casualty losses. You may deduct losses in excess of 10% of your AGI. For example, if your AGI is $50,000 and your casualty loss is $10,000, you may only deduct $5,000.
Unreimbursed Job-Related Expenses. If you are required to purchase work-related items in order to do your job, you may deduct all qualifying expenditures that exceed 2% of your AGI. Job-related expenses include, but are not limited to, protective clothing, professional dues, equipment and supplies and professional subscriptions. These types of deductions are allowable if you are employed and have received a W2.
Miscellaneous deductions. Other miscellaneous deductions are allowable, including tax preparation fees, legal fees and expenses that are related to your investments and income, such as an IRA account maintenance fee.

