 Insert the needle through the fabric from back to front. Begin at the bottom left edge of your intended stitch line, point A.


Pull the needle and thread completely through until the end knot lies flat against the back of the fabric.
 Insert the needle through the front of the fabric at a point directly on top of A, point AA.


As you look at the front of the fabric, A and AA should look like the same point. There needs to be a few threads separating them to prevent the stitch from falling out, though.
Do not pull the needle and thread through this point yet. Only insert the tip of the needle for now.
 Slide the tip of the needle along the back of the fabric at a 45 degree angle. Insert it through the front of the fabric at a point lying to the upward diagonal left of AA. This new point will be point B.


The space between AA and B will determine the width of your stitches. Unless otherwise noted, distance of 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) is usually a good choice.
Do not pull the needle and thread completely through AA or B yet.
 Use your fingers to position the thread leading into AA underneath the tip of the needle coming out at B.A little line of thread should run parallel to the needle on its left side. The rest should be tucked beneath the needle, extending down from the needle's right side.
 Pull the needle and thread completely through to the front of the fabric again. Doing so should tighten the loop created in the previous step.


The needle should now be free and lying along the front of the fabric.
Note that the point of the loop comes together at A and AA. The rounded portion of the loop should lie to the immediate outside of B, and the thread should be coming out at B to the inside of the loop.
 Insert the needle through the fabric at a point that overlaps B. Label this point BB.


As with A and AA, B and BB should only have a few threads separating them.
Only insert the tip of the needle. Do not pull the entire needle through to the back of the fabric.
 Poke the tip of the needle back through to the front of the fabric at a 45 degree downward slant, bringing it out at point C.


Point C should be horizontally even with A and AA.
Do not pull the needle completely through BB or C yet.
 Create another chain link using the same procedure followed for the first chain. Your two chains should form one zigzag.


Slide the thread underneath the tip of the needle coming out at BB, creating a wide loop in the process.
Pull the needle and thread completely through to the front of the fabric, tightening the loop you just created.
 Continue making chains across the length of the row until you reach the end. Each chain should slant in the direction opposite the slant of the chain before and after it.


Each chain stitch should be slanted at a 45 degree angle.
 Once you reach the end of the stitch row, insert the needle into the front of the fabric and out through the back. Tie a knot at the back of the fabric.


To knot the thread:

Insert the needle through the front and back of the fabric at a point directly next to your final insertion point.
Before you draw the thread flat, draw the needle through the newly created loop two or three times.
Draw the loop closed to create a secure knot.



