 Marketing a business begins with knowing who you're marketing to. Your target market will determine where and how you do your marketing. The following things should be considered:


Age. Handbags can be made to cater to females of all ages, from young girls to elderly ladies.
Budget. Your price point will determine to whom you will market. You should be careful not to make your handbags inaccessible by pricing them too high or too low for your intended market.
Style concept. You may choose to cater to a trendy, urban market, a mid-range and practical market or an upscale, high-fashion market.;
, Business cards, flyers and brochures are a good start. It is important that you include high-quality photographs in your marketing materials because you are marketing a business that is centered around a fashion product. If you can afford it, it is also a good idea to market handbags using full-color catalogues.



Internet. Create a website for your handbag business and include the site address on all of your marketing materials. Set up stores on Internet auction sites, advertise your products on free online classifieds, and spread the word about your business via the myriad of social networking sites. You may also submit queries to fashion blogs to ask about contributing a guest blog for them to publish on their sites, which is a great way to market handbags and expand your pool of potential customers.
Print. Distribute flyers in apparel store parking lots. Take out some ad space in local newspapers and lifestyle magazines. If you call the editors and tell them about your handbag business, they may even do a write-up on you and feature you in their business section.
Networking. Attend meetings of the local chamber of commerce and get to know other small business owners. Call personal stylists and direct them to your website.
Community involvement. Many local clubs and other organizations host fundraising events like fashion shows, raffles and silent auctions. Involving yourself in these events by contributing or donating your handbags is not only a way to market handbags but is also a great way to earn a positive reputation in the community and get the word of mouth flowing for your business.
Storefronts. Visit local boutiques and retail shops that cater to your target market and ask if they would be willing to display and sell your handbags for a commission. Some may even want to place a bulk order with you to sell your handbags in their stores. Be sure to leave marketing materials for your handbag business to be displayed alongside your handbags.
Purse parties. Find people who will host purse parties in exchange for a commission of what they sell at the parties.

