 Download software from the original developer whenever possible. Be wary of software that asks for your personal information or tries to install additional programs.


Windows users should be especially cautious of executables (.exe, .msi) from unknown sources. Microsoft uses digital signature for trusted developers and you will be notified if your installer does not have one.
Mac OSX 10.8 and later only allow installations from trusted developers by default.You can check this setting in “System Preferences > Security and Privacy”.
By default, Android users can only install from the Play Store, but can allow installing from unknown sources in the settings. To check the setting go to “Settings > Security > Unknown Sources”. Make sure the feature is off to prevent accidental installation from potentially harmful .apk files.
iOS users can only install from the App Store unless the device is jailbroken.;
, Keeping your browser up to date ensures the latest security fixes are active while you browse the web. Many modern browsers will update themselves in the background as they become available.


Chrome users can go to “Menu > Settings > About” to update.
Firefox users can go to “☰ > ? > About Firefox” to update.
Safari users can update by opening the Mac App Store and clicking the "Update" tab at the top.
Microsoft will now update Internet Explorer/Edge automatically. Those using an OS older than Windows 10 can go to “Control Panel > Windows Update” to download the latest updates for Windows and Internet Explorer.
 Ads and popups can often lead to websites that contain malicious software. Firefox, Chrome, and Safari all support the installation of third party extensions to block the appearance of most ads.


In order to install ad-block software on your mobile device, you will need to root or jailbreak it.
 Updating your OS ensures that you have the latest security fixes for your device.


Android users can go to “Settings > About > System Updates” to check for the latest software available for the device. Keep in mind that availability of system updates can vary depending on the mobile carrier and age of the device.
iOS users can go to “Settings > General > Software Update” to check for the latest software. Older devices may not be compatible with the latest OS updates.
Mac OS users can open the “App Store” and select the “Updates” tab. On older versions, or if the App Store is unavailable, you can also go to “Apple Menu > Software Update”.
Windows 10 downloads and installs updates automatically (this feature can’t be disabled). Users of older versions can go to “Control Panel > Windows Update”.

