 Potatoes are said to have mild bleaching properties. This mask will help to lighten dark spots. Peel a potato and grate it.
Add some rose water to the grated potato and mix it to make a paste.
You can add lemon juice to the mixture if your skin is oily for a natural toner and astringent.
Apply the mixture to your face and leave it on for 15 minutes.
Rinse your face with water to wash away the mask.;
, Citrus fruits are acidic and contain vitamins that are good for skin health. The acidity of these fruits will help to lighten darkened areas on the skin.


Take some lemon zest or orange zest and dry it in the sun. Crush it to make a powder.
Mix the zest with some milk to make a paste.
Apply this mixture to the face, massaging it in with small circular motions.
Leave it on your face for 15-20 minutes then wash it off with warm water.
Follow up this skin-care routine with a cooling toner.
 Cucumber has a cooling effect on the skin and its astringent properties can help to lighten skin. Peel a cucumber, then grate it.
Squeeze the flesh to remove the juices.
Mix the grated flesh with some aloe vera gel for a cooling, healing effect.
Apply this pack to the face and let it sit for 15-20 minutes.
Rinse with cool water.
 Honey is said to have antibacterial properties and lemon juice is a known astringent.


Mix together 1 teaspoon each of milk, honey and lemon juice.
Make sure all the ingredients are well mixed before applying the mixture to your face.
Apply this mask to cleansed skin and let it sit for 20 minutes.
Rinse the mask off with warm water. Your skin should be left feeling soft.
 Yogurt is said to have mild bleaching properties as well as being helpful in preventing blemishes. Oatmeal helps to exfoliate the skin, whereas tomato juice can naturally lighten skin as it is a strong, acidic astringent.


Mix together equal parts tomato juice, oatmeal, and yogurt.
Apply the mask to cleansed skin.
Leave this mask on for 15-20 minutes.
Rinse the mask off with warm water and pat the skin dry.

