 Sometimes, an aggressive cat will need to be trained out of his aggressiveness. To do this, keep some cat treats handy. When you pet your cat, hold a treat in one hand and pet the cat with the other. Watch his tail--he will start to swish his tail back and forth when he becomes aggressive. As soon as you see this movement, give the cat a treat. Doing this several times a day will help your cat to associate your petting with treats and gradually he will likely grow less aggressive., Some cats really don’t like to be rubbed on their bellies and will become aggressive if you pet them in that area. In the wild, a cat would never expose his belly to an attacker because it is the most sensitive part of his body. That natural instinct still lives on in many cats. To avoid bringing out your cat’s aggressive side, stick to petting him on the head and back.
 One of the reasons that a cat can be aggressive towards people is because he didn’t get used to humans at an early age. If you have a kitten, make sure that he gets to hang out around people starting around when he turns 12 weeks old. Let people hold him, pet him, and play with him., Aggression is linked to sexual urge, so when a cat is spayed or neutered, the sexual urge is--for the most part--removed, as is aggressive behavior. Of course, your cat might become aggressive for another reason, but getting your cat spayed or neutered can certainly lower his or her chances of developing serious aggression., As discussed in a previous section of this article, cats can become aggressive when they are in pain. Taking your cat to the vet on a regular basis will help to keep your cat healthy and pain-free.


Make sure your cat gets vaccinated for rabies during one of his trips to the vet. While there are many diseases that can cause aggression, rabies is definitely the worst and can actually be fatal for both the cat and yourself.
 Sometimes, kittens will mistake your toes or feet for toys. If you let this mistake continue, your kitten could grow into a cat that aggressively attacks your feet whenever you walk in the door. To avoid this, give your cat or kitten toys that he can play with. When your cat goes to attack your toes, throw a toy (like a ball of yarn or a squeaky toy) in the opposite direction to distract your cat.


Scratching posts are also good toys for cats. They help your cat to release pent up energy and helps them to learn not to scratch you or your furniture.
 Sometimes cats will want to be alone. Your cat needs a place to unwind and feel safe. A dark corner of a room, or an elevated spot where they can sit and watch you without being seen will do nicely.


A cardboard box that has been turned upside down is a perfect hiding spot. Cut a small hole in the box so that only your cat can fit into it.
 If your cat scratches you and you lash out by hitting your cat, you may break the bond formed with your cat. A cat that has been abused by a person will be very wary of getting close to another person so never use violence to show your cat that he was wrong to scratch you.

