 Similar to having a conversation with your baby, being responsive to your baby’s ‘talking’ and body language will support their emotional and social development.Responding to your baby encourages them to do the action again and lets them know you are paying attention.


Even though infants can’t talk yet, they express their needs, wants, and thoughts through crying, laughing, and other body language.
Pay attention to what your baby is doing for clues for how to respond.
For example, if your baby is babbling, then talk back to them.
Or, for instance, if they are reaching for something that is safe for them to have then make it a little easier to get to.
 Even as a baby, your child will pick up many of their social and emotional learning by observing you.Modeling appropriate behavior is an effective way to support your baby’s development by showing your baby appropriate ways to act.


Stay calm. Even infants can detect anger, hostility, and anxiety in your words and body language.
For example, when you are with your baby and someone upsets you, take a few deep breaths and calm down before responding.
Be respectful with other people. The way you interact with others is one of the first examples of socializing your baby will have.
For instance, yelling at your spouse in front of your baby sets an example that yelling and screaming are appropriate ways to communicate.
On the other hand, talking calmly and having respectful interactions shows your baby how to control their emotions.
 You can support your baby’s social and emotional development by giving them the opportunity to interact with other babies. Experiences like this give your baby the chance to explore new relationships and environments.Look in your community parenting magazine or newspaper for information about playgroups in your area.
Give your baby time to adjust to the new sights, sounds, smells, and people.
Use this opportunity to meet other parents and support your own social health.
Talk to the other parents about how they support their baby’s development.
For example, you might ask another parent, “How do you help your baby develop emotionally?”

