 If you have Irritable Bowel Syndrome or an iron deficiency condition like haemochromatosis, talk to your doctor before you do the Vitamin C flush. These conditions can get worse if you do the flush without speaking to your doctor first. They may recommend a specific dosage of Vitamin C based on your condition.You should also avoid taking Vitamin C if you have kidney issues or if you think you may be allergic to ascorbic acid.;
, Don't risk an overdoes by taking too much Vitamin C at one time.Doses of Vitamin C higher than 2,000mg a day can cause cramps, chest pain, dizziness, diarrhea, fatigue, headache, heartburn, and gut issues. If you are worried about these symptoms, talk to your doctor before taking Vitamin C.
If you are pregnant or breast feeding, use caution when taking Vitamin C. It can cause high blood pressure if taken in high doses. Speak to your doctor to confirm it is safe for you and your baby before taking it.
 If you get very ill and vomit or have diarrhea when you start the Vitamin C flush, you may have an allergy or intolerance for Vitamin C powder. Stop the flush and speak to your doctor right away.If you have a general unwell feeling or lightheadedness that does not go away after one hour while doing the flush, stop the flush and consult your doctor.
 Try getting the buffered version, which contains buffer minerals like calcium, magnesium, and zinc. It is gentler on your stomach and your system.Get buffered Vitamin C online or at your local health food store.
 Another option is to use ascorbic acid powder, which contains Vitamin C and sodium hydrogen carbonate. The sodium will help to regulate your water intake and make the Vitamin C easier to digest.Look for ascorbic acid online or at your local health food store.
 You will need to dissolve the Vitamin C powder into filtered or purified water to drink it. You should then drink lots of water during the flush to help move the Vitamin C through your body and encourage bowel movements.You will need at least five to six glasses of water to start the flush. You can then drink more water as you ease off of the flush.
 The Vitamin C flush will usually take about two to six hours, depending on how long it takes the Vitamin C to go through your body. Try not to plan any outings during this time, as you need ready access to the bathroom as well as to the Vitamin C powder and fresh water., Begin the Vitamin C flush soon after you wake up in the morning. Do it before you eat any food. This will allow your body to absorb the Vitamin C., Dissolve 1,000mg of powdered Vitamin C (buffered or ascorbic acid) in a half glass of filtered water. Mix it with a spoon and sip it down.If you do not like the taste of Vitamin C powder, you can have it in fruit juice with no artificial sweeteners.
 Drink 1,000mg of Vitamin C powder in half a glass of water every hour. Do this for two to three hours, or until you need to go to the bathroom. Check your stool to see if it is watery. This is a sign that you have flushed your body using the Vitamin C powder.It may take your body a few hours to flush and for you to have a bowel movement. Be patient. You should need to go to the bathroom within two to four hours of starting the flush.
 Make sure you note the time of your doses during the flush. You should also write down the dosage of Vitamin C that you had every hour. This will help you keep track of your intake and ensure you do not take too much Vitamin C at once.You should also write down when you had a bowel movement with watery stools. This will help you get a sense of how much Vitamin C you need to consume for the flush, especially if you plan to do the flush again.
 The Vitamin C flush works best if you abstain from large, solid foods. Try having liquid food that is easy on your stomach, like soup or broth. Do this for the two to four hours of the flush. Once the flush is done, ease yourself onto more solid foods.Have lots of water during the flush to help move the Vitamin C through your body.
Add solid foods like rice, quinoa, and cooked vegetables to your diet after you are done with the flush. After one to two days, have more solid proteins like fish, tofu, beef, and chicken.
 Once your body has been flushed out, take a little less Vitamin C every day for four to five days. Have 1000mg less per a day. Reduce your intake every day until you are only taking 1000mg of Vitamin C a day.Reducing your Vitamin C intake gradually will ensure your body has time to adjust to the change and that your bowel movements are not negatively affected by the flush.
You may still notice some water in your stool as you reduce your Vitamin C intake. By the time you reach 1000mg a day of Vitamin C, you should have normal looking stool.
 If you have chronic flu or cold symptoms, try doing a Vitamin C flush every four months. Follow the dosage you used the first time you did the flush for the best results.You can also take 50-100mg of Vitamin C a day regularly to help maintain good health. Drink it first thing in the morning before you eat.

