 Instead of struggling to come up with a series of exercises that provide a balanced workout, look for readymade HICT workouts. A simple online search will help. Just enter a word string like “HICT routine” into your search engine of choice.


Remember, you don’t need to strictly follow the pre-written workouts. Use them for inspiration. Extend or shorten the duration and intensity of each exercise to suit your needs.
 Since it’s important to time yourself during the workout, you should definitely have a clock visible nearby. You could also choose to use a stopwatch programmed to beep in alternating 30-second and 10-second intervals. This way, you’ll know exactly when to end one part of the exercise and move on to the next.
 Each exercise in this sample HICT workout lasts for 30 seconds. Rest after completing one full circuit.


Start with 30 seconds of jumping jacks.
Do a held wall sit (an exercise in which you lean back against a wall and slide down to achieve a 90-degree angle at your knees before rising again).
Next, do a rapid series of pushups.
Finish with 30 seconds of crunches.
Rest, then repeat the circuit one to three more times.
 Another HICT workout might look something like:


Do a simple step-up (an exercise where you step up onto a chair, then off again).
Next, try a tricep dip. Lean your hands against a chair positioned behind you and let your fingers hang over the edge of the seat. (You could use a coffee table or low stool if you don’t have a sturdy chair.)
After resting, head into a series of squats, an exercise in which you bend your knees from a standing position as if you’re sitting down, but remain standing. Lower your butt to a place just slightly lower than your knees.
End the circuit with a plank. This exercise will work your core. Assume a pushup position, but lean against your forearm rather than your hands. Keep your neck and spine straight. Rest.
Rest and then repeat the circuit one to three more times.
 Another possible HICT workout could be as follows:Do high-knee exercises for 30 seconds by bringing your knees up to your chest.
Next try some rapid pushups.
Stand up and do lunges, making sure your knees never go past your toes.
Finally, do an alternating side plank on both sides as many times as possible for 30 seconds.
Rest. Then, repeat the circuit one to three more times.
If you want, you could add a rotation to the pushups by leaning your weight on one hand, then the other, while holding the opposite hand up in the air directly away from the ground. This can make it more challenging.
If you need to make the circuit a little easier, try doing exercises with a reduced range of motion — such as pushups from the knees. Injury usually occurs when you are fatigued, so take extra care if you feel yourself reaching this point.

