 There are many varieties and types of dog food to choose from. You should spend some time deciding which kind is right for you and your dog. Look for a dog food that has quality ingredients listed as the first several ingredients – like real meat products rather than cornmeal, grains, or other carby fillers.Typically it’s not necessary to purchase the most expensive brands of dog food, as they usually cater to fad diets and have little to no scientific backing for the health benefits to justify the additional cost.
 Most dogs need to be fed several times each day. How much you feed your dog depends on the dog’s age, size, weight, breed, and overall health. You should consult with your veterinarian about how much is the right amount to feed your particular dog, but you can begin by consulting the package the food comes in for a chart on approximately how much to feed your dog. Typically, an average sized dog should be fed around one cup of food twice per day.You should give your pup smaller portions of food two or three times per day instead of one big meal. A larger meal will make them too full and then leave them hungry later.
Dogs also typically can’t self-regulate their food, meaning that you can’t just refill their bowl as it empties and expect them to eat only as much as they need throughout the day. Instead, you need to actually measure out the correct amount at each individual feeding.
 One of the most vital things your dog needs access to is clean, potable water. Just like humans, dogs need to drink clean water every day in order to survive. Make sure your dog has a bowl of water in the same place every day so that it can always locate the water when it is thirsty.


You may want to consider a backup source of water in cases where you’ll be gone for several hours in case your dog accidentally knocks over one of the bowls.
 In addition to the food that you choose, you’ll need to give your dog some treats on occasion, especially during training sessions or as a reward for good behavior. Try to choose treats that indicate some health benefits on the package, rather than just some fatty, gravy covered mess.Many treats are specially formulated to also act as teeth cleaning agents. So try to find dog bones or hard biscuit treats that mention canine dental benefits as well.
Try to avoid giving your dog human food too often unless it is something simple like rice or grilled chicken (which can actually be good for an upset doggy tummy).

