 Press Command+J (Mac) or Ctrl+J (Win) to first create a copy of your image. This is so you don’t make any changes to the original. If you look in the Layers panel, you’ll see that you now have two layers with the same image. The original stays safe on the Background layer, and the editing work you’re about to do will be on the copy on Layer 1 above it., It’s a good idea to adjust the name. Otherwise, you could easily get it mixed up with the original. So that you know which image it is, however, you may want to keep the same name but at the end in all caps, add “WITH TEXT REMOVED.”


To do this, right-click directly on Layer 1. The Rename option will appear. Change the name. Press Return (Mac) and Enter (Win) to accept the name change.
 Alternatively, press CTRL-S. Choose a soft-tipped brush with a flow rate between 10 and 30 percent (for most jobs). Start with opacity at 95 percent. You can make adjustments as needed., Select the original layer in the Layers panel. Drag the original layer to the Create a New Layer button, which is the symbol to the left of the trash can. Alternatively, hit CTRL+J to create a new layer.
 Hold Alt and then left-click on your selection. This spot is called your source. Essentially, you will pick up "paint" from this spot and use it to paint over your text., If you get too close, then you will just be copying the spot you were trying to erase. If your source is too far away from your lettering, then the color of the background may not be appropriate for camouflaging the spot where the letters were. You will see distortion when you paint over the image.
 This action samples pixels continuously without losing the current sampling point. Every time you stop painting, deselect Aligned before you start over. Reset it after you choose a new sampling point.
 Left click to paint the source over the lettering. Notice the lighting of the background image. Make sure that the spots that you clone are lit in the same direction as the image., You don’t want to drag the mouse over the letters in large strokes. This action will ensure that your work looks professional instead of blotchy. Continue this process until the project is complete.

