 Sex addiction, or compulsive sexual behavior, is considered such when your sexual urges and impulses begin to negatively impact your life. If you begin to feel overwhelmed by your sexual impulses, consider finding a counselor who can help you develop a treatment plan. Some warning signs to look out for include:


Considerable money spent finding ways to fulfill your sexual needs (for example, buying pornography, visiting strip clubs, or hiring sex workers)Feeling driven to engage in sexual behaviors, but deriving no pleasure from themDamage to interpersonal relationships, including those with intimate partnersFinding yourself having to apologize often for your behavior.
Engaging in risky sexual behaviors that can cause both physical and interpersonal problems (for example, having sex without a condom, or having sex with an employee)A large amount of time spent searching for sexual gratification, and/or a loss of productivity related to such, Consider finding a counselor who specializes in sexual addiction. To find a therapist, you may wish to consult your doctor, contact your employer’s Employee Assistance Program, ask for a referral from your local community health agency, or do your own online research.


You may want to find a counselor who has a S-PSB (Specialist in Problematic Sexual Behaviors) or CSAT (Certified Sex Addiction Therapist) certification. These certifications show that the counselor has received training in sexual behavior causes and treatments.Therapists are trained to be open-minded, nonjudgmental, and accepting of other people’s problems. Do not feel embarrassed or ashamed that you need to seek professional help. Therapists are also bound to confidentiality laws, and will protect your privacy, so long as you are not at risk of harming yourself or others, or you report abuse or neglect., There are several sexual addiction support groups that all have similar, 12-step program models (similar to the model of Alcoholics Anonymous). These meetings can provide you with support, hold you accountable in your recovery, and give you a structure to work toward and meet your goals. To find a meeting location near you, you can visit these groups’ websites:Sex Addicts Anonymous: https://saa-recovery.org/

Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous: https://saa-recovery.org/

Sexaholics Anonymous: https://www.sa.org/


