 If your cat has refused to eat for several days, it will need to be given some nourishment immediately at the veterinary office. Nourishment can be given several ways, including:Force feeding
Syringe feeding
Tube feeding
Appetite-stimulating drugs;
, Anorexia is a symptom of a wide variety of health problems and it is not typically a stand alone disease in cats. Your veterinarian should tell you what they think the underlying problem is and you should discuss with them why they think that. Some possible illnesses that could cause anorexia include:


Diabetes
Kidney disease
Hepatic lipidosis
Hyperthyroidism
Pancreatitis
Conjunctivitis
Asthma
A fever


, Your veterinarian will suggest a course of treatment designed to treat its underlying illness. The treatments your veterinarian may suggest vary widely due to the varied causes of anorexia.


Treatments may include medications, such as treating a cat's diabetes with insulin. They may also include surgical treatments, such as removing infected teeth that are causing your cat not to eat.In some cases your veterinarian will not be able to find a physical cause of the cat's anorexia. In these cases, they usually diagnose the problem as psychological and suggest behavioral treatment.
 If the veterinarian is able to identify your cat's underlying condition, it's important that you continue treatment at home. Follow your veterinarian's directions and give any medications as they have been prescribed, for as long as they have been prescribed.The type of medication and length of giving it to your cat varies depending on what your cat's underlying illness is.
 If your cat continues to refuse food even after treatment for its underlying illness has begun, then you may need to takes steps to make it eat. The easiest way to get a cat to eat is to give it an appetite-stimulating drug. However, this does not always work. In some serious cases, your cat may also need to be fed through an implanted feeding tube or force fed until its appetite recovers.Force feeding a cat can be traumatizing to a cat and make it even more resistant to food. A feeding tube is considered a better option for cats that refuse to eat.
Whatever your cat is willing to eat, give it to them. This may be a special treat that you use to train them or a little bit of tuna leftover from your lunch. Basically, if an anorexic can shows interest in any food, give it to them.
 While your cat is recovering from anorexia it is important to make its food as fresh and appealing as possible. Never expect the cat to eat food that has been sitting for a long time and make sure that all food dishes are clean and tidy.


If your cat won't eat its usual food, you can try to feed it a higher quality food. However, you don't want to change the cat's food too abruptly, as this can cause digestive health problems.
 Healthy cats tend to eat a similar amount of food every day, so if your cat begins to eat less, you should take not of that. If your cat has a dramatic drop in how much it eats, this can signal a health or behavioral problem. This means that it is important that you don't just ignore changes in appetite.


With this in mind, it is important to keep track of how much your cat is eating on a daily basis so that you can identify when the cat's appetite changes.
 If your cat is not eating, that behavior is likely associated with a specific medical, dental, or behavioral problem. Make note of any other changes to your cat's routine or body, whether or not you think they are related to the anorexia.


Identifying other symptoms can help a veterinarian diagnose the underlying problem with your cat.
 Call your veterinary office and let them know about the problem with your cat's appetite. Schedule an appointment for that day or the next so that your cat's health can be assessed promptly.


If your cat has not eaten anything for over 24 hours, as opposed to simply eating less than normal, then that is an emergency and it should be seen by a veterinarian immediately., When you bring your cat in for evaluation, be ready to tell the veterinarian about your cat's symptoms. You should have a general idea of when the anorexia started and whether your cat has any other symptoms that might be related.When you tell the veterinarian about your cat's symptoms and how long they have been going on, the vet will be able to better assess the seriousness of the cat's health problems.
 Once the veterinarian has discussed your cat's symptoms with you, they will likely do an exam on it. They will visually assess the cat and feel its body for abnormalities or problems. They will then likely do a variety of tests to find the cause of your cat's anorexia, including lab work and imaging.You may be asked to hold your cat still or keep it calm while the exam is happening. Your supportive presence can do a lot to help your cat get through a veterinary exam.

