 Check all bolts to insure that they are all of the same "Run #". Sometimes the term is "Lot #" or "Batch #". This is important as the same pattern will be printed in production runs. It is very common for separate runs to have slightly different colors and backgrounds.
 Inspect the entire bolt for defects in the printing process. These are usually streaks of color, blobs of ink, or color voids. One small defect in an entire roll can usually be cut out and worked around. If there is enough defect in the paper that you may lose an 8 foot (2.4 m) strip then you should return the wall covering for a refund.
 Find an object near the edge of the paper, measure down the paper until you get to the exact same object. This distance is called the pattern repeat. Keep this measurement in mind, as you will use it later to line up strips of the paper.
 This is either a straight across match or a drop match. A straight across match is when two pieces of paper placed next to each other have the same pattern in grids horizontally. A drop match is when the pattern moves up or down a bit horizontally in each strip.


For example, you would have a straight across match if you see a butterfly on the left edge of the paper when you line up and pattern match the next piece beside the first and the butterfly is in the same spot on the left edge again.
A drop match means that the same object on the left edge (the butterfly in this example) will drop halfway down the length of the pattern repeat when the second piece is pattern matched to the first.
 Study the pattern of your wall covering and decide what you want your “top” to be. This is what will be hung directly at the ceiling. Some patterns will have a natural break in the pattern and in between this break usually makes a good “top”.


Try to avoid having a visually significant item in the pattern exactly at the top of the wall. Ceiling lines tend to rise and fall and if you have a visually significant item at the ceiling you will begin to lose the pattern if the ceiling dips.
Try to choose a “top” about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above any significant pattern items. This will allow for the ceiling to rise and fall without affecting the visibility of this item.
If you can, choose a “top” that has a small item in the pattern on the left or right edge of the paper that is easy to identify. This will make measuring and cutting much easier.
Drop match patterns will have two “tops”. You will alternate between “top A” and “top B” as you progress around the room. Most of the time with a drop match, you choose the “top A” and take what you get with the “top B”.
 On the table, cut your wall covering about 1 inch (2.5 cm) above your designated “top” ensuring you do not cut a crooked line or wavy line that extends down into the pattern where your “top” is. This will give you excess while hanging and this will be trimmed away on the wall. Take a razor blade and cut the roll about 1 or 2 inches (2.5 or 5.1 cm) beyond the total length measurement. This excess will be cut off on the wall.


There is a little more leeway with the bottom excess. When in doubt, add a bit more to the bottom than to the top.
Use a yardstick to help make your cuts smooth and even, and to prevent cutting at an angle.

