 When books with shiny, glossy pages (like many magazines and art books) become wet, the situation is somewhat more urgent than with ordinary books. Moisture can dissolve the pages' glossy coating, turning it into an adhesive substance that can make the pages stick together permanently if allowed to dry. To prevent this, immediately separate the wet pages from each other by placing sheets of waxed paper in between every single pair of wet pages. Remove and replace the sheets as they become wet.


It's important to put a separating sheet between every wet page. If two wet pages are allowed to touch as they dry, they can become stuck together in such away that even professionals can't repair.
If you don't have waxed paper handy, plain white paper towels will work so long as they are replaced frequently.
 When the pages of the book dry to a point that they're simply damp and the separating sheets are no longer becoming wet, remove the separating sheets and stand the book upright. If it can't support its own weight, use two bookends or heavy objects to support it. Fan the pages out to a width of no more than 60o. Allow the book to dry in this position.


As above, you'll want to ensure that the air around the book is circulating if you can by using a fan or opening a window to create a draft. As also noted above, dehumidifiers can be helpful, especially if the air is humid.
 Though the pages are now damp, rather than wet, there is still a risk that they may stick together. To avoid this, check on the book frequently as it dries — if you can, once every half hour or so. Thumb through the book's pages carefully. If you notice any beginning to stick together, separate them and allow the book to continue to dry. Eventually, the book should dry out completely. Some minor instances of pages sticking together (especially in the corners) may be unavoidable.


As above, if you're using a fan, you won't want the book's pages to flutter in the moving air, as this can lead to a crumpled or ruffled appearance once the book dries.
 If you have a wet book with glossy pages on your hands and you don't have the time or materials to separate the pages at your disposal, don't let the book sit. Instead, place it in a freezer-safe plastic bag, seal the bag, and place it in a freezer (the colder the better). Freezing your book won't do much to dry it, but it will prevent damage, giving you time to get everything you need to be able to dry the book properly.


Don't forget to put the book in a freezer bag before putting it in the freezer. Doing this prevents the book from sticking to inside of the freezer or other objects.
 If you're ready to attempt to dry your frozen book, remove it from the freezer but keep it in its bag and set it in a room-temperature location. Allow the book to thaw gradually within its bag — this can take from a few hours up to several days, depending on how large and wet the book is. When the ice is completely melted, remove the book from the bag and dry it as described above.


Don't let a thawing book sit in its bag past the point that it thaws. Leaving your book in a damp, confined space encourages mold growth.

