 The local chapter you're interested in joining will host a meeting called Rush Activity. You must attend this meeting in order to join DST. The meeting will give information about the sorority, its goals, and membership requirements.


You'll be given an application at Rush Activity that you can take home and fill out.
You will not be able to join DST unless you attend Rush.
 Since members of Delta Sigma Theta will be voting on whether or not to accept you as a member, it may help to get to know or impress several existing sisters. You may attend some of their events on campus, volunteer with groups that DST frequently helps, or just ask to talk to existing sisters about their experiences with DST.


If you feel like you've really gotten to know a DST sister or two, they may be able to write you a letter of recommendation to go with your application.
 Delta Sigma Theta only accepts women who are not currently members of any other society that's associated with the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Inc. or the Panhellenic Conference, Inc.If you've been expelled from a Pan-Hellenic society, you're also not eligible for membership in Delta Sigma Theta.
 Delta Sigma Theta has a strict no-hazing policy for any part of the application process. You will not be allowed to join DST if you participate in any hazing activity during Rush or while your application is being considered. For example, if you're being hazed by members of the sorority and allow yourself to be hazed, you won't be admitted for membership.If you become a member and haze potential members, you'll be expelled from the sorority.
You're also responsible for reporting any hazing activities you witness.
 If your application was denied the first time you submitted it, you can always apply again the following year. While the application process will be the same, you'll need to improve your application so you can increase your chance of being accepted. To do so, try to:


Improve your grade point average
Get letters of recommendation from women currently in DST
Write better application responses (longer, more detailed and honest)

