 You cannot receive a new Social Security card just because you want one.New Social Security Numbers will not be assigned for the following reasons:


To avoid the consequences of filing for bankruptcy.
To solve your credit problems.If you intend to avoid the law or your legal responsibility.
If your Social Security card is lost or stolen, but there is no evidence of identity theft.;
, Note that you only qualify for a new number if the problems related to identity theft are ongoing. If the problems have been solved then it is unlikely you will get a new card.


If you notice that your credit card or bank account has been used by someone other than you, someone may have stolen your identity. Often, when an identity thief obtains information from a victim, the thief gets the victim's social security number. This enables them to open credit accounts in the victim’s name, forcing the victim into debt. Many people only notice that their identity has been stolen when they check their credit score or begin receiving calls from a creditor. If you notice that credit cards have been opened in your name, someone probably has your social security number.
In order to qualify for a new Social Security number, you must have done everything you could to catch the identity thief. This includes: reporting the theft to the Federal Trade Commission on the FTC’s website (consumer.ftc.gov); contacting the IRS regarding the theft; and filing a complaint with the Internet Crime Complaint Center (ic3.gov).Your new social security number will be cross-referenced with your old number. Therefore, even when you get a new number your past earnings (also Social Security, Medicare contributions, etc.) will essentially be tied to the new card. The old data is not lost.
 Under these circumstances, however, you may need a complete identity change rather than just a social security number change. A new identity may also include a name change, new address, new unlisted phone number, and new job.


If you are the victim of domestic violence or other abuse, life endangerment, or severe harassment, you could qualify for a new social security number. This applies to people who have been through the court system and have already tried to use other forms of protection (such as a restraining order, moving away from an abuser etc.). In order to get a new SSN due to domestic abuse, you will need to provide evidence of the abuse and life endangerment.
 While it is rare, there have been instances in which more than one person is issued the same social security number. There are a few ways in which you can discover that someone else shares your social security number. You may discover it when using your number for a credit or background check and another person’s information comes up. Having a duplicate SSN will qualify you to get a new social security number.


Sequential numbers assigned to members of the same family may also cause problems. If you are having problems for this reason, you may qualify for a new number., If your number includes digits that are objectionable to you (such as 666, for example) you may qualify for a new number., You can obtain this application from a local Social Security Office or by downloading it at the Social Security Administration website (http://www.socialsecurity.gov/online/ss-5.pdf).You will need to provide your full legal name.
If your legal name has change since birth, you will also need to provide your full name at birth. List any other names used, as well.
The form will require you to write down your original social security number
Provide your place and date of birth.
Also indicate if there was a different date of birth erroneously specified on an earlier application.
Indicate your citizenship status: U.S. Citizen, Legal Alien Allowed to Work, Legal Alien Not Allowed to Work, or Other.
Provide your ethnicity and race, as well as your sex.
Write down your mother's and father's full names at the time of their births as well as their social security numbers (if applicable).
Indicate that you have received a number in the past and write down the name on your most recently issued card.
Include the present date, your daytime telephone number, and your mailing address.
Finish by signing your full name to the document. You must also indicate if you are the person whose number will be changed or the legal parent or guardian of that person.



Proof of ID can be in the form of a U.S. driver's license, U.S. State-issued non-driver identification card, or a U.S. passport. Alternatively, you might be able to use an employee ID card, U.S. Military ID, health insurance card, or U.S. Indian tribal card.
Proof of citizenship can be in the form of a U.S. birth certificate, U.S. Consular Report of Birth Abroad, U.S. passport, Certificate of Naturalization, or Certificate of Citizenship. All documents must be originals: photocopies will not suffice.
You can demonstrate your immigration status with an I-94 Arrival/Departure Record, I-551 Permanent Resident Card, or I-766 Employment Authorization card.
You can prove your age using a birth certificate or passport.
Proof of a name change can only come in the form of an original or certified copy of the court order document.
 You cannot simply state your reason for wanting a new number. Regardless of your reason for needing a new number, you must provide a written statement and current, credible, third party evidence documenting the reasons for needing a new number.


If you are requesting a new Social Security number due to identity theft, you must submit several pieces of evidence. First, you must demonstrate that someone has stolen your identity. Next, you must show that they used your social security number and harmed you in some way (by opening credit cards etc.). Finally, you must explain how you followed the steps above to try to catch the identity thief. You need to show that this problem has continued despite your best efforts.
The Social Security Administration states that the best evidence of abuse comes from third parties.Third parties include police or medical personnel. You should obtain their reports that describe the nature and extent of harassment, abuse or life endangerment. Other evidence may include court restraining orders and letters from shelters, family members, friends, counselors or others who have knowledge of the domestic violence or abuse.
If you need a new Social Security number because you share it with another person, other evidence is required. Turn in any materials you have that show that your number is a duplicate. This includes any pictures you have of both your and the other social security card, or the name of the person who has the same number as you.
If you have religious or cultural objections you need written documentation in support of the alleged objection and you need to demonstrate that you have an established connection to that culture or religion.
 The officials working there will be able to review and process your information. In some instances, you might be able to get a new number on site. Other times, however, your case will need to be reviewed and a new social security number will be issued to you at a later date. You must turn your application in at the office; it cannot be mailed if you are over the age of 12.


Because the identification documents required must be originals, going in person also prevents any possible loss of the documents.
The officials working there will be able to review and process your information. Your case will need to be reviewed and a new social security number will be issued to you at a later date.
You will receive a new card, which will be mailed to you within a few months of your application.
You can find your nearest Social Security Office or Social Security Card Center at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.Note that all of the documents you bring must be originals or certified copies provided by the agency that issued the document. Photocopies and notarized copies will not be accepted.
 However, the SSN serves as a form of recognized identification on all kinds of official paperwork. In most cases, you can apply for an SSN along with the application for a formal state birth certificate. If you did not apply for one at that moment but have a birth certificate, it is easiest to apply for an SSN in person at a local Social Security office. You must be able to verify the date and location of birth, but both are noted on the birth certificate. In addition, you must fill out the form SS-5--the application for a Social Security card.


The Social Security office will take some time to verify the birth certificate's authenticity. Expect to receive the Social Security card within 12 weeks.
 To get a social security number for your adopted child, you must take a number of documents to your local Social Security office. (Because these documents must be originals, it is better to bring them to the office in person.) You must bring:


An application form.The application form is known as the SS-5. It can be found on the Social Security Administration website (http://www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf).An original copy of your child’s foreign or U.S. birth certificate and adoption decree.
A picture ID for the parent or parents of the child.
You do not need to have your child’s Certificate of Citizenship in order to obtain a Social Security Number. However, you must provide the certificate to the Social Security Administration when you receive it. Unless you have a reason to immediately get your child an SSN (such as annual taxes), it's more convenient to wait until the certificate arrives.
 Green card holders, anyone with an I-766 (Employment Authorization card), and newly naturalized citizens can apply for SSNs. You must submit the following to your local Social Security office:


A completed form SS-5 (as described above).
Proof of identity. A U.S. state I.D. can work, as can a passport. Any valid I.D. must include a current photo.
Proof of citizenship or immigration status. If you are not a U.S. citizen, Social Security will ask to see your current U.S. immigration documents. Acceptable documents include your: FormI-551, Permanent Resident Card; I-94, Arrival/Departure Record; or I-766, Employment Authorization Card (EAD, work permit).
Proof of age. You need to present your birth certificate. If a birth certificate does not exist, the Social Security Administration may be able to accept: a religious record made before the age of 5 showing your date of birth; a U.S. hospital record of your birth; or your passport.
Additionally, when you appear at the Social Security office to apply for a card, you will be required to go through an “interview.”

, There are a few legitimate entities who may ask for your social security number to confirm your identity.Entities that may require you to provide your social security number include:


Employers,
The IRS
The U.S. Treasury, and other government-funded programs (welfare, workers' compensation, etc.).
Banks and other lenders are actually required to obtain your social security number when you open a new account.
 Many requests for your social security number are unnecessary or not legitimate. Be aware of which common sources you should not provide your number to when requested.


Some legitimate companies will ask for your social security number, but many do not need it. Such entities include: landlords and property managers, schools, hospitals and medical offices, sports leagues and clubs, insurers, and utilities or cell phone companies. These types of organizations typically ask for your social security number to verify your identity.
Some scammers will also try to find out your social security number. Do not give your number to anyone who calls or sends an "official" looking email or who approaches you on the street., If a company requests your social security number, you do have the right to deny them that information.


Understand, however, that a company or agency does have the right to deny you the service you are applying for if you do not provide that information. In other instances, you might be allowed to withhold your social security number but may be required to pay a higher fee as a result. Before you make a decision, find out what the potential consequences are and weigh them in your mind to determine if they are serious enough to warrant writing your number down.
 Before handing your social security number to someone, even a legitimate company, make sure that you know precisely how that company will use it.


Ask why your number is needed, if the number will be shared with anyone, and how the number will be stored. Also ask to see a copy of the company's privacy policy.
 Victims of domestic violence can block electronic access to their social security record. This makes it so that no one can obtain your personal information on the internet or through the SSA automated telephone service.