 The longer you have to prepare and incorporate the song into your being, the easier it will be to perform. Avoid the feeling that you are in a rush to get prepared and may fall short of time to be truly ready.;
, If your schedule allows, set aside at least two half hour time blocks each day. Use this time to sing, practice, plan, or visualize your success.
 Make sure it matches your vocal range and also your personality. If there is a disconnect, choose another song that you might explore for compatibility.


If you find yourself straining to reach more than a couple of notes in the song, it is not for you. It is best to choose one that is comfortably within your vocal range and stylistic capability. This will help you to feel more comfortable and at ease when the time comes to perform on stage.
 This means that you need time to warm up properly, work on your breathing and practice the song a couple of times, at least. Do not strain your voice or endurance. In other words, do not work too long and in marathon sessions. Instead, work within a range of comfort.


Concentrate, at first, on just getting the lyrics right and hitting the right notes.
It may help if you vocally emphasize certain parts of the song in your unique way. This passage will act as a familiar signpost to guide you through your delivery routine.
If you don't have the lyrics down pat, it will increase your self-doubt and your nervousness. You may get embarrassed. Make sure you fully know the lyrics to help you on performance day. Transitions and stylizing the song will help you to gain confidence and familiarity with the song variations and the lyrics.
 This is an important aspect of priming your body and your mind for the performance. It is important to visualize positive outcomes and a positive audience reaction. This visualization should be a part of your practice every day and can be incorporated at odd moments throughout the day.


Proper and positive visualization acts as a scaffold on which to hang the qualities of your delivery and the aspects of self-expression during the delivery of the song.
 That queasy feeling is normal; after all, you're about to perform in front of a large group of individuals, so it's okay to feel nervous.


If you have stage fright and you feel like you might throw up, know that this is entirely normal and that it is a sign that your body is preparing for an event of epic proportions and that it has mobilized all your systems to be ready for the moment.
 Say to yourself, "I can do it!" (with conviction) - Of course you can. You have prepared your mind and your body is ready as indicated by your nervousness.
 This will show the people that you are ready to go and can work through your nerves.
 Concentrate on bringing the air into your body and the melody out, modulating it as you have practiced and have visualized.

