 These serums work by coating each strand of hair to make sure the cuticle stays smooth, and does not frizz up.Use a wide tooth comb to apply the serum and then let your hair dry or style it with a blow-dryer.Silicone products typically work much better when used with heat styling.;
, The spray will to help weigh your hair down and flatten it with a lasting hold., Children’s detangling spray isn't as oily as other products and will help you work through any tangles or knots with a comb.


You can also create your own detangler spray by filling a spray bottle with ⅓ hair conditioner and ⅔ water., Mist your hair lightly with a shine spray and then use a toothbrush or small comb to brush back any flyaways, those tiny little hairs that never seem to want to stay down.You can purchase shine spray online or at your local drugstore.
 If you only have 5 minutes to try to tame your frizzy hair in the morning, maybe the best solution is to just throw your hair into a stylish updo and call it a day.Top knots are a great option for a frizzy hair up do as they are supposed to have a messy, casual look.
 You want to avoid shampoos with harsh products as they can dry out your hair further.Get in the habit of conditioning your hair after you shampoo.
How often you shampoo and condition will depend on if you have an oily or dry scalp, as well as color treated hair, and the water quality in your shower. Take a hair quiz or survey online to determine how often you should be shampooing and conditioning your hair., It will help to manage your frizz and create a nice, healthy shine.


Unless you have fine hair, you should always be looking for a deep conditioner and leave it in for 5 minutes before washing it out.Remember that products labeled this way are usually too heavy for frequent use.
 Alcohols can dry out your hair, especially if they are a major ingredient, setting you up for frizz or even more frizz. Watch out for the following names on the label (or any similar names): ethanol, ethyl alcohol, SD alcohol, denatured alcohol, propanol or propyl alcohol.Other types of alcohol used in hair products are fatty alcohols, which are well-tolerated. These alcohols tend to have prefixes like lauryl, cetyl, stearyl or something similar.
 An hour before taking a shower, spray it gently on your fingers and rub it on your frizzes. It will absorb in your hair making it tamable to flatten out your frizz. Then once you are done with your shower, dry it with a cotton t-shirt and ta-da!


Using a cotton t-shirt instead of a regular towel will help improve a lot on your hair like making it silky and soft.
 For those with curly hair use a humectant to help attract moisture from the air to reduce frizz. For preventing frizz in straight hair, use an anti-humectant to block additional moisture. You may find these products more or less necessary throughout the year depending on the humidity.

