 This method is more common in the Western Catholic Church, and in Protestant traditions that support the sign of the cross, including most Anglican and Lutheran churches., Many worshippers make the sign of the cross with an open hand, their five fingers reminding them of the five wounds of Christ. Others raise the index and middle fingers together, symbolizing Christ's divine and human natures.The thumb is often bent to touch the ring finger in the two-finger position.


Many other hand shapes are also in use. There is no requirement to make a specific hand shape, but most leaders encourage you to follow your congregation's tradition unless you derive a spiritual benefit from another form.
 The sign of the cross is made in many contexts, both privately and in church. At the start of worship or when blessing yourself outside of church, it is usually accompanied by an invocation of the Holy Trinity. Begin "In the name of the Father..."








Or in Latin: "In nomine Patris..."

, Bring your hand down to your sternum. Say "and of the Son..." Some people place their left hand on their breast during the sign, and touch the right hand a little higher than it.








Latin: "...et Filii..."

, Say "And of the Holy...









Latin: "...et Spiritus..."

, Say "...Spirit."









Latin: "...Sancti."

, You may place your hands together.









In many Latin countries, it is common to make the small cross with your thumb (see below) and kiss it before saying Amen. In the Philippines, this gesture has evolved into simply touching the thumb to the chin.
 Some of the first Christians to bless themselves formed a cross with their thumb and index finger and placed it on their forehead.Today, Roman Catholics make the sign with the same hand shape before the Gospel reading at Mass. Place the small cross first on your forehead, then on your lips, then on your breast.









There are many interpretations for this blessing. One common one asks you to approach the Gospels with an open mind, confess them with your mouth, and safeguard it in your heart., If you are part of the Latin Rite, it is traditional to bless yourself when you walk into a church. Dip your fingers in the font of holy water, then make the sign of the cross. You may use the large or the small cross.









Many Catholics also bless themselves when walking past a church, and after receiving communion.

