 Most people experience mild anger a few times every week. In some cases, it’s perfectly normal to feel angry, such as if you feel someone has insulted or hurt you. However, you should learn to recognize signs that your anger has verged into the “problem” category.Do you frequently yell, scream, or curse when you’re angry? Do you verbally lash out at others?
Does your anger frequently lead to physical aggression? How severe is the expression of this aggression? Less than 10 percent of normal anger episodes involve physical aggression, so if you’re experiencing it often, that could be a sign that something more serious is at issue.
Do you feel the need to self-medicate when you’re angry, such as by using drugs, alcohol, or food?
Do you feel that your anger negatively affects your personal relationships, your job, or your general health? Have others expressed these concerns to you?

, Anger can cause a variety of physical symptoms, particularly in women, who are often taught by social and cultural pressures to avoid expressing hostility and anger openly.Feelings of physical tension or muscle aches, rapid breathing, feeling jittery, and experiencing headaches are all symptoms that can be linked to anger. Understanding when you’re really feeling angry, rather than trying to repress that knowledge, can help you process your anger.


Anxiety, depression, and insomnia can also be linked to feelings of anger.
 The ways in which your parents and other family members expressed their anger have a significant effect on your own patterns of dealing with it. How did members of your family process and express their anger when you were growing up? Did your parents openly express anger, or was it repressed?, One way to become more in touch with your feelings and why you’re experiencing anger is to write down your emotions in detail. Reflect on not only what happened during an event or experience, but how you reacted and what your train of thought was. Try not to judge these feelings as you write. Just express them so that you can become aware of what you’re feeling. Awareness is a crucial first step to processing and overcoming anger. Ask yourself the following questions for each entry:


What incited your feelings of anger or stress? Were you already feeling stressed before this incident?
What thoughts did you experience during this experience?
On a scale of 0-100, how angry do you think you felt?
Did you lash out at others or internalize your anger?
Did you notice any physical symptoms, such as an elevated heart rate or headache?
What responses did you want to have? Did you want to scream, attack someone, or smash things? What responses did you actually have?
How did you feel after the incident or experience?

, Anger in particular is easily triggered in many people by specific thoughts or incidents.You can use your anger journal to determine patterns in what seems to set off your anger response most often. Trigger thoughts fall broadly into two main categories: feeling that you’re in danger of being harmed, and feeling that you’ve actually been harmed in some way.


A very common trigger thought is that someone has done or not done something you expect them to. For example, if you arranged to meet a friend for dinner and they didn’t show up, you might feel angry that they didn’t do what you’d expected them to.
Another common trigger thought is feeling like something is causing you harm, even in a very general way. For example, being cut off in traffic, having computer issues, and constantly dropping calls on your cellphone happen frequently, but these incidents can carry real, negative consequences that create a worry of experiencing harm. That worry can trigger anger.
Feeling as though you haven’t achieved a personal goal or need can also trigger anger, in this case anger directed at yourself.
Feeling as though you’re being taken advantage of or that people don’t help or care about you are also common triggers, especially at work and in romantic relationships.

