 In addition to the psychological benefits of forgiveness, you may also experience emotional benefits in your interpersonal relationships. When you forgive you grant someone else with a second chance. This shows faith in your relationships and may allow you to deepen your bond with friends, lovers, family, and others.By showing forgiveness to others, your friends and family will also be more likely to forgive you when you make a mistake.
 One of the biggest contributors to unstable mental health is stress. The body experiences an increase in cortisol levels when a person is stressed, which causes the unpleasant symptoms that are associated with stress. Releasing yourself of the burden you carry by not forgiving someone can not only improve your mental health, but help you feel better, overall.


Having too much cortisol in your body because of stress can result in serious health risks, including digestive problems, heart disease, headaches, anxiety, depression, and weight gain. Holding onto a grudge isn’t worth the mental and physical problems that are associated with it.Deciding to put something behind you may also improve your focus and energy levels. You may find it easier to concentrate on the things that make you happy when you are no longer replaying the distressing experience in your mind and processing your feelings about that experience.
 A recent study showed that people who were more likely to forgive typically experience less physical pain than those who aren’t. When people hang on to grudges and burdens, their bodies are under constant stress which can put them into “fight-or-flight” mode. This frequent anxiety often affects the immune system, which can wreak havoc on your body, resulting in physical pain., Not only do your shoulders carry the burden of hanging onto grudges, but your heart does, too. Carrying around this pain increases your blood pressure. Letting go of it may help to lower your blood pressure.


In addition to being bad for your heart, high blood pressure can also cause major damage to other areas of your body, including your brain, kidneys, and eyes. High blood pressure can also negatively affect your sexual performance and can lead to bone loss and trouble sleeping.