 One option is to buy a metal removal product that sits in the skimmer basket for up to one month. This is the first step of most stain removal processes and will help your overall efforts to clean your pool. There are many sizes to choose from that offer various degrees of strength, so if possible, ask a pool professional which kind is best for your situation., This includes chlorinators, metal ionizers, generators, UV systems, and ozone generators. It is best to avoid water contact with pool heaters, chlorine generators and other non-filtration systems that are near your pool during the process of stain removal and heavy chemical treatments., The lower the chlorine level is, the less ascorbic acid you need to clean your pool. You can wait for the chlorine level to drop naturally with rainfall or time, but if time is a factor, you can add sodium thiosulfate to the water, following the manufacturer's instructions.Add an algaecide to the pool water. Be sure to follow the instructions on the product box regarding the method of application and how much you need for your size pool. This prevents algae from growing with lowered chlorine levels.
 Minerals respond best to chemicals, and if you believe your stain is related to metals, or if the suggestions above for organic pool stains do not improve your stain, try ascorbic acid based pool products. If you want to try an easy and effective home method, crush up vitamin C tablets, and rub them against the stain. After a few minutes, check to see if it begins to lighten.Keep in mind that ascorbic acid is best for treating iron stains, while citric acid is best for treating copper stains.

Treat large stains by adding ascorbic acid to the pool water by sprinkling it evenly over the surface of the water. Start by using a 1/2 pound of ascorbic acid per 10,000 gallons of water in the pool.
Set the filter on "circulate" and turn it on. Allow the ascorbic acid to work for a half-hour.
Check the pool to see if the stains are gone. If they're still there, add more ascorbic acid, and let the filter circulate the treatment for another half-hour. Repeat this process until the pool is clean.
 It is important to monitor the pH, alkalinity and hardness levels to their appropriate range which is determined by the size of the pool. You should turn on any automatic chlorinators, chlorine generators, UV systems, and ozone generators. Place a fresh metal eliminator pack in the pool skimmer basket, or a larger metal eliminator pack in the pump basket, to keep metal levels low, and help maintain a stain-free pool throughout the season.