 Forge is a Minecraft mod manager that many of the most popular mods use. Forge needs to be installed first before you start installing mods. You can download Forge at http://files.minecraftforge.net/.;
, This will download a JAR file to install Forge on any operating system. The installer will be for the latest release of Minecraft.


You can download installers for earlier versions of Minecraft by clicking the version buttons on the Forge website. You can check what version of Minecraft you use by starting Minecraft and looking at the window's title bar. The version number will be displayed after "Minecraft."
When a new version of Minecraft is released, many mods are not updated as quickly. You may need to run earlier versions of Minecraft to use certain mods.
 You'll find this in your Downloads folder.
 If you installed Minecraft into a custom directory, you may need to specify it in the installer first., Before proceeding to download and install mods, you'll want to launch Minecraft for a moment to check the Forge installed correctly.


Open the Minecraft Launcher and select "forge" from the Profile menu.
Click "Play" in the Launcher and wait for Forge to load.
Look for the new "Mods" button in the Minecraft main menu.
 Now that Forge is installed, you can begin downloading some mods. Keep in mind that mods can be fickle, and you may run into problems if you install a lot at once. Try to install one or two mods at a time and then slowly add more as necessary, or use different mods for different games. Below are some of the more popular modding sites:


http://www.minecraftmods.com/
https://mods.curse.com/mc-mods/minecraft
http://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/mapping-and-modding/minecraft-mods
http://minecraftsix.com/category/minecraft-mods/

, There are hundreds of different mods available for Minecraft, all of which affect different aspects of the game. There are graphic overhauls, game modes, materials, inventory tweaks, and many more.


The mod will need to support the version of Minecraft you are using and the version of Forge that you have installed.
 If the mod is made for Minecraft Forge, it will download as a single JAR file. If there are multiple versions available, make sure to download the one that matches your version of Minecraft.
 This folder was created when Forge was installed. The process for opening this folder is a little different for each operating system:Windows - Press ⊞ Win+R and type %appdata%. Open the ".minecraft" folder to find the "mods" folder.
Mac - From your desktop press ⌘ Command+⇧ Shift+G and type ~/Library. Open the "Application Support" folder and then ".minecraft" to find the "mods" folder.
Linux - Press Ctrl+Alt+T to open the Terminal, then type xdg-open ~/.minecraft. You'll see the "mods" folder in this directory.
 This is all you need to do to install the mod.
 After installing the mod, you can load it up in Minecraft to test and use it.


Open the Minecraft Launcher.
Select the "forge" profile in the launcher and click "Play."
Click the "Mods" button on the main menu in Minecraft. Verify that your mods are listed.
Start playing the game and test your mod out. Using the mod will vary depending on what the mod is.
 There are many reasons why a mod may not be working. Check each of the following things to see if you can find the problem:


Ensure the mod you installed is for the correct version of Minecraft.
Make sure you don't have too many mods enabled. You can disable mods one by one in the Mods menu to see if you can find the mod causing problems.
Check that the mod file was placed in the correct folder, and that Forge is running the correct version.

