 People on YouTube love looking for gurus who specialize in an area and are a wealth of information to do with the subject. For example, if you want to do fashion and make-up, consider what you know about these already. Do you know enough, do you need to do research, do you think it is an area that you'll stay passionate about for years to come?


It is probably best to focus on what you're passionate about. You'll feel jaded if you're trying to be a guru in an area that you consider popular but hardly has any interest for you personally.;
, If you're going to talk about items, you'll need them to show. Will you borrow them or buy them? Can you source them from cheap stores or suppliers? Do you already own the items? Or, maybe you are going to be a guru on all things intellectual, in which case you'll need good information sources, such as a bookmarked list of websites, Twitter updates from relevant sources and books, etc.
 Learn from people who are already successful in their field of interest on YouTube and have lots of subscribers to their channel. Consider what they're doing right, what you could do better and what you can learn from their styles of presentation. Make notes and follow up when planning your own videos.


If you make friends on YouTube, then you can discuss video ideas and watch their reviews so you can also recommend the product.
 If you're going to be a guru on YouTube, you're going to need a way to post videos, right? Choices include: a camera built into a webcam, laptop, or cell phone, a video option on a digital camera or a digital video camera.
 Planning the videos is essential. You'll probably have all sorts of ideas but they're a jumble until you put them into an outline and plan how you'll present each item and piece of information.


Plan what you'll say, do and show.
Plan how often you'll release videos.
Plan whether you'll offer a mix of information, tutorials, news, stories, etc. or whether you'll always do one style of presentation, etc.

