 There are a great number of websites that offer virtual personal training, as well as mobile apps. While these have a number of similarities, you should be able to narrow them down based on your budget and personal fitness goals.If you know anyone who uses virtual personal training, ask them which site or app they use, and how their experience has been. If your budget, time constraints, and interests are similar to theirs, this can be a good way to find sites or apps that you might like.
Think about the types of exercise that you enjoy, and the equipment you have available. For example, you don't want to hire a virtual running coach if you hate running. Likewise, you don't need to bother with a site that focuses on lifting weights if you don't own a weight bench or other equipment you could use.;
, Determine how much you can afford to spend on virtual personal training services, then figure out how much each site or app will cost you. If prices are not listed up front, move on to another site that is more open about costs.Some services require you to pay a membership fee, then charge per day or per hour for personal training. In those cases, you'll need to think about how often you want to use virtual personal training.
 Virtual personal training sites and apps should have a detailed listing of each of the trainers on their staff, along with their background, training focus, and certifications.Check to ensure that all trainers are accredited by a government or well-respected independent organization. For example, if you are in the United States (or looking for an American trainer), you might look for a personal trainer certified by the American Council on Exercise (ACE).
Virtual trainers ideally will have several years of experience as a personal trainer, as well as experience as a virtual personal trainer. Keep in mind that it can take some time for a trainer to adjust to the differences between training someone online as opposed to in person.
If you have any particular physical or medical conditions, look for trainers who have experience working with people similar to you. Generally, you should look for a site or app that has several trainers who specialize in working with people of similar age, gender, and fitness level to you.
 If you find the website or app that you'll have to use confusing or difficult to navigate, you'll be less likely to get the full benefit of your virtual personal training services. Once you've narrowed down your list, find out if they have a tour.You may be able to look around the site on your own, or the majority of the site may be restricted to members only. If the site offers a trial membership, you may want to consider trying a few of those so you can make a more informed decision about which one you want to use.
Make sure you understand how to access your personal workouts, how to communicate with your trainer, and how to review your progress or results. Take notes about anything that seems confusing or counter-intuitive.
 Before you commit to a particular site or app, you want to have an idea of the type of workout you'll get so you can decide whether it would work for you and you would be likely to keep with it.Most virtual personal training providers have basic sample workouts that you can evaluate or try out for yourself. Keep in mind these won't necessarily be designed specifically for you, so they may not be directly representative of what you would be doing with your personal trainer if you became a member of the site.
Unless you find one and immediately know that it's the one you want, it's generally better to try out sample workouts (or trial memberships) from two or three different sites so you can compare and contrast to find the one you like the best.
 While it is normal for the site or your trainer to have recommendations, some sites are basically sales fronts for vitamin and nutrition supplements and services. If they continue to pressure you to buy things you don't want, you may not wish to work with that particular site or trainer.
 Even though virtual personal trainers are less expensive than live personal training, there's little point in spending the money unless your workouts are going to be designed just for you.The point of personal training is that you get a workout tailored to your needs, fitness level, and goals, rather than the one-size-fits-all approach taken by workout videos.
Personalized workouts also will be adapted to meet your needs and to reflect your personal progress and interests. A good virtual personal trainer will be responsive to your feedback and adjust your workout accordingly.
Ask trainers about how often they make those adjustments. While you may not particularly care to have them change up your workout on a daily basis, they probably should be adjusted at least weekly.
 The success of your relationship with a personal trainer — even a virtual personal trainer — depends on their overall approach to fitness and how they interact with you. A personal trainer should be someone who inspires and motivates you.Only you know what styles best suit you, and how you respond to various training styles. For example, if you respond best to a bootcamp-style, militant and pushy trainer, you don't want to get a virtual personal trainer who has a softer, gentler style.
Don't discount personality. If the trainer doesn't make you feel comfortable and motivated, they probably aren't going to work out for you any better virtually than they would in person. You're not going to be motivated to workout if your personal trainer is someone who gets on your nerves.
If possible, have several phone calls or video conferences with a trainer before you choose them. This enables you to communicate with them directly, hear their voice, and interact with them personally. You also might ask the trainer if you can watch videos they've created for other clients.
 Even though you may have already read a trainer's biography entry on the website or app where they work, there are benefits to hearing about it directly from them.Keep in mind that trainer bios on websites often are relatively short, and may not include everything about the trainer's background that would be relevant to you.
Come armed with specific questions, particularly if you have very specific goals or issues that you want to address. Determine what makes you different or unique, and ask the trainer how they respond to those differences and if they have any experience dealing with clients like you.
For example, if you have difficulty communicating and understanding nuance due to developmental delays or a mental disorder, a trainer's communication methods may be more important to you than anything else.
 An experienced trainer typically will have a roster of current and former clients who have indicated they are willing to provide a reference. Ask the trainer for names and contact information, if possible, so you can speak to these people directly.While a trainer may have collected written comments or references, it's generally better if you can talk to the person directly. You can ask questions that are relevant to you, as well as find out that person's background.
Even though someone may have had a wonderful experience with the trainer, their experience may not be relevant to you if they are drastically different from you, or if they have different fitness goals. For example, a positive reference from a middle-aged professional man may not carry much weight if you are a 20-year-old female college student.
 A personal trainer at a gym would ask detailed questions about your fitness background, health, and medical history. A virtual personal trainer should be no different.Typically you'll be given a lengthy questionnaire. It's important to be honest, even if the true answer to some of the questions embarrasses you. The trainer won't be able to customize your workouts appropriately unless they know as much information about you as possible.
If there is information about you that isn't revealed through the questions asked, but which you think is relevant to your training, be sure to include that information. For example, if you need steps to be written down because you have difficulty following oral instructions, you should make sure your trainer is aware of that.
 In many ways, a virtual personal training relationship is like any long-distance relationship. You need to put a lot more effort into communication if you want the relationship to be beneficial and long-lasting.Find out from your virtual personal trainer the best ways to communicate with them, and make sure you check in directly at least once a week. Let them know what aspects of the workout you enjoy, which things you find challenging, and if there's anything you dread or that you didn't enjoy.
Be honest about what you've been doing and when, especially if you're using taped sessions rather than working with your trainer in real time.
Include any other information that is relevant to your training and overall fitness. This may include personal issues or setbacks. For example, if you're a college student and have an important exam coming up that's stressing you out, this is something your virtual personal trainer needs to know so they can adjust your workouts accordingly.
 Your virtual personal trainer isn't going to know what's working for you and what isn't unless you tell them. Something that might be obvious if you were working out with them in the same room may not be apparent online.If there's a particular exercise that's giving you difficulty, explain your problem in detail. There may be an issue with your form or technique that needs to be corrected, but your virtual personal trainer cannot provide you that guidance unless they know there's a problem.
Let your virtual personal trainer know as soon as possible if there's a particular exercise that is painful for you, or that you had to stop due to pain or immense discomfort. This is something they will want to modify or adjust for immediately.
 When you're training with someone live in a gym, they are going to hold you accountable for showing up and putting in the effort. However, with virtual personal training you'll have more responsibility for that yourself.Using virtual personal training may require more discipline and self-motivation than using a live personal trainer at a gym. If you don't have the appropriate level of discipline, you won't get as much benefit from virtual personal training.
You're not going to be able to lean on your virtual personal trainer as much to keep you on track. You have to come into the relationship with a serious mindset and intent on improving your fitness.

