 Over-the-counter pain relievers such as aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen can help to relieve pain associated with runner’s knee. Make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.Ibuprofen can be helpful for joint pain because it is an NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug). Ibuprofen can help to reduce some of the inflammation in your knee as well as numb the pain.Talk to your doctor if you are not sure about how much to take.
 A knee brace can help to prevent further knee injury by keeping your knees aligned. Wearing a knee brace may help to protect you against future knee sprains.You can purchase knee braces in sports stores, but you may also have a custom knee brace made for you by an orthotist for a better fit.Your orthotist or doctor can advise you about how long you need to wear the knee brace each day, but you can also see if wearing the brace more often is helpful. You may find that wearing a knee brace at all times is helpful or you may only need to wear it when you are active.Keep in mind that a knee brace alone will not get rid of knee pain. You will need to use a knee brace as part of a rehabilitative plan that includes specific exercises, stretches, and modifications to your running technique., If you have flat feet or high arches, then your knee pain may due to insufficient arch support. You can buy some arch supports for your running shoes in a drug store. If you want to get some professionally made arch supports instead, then you can see a podiatrist for custom insoles or talk to a physical therapist about getting a pair of custom-made orthotics.If you are fitted for custom insoles, then follow your doctor's instructions for how often to wear these. You may need to wear them at all times or just when you are running.
 Warming up and cooling down are important for reducing sports-related injuries. Make sure that all of your workouts include at least a five minute warm-up and cool-down.


To warm up and cool down, do about five to 10 minutes of low intensity exercise. For example, if you are about to go for a run, then warm up with a five minute walk and then cool down with another five minute walk.
You can also include some gentle stretching in your warm ups and cool downs.