 This requires very little time, and it looks very pretty. All you need is two hair-ties, a brush, and a doughnut form accessory. If you do not have a doughnut form accessory, you can use a sock.


Make your own doughnut bun with a large, stretchy tube sock. Cut off one inch at the end of the sock, and roll it up. Then, roll the sock down toward the bottom edge so that it forms a doughnut shape. It should be rolled tight and be even all the way around.
You can find doughnut forms in the hair accessories section of most drugstores. They are sold in blonde, brown, and black colors so you can find one that best matches your hair.
 Doughnut buns look good high or low, so the height of your ponytail is up to you. Be sure to smooth out the hair on your head, and make the ponytail tight.


Use a fine tooth comb to help smooth out your hair into the elastic. If you prefer a looser, messier look, then do not pull your hair back as tight.
Consider spraying your hair with some hair spray to help hold your hair in place, and smooth it down.
 Start by pulling your ponytail through the form or sock hole. Bring it all the way down to your hair tie, and make sure all of the hair from your pony tail is pulled through. Brush your hair out again if needed., Start by pulling your ponytail up, and letting it fall evenly around the form. You should not be able to see the form peaking out through any hair gaps. Once you have fully covered the form, wrap the ends of your hair around the form, twisting all of your hair in the same direction. The ends of your hair will create a hair ring around the base of your bun.If you find it hard to completely cover the form or sock, try using a smaller doughnut accessory that your hair will more easily cover., As your hair is in place over the form, completely covering it, carefully place another elastic over the bun, and let it sit around the base. This is meant to hold your hair neatly over the bun accessory.
 The ends of your hair that are left sticking out need to be wrapped around the bun. Start by dividing it into two parts. Twirl each part around the base of your bun going in opposite directions. The goal is to create an even hair ring around the bun.
 Once you have the ends of your hair placed neatly around your bun, pin them in place. You will need about three to five bobby pins depending on your hair type. Push the pins into either the doughnut form, or just beneath the sock. Be sure that the bun is tightly secured with pins before you finish., This look should have no problem making it through the day. For extra hold, add hairspray, and bring extra bobby pins with you in case you need them later.

