 Attitude is extremely important. Be happy with who you are at school and with everyone around you, it is important. Don't act happily oblivious to other people's emotions. What's worse, is the other way around, people who always act "happy", they tend to get very annoying. Being happy with who you are is never annoying, as long as you don't brag.;
,, Things like developing a personal style of clothing, music, etc.
 Fads can be great opportunities for clothing originality. If there's a fad at your school, it's fine to follow it, but change it slightly, enough to make it your own style. You may even start a new fad! Consider designing (if you're artistic) your own clothes. If you're low on budget, try going to a second-hand shop or even the thrift store. Often they get surplus straight from department stores, at a much cheaper price. Remember, even the ugliest of clothing can become dazzling if you have a particularly artistic eye. It is also important to remember that looking great and being great are not the same thing. You can dress in a way that some people think is a bit boring if you want, and still be great. The important thing is to dress how you are happiest. If you are not obsessed with your appearance, great, if you love to look your idea of awesome, that's great too.
 Being great at school means being willing to try new things. Try going to a few concerts if you can afford it, if you are on a budget, go to amateur performances.
 Probably nobody likes school at all, but if you make it work for you, it will be boring but fun.
 Buy a planner to list your assignments, projects, tests, and even chores. Do your homework in class and when you get home, and when you're sick, at least know what assignments you missed. Even if you aren't the brightest in the class, if you turn in everything well done and on time, you will be respected.
 Have at least three people in each class who you can call if you missed an assignment, need help, etc. Being friends with your teacher will help, because if you missed an assignment, sometimes you can persuade them to 'see things your way' etc.
 Remember, doing well in school is actually important, but it's not the end of the world if you miss an assignment or two.
 Things like doing your favorite sport, a favorite elective, etc, can make school more enjoyable and fun.

