 Body image, both positive and negative, is shaped by a number of different factors and experiences. Most immediately, comments you hear from people you know about their own, or other people’s bodies, will influence how you think of your own body. The ideas that we ourselves develop about physical appearance, and how we compare ourselves to others, also have a major impact. Other contributory factors include:


Exposure to images of idealised physiques, as opposed to more normal bodies.
Any experiences of physical, emotional, or sexual abuse.
Experiences of prejudice or discrimination based on ability, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion, gender identity.
A range of sensory experiences, including pleasure, pain, and illness., The typical image of a “ripped” man, with 6-pack abs and highly muscular yet lean physique is reproduced everywhere from advertising to action figures. This image of masculinity does necessarily represent an achievable reality for everybody, no matter how much they work out. It is physiologically impossible to gain unlimited pounds of muscle mass while maintaining a lean physique.


Once you reach your optimal muscle mass, any further weight gain will be from fat as well as muscle.Men who are bigger, with larger muscle mass, do tend to have higher body fat percentages too.It may seem like attaining an idealised version of your body just takes hard work and commitment, but genetics are also a major influence.
You can be fit, strong and healthy without looking like a fitness model or action figure., A negative body image is increasingly prevalent amongst men, and research suggests that body anxiety can have significantly harmful effects beyond self-esteem and image. In particular, research has shown that a negative body image can impact a man’s sexual well-being. In some cases it was considered a contributory factor to more aggressive and risky sexual behaviour.A heightened concern about body image and being insufficiently muscular has also been found to put people at greater risk of dangerous practices to alter their bodies.
Things such as extreme dieting, compulsive exercise, steroid abuse, and laxative abuse have all been linked with body image anxieties.