 Your horse is sensitive to your emotional state. She'll be quick to pick up on your irritability or frustration. If you've decided that your horse is difficult, then she will be. Instead, approach your horse with a feeling of optimism and trust. This will increase the chances that she'll respond in the same way!


Talk to your horse frequently, whenever you're in the pen. Give her a nickname that describes the best way she can be, rather than focusing on her more difficult qualities.Remember that a relationship, whether with a horse or with a person, always has two partners. Knowing your own weaknesses as a trainer will help you from blaming your horse for behaviors which are yours.
Spending more time with your horse will help develop a positive relationship. Hang out with your horse, even if you're just reading a book in her stall, or cleaning the barn nearby. She should get used to your presence, and associate it with good things. Talk to your horse frequently and reassuringly.
 When talking with your horse, your voice should always be kind and positive. Never shout at your horse in an angry voice.Communication happens verbally and nonverbally. All communication with your horse should be kind. An violent yank on a halter, or a jerk on the reins, communicates angrily to your horse. This erodes trust, and should be avoided.
Make sure your communication with your horse is clear, concise and consistent.
Good grooming for your horse provides a daily opportunity to bond. Brushing your horse, caring for her hooves, combing her mane are all opportunities to practice positive communication.
 Developing consistent patterns of behavior will help increase your horse's ability to trust you. If you're predictable to your horse, your horse will be more likely to trust you.Pay attention to the praise you offer your horse. Is your praise being consistently directed? Or are you more often praising your horse based on your own good mood? If you are directing corrections to your horse, does it make sense to your horse?
Make sure you're using consistent directions when asking your horse to do something. Remember, even though your horse may be learning to respond to your commands, your horse does not - and never will! - be fluent in spoken language! Use consistent commands, both verbal and nonverbal, to get consistent results.
 Even the best trainers can sometimes get stuck. Sometimes the most effective way to work through a situation with a head shy horse can be to ask a friend, another trainer, or a professional instructor for help. Another person may be able to see a pattern that we couldn't.There are support groups for horse owners. Many horse owners will have come across the same challenges you face, and they're eager to share their experience. Search online for local area groups, or participate in online groups. Ask at your local stables or horse clubs.
Volunteer to help others. It's easier to have a clear perspective on situations you're not emotionally involved in. Helping another horse owner with their situation may result in fresh insights regarding your own pattern of behavior with your horse.

