;
, Each is marked with an asterisk (*).

The dossifier or proportioner which lets chlorine into the system is labelled filter and is just below the water tank in the vertical run of pipe.
The tee, drain pipe, and drain tap (drain valve) are the other components you will be adding.
, Your chlorine dosifier is just an add-on to what you already have, so your supplies will have to match the specifications of your existing tubing and fittings. To add some bleach to the water in your water tank, you will need access to the system and you'll achieve this by using a water filter with the filter cartridge removed.
 To have room to add the bleach, you will need to drain some water. For this, you need a tee joint, some length of tubing and a tap placed on the drain pipe. (See sketch with labeled items.)
, The filter should be at elbow height for ease of use. Take utmost care when cutting the vertical water tank line: You have to take into account the length of the filter itself. Determine it with some spare useless length of tubing. Wear working gloves and tighten the fittings using curved pliers or a special spanner., Follow the same procedure and precautions as with the filter., Place the tap anywhere that is handy. As the drain pipe has a free end, there is no need to take care with the measurements., The normal setup to supply water to the tank is: Main Tap open, Drain Tap closed and Filter Cap threaded tightly on. - The moment there is some pressure, the water will flow into the tank.
 The setup to start draining is: Main Tap closed, Drain Tap open and Filter Cap still tightly on., Ensure that almost no water is flowing from the drain pipe and then carefully unscrew the filter tap. This way you'll avoid getting wetted by the water contained in the pipe above the filter.
 The setup for adding bleach is: Main Tap closed, Drain Tap closed and Filter Cap off. The fill line for the tank should be drained almost completely. Pour in a sensible amount of bleach, bearing in mind the capacity of your water tank and the concentration of chlorine in the bleach you’re using.


Screw the filter cap tightly back on and open the main valve (Tap A).
The incoming water flow will push the bleach into the water tank where it will get distributed through into the water making the water, if not drinkable, at least germ-free and safe.






 Notice the water tank housing on the right of the picture


The above picture shows the water tank on the roof (at the right).
The other elements that are barely mentioned in the project are shown below: The water tap (faucet) and sinks.







