 There are several functions on the calculator that will be essential for Algebra, Trigonometry, Geometry, Calculus, and more. Find the following functions on your calculator (the labels may vary). Some functions may require you to press the Fn or Shift button to access them:


Basic OperationsOperation
Function


 +
 Addition


 -
 Subtraction (not negative)


 x
 Multiplication (There is often an x key for variables as well)


 ÷
 Division


 ^
 Raise to the power of


 yx

 y to the power of x


 √ or Sqrt
 Square root


 ex

 Exponential


 sin
 Sine function


 sin-1

 Inverse sine function


 cos
 Cosine function


 cos-1

 Inverse cosine function


 tan
 Tangent function


 tan-1

 Inverse tangent function


 ln
 Log to the base of e



 log
 Log base 10


 (-) or neg
 Denotes negative number


 ()
 Parentheses for denoting order of operations


 π
 Inserts pi


 Mode
 Switches between degrees and radians

;
, For a lot of the function keys, you will be performing them on numbers you input. Some calculators will perform the function on a number you've already entered, while others will perform it on the next number that is entered., Test out the button order on an easy and quick problem. For example, try taking the square root of 9. You should already know that the answer will be three, so this is a great tip to use in the middle of a test if you forget which order you're supposed to be pressing buttons.

Press 9 and then the checkmark key. If nothing happens, press the checkmark key and then press 9.
Some calculators will add parentheses to the calculation, such as √(3. You will need to add the closing parenthesis ) before completing the calculation.
You may have to press the equals key to see the results.
 Another good test for button order is using the yx function. Since it involves two numbers, you'll want to ensure you know which order they go in. Try performing a simple test, such as 23. If you get 8 as the answer, then you did it in the right order. If you got 9, then you actually did 32., When you are using the SIN, COS, or TAN functions, you will have to keep in mind two different things: the order of the button presses, and radians versus degrees.

Perform a simple SIN function with an easy to remember answer. For example, the sine of 30° is 0.5. Determine if you need to enter 30 first or press sin first.
Check your answer. If you get 0.5, then your calculator is set to display in degrees. If your answer is -.988, then your calculator is set to radians. Look for the Mode button to switch.
 Things can get a bit more complicated when you start entering longer equations into your calculator. You will need to take order into consideration, and will often make use of the () keys. Try entering the following equation into your calculator: 3^4/(3+(25/3+4*(-(1^2))))

Note how many parentheses are necessary to keep the formula intact. Proper parentheses use is essential to successfully using the calculator

, Saving your results and pulling them back later is an essential skill for dealing with longer problems. There are a couple of different ways to use stored information:

Use the Answer key to recall the last displayed answer to an equation. For example, if you just entered 2^4, you could subtract 10 from that result by pressing ANS + - + 1 + 0.
Use the M+ or STO (Store) keys to add values to the calculator memory. You can then use the REC or MR keys to recall that value from the memory for use in an equation.