 Make a pot of chili with everything except the meat, then divide it in half and the meat-eater can add their meat while the vegetarian/vegan adds something else, or eats it as is. This can be done with many soups, sauces, and "one-pot meals".
 When choosing a restaurant, your meat-eating family and friends may become overly concerned that "we can't eat there" because they think there will be nothing for you at a particular place. Show them you're a good sport once in a while by telling them you can find something anywhere. Every place has salads, pastas, and side dishes in some forms, and you can ask the waitress to do whatever you need once you're inside. Even if that meal wasn't fantastic, smile and say it was fine afterwards if asked, and decide in your own mind if you'll skip that place next time or go there again.
 Most Chinese restaurants can make any meat dish with tofu instead. A Mexican cook can replace meat with beans for you. Some things are not always on the menu, for example, ask if a place has veggie burgers, then choose any style of burger and have it made as a veggie burger, or have it chopped and put over a fantastic salad that normally has chicken on it.
 When at a restaurant, undoubtedly the meat eaters who care about you will start telling you what you can eat (eg: "ooh, look! You can have a baked potato!"). This can be annoying, but rather than point out that you are not 3 years old and you can read a menu for yourself, just say, "Thanks, I got it". If you're close enough to joke with them, point out something they can eat, too, and maybe they'll get the hint that you are capable of choosing your own food.
 Open their palates to food from other cultures by giving them a vegetarian/vegan meal that is delicious and filling, and leaves them smiling. They'll soon stop asking, "What do you eat?" if you give them great examples. Maybe they'll start to enjoy a Meatless Monday where you're the chef. They'll appreciate your knowledge more, and start to respect you and your decision.

