 Perhaps this person reminds you of another person who hurt you before. They might look like that person, act like that person, or have similar hobbies as that person. If you feel like you’re reminded of someone who’s hurt you through your partner’s creepy friend, recognize that this may have more to do with you than them. Cope with your triggers around the friend by relaxing, detaching, and taking a few deep breaths to calm down.If you’ve been traumatized and have not dealt with the trauma, consider working with a therapist. Through therapy, you can gain self-awareness, and learn to develop skills to cope and move past the trauma. Even if you don’t like your partner’s friend, you can begin to be around them without feeling threatened or scared.
 If the person says something you dislike, ask yourself if you’re taking their words personally. Perhaps you can put a positive spin on something you originally interpreted as weird or inappropriate. Putting a positive spin on something makes you more likely to cope better with the words or actions.For example, if the person comments negatively about something you’ve expressed positively, write it off as them sharing their opinion, even if it felt inappropriate. Reassure yourself that it’s okay for others to share their opinions.
 It’s possible that the person is unaware that their behavior is making you uncomfortable, or that your discomfort stems from a cultural misunderstanding. If you are in doubt about their motives, try talking to them in order to get a better understanding of their point of view.

At the same time, stand your ground. Try to understand their perspective, but be firm about setting boundaries.
 You may be quick to come up with things you do not like about this person, but try to earnestly think of some things that you might grow to like about them. Find if there is anything you have in common which can bring you together on one point. Finding something in common can make them feel less threatening.For example, you might both enjoy dogs and find a way to connect over having a dog.
 If you just can’t seem to connect with this person, commit to at least treating the person with respect and politeness. You may not get along, but this person is your partner’s friend, so make an effort not to start something that might affect the person and your relationship.If you find yourself needing to speak to them, keep it polite, cordial, and simple. Keep your interactions brief and pleasant.
 If this person makes you truly uncomfortable, opt to not spend time with them. If your partner invites them over, get out of the house. If they are at an event, don’t go out of your way to speak with them. Do your best to keep interactions brief or non-existent.Ask your partner to let you know when this person will be around. Then, make an effort to do something else or go somewhere on your own.
 If the person makes you feel physically uncomfortable, find safety. For example, if you find the two of you alone together, move to a location with other people. If they are physically too close to you and you feel violated, move away to a place you feel safe or have more space.Seek out your partner or other friends nearby to connect with people who make you feel safe.
 If your partner’s friend speaks inappropriately to you or touches you in a way that feels invasive, speak up. Let them know that you feel uncomfortable. Set firm boundaries so that they know what behavior is unacceptable. If you need to speak up to stop feeling uncomfortable, do so.For example, say, “Please do not touch me, it makes me feel uncomfortable.”
If the person says inappropriate things to you or around you, say, “I don’t like when you speak that way and it makes me feel uncomfortable. Please don’t say those things around me.”

