 Most gardenia varieties thrive in places with high humidity and plenty of rainfall, like the Southeastern US. Certain hardy varieties can make it through the winter with some protection, and others are suitable for growing in pots and bringing indoors when the temperature gets cold.Varieties suitable for outdoor planting in humid climates include Golden Magic, Aimee, August Beauty, Miami Supreme, and Mystery.
Varieties hardy enough to withstand colder temperatures include Chuck Hayes, Klein’s Hardy, Grif’s Select, and Shooting Star
Varieties that do well in pots that are brought inside in the winter include White Gem, Veitchii, Radicans, and Kimura Shikazaki.;
, Gardenias need full sun to light shade. Choose a spot that's high in the yard and not too close to other shrubs and trees, so the roots don't get crowded. If you can, plant the gardenia in close range to a window or porch so that you'll be able to enjoy its sweet scent when it blooms.


In very hot parts of the southern US gardenias like morning sun and afternoon shade if possible. In cooler areas they will do well in full sun.
 Gardenias require acidic soil with a pH between 5 and 6. If you're not sure about your soil's pH level, get a soil testing kit and find out. Soil that's close to concrete edging and paths tends to be more acidic than soil in other spots. If the soil's pH is over 6, you'll need to amend it before planting your gardenia.
 If your soil has a high pH and low nutrient content, amend it by mixing in sulphur and compost. Use a tiller or a garden hoe to till the soil to the depth of 12 inches (30.5 cm) and work in the materials to distribute them evenly. Test the soil again to make sure the pH level is correct before planting., If you live in a warm climate, it's fine to plant the gardenia in either the spring or the fall. If you live in a colder climate, plant in the spring so the gardenia has time to stabilize before the cold snap comes. The gardenia will produce blooms when the weather warms.

