 Apolitical people are often unaware of the procedural aspects of voting. They might not know how or when to register or think it puts them at risk of being arrested (it doesn’t). When a voter is registered, they feel more like they’re a part of the political process, which in turn encourages them to cast a vote.If you want to know how voter registration works in your state, simply go to https://vote.usa.gov/, and indicate which state in which you would like to vote. The website will take you to the appropriate state website, where you can register online if your state allows. If you can register online, you can register your friend to vote without even leaving your house.
Make sure that you register them within the deadline, which is usually 15-30 days before an election, although some states have Election Day voter registration. You can see a list of deadlines at https://www.usa.gov/voter-registration-deadlines.;
, A lot of nonvoters simply forget about Election Day. Even if they realize it the day of, they may have already made other plans. Make sure they know about the date, and if they think anything might conflict with voting, have them cast an absentee ballot. Election Day 2016 is on Tuesday, November 8th.
The easiest way to request an absentee ballot is by going to a website like https://www.usvotefoundation.org/ or https://www.vote.org/. Just enter your address and they’ll email you an absentee ballot application for your state, provide the proper return address and along with any deadlines associated with getting your ballot in on time.
 It would be illegal to actually pay a friend or acquaintance to go and vote, so don’t do that. However, the next time your nonvoting friend asks you for a small favor, make a deal with them. Condition the deal on them casting a ballot, no matter who it’s for.


For instance, if your friend asks you to give him a ride to the store, say “Sure. But you’ve got to do me a favor as well. Go vote. It doesn’t matter who you vote for, just vote. “

, The government touches everyone’s lives in more ways than one, and everyone has an opinion about how the government should handle various issues—even if they don’t realize it. Use that to your advantage when you’re encouraging a friend to vote.A lot of nonvoters have a very hazy understanding of what the government does and what levels of government carry out which functions. But almost everyone cares about what happens in their own communities. A great deal of the everyday functions of government are carried out by local officials like school board members and city councilors. These are among the easiest elections to influence, because the electorates are so small.
 Fear is an excellent motivator, and voting is no exception. If you can’t get your targets to vote for a positive vision of the future, convince them to vote against a vision of impending doom.


You don’t have to be dishonest to do this. Powerful officials like the President are often called up to make a decision where there will be a winner and a loser no matter which choice they make. The outcomes of these decisions (such as where to render food aid, and when to come to the defense of the powerless), often have life and death consequences.
Even local officials have a great deal of power over the day to day lives of citizens in their jurisdictions. Sheriff's departments decide which laws to enforce first, judges hold the power to deprive people of life and liberty, and school board members have a great deal of control of the local education system.

