 If you haven't already done so, open the USPS website and sign in to your account. Hover over the Mail & Ship bar and click the "Print & Ship" option from the top of the options that come up. This page can be directly accessed (after you log in) by accessing this page.


If you receive the "Add a New Address Book" page, don't worry. Add a new entry for the user, such as the return address. Print & Ship needs to keep one address that has been verified on file with your account to ensure a forwarding address can always be determined for re-routing should problems occur. (With the exception of your payment information, nothing with Print & Ship is ever completely confidential.)

With a few taps of a button, you can later enter a new address without saving the address book, but there must always be one address on file in your USPS.com address book at all times.

;
, If this address is incorrect, click the Edit and make the changes. You can later choose to save this address as a new contact or to just use this different address just once by clicking the "Save this to my address book" checkbox.


Understand that the zipcode that you are shipping from must be the same as the one on the label you'll later be printing. Click the "I'm shipping from another ZIP Code™" if this is the case, supply the information of the other zipcode and continue.
 You can also choose to save this address too as a separate entry.
 This is also mandatory and will correspond with the date it will reach into the mailstream at the post office you chose earlier on the page.
 If you have one of the two types (envelopes or boxes) the USPS has for free (in either Priority or Express) you can choose the Flat Rate, or if you are using your own or the boxes aren't labeled as being Flat Rate, you must click the checkbox to the left of the Enter package weight.


Enter the package weight in the boxes provided on the USPS screen. Use a digital scale that can give you parts of the pound down to the nearest tenth of a pound (though hundredth would be even better).
,, Click the checkbox to the left of the box that matches your envelope or box the best.
 Delivery confirmation is always free (as opposed to an extra payment when mailed directly from post office only), and Signature confirmation is fairly reduced in price (as opposed to when mailed directly at post office).
, If anything is inaccurate in each of the area boxes, click the edit link to the left of the shipping address on that line.
 Click the checkbox to the left of the huge paragraph below your order total.
 If you have a PayPal account, you can choose the PayPal option and pay with PayPal.
