 Before you can get started making your marble maze, you will need to collect the materials. Having everything gathered can make the process easier, more fun, and will help you notice if anything is missing. To make the marble maze, you will need these following things:Cardboard box or sheet.
Plastic, flexible drinking straws.
Some kind of glue.
A marble.
Scissors.;
, It can be a good idea to think of the maze layout before actually building it. Planning the maze out before hand can let you know if it will make sense, be to easy or be too difficult. Have fun drawing out a few different maze plans and see which one you like the best.You can build your maze to be as complex or as simple as you would like.
You can add as many pathways or dead ends as you want.
There should be at least one path for your marble to take.
Most of the lines in your maze will be straight.
Make sure each pathway in your maze is wide enough to allow a marble to pass through it.
You can use the flexible parts of the straws to act as curved lines or corners.
It can help to plan your start and end points before adding in your layout.
 Once you've decided on the maze layout you like the most, you can begin to draw it on the base of your maze. Having the layout drawn in pencil can help you get a feel for how it will look and function when you add the straws. If everything is to your liking, you can prepare the straws and start building the maze.


You can use a piece of cardboard for a simple maze base.
A flat piece of wood could also be used as a maze base.
You could use a small box to build your maze on.
Any flat surface that you can glue straws onto will serve as a maze base.
Make sure there aren't any bumps or bulges in the maze base, unless you want to add extra challenges to your maze.
 You will need a length of straw for every line in your maze. If you have corners in your maze, you might want to use the flexible section of bendable straws to create them. Once you've cut out a piece of straw for each line in your maze, you can begin to build the maze itself. Don't worry if a straw is too long, you can always trim it before you glue it down.
You can also cut straws one at a time, gluing them down as you go.
 After you've cut your straws to length and have your maze laid out, you can start to glue the straws down. Gluing the straws in place will help form the walls of your maze, confining the marble to the paths you've created. Take your time and make sure each straw is right where you want it to be.Allow the glue plenty of time to dry before using the maze.
It may be difficult to remove the straws after you've glued them down. Make sure the maze is how you want it before sticking the straws to the maze base.
If your maze base doesn't have any walls, you might add straws around the edge of the maze to keep the marble contained.
 Now that you have built the maze walls using the straws, you can label the start and end points. Having the start and end points of the maze labeled can help others know how to properly navigate the maze. This will allow you and your friends to enjoy the challenge of your maze together.Try using different symbols or words for the start and end of the maze.
If you don't have room to write the words “start” and “end”, you could draw a simple shape instead. For example, a small square might indicate the start point of the maze, while a circle marks the end.
You can try adding other markings to indicate “danger zones”. If the marble touches one of these marks, you have to start the maze over again.
 Once you've built the maze, all that's left to do is have fun playing with it. Put the marble on your start point, pick the maze up, and tilt the maze to make the marble move. Have fun trying to get the marble from one end of the maze to the other.Try adding new challenges. For example, you might see who can find the fastest way through the maze.
You could try adding another marble to the maze. This marble must be avoided as you navigate your own marble through the maze. If the marbles touch, you have to start over.

