 This ball will not travel as fast, but if you are just learning how to play ping pong, it is important you can do this first. Hit the ball near its equator, which is the line just through the exact center of the ball.
Make sure you hit it with your racket at a 90 degree angle to the ball.
The ball will travel forwards and have little to no spin.;
, You can do this after you have mastered a serve with out a spin. Brush your racket on the ball as you serve. This is rubbing the ball slightly as you hit it. The direction of your brush will put a different spin on the ball.
Spin is imparted onto a ball by using a tangential brushing action with your racket.
Do this with your racket at less than a 90 degree angle.
Use an upwards, downwards, or sideways movement.
The faster a racket brushes a ping pong ball, the faster it will spin.
The ball will spin faster and travel less distance with a good brush.
Using paddles or rackets with reverse rubbers can help you impart more spin on the ball, instead of using pimpled or anti-spin rubbers.
 There are three main types of spins in ping pong and each has their own technique during a serve. Topspin is produced by starting your stroke below the ball and brushing the racket on the ball in an upwards and forwards motion.
Backspin is made by starting your stroke above the ball and brushing the racket against the ball in a downwards and forwards motion.
Sidespin is produced by brushing your racket in a sideways motion as you hit the ball.
 Using different types of spin have different effects during a pin pong game. When you put topspin on a ball it increases the downwards pressure on the ball, so it will stay low after it hits the table. When this hits the opponents racket, the ball will rebound in an upward direction.
When you impart backspin onto a ball, it will bounce up more after it hits the table and not go as far forwards.
When a ball from backspin stroke makes contact with the other player’s racket, the ball rebounds in a downwards direction.
When you put side spin on a ball, it will bounce off your opponents racket in the same direction your racket was travelling when you hit the ball. For example, if you brushed left, the ball will rebound to the left.

