 Once you are diagnosed with asthma, create an asthma action plan with your allergist or physician. This plan is basically a step-by-step process of what to do when you face an acute attack. The plan should be written down and include emergency phone numbers as well as those of family and friends who can meet you at the hospital if needed.When you get the diagnosis, consult with your doctor to identify your particular symptoms of worsening asthma and what you should do when they flare up (e.g. take medication, go to the emergency room, etc).Make sure you know how to use your rescue inhalers.
Write this plan down and keep it with you at all times.
 In general, note that prevention of symptoms is the best way to manage and treat asthma. If you know what situations trigger your asthma attacks (such as being around furry animals or extremely hot or cold weather), then try to avoid these when possible., There are two different type of rescue medications that you may have been prescribed your doctor, a Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI) or a Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI).


MDIs the are most common inhalers. They deliver asthma medication through a small aerosol canister equipped with a chemical propellant that pushes the medication into the lungs. An MDI can be used alone or with a breathing chamber ("spacer") that separates your mouth from the inhaler, and which can allow you to breathe normally to receive the medication and help the medication get into the lungs more efficiently.
A DPI inhaler means of delivering dry powder asthma rescue medication without propellant. Brand names of DPI medications include Flovent, Serevent, or Advair. A DPI requires you to breathe in quickly and deeply, which makes them difficult to use during an asthma attack. This makes them less popular than the standard MDIs.Whichever you have been prescribed, make sure you are always carrying it with you.
 Note that when suffering an asthma attack, you only want to use an MDI filled with the rescue medication, bronchodilators (such as albuterol) , and not corticosteroids or long-acting beta-2 agonist bronchodilators. Shake the inhaler for five seconds to mix the medication in the canister. Before using the inhaler, push out as much air in the lungs as you can.
Lift your chin and seal your lips around the air chamber or the end of the inhaler.
Using an air chamber, you would breathe normally and slowly to get the medication. Using the inhaler, start to breathe in and press the inhaler once.
Keep breathing in until you can’t get in any more air.
Hold your breath for 10 seconds and repeat at least one time, but often more, allowing at least one minute between uses. Always follow the instructions on your asthma plan.
 DPIs vary consistently from manufacturer to manufacturer, so care should be taken in reading the instructions before using.


Breathe out as much air as possible.
Seal your lips around the DPI and breathe in strongly until your lungs are full.
Hold your breath for 10 seconds.
Remove the DPI from your mouth and exhale slowly.
If more than one dose is prescribed, repeat after one minute has passed.
 If your asthma symptoms worsen even after taking your medication, you may need to get emergency medical assistance. If you can call emergency services, you should do so. However, if your breathing is too labored and you cannot speak clearly, you may need someone to call for you, such as a friend or family member nearby or a passersby.A good action plan will include the local number for emergency services. In addition, your doctor will have helped you identify when your symptoms are becoming more severe and when you are entering an emergency situation so that you'll know when to get help. Call your local emergency number if your attack is not significantly relieved by your rescue inhaler in several minutes.
 Sit and rest while emergency personnel are coming to your aid. Some asthmatics find sitting in the "tripod" position—leaning forward with their hands on their knees—to be helpful because it can relieve pressure on the diaphragm.


Try to stay calm. Becoming anxious can increase your symptoms.
Ask someone in the vicinity to sit with you to help you stay calm until emergency help arrives.

