 A well-trained dog is unlikely to break the perimeter set by an electric fence. However, an electric fence does not physically prevent a dog from leaving your yard. Moreover, electric fences are not appropriate for all dogs, as they may cause anxiety for some.For instance, if your dog is angered by another dog walking by and decides to pursue them, they may ignore the brief jolt their collar gives them when they cross the electric fence.
If a fence is improperly set up or used on an animal with a low pain tolerance or one that is prone to anxiety, the shock experienced when crossing the fence boundary may foster an overall fear of the fence in the dog.
Further, electric fences do not prevent anything from entering into your yard. This could leave your dog vulnerable to attack from another animal, and may create liability if someone enters your property and is bitten by your dog.
 Use an invisible electric fence to create a zone in which your dog is free to move with neither the expense nor the visual consequence of a traditional fence. Your dog will also need to wear an electronic collar that serves two purposes. First, the collar plays an warning tone that your dog will hear whenever they near the perimeter. Second, the collar will shock them with a harmless but bothersome electric current if they attempt to cross the invisible fence. There are many benefits to such a system.


They are quite affordable, and will almost always cost less than a traditional, tangible fence.
They are quickly and easily installed in a few hours.
Training for your dog will likely be quick and effective as well.
You have several different types to chose from, with the main difference being the use of a buried wire or a wireless system.
 An electric fence that relies on a buried wire to establish the boundaries of your dog’s safe zone is especially easy to customize. For instance, you can establish exact, specific areas within your yard that are off limits, such as a pool or flower beds.These systems also have greater range, and can be used to establish a safe zone up to 100 acres in size.
Costs range from $165 to $320.Setup is quite simple. It involves burying a continuous circuit of wire around the perimeter of your yard. To do so, use a flat spade to dig a 3in (8cm) trench wherever you want to lay the wire. This can usually be completed in one or two days.
Your transmitter (which keeps track of where your dog is relative to the fence) will usually be stored inside, near a power source.
 Another type of electric fence does not require you to bury a wire around the safe zone you wish to create for your dog. However, the range of these systems is more limited, and is based on a radio signal that reaches a certain distance from a centrally located transmitter to determine the perimeter.Advantages associated with this type of electric fence include an extremely easy installation, and the ability to move the system with ease - even for a vacation.
However, this type of system is limited to a circular safe zone, usually extending about 90 ft from the transmitter in all directions. As such, these systems are most appropriate for smaller yards.
Costs range from $220 to $350., Electric fences do work for a lot of people’s dogs. However, training is vitally important for your fence to work. To help during training, use yard flags or another clear indicator to provide a visual information to your dog about the fence’s location. The specific system you purchase will include specific information on setup, as well as training.Further, recognize that your dog ultimately learns to stay within the perimeter via negative reinforcement, even if you train them with positive reinforcement to respect the perimeter during training. As such, using an electric fence does mean that your dog will wind up being shocked at one point or another, likely during training.

