 This includes:

Checking your nails. See what you need to do. Maybe you need to file them or trim them or even paint them.



 


Looking at your hair. Check if you have split ends. If you do, that's a big "no no" unless it looks really hot, but if you have dry brittle ends get them cut at once. If they're greasy, maybe it's time to take a shower.
Looking at your skin. Bumpy, dry skin just won't do. After you take a shower always put lotion on, you can't really prevent bumpy red skin. Try to moisturize your skin 3 times a day. To prevent acne, use acne prevention washes. If you do have acne, do the required treatments eg wash face with an acne face-wash daily etc. Refer to your dermatologist.;
,


Fix your nails.
File them with a nail filer.
Trim them.
Find some lotion of any kind and massage some on your nails.
Massage Vaseline on your nails.
Choose a nail color. Natural colors will look the most refined and professional. Bright colors will be noticeable if they chip, and will make you look like a teenager.
 However, length is important in doing so.


Let's start with short, cute bobs. If you are thinking on getting a bob or already have one, here is a perfect style.



Take a shower, then ruffle your hair and apply hairspray for a dangerous, sexy look.
If you want a more sassy look, take a shower and comb your hair straight but at the ends of your hair, curve it.
Apply hair spray.




Medium hair is a good choice!



A cute style is to get or a buy a small curling iron.
Let it heat up, then curl it, but not just any curl, a spiral twist.
Twist your hand a bit to the right or left and apply hairspray.




Long, dangerous hair. Long hair is the secret to excellence. The hottest styles are wavy and spiral twist.



A fast and simple way to wavy hair is braids, before you go to bed simply do 2 braids, or one, or 2 French braids, or all over.
The easiest way to get a spiral twist is to do the same as for medium.
 Blonde hair might go well with a tan, and light brown hair can also go with a tan. If you have dark brown hair, get a light tan. Red hair with light skin,no tan. Black hair with a tan or light skin might be an idea.
 Never ever not smell good. Now if you don't shave already now start (if your age 9-14 get permission)A way to make skin improve greatly, use skin lavender baby oil, this makes your skin smell good and look shiny and sexy.
 If you want a more mature look, go for black eyeliner. If you want a cute, sassy look, go for a brown eyeliner. Now apply some mascara and eye shadow. Choose what color best suits you. Have fun, and good luck!

,