 Switch to a shampoo with extra moisturizer. Static electricity can have more of an impact in the winter. Even if you normally have moisturized hair, you should still change to a hydrating shampoo during the cold, dry months.Skip a day or two between shampooing. The natural oils in your hair will help with the static., Conditioner can help neutralize the static charges in your hair. Conditioning everyday may not be necessary, however, most people just need to condition each time they wet their hair.Using a silicone based conditioner may help in the short term, but over the long term coating your hair with silicon can prevent conditioner from absorbing, which can dry out your hair and make static worse.
Choose a conditioner which aims to moisturize and de-frizz hair.
You can try using apple cider vinegar for a natural conditioner option.Deep condition your hair with coconut or argan oil once a week to help keep your hair moisturized., There are many hair products out there that you can use to help tame your staticky hair. Use oil based products (such as moroccan oil, argan oil, or coconut oil) to help tame your static. Put the product in your hair when it is wet then air dry or blow dry with an ionic dryer. Try using Moroccanoil Frizz Control Spray, Alterna Bamboo Smooth Kendi Dry Oil Mist, or Oribe Cote d'Azur Hair Refresher., Spray hair spray on your comb and then comb through your hair. This will disburse hairspray everywhere to keep the staticky pieces down.You can also spray a little hairspray on your palms then rub your hands on the pieces that are sticking up.
 Depending on your hair type water can help get rid of static. Get a little water on your hands and rub them over the staticky pieces.Keep in mind that if you have hair that is straight, wavy or somewhere inbetween this might make frizz worse when your hair dries.


You can also put the water in a spray bottle (alone or with a little product) and spray it in your hair.
 It might seem a little strange, but body or hand lotion can help get rid of static electricity in your hair. Put a little bit of lotion on your hands (a little bit can go a long way) and rub it through your strands to help get rid of static.Putting lotion on your body can make your less susceptible to static electricity., Overuse or improper use of many hair products (even those mentioned above) can lead to buildup, leftover residues clinging to the hair that can prevent it from absorbing moisture. This is more common with products that contain resins, heavy oils, non-water soluble silicones or in strong hair sprays. If you find conditioning or moisturizing products make static worse, buildup may be your problem. Use a clarifying shampoo to remove buildup.A solution of 1:1 cider vinegar to water can also be used to gently remove buildup without drying out your hair.
Prevent buildup by avoiding products that may cause it, applying them in modest amounts and evenly throughout your hair if you need to, and being sure to rinse everything out of your hair when washing it. 