 The chronically late are often chronically optimistic when it comes to time, and how much they will need to get ready.Your intuition may be wrong. Always try to err on the side of more time.
 Trick yourself into being early by moving your watch ahead by ten or fifteen minutes. The result should be that you arrive earlier by that amount of time.


This tactic doesn't always work. Some people automatically subtract the time, knowing that they have a few more minutes in reality.
 Getting up on time doesn't just involve setting the alarm. It also involves a good sleep pattern. Going to bed at the same time each night will get your body into a habit, a rhythm that should make you sleepy and wakeful at the right times.Go to bed at a reasonable hour. One reason for lateness is oversleep and sluggishness caused by fatigue. Getting enough sleep will make you fresh in the morning. You may even start to wake up with, or before, your alarm.
Do homework as soon as you get home. Don't put it off your work until the evening or the wee hours of the night.
Aim for at least 8 hours each night. This can be higher in the case of teenagers. Unfortunately, the natural sleep patterns of teens often do not match those of schools.This may be part of why you tend to be late!

, Punctuality can require a basic change of attitude. Some people sabotage themselves because they think that being early will create an awkward situation, be uncool, or just waste time. They may do it to defy authority or to assert themselves. None of this is a good reason, however.Your time is not wasted if you know how to use it. Review your homework or notes from the last class. Bring a book or magazine with you if you fear awkward social interactions.Lateness shows a disregard for social norms. This is not really a desirable quality to have, if you happen to make yourself late out of defiance or ego.
 Timeliness is almost always a desirable trait – one that shows dependability, seriousness, and dedication. It is appreciated by employers, teachers, peers, and others. They take it seriously.


Punctuality helps organizations work properly. Your school, and later your job, functions by doing certain things at certain times. Lateness bogs down this machine. If one person is late, it slows. If everyone is late, the machine will not work at all.
Being late too often can lead to problems. It can land you in detention. Later on, it may lower workplace morale, cause your co-workers to resent you, or even anger your employer.
On the contrary, studies show that punctuality is a valued trait in workers. Managers are often less likely to promote chronically late employees.

