 Lack of water can be the cause of UTI; make sure fresh, clean water is always available. Putting ice cubes in their water bowl can attract them and make them more interested in it. Some people say changing their water to cranberry juice can also help and prevent UTI from happening to a dog- it is safe to give your dog cranberry juice. Bacteria produce toxins which irritate the bladder lining and cause inflammation and tenderness. When your dog drinks plenty of fresh water, the urine can be diluted, which helps to reduce the concentration of toxins. Means of encouraging your dog to drink more water include changing his food from a dry kibble to a tinned food (tinned food contains water). You should also place a large water bowl in every room that the dog is likely to visit. Sometimes the sound of running water entices a dog to drink, so consider purchasing a pet drinking fountain. Likewise some dogs prefer the taste of mineral water, because tap water often has fluoride or chloride, which can make some dogs refuse to drink the water.
 You will have to give your dog his prescription antibiotic for 10 to 14 days, unless otherwise prescribed by urine sample for culture and sensitivity. This test checks if the bacteria have been killed. If the bacteria are still alive, the culture will be able to determine which antibiotic the dog your vet. Seven days into the treatment, if symptoms still persist then the vet may send a should be put on next.This second antibiotic is usually a two week course. Your dog’s urine will be assessed after another seven days have passed to make sure this second antibiotic is working.
 Bring your dog to the vet so that some tests can be done to determine why these infections keep happening. These tests include:


Urine Sediment: A sample of urine is centrifuged so that the debris settles to the bottom. A sample of this debris is put on a slide and examined under the microscope. This can identify any unusual bacteria (rods rather than cocci – if rods are present then urine culture is essential), and urinary crystals which could chaff the lining of the bladder.
Urine Culture: This involves growing the bacteria in the urine to check its sensitivity to different antibiotics. This helps to give a definitive answer as to whether infection is present or not.
X-rays: Radiographs of the dog's tummy can help identify bladder stones, however not all stones show up on x-ray, depending on their mineral composition. Thus, ultrasound is a better test.
Ultrasound: Ultrasounds can detect bladder stones no matter what their mineral composition. Bladder stones often create similar symptoms to bladder infections.
 Broad spectrum antibiotics such as amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, (trade names Synulox or Clavamox) are often prescribed. This antibiotic works by destroying the bacterial cell membrane and causing it to implode.


The dose is generally 12.5 mg/kg twice a day by mouth. A 20kg dog needs a 250 mg tablet twice a day. Try to give the evening pill as late as possible, as this allows the antibiotic to sit in the bladder overnight.