 You should begin reading up on training your pit bull before you get him. This way, you can immediately train and socialize your puppy once you bring him home. If you get your puppy from a good breeder, the breeder might have started socializing your pit bull. This way, your puppy is already exposed to new situations, sounds, people, and animals.Consider hiring a qualified, experienced dog trainer to interact and teach your dog manners.;
, Teach your puppy a few basic commands (like "come," "sit," "stay"). This way, when you notice your puppy engaging in bad behavior, you can immediately redirect his attention. For example, if you notice your puppy running up and jumping on someone, you can quickly command him to "come." He should stop jumping up on the person and come to you instead.Teaching your puppy a few simple commands can also keep him safe. If he's about to do something dangerous, like run into traffic, you can command him to "sit" or "stay" so that you can reach him.
 Many puppies will mouth or nip when playing. They need to learn bite inhibition, especially when playing so they know it's never okay to bite. There are several ways you can teach bite inhibition. But, often just saying “ouch” firmly and then stopping puppy play signals to your puppy that biting is not acceptable.Instead of letting your puppy play with your hands, offer toys that you can teach your pit bull to release.
You can also place your puppy in time out immediately after nipping. This will help him settle down and tell him that biting is inappropriate.
 When you're training, never get mad at your pit bull. Animals don't understand punishment and will instead learn to fear you. Puppies will make mistakes when learning new things, so be patient. You should always look for a reason to praise your puppy, even if only for small steps or achievements.For example, give your puppy a treat when he's calm instead of punishing him when he's being hyper.
 You may want to make your puppy repeat certain actions or commands, especially if he didn't obey. This signals to your pit bull that he didn't do something correctly and needs to keep trying until he succeeds. Let him rest once he gets close to completing the command. Give your pit bull plenty of chances to follow your commands.


Your puppy should get used to you handling his feet, ears, tail, and body. This signals that you're in control and will make it easier to groom your puppy, administer medications, and clip his nails.

