 The first and most important thing you need to do is to pull yourself and your team together. It is one thing to admit defeat against an enemy team that totally outclasses you in terms of skills. It is quite another to just hang up your hands and start pointing fingers against everyone. Stop raging, avoid blaming, focus on what you can do, understand that there are many ways to stage a comeback, and you will find yourself in a state of mind that will help you win the match.
 Standing behind walls, towers and forts is a good idea when the enemy is aggressively ganking your team. The simple fact that the enemy cannot so easily kill with impunity will help rebuild player confidence while soaking up experience to catch up in levels., Even if the timing is off and capturing the camp will achieve very little in the match, the act of assembling your team and defeating mercenaries and then capturing the camp can help shake off the feeling of defeat and rebuild morale., Being around one another and fighting together can help build confidence even when you’re one, two or even three levels behind. Don’t stick around too much though, as you will eventually need to split up to soak experience, push lanes and capture mercenaries., A single clean kill will do wonders in restoring team morale as well as granting a lot more experience when you’re behind in levels., Heroes of the Storm has a comeback system where the team falling behind will gain significantly more experience when they kill a hero from the opposing team. The larger the gap, the larger the experience boost. Even a handful of kills can be enough to equalize the difference, which makes ganking especially beneficial when you’re trying to catch up from behind.When you’re ready to come back, form a hit team with one hero dealing burst damage and another hero for controlling the target. This roaming team’s job is to hunt down enemy heroes that are pushing their lanes too aggressively or are hanging back and trying to capture mercenary camps. Each kill they make will serve as a large leap forward to help your own team catch up to the enemy in terms of levels.
 Focus your attention on these isolated heroes to take them down and weaken the enemy team. Even if you lose the engagement, killing enough heroes in these engagements has the potential to grant significantly more experience to your team than the enemy team., If you are really far behind in levels and have a hard time dealing with all five heroes on the enemy team at once, it would be a lot better to focus on ambushing enemy heroes as they are on their way to capture map objectives. This is especially true when capturing the objectives will yield no immediate downside, like the first or second tributes in Cursed Hollow, killing shamblers in the Garden of Terroror capturing a well-defended point in Sky Temple., When teams have a large level advantage, they tend to clump up and use their combined level advantage to press the attack. You could try to engage this “deathball” head-on, or you could punish the enemy team for sticking too tightly together all the time.

Certain specialist heroes like Azmodan, Zagara, Gazlowe, Sylvanas, Sgt. Hammer, and The Lost Vikings can be talented in a way that makes them brutally effective at pushing unguarded lanes. These heroes can zip off to a distant lane to start pushing it while the rest of the team skirmishes but does not commit to fighting against the enemy team. Your opponents will now have to make a choice: weaken their lineup by forcing one or even two heroes in the fight to deal with the specialist, or ignore the specialist and risk losing a fort or even a keep.
 Do this right before engaging the enemy deathball, and these mercenaries will help force the enemy team to face the dilemma mentioned earlier: ignore the mercs and risk damage to their base, or sacrifice at least one hero while weakening their team composition. The talent “Bribe” will be especially useful in these situations, as it allows you to instantly capture mercenary camps. This in turn lets you join the team fight much quicker than if you stayed around to engage the mercenaries in combat., Zeratul’s Void Prison, Zagara’s Devouring Maw, Tassadar’s Force Wall, Stitches’ Gorge, and Leoric’s Entomb are excellent tools for splitting apart deathballs. If cast correctly, they can isolate individual enemy heroes and prevent their allies from aiding them. This makes it much easier to deal with enemy teams that stick too close to one another and rely too heavily on synergizing their abilities., The one last thing you remember when you’re trying to come back from behind is to always make the most of mistakes that the enemy team makes. Many a lopsided game was turned around because the dominant team became too complacent, lost all five heroes at once and opened the way for their otherwise beleaguered opponents to rush forward and blast down their Core., There are usually two or three lanes leading to the enemy core, but you only need to demolish one in order to reach it. If your team is not faring so well against the enemy team, aim to push down one lane whenever you have the chance. This will make it possible for your team to focus down the enemy Core should your team manage to gain a victory, especially in the later stages of the game where heroes take around 50 to 60 seconds to respawn. Do this enough times, and you pave the way for destroying the enemy core when the opportunity presents itself., If the enemy heroes will respawn in less than 30 seconds and you don’t have clear access to their core, do something that will present a clear and immediate threat to them once they return. Break down a fort or keep so they can’t extend far without exposing themselves. Capture a Boss Golem camp. Capture multiple mercenary camps. Capture the objective. Give something for the enemy team to deal with once they respawn, and they will have a much harder time dealing with your own team as you go about the business of clawing back up from the bottom.