 Choose as many strands of thread as you like, as long as you're using three or more, and pick any number of colors that would look good together in a pattern. If you only use one color of thread, you won't be able to create a pattern.4-6 strands will make a narrow bracelet, and 8-10 strands will make a thicker one. The more strands you chose, the wider the bracelet will be.;
, Measure a length of thread slightly longer than the distance from your fingertip to your shoulder and then cut it. This will be long enough for the bracelet to stretch around your wrist to create a pattern. It's better to cut the string a bit too long than too short.
 Hold the cut strand up to the remaining strands and cut them to be the same length as this strand.
 You can also get creative and tie it around your toe.





You can also tape it to a surface, or close it in a drawer, but pinning is better than taping because the pin ensures that the bracelet will stay in its position.
 Before you start the system of knotting that will create a pattern in the bracelet, spread out the threads so that the colors are in the order you'd like the striped patterns on the bracelet to be. To make the knotted end of your bracelet less bulky, try not to cross the threads over one another too much.
 You will need to make the "half-hitch" knot to do this correctly.








First, move the first thread over the top of the 2nd thread. Make sure to leave some of the first strand on the other side so that there is a loop.
Bring the first thread behind the second thread and then pull it through the loop.
Hold the second thread firmly while you pull on the first thread. As you do this, a knot will move up to the top of the second thread.
 After you make the second knot with the first and second strand, you will need to use the first strand to make two knots in the third strand, and then the fourth, and so on. Keep going until there are two knots on every strand.








Make sure that you pull on the thread just until you feel resistance. Be careful not to pull too tight because if some knots are tighter than others the bracelet will look lumpy and uneven.Continue knotting the first strand around each successive thread, moving from left to right, until you've knotted all of the strands and the first strand is in the far right position., This will be the new first thread. Every thread will end up on the right when you're done, and you'll start with a new color of thread every time. Repeat the double knot technique with the far left strand, moving from left to right until the strand is in the far right position.
 To make sure it fits well, try it on your wrist. There should be enough extra room that you (or the person who will wear the bracelet) can fit about two fingers in next to your wrist.
 Make sure that the knot doesn’t take up any of the length you need to wear the bracelet.
 If you still have a lot of string left over, you can cut it short with a pair of scissors.
 Now that you've knotted both ends of the bracelet, just tie the strands of the bracelet together. If you have a friend putting on the bracelet for you, then you can also have the friend knot the bracelet after you put it on if you want it to be really tight.
 Before beginning the main design, you can start with a simple braid, which will be on the ends of the bracelet. Gather neighboring individual strings into groups of two or three so that you have three main threads to braid with (left, center, right).
 Take whichever thread is currently in the right position and cross it over the top of the center thread. That thread now becomes the center thread. Next, take whichever thread is currently in the left position and cross it over the top of the center thread so that thread now becomes the center thread.








Repeat this pattern -- right over center, left over center -- until you've reached the desired length of braid, which should be about an inch (2.54cm) or less.
 Once you've reached the desired amount of the simple braid, about an inch (2.54cm) or less, tie a knot before you begin braiding the striped pattern.
 If you did a simple braid for the beginning of the bracelet, you can do the same for the other end. After you have a good length of the striped pattern, finish the bracelet with a short length of simple braid.
 To give your friendship bracelet some more flair, thread some small beads or charms onto the strands and then tie them in a knot to secure them.







