 Your dermatologist will inspect your unique skin type and diagnose what type of acne you have. They may recommend a certain face wash or prescribe you a medication. It takes some people many tries before they find a treatment that works for them. Do not become discouraged if your acne does not go away immediately. Adhering to your treatment will not only improve your acne but it can help improve your overall quality of life., Different types of acne respond to different treatments, but there are certain practices that will keep your skin clean while allowing your acne to heal. Wash your face twice a day, and always remove any makeup before bed. Use a moisturizer that does not contain oil. When shopping for facial products, search for certain ingredients that can help acne.



Salicylic acid: Also known as willow bark extract, this is found in many cleansers and masks.Benzoyl peroxide: Found in many soaps, lotions, and creams, this is a popular anti-acne ingredient.Tea tree oil: A natural but effective option, tea tree oil can be found in cleansers or lotions.It can also be used as a spot treatment.
 You do not need to hide your skin under a thick layer of makeup. A little concealer is all you need to cover up your acne. Find a concealer that blends in perfectly with your skin tone. To do this, test the concealer on the underside of your arm, and pat it until it disappears. You should not be able to see the concealer on your skin. Wash your hands before applying to your face. With your ring finger, dot the concealer over the blemish until the concealer blends into your skin.


Concealers that come in a pot or stick form may grip to your skin better and stay on for longer.Look for cosmetics that have “noncomedogenic” on their label. This means that they will not cause more breakouts.While makeup is usually seen as something only for women, men may also find it to be a good option for their acne. If concealer is applied correctly, it will be unnoticeable.
 While evidence is mixed on the relationship between acne and diet, some people find that eating healthier improves their acne. Eating less sugar may help reduce breakouts.Drinking plenty of water will also help improve the quality of your skin.A diet rich in fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains may also help you feel more confident about yourself overall.
 Dirt and oils on your hands can block your pores on your face. Do not touch your face. If you must, you should wash your hands with warm water and soap before. This may reduce the number of breakouts that you have.


Picking may help diminish the appearance of zits at first, but it can cause inflammation and permanent scarring.Instead of picking at your zits, use a spot treatment, such as tea tree oil.

