 Mindfulness is paying attention to your body and mind and being present in the moment. Being aware of how you’re feeling and what you’re thinking can help you identify signs that your ADHD may be kicking in. Once you recognize the signs, you can take proactive steps to prevent inattention, distractibility, and impulsivity from taking over.


Several times a day, take a few moments to checking in with yourself and see how you’re doing. For example, you might ask yourself, “Am I feeling calm or do I feel unsettled or agitated?” You may want to set an alarm or timer to remind you to do this until it becomes habit.
If you find that you're in your head, try grounding exercises to bring you back to the present. Identify three colors you see, sounds you hear, what you smell, and so on.
Pay attention to signs your body is giving you that you might be becoming restless. For instance, do your shoulders feel tense or are you starting to fidget?

, It’s not uncommon for people with ADHD to form addictions to things from playing video games, to smoking, to using alcohol and drugs as a way to cope with boredom. While playing a game is arguably less damaging than using illegal substances, no form of addition is healthy. Make sure that you are paying attention to the activities that engage you, as well as how often, and for how long.For example, if you regularly binge watch your favorite webisodes when you’re bored and end up not doing other things you need or want to do, being unable to take care of your responsibilities, or pulling you away from time with family and friends, you may be showing signs of an addiction.
If you are using alcohol or drugs as a way of coping with your ADHD, seek professional help by talking to your primary care provider or contacting such as SAMHSA’s National Helpline at 1-800-662-4357.
 This is one of the most important things you can do to manage your ADHD and cope with boredom. An effective treatment plan can help you address the symptoms of your ADHD as well as provide you with strategies for coping with boredom.Let your primary care provider know if your current treatment plan doesn’t seem to be working for you. For instance, you might say, “I’m taking my medication as prescribed and using my strategies, but I still find myself getting bored a lot.”
Ask if they can recommend any tips or strategies for handling boredom. You could say, “Can you tell me some ways that I can cope with boredom?”
Ask your doctor for a referral to a therapist who specializes in ADD/ADHD management.

