 A few Wisteria will grow quickly to cover the fence.;
, Hedges grow more slowly than vines, but they will cover better. Here are some suggestions for shade-loving hedges:


Eleutherococcus sieboldianus 'Variegatus' (Variegated Five-leaf Aralia) is really pretty with variegated foliage, grows easily in most soils, and reaches 6–8 feet (1.8–2.4 m).
/Symphoricarpos spp. (snowberry/coralberry)will grow fast almost anywhere, suckers freely, grows to about 6 feet (1.8 m) tall. It makes persistent berries for winter interest.
Cherry-laurel has the advantage of being evergreen.



Florida Anise makes a nice, dense, sweet scented hedge.
 If you really want to get away with a vine for the speed, but can't plant over your neighbor's fence, put up a simple fence or trellis of your own (maybe just wire between poles) and grow something over it fast. Crossvine, Dutchman's pipe, and some jasmines will all grow in deep shade. Even green beans or peas could be a quick cover. You could even make that a temporary measure while you find something else to plant in there.
 It can be trained upright along steps or a wall to well over 12 feet (3.7 m). It is deciduous.



Physocarpus opulus (either the green-leaved variety or "Diabolo", the purple leaved one). Also deciduous.
Ceanothus thyrsiflorus: evergreen, and impenetrable once in full growth.

Viburnums. There is one for every occasion. Viburnum x juddii is fragrant, and growing in part shade for me. Viburnum rhitidophyllum (leatherleaf) is dark and would look fabulous against that fence.
Hamamelis. "Diane" can reach to 12 feet (3.7 m). The fragrant yellow ones are even nicer and more vigorous.
 Try an espalier in front of the fence.
 Can you build a gazebo or trellis in front of the fence?

, If you can see a plant over or through the fence, plant two lower plants on your own side and your plants will look like a grouping, even though one of them is not yours. This can help to soften the appearance of a barrier.
 If you have even a bit of space, place something so that there is more garden beyond it. It will keep the feet and the eyes moving, soften the edges, and still conceal the fence from view out the window or from the patio that you want to use.
 Depending on the appearance of the fence, add coordinating elements that tie it into your own garden. For example, if it is a white, metal fence, you could use a shorter white metal fence or border somewhere in your own garden.

