 In your emergency preparedness kit, you will need water, food, medicine and basic supplies. Check to make sure you have the essentials:A three-day evacuation supply and two-week home supply of non-perishable food.
A flashlight, in good working order
Extra batteries for your flashlight and radio
A simple, hand-crank or battery-powered radio (NOAA weather radio)
A first aid kit
A seven-day supply of medications, at a minimum
A multi purpose tool
Sanitation items, such as soap and toilet paper
Personal hygiene items, such as toothpaste and deodorant
Copies of all your personal documents, such as insurance policies, birth certificates, passports, deeds, leases, medical information and proof of address
A cell phone and charger
Cash
And emergency blanket
Maps of your region and state or country
A manual can opener
An extra set of keys for your car and house

, You will thank yourself later if you add a few useful, non-essential items to your kit. Consider adding baby supplies if you have a little one, games for your kids, pet supplies, two-way radios and medical supplies for your specific medical conditions. Depending on your situation, these items may end up being essential., If you live in an area that gets a lot of blizzards and power outages, you might want to keep an electric blanket and extra sleeping bags in your emergency kit. However, if you live in an area that gets hurricanes, you might need rain gear and working gloves to remove branches and debris from your yard after the storm passes. Depending on your region, add disaster specific items to your emergency kit:Surgical masks
A whistle
Matches
Rain gear
Towels
Work gloves
Tools and supplies for protecting your home
Plastic sheeting
Duct tape
Work boots
Extra clothes
Scissors
Household bleach
Entertainment, such as books or movies
Blankets
Sleeping bags

, Make sure you have all of your supplies easily accessible in an emergency preparedness bag, such as a duffel bag or a backpack. The kit should be accessible and close to one of the exits, such as a hallway closet near a front or rear door. It should be easy to carry and all of the straps or wheels should be in good working order.Depending on the size of your kit, you may need multiple bags to hold all of the items.
You may want to distribute the kit into two or more bags, so that it is easier to carry.

