 It bears repeating- you don't want more than four guns in your attache case.  They take up a lot of room, they're expensive, and upgrading them gets costly quick.  Stick to four guns, and keep it simple.
  In addition, treasures are scattered all throughout the game.  These items can be sold to the merchant for large amounts of money.  They're all hidden in various places, but you can buy a treasure map close to the start of each area that marks their location with a star.  Before you sell them, however, make sure to check the description.  If it says anything like "This looks like it was once set in something" or "It looks like something was set here," then keep it and try to find what can be attached to it.  This includes:


The Beerstein (combine it with the Three Catseyes, Red, Yellow, and Green)
The Elegant Mask (combine it with the Green, Purple, and Red Gem)
The Butterfly Lamp (combine it with the 'Eye' gems you get from killing Novistadors)
The Golden Lynx (combine it with the Blue Stone of Treason, the Red Stone of Faith, and the Green Stone of Judgement)
The Crown (combine with the Crown Jewels and Royal Insignia)

, This is somewhat a matter of personal opinion, but you're better off skipping these weapons and holding out for the betters to save on Pesetas.


Red9 - The first offender.  The power it packs is an incredible draw- and when fully upgraded, it packs 5.0 power, the equivalent of five standard handgun shots.  However, while the punch it packs is nice, it's outperformed in all other areas by the other handguns in terms of reload speed, capacity, and firing speed.  Not to mention the gun is so hard to aim reliably that you pretty much have to buy the stock if you want to do reliable damage.  Also, the you have the option to purchase the Blacktail the minute you get into the castle, and it's fully upgraded power is still a respectable 3.4.
TMP - The Machine Pistol is certainly a good weapon for crowds, admittedly.  However, if you're dealing with a crowd of Ganados, you'll rarely find yourself in a situation that the Shotgun won't perform equally well in.  Plus, in the Castle segment, the Blacktail is available for purchase, which hits harder per bullet, has more common ammo drops, and is far more precise than the TMP, which really needs the stock to be accurate.
Killer7 - This is a powerful gun. 25 base power compared to the Broken Butterfly's 13.  However, you're very rarely going to find yourself in a situation that needs that base power- in fact, you should rarely, if ever use the magnum.  The fact that you find the Broken Butterfly for free in the castle is a far better deal than the 77,700 Pesetas you'd spend on it.  It's a boss killer weapon, but so is the Rocket launcher- and you could buy two of those for that price.
Mine Thrower - This is an incredibly dangerous weapon that takes up too much space in the inventory and has a tendency to blow up in your face without the additional scope.  Literally.
 There are several free weapons throughout the game, and they're all worth your time if you can spare it.


Shotgun - Hanging on the wall in the two-story house in the Pueblo.  Do not try to get it until the normal enemies head to the church in the opening chapter. Otherwise it will trigger a massive enemy rush.
Punisher - Through the Village, you'll find blue medallions hanging around.  Shoot ten of them and talk to the merchant to get the Punisher handgun for free.  Shoot all fifteen, and he'll throw in a free firepower upgrade.
Broken Butterfly - In the castle, if you give Ashley a boost in a certain segment, she can unlock the door to a free Broken Butterfly Magnum.

