 In other words, your life is not a romantic comedy. While this may seem obvious, it can be hard to accept the fact that relationships aren’t always fun, easy, and romantic. As you develop a more intimate relationship with someone, you’ll learn more and more about one another - both good and bad.It might be a good idea for both you and your partner to commit to working through the rough patch. If one or both of you frequently threatens to leave, then this can be damaging to the relationship.
Don’t storm out of the room when an issue arises. Stay and try to work things out.
Similarly, it may be tempting to try and wait out a rough patch. However, proactively working to keep communication open will be far more effective in getting through it.
 The silver lining of working through a rough patch is the value of experiencing something you know you don’t want moving forward. It may become clearer to you what you need and want from a relationship. If you realize your relationship lacks something that would make you happier, it’s important to bring it up.Keep in mind that people change and so do their needs and wants. This means that you and your partner will probably both have different needs and wants as time goes on.
Make sure to ask your partner about their needs and wants. This will take the guesswork out of trying to meet their needs and wants. Try saying something like, “What are some of the things that you need and want from our relationship right now?”
Be specific when you talk about your own needs and wants as well. Since specifics will often vary, your wording will reflect what it is you’re addressing. Most importantly, be direct by saying something like, “I know you care about me. That said, I’ve realized that I need more physical affection to be happy. Can we touch more often?”

, Depending on how serious your relationship is, you may need to discuss one another’s values and hopes for the future. Even if you’re already deeply committed and familiar with one another’s aspirations, it’s important to keep one another in the loop regarding specific goals - both as individuals and as a couple. This is all the more important in the context of a rough patch.Ask yourselves, “What can we do to keep moving forward together?” If both of you are committed to making your relationship work, make sure you can come to an agreement on a course of action that works with both of your individual aspirations as well as your relationship with one another.
On the one hand, you may decide that you both need to spend one night a week working to keep up with professional aspirations. On the other, you may realize that you would both benefit by spending more time together, relaxing at home.
 Therapists have training and experience that can enable them to help facilitate conversations between you and your partner. If you wind up fighting or struggling to agree on anything but still want to make your relationship work, look into relationship therapists in your area., Ultimately, letting go of something your partner has done and working to rebuild your trust in them will be necessary to get through a rough patch. However, how you do so is important. Most importantly, you should acknowledge that you were hurt, but that you're making the decision to forgive them for the sake of your relationship.For instance, say something like, "What you did really hurt me. It has also hurt our relationship. However, I think our relationship is worth holding onto, and I'm making the choice to forgive you."
If your partner continues to do things that you've forgiven them for before, articulate the ramifications of doing something yet again. Say something like, "This has happened before, and it's still happening. I'm willing to forgive you this time, but if this continues to occur, I will not be able to stay in this relationship."

, To frame a relationship pragmatically, consider the fact that maintaining a healthy, happy relationship requires continually accepting the consequences of one another’s actions. Are you and your partner both willing to do this? It is vitally important that both of you feel cared for, supported, and respected.There are plenty of other important questions to ask yourself. For instance, are there enough positives in your relationship to make it worth working for? Do both of you feel this way? If not, it is likely time to move on.
Another key question: After stating your needs and desires explicitly, does your partner put effort into meeting them? You deserve to be with someone that will put effort into making you happy.

