 The famous music site Pandora is located at www.pandora.com. You can use any browser (Firefox, Chrome, Safari, etc.) to use Pandora. From here you can create your stations, listen to music, and find new artists for free.


If you have any trouble accessing the site, try switching to a new browser before troubleshooting.;
, When you visit this site for the first time you'll be prompted to create an account. Fill out the information on the short form, check the box to indicate that you've read the terms of use, then click "Register" to proceed.


If you already have an account, click the "Sign in" link at the bottom.
 When you first start an account, Pandora will display a small box. Input a genre of music (rock, folk, classical) or a band you like and Pandora will make a station of similar songs. For example, if you want a station of jazz musicians similar to Miles Davis, type in his name and go from there.


As you're typing Pandora will offer suggestions. Click the name of your band, genre, or song as it appears.
You can always edit this station or create a new one later on.
 Pandora will analyze your suggestion and play similar songs, allowing you to find new music and create playlists instantly based on your input. For example, if you suggest "The Rolling Stones," Pandora will create a playlist based on "classic rock, blues influences, guitar solos, and high energy," featuring songs by Cream, The Who, the Beatles, and more.


Pandora does not play whatever song you want. Instead, it takes your suggestion and uses it to make a customized playlist. , Pandora edits your playlist on the fly if you tell it what you enjoy. So if you "thumb-up" lots of songs by Aretha Franklin you'll not only get more Aretha songs but more strong-voiced female soul singers, like Dinah Washington and Etta James.
 This not only skips the song, but tells Pandora to play less songs like it. If I "thumb-down" a Fall-Out Boy song on my playlist, for example, you will not see the band again and you'll hear less 2000s Emo-rock songs.
 Pandora does give you some control over the song you're listening to via the buttons at the top of the window. Aside from volume control, you can pause songs, skip them, or remove them from your playlist.



Pause/Play: Stops the song being played. Click again to start it.

Next: Skips to the next song in your playlist. Unlike "thumbs down," skipping a song simply passes it without telling Pandora to adjust your preferences.

I'm Tired of this Track: Click this for songs you enjoy, but have heard one too many times. Pandora will remember this and take it out of your playlists for several months.
 Underneath your chosen station on the left-hand side of the screen is an "add variety" button. Clicking it allows you to tweak your station to be more specific.


For example, if you had a station of folk music, but wanted some more bluegrass influences, you might add in "Ralph Stanley," "O Brother, Where Art Thou?' Soundtrack," or even the genre "Bluegrass."

, When you want to listen to a different kind of music, click the button in the top left with a "+" sign and the words "Create Station." Type in another artist, song, genre, etc. and select it from the list. Songs that are similar to your query will start playing.


If you specify an artist, the first song in the playlist will be from that artist. After this, the songs will be from similar artists with the original artist sprinkled in.
Click the station buttons on the left to switch between them.
 Pandora's music license limits the amount of songs users can skip per hour. If you have a free account, you can only skip six songs per hour, per station. However, you may not skip more than 24 songs per day. If you want to hear different music you must make a new station or wait for the time limit to end.This limit is affected whether you use the "Next" button, the "Thumbs down" button, or the "I'm tired of this track" option.

