


Find tutorials online.
Check out books from the local library.
Ask local fabric and craft supply stores about any workshops they might offer.;
, It should cover the following topics:


Business name. Do you prefer a catchy business name, or would you rather use your own name?
Target market. This will determine how you market your business to find potential customers.
Products and/or services your business will offer. For example, do you want to specialize in beaded jewelry, or would you rather offer hand-beading services?
Product pricing. Consider the cost of materials and the amount of time and labor that will go into fabricating and/or marketing your product and how much profit you need to make.
Marketing. What types of marketing materials will you use, and through which avenues will you solicit business?
Protocol for tracking inventory, invoices, sales and costs. You will need to implement an accounting plan for this, which can be as simple as purchasing computer software and learning how to use it.
Costs to start up and run your business.
 You will need supplies, marketing materials, licensing fees and basic office supplies.



Business license. This allows you to operate your business legally.
Resale license. This enables you to purchase wholesale supplies and materials.
DBA license. The "Doing Business As" (DBA) License is a requirement only if you plan on doing business under a fictitious name.
,, Business cards and flyers are suitable for initial startup, but you may opt to invest in some brochures down the line.
 There are many ways to spread the word about your beading home business:


Create a website. Your web address should go on all of your marketing materials.
Advertise. Use online and print classified ads, take out advertising in local newspapers and lifestyle magazines, and hand out business cards and flyers.
Set up booths at arts and crafts fairs. This is a great way to establish a presence in the crafter community and to reach out to new, out-of-area customers.
Approach storefronts. If you opt to make jewelry or other beaded items, ask if they would like to either purchase or consign some of your product to sell in their stores.
Host beaded jewelry parties. Charge guests a flat fee for all the supplies and guide them through the process of making their own custom design. You may also encourage others to host the parties, allowing you to provide the supplies and instruction for a fee.
Spread the word through social media sites.

