 There are many products on the market designed specifically for covering up tattoos. These products are highly effective, due to their heavy coverage and broad selection of colors, which can match nearly any skin tone. The only downside to these products is their cost. Some of the best products include:










Tattoo Camo: This tattoo camouflage brand provides a complete kit for covering your tattoo. The product comes in a tube which can be rubbed directly over the tattooed skin with no need for brushes or sponges. The kit also provides a special cleanser for removing the product. The kit is available from their website.

Dermablend: Dermablend is a fantastic product which was originally designed by dermatologists to cover up scars and skin conditions. It is hypoallergenic, making it an excellent option for people with sensitive skin. It can last for up to 16 hours. It is also available online.

Covermark: Covermark Tattoo Removal is another tattoo removal kit, which is available in variety of shades. The kit includes a skin primer, a liquid foundation, a matte powder and a special applicator.
 Stage makeup provides extremely heavy and long-lasting coverage and is good for tattoos covering large areas of skin.









It's possible to buy stage makeup in a variety of skin colors, but you can also use plain white makeup to cover up the tattoo, then use your regular foundation on top to match your skin tone.
Some of the most popular and widely available stage makeup brands include Killer Cover, Ben Nye and Mehron.
 If your tattoo is quite small or light in color, it may be possible to cover it up with an airbrush spray tan. These spray tans not only darken the skin, but also even out skin tone and cover imperfections.


Call into your local tanning salon to see if they offer airbrushing services. Show them your tattoo and ask them if they think the treatment would effectively cover it up.
At-home spray tan products such as Sally Hansen airbrush legs can also be used to try to cover up small, light-colored tattoos.

