 Allergy websites and most local weather reports often provide a pollen count for the day or week. A high pollen count means that there is an especially large amount of pollen in the air that day.This is a valuable source of information for those prone to allergy. If high pollen counts are forecasted, start taking allergy medications before your symptoms start., Pollen count generally increases around mid-spring and stays high throughout the summer. However, different trees, grasses and blossoms can be especially allergy-producing at different times of the year. Find out what varieties of trees, plants and grasses are growing around you, and what time of year they tend to pollinate. You can research your area on the internet or ask a local garden store or landscape professional. Plan any hikes, camping trips, and major gardening projects for lower-pollen times.


Pollen levels tend to spike in the early morning. When possible, schedule outdoor activities for late morning or, better yet, midday.
If you live in the southern hemisphere, watch for higher pollen count during October to March for grasses and August to March for tree pollens.
 Wind carries pollen quickly and often from far away. Even if you don’t have trees or grasses in your immediate area, a strong wind can blow pollen in from a great distance. Silver Birch pollen, for instance, is very small and is easily transported for long distances by wind. Pollen levels can be especially high on hot, dry, windy days., This is especially important if you know you're going to be in high-pollen areas like parks and gardens. Gardens, parks, forests, and meadows are simply the areas with the highest concentration of pollen, so avoid them when you can. But if you absolutely have to attend an event such as a garden wedding at the height of the pollen season, prepare for the day accordingly.


Take allergy medicine in advance, wear sunglasses to protect your eyes, or accessorize with a head scarf to keep pollen out of your hair.
 There are numerous over-the-counter allergy medications like Claritin, but it's still wise to speak with your doctor about your allergies. They can suggest the best allergy medication for you, and explain possible side effects. Keep your allergy medicine with you so you can take it right when symptoms start. Preferably, however, take allergy medicine before symptoms start - go ahead with your medicine when the pollen count is high or you know you'll be exposed to a lot of pollen throughout your day.

