 The Egyptian Mau is an unusual breed, and many breeders have waiting lists for their kittens. However, do not let this pressure you into buying a kitten from a disreputable breeder. Wait until good quality kittens that are well-socialized are available.


Find a breeder who is also a cat lover. This means they are more likely to treat their breeding stock like pets, which means better socialization for the kittens as they are more likely to be raised in the home, rather than outdoors in runs.Avoid breeders who keep their breeding stock in outdoor runs, since this means they are less well socialized.
Never buy a Egyptian Mau without seeing the mother. This might seem tempting if there are no local breeders and you find one willing to meet you halfway with the kitten. However, this is a sign of unscrupulous breeding since no serious breeder would stress their kitten this way on the off chance of making a sale.;
, Most kittens can be adopted from around nine weeks of age. Be suspicious of anyone wishing to home kittens at less than eight weeks, as they are unlikely to have the kitten's best interest at heart., You should vaccinate your Egyptian Mau against common infectious diseases, such as cat flu, feline infectious enteritis, and feline leukemia virus. You should also vaccinate against rabies.The initial kitten vaccinations require two doses to be effective, given from nine weeks of age and given three to four weeks apart.
The rabies vaccine is a single dose which is given from 12 weeks of age.
Make sure to get your cat booster injections, usually given once a year.
 Your Egyptian Mau cat should be neutered or spayed unless you intend to breed from them. The most common age is around five to six months.When you have your cat neutered or spayed, it is also a great time to have an microchip fitted. ID chips are a permanent way of identifying your cat.
 Other preventative health care includes parasite control and deworming. You need to get a flea medication for your cat. Deworming is an important part of keeping your Egyptian Mau cat healthy. Typically this should be done every three months.A good broad spectrum multi wormer tablet will get rid of round, tape, and hookworms.
 The only listed problem for an Egyptian Mau is a rare condition known as Leukodystrophy or "Krabbe's" disease. The disease leads to a deterioration in nerve function, commonly to the limb muscles, leading to weakness, poor coordination, and the inability to stand. There is no treatment or cure, so euthanasia of affected cats is recommended.The first signs can appear as young as seven weeks of age and progress rapidly so the kitten can be severely disabled at just a few months old.
 Egyptian Maus are very loyal and form strong bonds with their owners. However, the breed does not generally do well with other animals. This breed is great if you only want one cat.