 Tempt your cat out of hiding or back home by calling him/her and shaking the normal box of dry food or treats. The sound of opening a can of cat food may get a response, and if the food has a really strong scent, the cat might even respond to the smell. Lost cats are usually too wary to approach sounds, even familiar ones, but this may work in the middle of the night, when it is dark and no one is around.
Pause and listen for a response after each call.
 Your cat's litter box and/or a familiar toy or blanket can help the cat pick up on the scent and hang around longer if it visits in the night. If these materials are not available, try leaving an unwashed shirt, worn next to your skin, outside the door.
 Strong-smelling food like wet cat food, tuna, or liver can attract your cat – or other cats and wildlife that could scare your cat away. This step is recommended by many pet advice organizations, but ideally you should be prepared to chase off raccoons, foxes, and other cats.


Leave half the food in a closed plastic container with a few holes punched in the lid. This will cause animals (hopefully your cat) to smell the food without being able to get at it, and may cause them to hang around your door longer.Leave out some sardines. Ordinary cat food won't work. The sardines will attract your cat., Cats are highly territorial and are likely to come home from time to time. However, if there's no one home, they may wander off again.
 Keep the other end of the baby monitor by your bed, loud enough that you'll be woken up if your cat shows up and meows.
 Many animal shelters will rent or lend traps that are easy to use. Feed stores even sell them. Don't forget to put some cat food in the trap, and even sprinkle liberally with treats and catnip.


Check the trap daily. If a wild animal is caught in it, contact animal control to remove it.
 Spray catnip scent or sprinkle catnip around your front door and surrounding area. This option may not be wise if your neighbors own cats.
 This will probably be filled with your cat's fur and scent, which may be appealingly familiar to your cat. Empty it again every ten days or so.