 If you can prevent an encounter with a bear, the rest of the steps are unnecessary. Bears are reclusive creatures, and they generally prefer to steer clear of humans. You can help them to do so by announcing your presence when you’re exploring their home environment: talk loudly, sing, or carry "bear bells" so bears have time to escape you.


There are very few records of bears ever attacking a group of people, so stick together.
When alone, making noise or having a bear bell is a near essential, especially if there have been reports of bears nearby.;
, If you see bear tracks, make a detour or leave the area. Avoid surprising bears -- if you see one in the distance, keep your ground and stay away. Let the bear move on before proceeding. If a bear changes its behavior because of you, then you are too close.When you actually see a bear, you want to reduce your noise. Be calm and quiet, letting it stay about its business.
This is especially important with young, "harmless" bears. A mother may be nearby, which can spell big trouble. Even if bears seem sick or hurt, stay clear and call a ranger.
 Bears will defend two things -- their young, and their most recent meal. If you find any carcasses, especially fresh ones, give them a wide berth and immediately leave the area., Bears know a lot better than to mess with humans, and they will rarely see you as a food source. But your dogs may not be so fortunate, especially if they regard the bear as a threat. No matter how well you think your dog is trained, leave it at home when traveling in bear country.


If you must have your pet with you, make sure they are leashed -- no exceptions., Come prepared to both avoid bears and deal with them in the rare case that they become agitated. Remember that, when camping, both food and food waste need to be contained, as the smell of wrappers and remains can attract the animals., Bears are not quite as unpredictable as everyone claims they are. Like humans, they have a variety of maneuvers and body language ticks that can help you read the situations and react appropriately.


Standing on it's back two legs is a sign of curiosity, not aggression.
Bears generally want to retreat -- they are known to posture and feign aggression to avoid a fight. Stay calm.
Bears are not always hyper aware -- they can get distracted, which makes it doubly important to announce your presence with noise as you hike., The steps you take to survive an encounter with a bear will depend in part on the type of bear. North America has three kinds of bears: brown bears, black bears, and polar bears. Polar bears, of course, are easily recognizable, and their range is limited to the far northern latitudes. Grizzlies and black bears cannot necessarily be differentiated by their colors. Grizzly bears can weigh up to and over 800 lbs., and they are distinguished by a prominent shoulder hump and a rump lower than the shoulder. Black bears are typically smaller (up to 400 lbs.), and have a rump higher than or at roughly the same level as the shoulder. If you see tracks, grizzly bears have claw marks well separated from the paw imprints, while black bears’ claw marks will be quite close to the paw imprint.
 Has their been a recent bear sighting, or an increase in bear activity around campgrounds? The rangers will know exactly what's been going on in the park, and can give you up to date advice about avoiding any confrontations. Be sure to check in as you arrive to ensure you're up to date.Be sure to heed local bear advisories and practice proper food storage techniques while camping. Each park is different -- some require bear canisters, some raised bear bags, and some just want the food locked in the car.

