 To work the front of your abs, back and your obliques (the side abdominals) try seated twists. Using a medicine ball will make this exercise even more challenging.


Sit on the floor with your knees bent in front of you. Your feet should be flat on the floor. Hold a medicine ball with two hands.
Lift your feet off the ground a few inches and recline your back slightly. Your body should form a "V".
Keeping your legs stable, twist your torso and arms over to your right side. Tap the medicine ball on the ground. Aim to hit the area of the floor just a touch behind your right hip.
Pull the medicine ball back around to the front of your body and lower it in a controlled way slowly over to the left side and tap it on the ground as well.
Repeat this exercise, alternating from side to side for 30 seconds. Repeat as many times as you can.
If this exercise is too challenging, modify it by putting your feet flat on the floor.;
, A much more challenging exercise to try is an extended v-sit with a medicine ball. This will engage your whole core including deep front abdominal muscles.Start by lying face up on an exercise mat or carpet. Your arms should be extended over your head with your hands holding a medicine ball. Keep your legs straight out in front of you.
While engaging your core muscles, lift your torso and your legs, simultaneously, up towards the ceiling. Keep your torso and legs as straight as you can.
The goal of this exercise is for you to tap the medicine ball to your toes or front of your shins without bending your upper body or legs.
Repeat this exercise as many times as you can. Try to do 1-2 sets of these if possible.
 If you want to focus on strengthening your abdominal muscles, try doing crunch-ups with a medicine ball. These are great if you're looking for tone and definition as well.Start this exercise by lying face up on an exercise mat or carpet. Bend your knees and keep your feet flat on the floor.
Extend your arms over your head while holding a medicine ball in your hands. Your arms should remain straight during this exercise.
Crunch up and act as you are pushing the medicine ball away from you and up towards the ceiling. You should feel this in your mid and upper abdominal muscles.
Do 10-12 reps of this crunch exercise. Aim for at least 1-2 sets as well.
If this is too challenging, drop the medicine ball.
 Target your core muscles and increase your heart rate by doing burpees with your medicine ball. These exercises will help improve balance and core strength.To start, stand straight up with your feet hip width apart. Hold a medicine ball with both hands in front of your belly button.
Squat down, pushing your butt out, and place the medicine ball on the floor. While keeping your arms straight and balancing on the medicine ball, jump your feet back behind you. You should be in a plank or push-up like position.
Quickly jump your feet back up towards your hands and then stand back up. As you are standing back up, push your hands and the medicine ball over your head quickly. Then bring it back down to repeat.
Do 10-15 medicine ball burpees if you can. Repeat as many sets as you can.
If you are unable to do this exercise, try it without the medicine ball.
 Another great exercise to strengthen your entire core, are weighted boat rocks. This exercise specifically targets your abs and your back muscles.Sit on the floor in a v-sit type position. Your body should be bent so it's in a "V" shape. Extend your shins so they are parallel to the floor.
Place a light medicine ball in between your ankles and press your feet together to hold the ball in place.
Recline your torso slightly and stretch your arms out in front of you at shoulder length. Keep them straight.
Rock your body slightly to the left side so the right side of your buttocks comes off the ground slightly.
Slowly rock back to the other side so that your left side of your buttocks comes off the floor.
Rock back and forth for about 30 seconds or as long as you can. Repeat this exercise as many times as you can.
If this is too tiring and you need to take a break, drop your feet to the floor for a few seconds.
 The plank is a great exercise to complement your medicine ball core workout. It's an all encompassing move and will strengthen your entire core all at once.To start the plank, get down on the floor. Place your elbows on the ground, directly below your shoulders. Keep your hands at eye level. Your forearms should be supporting your upper body weight. Alternatively, you can do a plank in a push up position.
Keep a neutral spine, but engage your abdominal muscles.
Tighten your thighs and glutes as well to help stabilize you in this position. Hold here as long as you can and repeat 1-2 more times.
Also try maneuvering into side plank as well. This variation is done by balancing on one arm. Your palm should still be flat on the floor, but you should only balance on the one arm. This will work the sides of your core muscles.
If this is too challenging, modify it by dropping your knees to the floor.
 Another great all encompassing pose is the superman pose. Although it engages all core muscles, it specifically focuses on the back side of your body.Start this exercise by lying face down on the ground. Use a mat or carpeted floor so this exercise is comfortable for you.
Extend your arms above your head. Your legs should be extended straight behind you with your feet pointed away from your body.
Using your back muscles and glutes, pull your body up so your head and chest is off the ground and as much of your legs as possible are off the ground. It should almost seem like you're flying - like super man.
You should feel your entire back side of your body contracting to hold this position. Hold it for as long as you can and repeat 1-2 times.
 A more traditional core exercise are bicycle crunches. These are difficult to do, but really focus on working the front and sides of your abdominal muscles.To start with bicycle crunches, lay down with your back on the floor. Place your hands lightly on the tips of your ears.
Pull your torso up towards your legs. At the same time, pull your right knee up towards your face. Crunch towards your knee on the right side. Your left shoulder and right knee should pull towards one another. You can touch your elbow of your left arm with the knee of your right leg if you'd like.
Relax back down and repeat on other side. Bring your right elbow up to meet with the knee of your left leg.
Do 10 bicycle crunches on each side. Repeat for another set or two or do as much as you can.
 Another exercise that can help you work both your abdominal muscles and back are supine leg lifts. These are more difficult than they sound, so they'll give your core a great workout.To start this exercise, lie down on a carpet or fitness mat on your back. Place your arms down by your sides or you can pin them underneath your head.
Your legs should be stretched out in front of you. Keep your legs pressed together during this exercise.
Slowly lift both legs up towards the ceiling. Keep your legs pressed together and try to keep them straight. The straighter you keep them, the more difficult this exercise is.
Lift your legs up until they are perpendicular to the floor. Then, slowly lower them back down to the floor.
While performing this exercise, keep your lower back pressed down to the floor and your abdominal muscles engaged. Repeat this exercise 10 times per set and do as many sets as you can.
If this is too hard, do one leg at a time.
 To strengthen your core muscles, you'll need to do a variety of exercises. Using a medicine ball is great, but do more than that to get a well rounded workout.


When only performing one type of exercise, like using a medicine ball, you will not be able to maximize the total benefits to your core.
Try doing a combination of medicine ball exercises, body weight exercises and weight machines. The combination of all these exercises will give your core the best work out., Your core muscles, like any other muscles, will eventually get used to your medicine ball workout. While this shows that you've improved in performance, you need to continue adding more intensity or more reps.You will most likely notice that over time, your body will get used to your core exercises. Once this happens, you'll need to change your workout in order to continue seeing benefits.
For example, if you're only doing one set of your medicine ball exercises, increase it to two sets. Or increase your reps from 8 reps per set to 12 reps per set.
You can also continue using heavier and heavier medicine balls so that you continually increase the resistance and difficulty of these exercises.
 You may not realize, but cardiovascular or aerobic exercises are just as important to core strength. So in addition to your medicine ball exercise, incorporate cardio.


Cardio exercises are great for burning any extra fat layer which might be hiding some muscle definition. Core strength is reinforced during cardiovascular exercise, which requires core stabilization.
Health professionals recommend that you include at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity cardio exercises each week. However, you can increase this to 300 minutes per week to see even more benefits.
Try jogging, running, swimming, cycling, using the elliptical, taking an aerobics class or rowing.
 No matter what type of exercise you do, you need to include adequate rest. This is especially true if you're looking to increase the strength or size of muscles.


Fitness and health professionals note that rest is essential to a well rounded workout. It's actually during rest that your body, especially muscles, gain strength and increase in size.Days off and during sleep, your body and muscles are able to rest and recover. Growth hormones are secreted and will help your muscles rebuild and become stronger over time.
Make sure to include at least 1 total rest day during the week. Also, don't work out your core every single day. Alternate days between core work, upper body and lower body strength training exercises.

