 Braces are one of the most common ways to treat overbite in childhood. Braces help with the realignment of teeth by applying pressure and directing the teeth to move in a certain direction.Braces consist of metal brackets and arch wires that are attached to your teeth. Tiny elastic bands will then be used to hold the archwire to the brackets.
It should be noted that teeth will usually be sore once braces are applied. The wire, bands, and brackets may also irritate the tongue, cheeks or lips. Discomfort can last for up to two weeks., Another option in correcting overbite is getting aligners. They function just like a retainer and fit tightly over the teeth.Aligners are invisible, acrylic molds that are preferred by some as they can be removed for eating and brushing.
Since aligners are custom made they are more recommended for teens and adults instead of children.
 If your overbite is caused by overcrowding, tooth extraction may be needed to solve the problem.When a tooth is extracted it is removed from its socket inside the bone. The dentist will take x-rays to isolate which teeth need to be extracted and may administer antibiotics or anesthesia depending on the type of procedure.
There are two types of dental extractions:

During a simple extraction, the dentist will loosen the tooth with an elevator instrument. Once loose, forceps will be used to remove the tooth.During a surgical extraction, the dentist will make a small cut into the gum and the tooth, or the bone around the tooth may be cut to make the extraction easier. This type of extraction is commonly done under anesthesia., When you have an overbite, the misalignment can cause strain on your jaw and muscles, leaving your body to respond by grinding the teeth into a more comfortable position.However, this grinding can cause teeth to wear and chip. Your dentist can help solve this problem by capping the teeth or providing a nighttime mouth guard.
Another option is a TENS machine made specifically to stop teeth grinding. To use this method, you attach an electrode to your jaw. When it senses tension in your jaw due to grinding or clenching, it will deliver an impulse to relax the muscle and stop the behavior.
 Oral surgery is a treatment solution used when orthodontic treatment, such as braces or aligners, do not correct the overbite.


Horizontal maxillary protrusion is the type of surgery done to fix an overbite. During the operation, the jaw is moved and the overbite is corrected.

