 During adverse weather conditions, it's essential to have a spare tire in the car at all times.


You should inspect your spare tire periodically to ensure that it's in good working condition — you don't want to blow a tire only to find that the spare isn't working!
You should also ensure that your jack, wrench and wheel lock tool are all in a safe, secure position inside the car and that everyone in your household knows where this is.
 When your gas tank is at least half full, there is less of a chance that your fuel lines will freeze up in cold weather.


This happens when condensation forms on the sides of a near-empty fuel tank, drips down into the water, sinks to the bottom and freezes due to icy conditions.
Keeping your gas tank at least half full at all times reduces the chances of this happening and also limits the possibility of getting stranded somewhere when you run out of fuel.
 It's a very good idea to keep an emergency kit in your car in case it breaks down and you get stranded in bad weather conditions.


The kit should include: boots, gloves, hats, some wool blankets, ice scrapers, defroster, a flashlight, salt or cat litter, jumper cables, a first-aid kit, some flares, bottles of coolant and washer fluid, and a radio.
You should also include some non-perishable snacks (like unsalted canned nuts and dried fruit) and a bottle of water. Even if the water freezes, you can thaw it out or eat the ice in order to stay hydrated.
You should also keep a phone charger in the car for your cell phone.
 If you live in an area that's covered in snow and ice all winter long, you should consider replacing your regular tires with snow tires during the colder months.


Snow tires are softer and more flexible that regular tires and also have a different tread shape, which gives them greater traction on snowy and icy surfaces.
Alternatively, you could keep a set of tire chains in your trunk for driving in snowy, icy conditions. These are particularly necessary in mountainous regions.
You could also consider carrying a traction pad or scrap piece of carpet with you — this can help you to free your wheels if your car gets stuck in deep snow.
 Despite your best efforts to winterize your car, sometimes things will still go wrong and you may end up stranded. It's important that you know exactly what to do in order to stay safe and warm if this situation should ever arise.


Firstly, you should never leave your car unless you know exactly where you are and how far you will need to walk in order to find help. If you don't know where you are, light a flare on either side of your car to draw attention to your location.
Try to keep yourself as warm as possible by putting on any extra clothes and using any available blankets (wool is best for heat). If you still have gas, run the heater for ten minutes every hour to raise the temperature in the car (as long as you are certain that the gas pipe is not blocked).
Despite the cold, you should keep one window at least partly open at all times to prevent heavy snow or ice from sealing the car shut.
Keep yourself hydrated by drinking water or eating ice, and suck on a hard candy to prevent your mouth drying out.

