 Is it your life, friends, career, etc? Even though you have your relationship and friendships to tend to, you must focus on your priorities, but not so much that you are neglecting your partner and friends! Spread your time so that you can be with each person personally. Remember that you can't be everywhere at once; there is only one of you, so time matters in this step!


Time management is important in maintaining both relationship and friendships. It's critical to provide time for your partner, your buddies, and - most importantly - yourself!
Know that your partner is just as important as your friends. No one deserves more attention than the other.
 Just because you're in a relationship doesn't mean you can't hang out with your buddies. Hang out with them at least once a week; if you cannot be present, sending them a card letting them know you love them is more touching than an email or text message.


Go out on an outing with your friends. Whether it's a trip to the club, bowling, or a meal at a restaurant, make every moment count! Never leave one of your friends out!
Be aware of what is going on in your friends' lives. If you do not update yourself on their status every few days, they will think you do not care for them and your friendships will wither!
Going on social websites such as Facebook, Twitter, Myspace, etc. can help you keep in touch with your friends. Plus, you can easily plan social events and group hang outs!

, This way, your schedule and your partner's schedule will not be upset. If your partner has no idea about your group hang out and plans a special surprise dinner for you that day, more than likely will he/she be hurt! Letting your partner know about your schedule will prevent any hurt feelings and confusion in the future.


Make sure your partner is also aware of who your friends are. It's best that he/she knows who your friends are so that there is no worry of who you're hanging out with. This will also erase any possessive or concerned feelings in your partner.
 Make sure your friends are aware of that as well. They need to know that you love your partner's company, but you miss their company as well. You can still live your life however you want; your partner cannot control you in that area. You make the decisions.
 Avoid being the over-possessive partner just because he or she has more girl or guy friends. If your partner really does care for you, he/she will not cheat on you. However, being sure that you do spend enough time with your partner will prevent your partner from holding such thoughts.


If your partner does cheat on you, know that it is not your fault. Your partner probably feels deprived of love and sees something else in another person that he/she does not see in you.
 This way, you can be sure they will return the favor in the future when you need them! However, if you are unable to be present, sending them a thoughtful, loving card that assures your support with them can be just as sweet as you being there in person with them.



Never delay in sending comfort or reassurance to your friend. Your friend will most likely hold hurt feelings and wonder whether you really are their best friend or not.
 Don't let anyone control you - this is your life, and these are your decisions!


Do let people influence your decisions a little, but do not let them make the decisions for you unless if their advice seems better than your own.
 Be sure to tend to it every day and never neglect one part of it. Always look at the whole picture and do whatever it takes to pull out the weeds and keep the flowers blooming.

