 Colloidal oatmeal – which is extremely fine oatmeal – has been credited with healing and diminishing damage to the skin. You can find it in many pharmacies.


Put the oatmeal in a cool bath, and bathe in it. You need about one cup of oatmeal for a bath tub full of water. Fill the tub with warm water and the oatmeal, and soak in it for at least 30 minutes.
You can also just take a bath with lukewarm water. Sit in the bath for about 15 minutes. While in the tub, rub the peeling skin area gently with a soft washcloth. .
Vitamins C and E will also make it less likely that your peeling skin could lead to scarring.
 One cause of peeling skin is simply dry skin. And there are many natural fixes for that. Olive oil has a lot of fatty acids in it, so it’s a good way to moisturize dry skin.


Buy some extra-virgin olive oil. Put it in the microwave until it’s slightly warm (not hot). Massage the warm olive oil into the skin. Do this three times a day until your skin improves.
You could also mix two tablespoons of salt with olive oil until it creates a paste. Use this to scrub your skin, removing dead skin cells. Use this remedy two times a week.
Other oils that are good for the skin are grape seed, coconut, and sesame oils. Simply massage the oils onto the skin. Grape seed oil helps remove dry skin and can reduce wrinkles. Coconut oil can be applied to the face at night to help with dry peeling skin. Sesame oil can be rubbed on troublesome areas., Milk is another natural way to help peeling skin. It’s basically a natural moisturizer for the skin. It will soothe the skin, and the lactic acid in milk reduces skin irritation and itching.


Dip a washcloth into ice-cold whole milk. Then, place the washcloth on your skin for 10 minutes. Wash the skin off with clean water. Do this two to three times a day.
Alternatively, mix one tablespoon of honey with two tablespoons of whole milk. Again, apply the mixture to the skin. Leave it on for 10 minutes. Wash it off with warm water. Do this twice a day for a week.
 Cucumbers contain a lot of water, which is good for the skin. They are also a natural astringent that cool the skin, diminishing itching and irritation. Furthermore, cucumbers contain vitamin C, which helps sunburned skin.Grate a single cucumber. Apply to the damaged skin and leave on for 15 minutes. Rinse off with warm water. Do this twice a day for two weeks.
Mix a peeled cucumber with two tablespoons of Aloe Vera gel. This will create a paste. Put the paste on peeling skin for 10 minutes. Rinse off with warm water. Do this once a day.
Other fruits and vegetables which can be applied to the skin are apples, bananas, and the juice from lemons. All have healing properties for the skin. Mint leaves can also be applied to the skin after being crushed in a bowl. 