 This is the absolute simplest option. All you need to do is find a nice one and hang it from the clip end (or lean it against something) and start slipping images in under the clip. Or, slip a piece of paper the same size as the board under the clip and tape or tack images to the paper. If the clipboard is a bit shabby, use one of the following methods to improve its overall look (paint, fabric cover or paper cover). Many brightly colored clipboards can be bought from stationery stores or search through the stationery section of a favorite thrift store near student areas.
 A painted board can match room décor or complement it, depending on the colors chosen. It's a fairly easy background, provided you select paints that are right for the type of board. In general, acrylic paints are probably a good bet but check with the retailer if you're in doubt. A painted board is probably best for sticking images to with poster tack or tape but if you have used a soft surface, such as cork, you could also pin the images to it.


Prepare the workspace. Cover with newspaper or other material to prevent stains. Arrange the paint and paintbrushes so that they're ready to use.
Paint each board. Either paint one color or paint the first layer, allow to dry, then paint stripes, dots, squiggly lines, a border, flowers, or whatever else takes your fancy. Let the paint dry between each layer. Borders can be a particularly effective addition that makes the end result look more professional.
Allow to dry completely before using.
If needed, attach hanging mounts after drying. Done!

, Paper boards are very easy to make and can use up that sweet piece of gift wrap you loved so much you just couldn't bring yourself to throw away! As with the painted board, the method for pinning items to it depends on the material used for the board but this method is probably best for pins or poster tack. Do note that if you plan on taping items to this board, that the tape may rip the paper backing if the images are removed. It depends how permanent you'd like the board to be (another alternative is to simply keep sticking images over the top but eventually this will look sloppy).


Find a suitable piece of paper. Measure to check that it will fit the entire board with at least an inch (2.5cm) overlap all around to allow to gluing to the back.
Bend the overlap edge around the board's four sides. At each corner, cut out a triangle piece to allow for easy turning over of the paper edges.
Use craft or hot glue to glue the edges to the back of the board. Before gluing, check that the paper sits evenly across the front of the board, with no creases, bubbles or ripples.
Allow the glue to dry.
Add embellishments, such as a ribbon or lace border, small fabric flowers in the corners, a bow in the top or bottom center, etc.
Add hanging mounts if required. Done!

, This board requires a little more effort but it's by far the easiest to use and probably will last the longest. As well as a picture frame as the board, you'll need good quality untextured fabric to cover the board with, magnetic sheeting that has adhesive backing and scissors. And any sort of magnets will work to keep the chosen images in place, but it's a good idea to choose funky ones that match the fabric style.


Measure the fabric to fit the inside of the picture frame. Cut to size and lay down on a flat surface, wrong side facing out.
Measure the magnetic sheet to the same size as the picture frame. Cut to size.
Peel the backing off the magnetic sheet. Lay the sticky side over the wrong side of the fabric, taking care to meet the edges of the fabric precisely. If you don't have an adhesive-backed magnetic sheet, simply glue into place.
Turn it over and smooth out any bubbles using a ruler. Trim off any fabric overlap to neaten.
Remove the glass from the frame if it has any.
Insert the fabric covered magnetic board into the frame. Replace the frame's backing board. Done!

