 Superficial frostbite can be indicated by the transition of reddened skin to white, pale skin. Though the skin may still feel soft, ice crystals are starting to form within the skin itself.You may notice blisters forming on the skin as the frostbite worsens.


Counterintuitively, skin may begin to feel warm. This is actually a very serious sign that the victim is beginning to suffer from a dangerous case of frostbite.
Be extremely wary of any progression beyond superficial frostbite, as these may indicate that permanent damage has begun.
Loss of the sensation of pain or discomfort is an extremely serious development.
Blackened skin and hardened tissue indicate permanent damage of the affected skin and likely some of the tissue beneath it.
 The wikiHow article on How to Treat Frostbite provides similar details on determining the severity of a case of frostbite, including more specific steps on how to safely rewarm a frostbitten area and how to go about seeking professional treatment.


Get the frostbite victim out of the cold.
Ideally, get to a hospital where professional medical care can be given to a frostbite victim.
 Do not allow a potentially frostbitten area to be warmed, only to be exposed to cold weather again.Cycling between temperatures can greatly damage your skin, nerves, and tissues.


The safest way to reheat frostbitten fingers, if still outside, is with body heat. For instance, place frostbitten fingers in your armpits, if doing so does not expose more of your skin to the cold.
If it is possible to rewarm a frostbitten area without risking that the area is again exposed to cold, do so with warm water.
When possible, unfreeze a frostbitten area as quickly as possible, as the longer an area suffers from frostbite, the more permanent damage will occur.,


Provide analgesics to a frostbite victim. These include ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and aspirin.
If you are forced to delay thawing or rewarming of a frostbitten area, clean, dry, and protect the area, ideally in a sterile compress., As you determine whether or not a case of frostbite is present, there are certain precautions you can take to reduce potential damage to any frostbitten areas.,Do not use any artificial source of heat (such as a heating pad or lamp, a stove or fireplace, or radiator) to warm an area of the body that may be affected by frostbite. Numb, frostbitten areas can easily be burned.
Do not walk on frostbitten toes or feet. Unless absolutely necessary to get out of the cold, do not risk further damage to frostbitten tissue in your feet by moving around.Do not touch the frostbitten area. Massaging an area affected by frostbite may cause more damage.
Do not rub snow on the area. While someone suffering from frostbite might be inclined to diminish discomfort by rubbing snow on the area, do not allow it, as further exposure to frozen temperature will cause further damage.
Do not pop any blisters that appear on a frostbitten area, as this will expose the injury to infection.
 Since hypothermia is another medically dangerous condition that can result from exposure, look for signs of hypothermia in anyone who is experiencing frostbite.Quickly seek emergency medical assistance if you feel someone may be suffering from hypothermia.
Signs and symptoms of hypothermia include intense shivering, slurred speech, and drowsiness or loss of coordination., Even weeks after exposure, a victim may still exhibit signs of frostbite. Black, scabby crust may develop following exposure.
Blistering, even after re-warming of the affected area may also appear after it seems you may have recovered.
If these symptoms develop, do not assume they will go away. Seek professional medical attention.

