 Texas requires applicants for the Uniform CPA Examination complete a minimum of a Bachelor's degree with at least 150 semester hours.


To obtain 150 hours, candidates must complete additional courses beyond the course requirements for an undergraduate degree in accounting. Students may complete a master's degree program or complete additional semester hours in upper level accounting courses to meet the 150-hour requirement.
The Texas State Board of Public Accountancy requires candidates complete at least 30 hours of accounting courses of the 150 semester hours.
The accounting courses to meet the 30-hour requirement must be upper level courses such as financial accounting, cost accounting, auditing and attestation, financial statement analysis, intermediate accounting, advanced accounting and internal accounting control.
Candidates can complete up to 12 hours of taxation courses and 12 hours of accounting information systems to complete the 30-hour requirement.
Accountant applicants must complete 24 semester hours of upper level business courses of the 150-hour requirement. The Texas board recognizes courses such as business law, management, economics, marketing, statistics, business communication, information systems and finance.
Candidates must complete a minimum of 3 semester hours of ethics courses to meet the educational requirements for the public accountant examination.;
, Candidates must submit an application to the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy along with transcripts from an accredited school.
 All candidates for certification as a public accountant must pass the Uniform CPA Examination. The Texas State Board of Public Accountancy will send candidates who meet the educational requirements a letter of notification, which allows the candidate to pay the examination fees.


The Uniform CPA Examination consists of four sections, which include auditing and attestation, business concepts, regulations and financial accounting and reporting.
Candidates have 90 days from the date of approval to pay the examination fees. Once the candidate pays the fees, the testing facility will send a notice to schedule that includes the deadlines for each section of the examination.
 In addition to the ethics course requirement within the accounting degree program, the applicant for certification must complete a 4-hour, state approved ethics course to qualify for certification.
 To obtain certification to practice accounting in Texas, the candidate must have a year of experience in the field of accounting. The year requirement consists of 2000 hours of work experience that must not take place over a period longer than 3 years.


The required experience must be in accounting related duties such as preparing tax returns, providing tax advice, issuing financial statement reports, providing financial advice or performing forensic accounting services.
 Candidates who meet the education and experience requirements, pass the Uniform CPA Examination and complete the ethics requirements must submit an application to the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy to be certified to practice in the state.

