 One of the biggest sites of infection that has been identified are hospitals and healthcare facilities. This is most likely due to the fact there are large quantities of people who are already sick.If you work in a hospital, are visiting someone in the hospital, or are admitted yourself, take extra precautions to protect yourself from getting sick. There are many, many germs and bacteria in these facilities and you need to ensure you take care to protect yourself.
When you go into a health care facility, immediately wash your hands or use some hand sanitizer. Also repeat this same process when you leave the facility as well.
If you are uncomfortable in these facilities, ask for a face or mouth mask to help protect yourself from an infection like the Elizabethkingia infection.
Do not go to a hospital or other healthcare facility that has had an outbreak of the Elizabethkingia infection if you are pregnant, have a young child, are over the age of 65, or have a compromised immune system.;
, Regular and proper hand washing is the best defense from any type of cold, flu or infection. Make sure that you're washing your hands often and are following the proper technique.


You should wash your hands before and after eating, before and after visiting a healthcare facility, before and after using the bathroom, and after you sneeze or cough.To wash your hands, start by turning a faucet on and let warm water run over your hands.
Squirt a bit of soap into your hands and work it into a foamy lather. Scrub your fingers, wrists, and tops of your hands well. Even get underneath your fingernails. Scrub for at least 20 seconds.
Wash the soap and lather from your hands until they are completely clean and soap-free.
Dry with a hand dryer or paper towel. Be careful not to re-contaminate your hands by touching the faucet or door handle. Use a paper towel to help you.
 If you feel like you're more susceptible to getting an infection or are in an area with those who already have the Elizabethkingia infection, it might be wise to keep a bottle of hand sanitizer with you.


If you do not have access to a sink or want something on you at all, times an alcohol-based sanitizer can help get rid of germs.The CDC recommends that you have a sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol. This does a decent job at killing germs on your hands. Note that it's not as effective as hot water and soap.
To use hand sanitizer properly, start by squirting a small drop of sanitizer on the palm of your hands.
Rub the sanitizer all over your hands (making sure to get the back of your hands and wrists). Rub thoroughly until the product dries and there's none left on your hands. There's no need to rinse hands after this.
 If you are currently sick (or are high risk) or have a sick person in your immediate family, make sure you take extra precautions. Being sick means your immune system is compromised and you are more susceptible to the Elizabethkingia infection.If you are currently sick or are at high risk (like being pregnant or being over 65), stay away from healthcare facilities if you can. Also always carry around hand sanitizer.
Wear a face mask if you need to as well. Whether you're sick or going to visit someone in the hospital, protect yourself by wearing a simple face mask.
 The Elizabethkingia bacteria is found worldwide in the soil, water and reservoirs.Since many items of our food systems come into contact with water and soil, its important to make sure you practice safe food handling techniques like washing fruits and vegetables.


Wash all of your produce before your eat or cook them. Even if there is no visible dirt or if you bought organic products, it's important to wash every fruit and vegetable.Rinse fruits and vegetables under cool running water. You can use a produce cleaner if you'd like, however running water works fine alone. Do not use dish soap, bleach, or hand soap on fruits and vegetables.
If your fruits or vegetables have a tough or firm outer skin, use a scrub brush to help clean and remove all dirt and debris.
Dry off all your produce after washing and store appropriately. Also finish this process by washing all your utensils that were used and your hands.
 In addition to washing fruits and vegetables, make sure you keep your proteins safe. Also, cook them to the appropriate temperature.


Store all protein in a resealable plastic bag on the bottom of the refrigerator. Do not allow them to be over any fresh fruits and vegetables.Cook whole pieces of meat (like a pork tenderloin) to 145F, cook poultry to 165F and cook ground meat to 160F.
Also, make sure to keep foods either above the 140F or under 40F as bacteria, even the Elizabethkingia bacteria can survive in-between those temperatures.
 The Elizabethkingia has been associated with fluids and water as the source of contamination. If you are sick, have a compromised immune system or are over the age of 65, consider using only bottled water for drinking.The Elizabethkinigia infection can be spread through fluids and water. If you are an at risk individual, try not to use tap water, drink water from unknown sources, or drink tap water in other countries.
Only use bottle watered, boiled and sanitized water or purified water that has gone through a water purifying system for drinking.
If you are unsure about the quality of the water, it's best to avoid drinking it until you can find a purified water source.
 If you think you're experiencing symptoms that correlate with the signs and symptoms of the Elizabethkingia infection, make sure you contact your doctor immediately.


Symptoms of this infection include shortness of breath, fever, chills, and red or swollen skin. If you notice these symptoms, call your doctor or visit an urgent care facility to be treated.
It will be helpful to track how long you've had symptoms for your physician. Talk about when they first started, if they worsened, and how many days you've been experiencing them.
If you do test positive for this infection, help the CDC and your doctor figure out the cause by letting them know if you were around other people that were sick or ate food that was unusual.
 Although health care professionals don't think this particular bacteria is overly virulent, it is important to separate yourself from others. You can make other people sick.Regardless of whether or not you've had a positive blood test for the Elizabethkingia infection, if you are experiencing any type of symptoms, separate yourself from others.
Take care to make sure others do not use the same utensils, plates, cups, pens and pencils as you are.
In particular, stay away from infants and small children, those who are sick, those who have a compromised immune system, pregnant women and elderly adults.
 Whenever you are sick, it's important to keep your body as healthy as possible. Bacteria, like the Elizabethkingia infection, can make you feel horrible and discourage you from drinking a normal amount of fluids.


Anytime your body has a fever, it's a sign of an infection, but also a sign that you need to keep up with all your clear, hydrating fluids.Staying hydrated when you're sick helps your body defend itself more effectively against whatever virus or bacteria you've contracted.
Health professionals recommend consuming at least 8-10 glasses of water while you are sick. Make sure to stick with hydrating fluids and stay away from drinks like alcohol, sodas, or caffeinated coffee.
 Although there's not conclusive evidence of where the Elizabethkingia infection is coming from, there is an effective treatment for it. As long as you take your antibiotic medication correctly, you will recover from this infection.


Your doctor will give you a course of antibiotics to take to help defeat the bacteria in your body. Follow your doctors orders accurately. If you do not, you may not get rid of the infection.One common mistake people make is that when they feel better, they think they can stop their antibiotics. This is not true and can lead to antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Continue with all of the pills prescribed until they are gone.
Make sure to take antibiotics with food if it's directed. Sometimes, these medications can be harsh on your stomach and cause stomach pain or cramping. Mixed with food, these antibiotics are generally less irritating.

