 Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C). Get out a large baking dish and spray it thoroughly with cooking spray to prevent the potatoes from sticking. Set the pan aside while you prepare the skinny scalloped sweet potatoes., Scrub 3 large sweet potatoes and peel them if they're not organic. Slice the sweet potatoes as thinly as you can, at least 1/4-inch (6 mm) slices. Set these aside and slice one large white onion as thinly as you can. Set the onion aside and chop 3 cloves of garlic.You can use a mandolin, if you'd like to quickly and evenly slice the potatoes and onion.
 Get out a small prep bowl and measure all of your spices into it. Stir the spices well, so they're combined. You'll need:1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon black pepper

, Lay half of the sliced sweet potatoes across the bottom of the prepared baking dish. Sprinkle about one-third of the spice mixture over the potatoes. Spread all of the thinly sliced onions and chopped garlic across. Sprinkle another third of the spice mixture over the onions and garlic. Spread the rest of the sweet potatoes and sprinkle the last of the spice mixture.Don't worry if some of the spice layers are a little uneven. They'll disperse a little once you pour on the milk.
 Slowly pour 3/4 cup (180 ml) of skim milk across the casserole, so it soaks into the sweet potatoes. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of hot sauce evenly across the potatoes and scatter 1/2 cup (50 g) of grated sharp Cheddar cheese on top.For a less spicy casserole, you can leave out the hot sauce.
 Cover the dish with aluminum foil and place it in the preheated oven. Bake the potatoes for 20 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and take the foil off. Return the potatoes to the oven to bake for 10 more minutes.The sweet potatoes should be completely tender and the Cheddar cheese should be melted and bubbly.
Store the leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for a few days. Keep in mind that the potatoes will soften the longer you store them.

