 Creating the proper resources for studying can help you. While you're in class, try to take good notes. These can serve as a valuable resource later on when you're studying.


Organize your notes by date and subject. Write the date on the top corner of the page at the beginning of class. Then, write headings and subheadings regarding the subject being taught. If you're searching for notes on a particular subject, it'll be easier to find later.Use your best handwriting. You want to make sure you can read your notes later on.Compare notes with other classmates. If you missed one class session or missed a few words here and there when taking notes, another classmate can help you fill in what you missed., When reading material for class, make sure you read actively. How you read can affect how well you retain information later on.


Pay attention to chapter titles and subheadings. These often offer clues as to the main point of a text. It indicates what material you should pay closest attention to while reading.You should also reread the first sentence of each paragraph once. This sentence usually offers a summary of key information you'll need. Pay attention to concluding sections as well, as they summarize key materials.If permitted, underline passages and write notes in margins summarizing key points. This can help you find important information later when studying., If you're confused about anything in class, ask questions. Usually, teachers will allow time for questions after class. You can also ask to stop by a students office hours to ask about topics that confuse you.Do yourself a favor and make it a habit to visit your teacher's office hours starting at the beginning of the semester. Waiting to ask questions until the day before the test makes it seem like you haven't been preparing. Making a habit of dropping in once a week or so encourages your teacher to see you as a student who works hard and prepares in advance -- she'll be more likely to want to help you.

