 Scrub off any pieces of food, grease, and fingerprints from your appliance surface. A wet towel and a mild detergent like dish soap, work well for the initial cleaning of the stainless steel appliances. Only use a few drops of the mild detergent so it doesn’t leave behind a soapy residue while cleaning.


If there is dried, stuck-on food, you can try using a nylon scrubbing pad to loosen the food.Do not use steel wool scrubbers of any other kind of cleaning utensil that is not labeled “non-scratch.” Using harsh, abrasive cleaning tools could create costly scratches in the stainless steel surface. This damage may require the repair assistance of a professional.;
, Stainless steel can be polished with common, household products like glass cleaner, olive oil, lemon oil, and baby oil.Slightly moisten a rag or a microfiber cloth with your chosen polishing product (a little product goes a long way), and thoroughly wipe the stainless steel surface.


Follow the grain of the appliance while polishing. That way, you reduce the risk of making scratches in the stainless steel surface.
 Use the dry side of the cloth to buff and wipe away any remaining polishing solution. In the end, you want your appliance surface to be dry to the touch.


If your appliance still has streaks after you polish it, consider getting a stainless steel cleaner from a hardware store.
 Sprinkle and evenly distribute about 2 tablespoons of baking soda onto the dry sink’s surface. Use a damp sponge to rub and spread the baking soda around the sink’s basin surface.You may want to use harsh cleansers to remove the stains in your sink basin, but resist the temptation.Using bleach and other aggressive chemical cleansers can actually do more harm than good.
 The vinegar will react with the baking soda and start to foam. This foaming will help lift off the stain on the sink’s stainless steel surface. Leave the vinegar for about 10 minutes to ensure the baking soda and vinegar mixture thoroughly loosen the surface impurities.To evenly coat the sides of the sink, consider adding the vinegar to a spray bottle and spraying all around the basin. This will allow for a controlled coating of vinegar, rather than pouring vinegar down the sides of the sink.
Using a soft bristled toothbrush can help clean the smaller, hard to reach areas of the sink, like the drain and grooves around the drain.
 Rinse out the sink basin with water, and wipe it dry with a towel or cleaning cloth. Your sink should be shiny and clean, ready for the next use.


Consider protecting your sink basin with a plastic or rubber mat. Sink mats are cheap, and can help prevent damage from sharp silverware and dishes.If you do use a mat, detach the mat from the sink at least once a week to give both the sink and mat a thorough cleaning. This will help prevent food debris and bacteria from accumulating on the mat and sink surfaces.
 For general cleaning, dirty pans can be cleaned with dishwashing soap and water in the sink. Pans should be washed by hand, because dishwashers can work away at the handles of your pans.Use a towel or rag to immediately dry your pan. This immediate drying helps prevent water spots. If water spots do form, rinse them in club soda (reused from pan to pan) and dry with a soft rag or cloth.
 Fill your pan with about 1 inch of water and put it on a stove burner. Turn the stove on, and wait for the water to boil.


Once the water is boiling, add 2 tablespoons of salt, or 1 tablespoon of baking soda.Put the stove flame on low/medium low, and let this mixture lightly boil for approximately 30 minutes.
 Use a plastic or wooden spatula to rub the bottom of the pan, lifting off the stuck food. Continue scraping the bottom of the pan until all the stuck-on food is removed.


If your pan only has burn marks, you can sprinkle baking soda onto the burnt areas and scrub them away with a soft sponge. The baking soda will help dissolve the burn marks.
You can add the baking soda to a dry pan, or mix it with a small amount of water to make a baking soda paste. After you have removed the burn marks, rinse the pan with clean water and dry it with a clean cloth.For really tough burn marks, but you can use a slightly abrasive sponge to scrub and lift away the burned areas.
 After you clean your pans, give them some luster by using a cookware polish designed especially for stainless steel. You can find stainless steel cookware polish at most hardware stores and grocery stores around kitchen appliance aisles and areas.Be sure not to use industrial strength stainless steel polish on your pans. Industrial stainless steel polish has much harsher cleaning chemicals than cookware stainless steel polish.
 Add some mild detergent, like dish soap, to the water. Dip a clean cloth into the water and soap mixture, and wring out the cloth. Then, wipe the piece of jewelry with the cloth until the jewelry is clean.


Wipe and clean the jewelry going along the grain of the piece. This helps maintain the jewelry’s uniform finish.
 Consider using toothpaste to clean your jewelry if it is especially dirty and has some specific soiled areas. However, remember that toothpaste is slightly abrasive and could possible damage the jewelry piece. Rinse the jewelry thoroughly with water once your are finished cleaning it with the toothpaste.


If you decide to use toothpaste to clean your jewelry, use a cloth to rub the toothpaste onto the jewelry surface. Also make sure the toothpaste is a non-whitening brand that doesn’t contain silica. The whitening products and the silica can damage the stainless steel finish., Use a clean cloth to wipe down the piece of jewelry, and then leave it to air dry completely.
 Although stainless steel is durable, it can scratch. Try to store your jewelry away from other jewelry items that can potentially damage and scratch the stainless steel.A professional jeweler can also polish and repair damaged jewelry.
It’s best to store your stainless steel pieces separately from jewelry made of other metals. Consider keeping stainless steel jewelry in individual pouches.