 Just as you would not go into a  job interview without a resume and a general idea of what needs to be said, when listing without an agent, you need to make sure that you have a clear picture of what steps you will take in the preparation, marketing, negotiating, and transacting of your property.;
,


 Before you list your property, for sale by owner, in your area, make sure that you take note of what you find as selling points, and what you find as areas possibly needing improvement; some of which may not be easy fixes such as being located beside a busy roadway that is a main artery for your town's traffic flow, although some issues may be easy fixes such as a good power washing for your driveway and walkways.
Hire a certified home inspector to examine your house prior to marketing your property. The reason for that is because you will be able to guide the inspector and also will be able to have a clear picture of what is good, bad and ugly about your home so that there are no surprises latter that could possible cause your property to fall short last minute before closing.
 All of these efforts will provide you with extra marketing incentives to place in your ad and your promotional packet(s) for those that tour your home.
 Once your property inspection is completed you will know if there are any safety problems existing in the home such as exposed wiring.


Most if not all of these issues will need to be addressed along with any legal issues the property may have, if you are unsure if there are any existing judgments or liens against your property a quick check with you local county clerks office will provide with you the answer and the tax description of your property.
All legal and safety issues need to be addressed because these are all areas that could prevent potential buyers from obtaining financing and thus cause the deal to fall short during closing which will cost you more money and precious market time.
 When taking pictures to post on your internet listing or promotional packets you will want them to display your property in the best light possible, that means that you should declutter where you can, especially in closets and cabinets.


Make the exterior to have a similar appeal and so a good pressure washing and lawn mowing and shrub trimming should make your property look more appealing, remember the old real estate adage of “curb appeal” .
When your property gets the attention it needs it will definitely look more professional than a professionally listed property and those For Sale By Owner properties that are not getting the proper attention.



To get a better idea of where you should set your asking price, get a professional property appraiser in your area to conduct a professional appraisal, this will come in handy in setting the price, during negotiations and in the actual closing process when the bank may be willing to accept your appraisal as documentation for what they will loan on the property.
Also research what other listings in your area are listed for and possibly what ones have recently sold for, your local county property appraiser should have this information available online.
 Now that you have chosen to list for sale by owner and have done the required steps of understanding what needs to be fixed and where to set your price, you will go back to the notes you took during step two and look at what your took note of as being the best parts (selling points) of your property.


With this create a complete listing online with Property By Owner List and other leading owner specific online listing services, be sure to take the time to create a good description of your property and include at least 7 photos of  your property.
One big thing with for sale by owner listings is that those that choose this method think that a couple sentences and one photo will do the trick, no unless you have the deal of the century people want to know more on your property so be sure to create a complete listing with maybe a few things left out so that people can have some sort of question to contact you with.
 Other than a database of contacts one of the most valuable marketing tools a realtor has is their signs and flyers. Signs still have a huge appeal and the cheap for sale by owner sign will not cut it, which is why you should purchase a professional sign and post.


Purchase them at your local sign shop or online on sign specialty websites and even some by owner listing websites such as the ones mentioned in step 6.
Make sure you place it in an area of your lawn with the most visibility for those that pass the house, if your house is on a corner you may consider getting two signs and placing one on each street.



The promotional packet is another thing that most professional real estate agents would have, but many for sale by owner sellers overlook, this activity of arranging all the documentation should not take, but a couple extra minutes and will make your listing feel way more professional.
 Most people selling by owner think that an open house is the best time to get clients in, although open houses can be minutely effective the main reason why Realtors conduct them is to meet potential clients and to perform some sort of task in return for the commission they will be collecting at closing.


By-appointment-only method is the best fit and “by appointment” does not mean someone sees your sign and rings the doorbell wanting a tour on the spot, with these type of people you might just want to hand them a promotional packet with the contact number and ask that they set up an appointment to view the property.
 Insist on everyone staying with you to show the property. The reason for this is you don’t want people to go around and damage or steal any of your belongings during the tour.


When showing people the house you don’t have to name every room, but you will want to point out the selling points and have some kind of an answer for the negative points of the house.
  Many realtors use "For sale by owner" listings as their lead generation tool so it is almost guaranteed that you will be hearing from these agents area with elevator pitches ranging in intensity,  from the basic "Hey, would you like to list with me or I already have a qualified buyer for your house?".


Take any of these statements when selling with a grain of salt and hold control of the situation, you might discuss a potential percentage deal if they in fact have a qualified buyer that can close on your property.
Bottom line is that you want to hold control and not be sold on some quick pitch that could possibly not hold up to its promise. If you will stick to the plan and follow these steps you should be well on your way to successfully selling real estate without an agent in Ohio.

