 Just like the one-legged wall flip, it will be a lot easier to execute a two-step wall flip if you already know some basic acrobatic and gymnastic flips. A back handspring, a back tuck, and even a front tuck will all help you recognize the leg and arm movements needed to safely execute a wall flip. As always, when first practicing a wall flip, use some soft tumbling mats and a trained and qualified spotter to help keep you from injuring yourself as you flip., Run up to the wall a bit faster than you did for the one-legged wall flip.With a two-step wall flip, deciding which foot to start your steps with lies more with personal preference rather than a clear cut right or left step.For example, if you are a righty, your right foot will be your dominant foot. You may want to take your first step using your right foot so you can get a lot of height in your first jump up the wall.However, you may want to take your first step with your left foot, so your dominant foot can push off the wall and provide better control in your flip.It all depends on what’s more comfortable for you.


As you run to the wall, you should pump your arms like you’re sprinting, rather than swinging your arms from behind and up as you did in the one-legged wall flip.In order to figure out what will be most comfortable for you, practice running at the wall and using both your right and left foot as your first step.
 With the one-legged wall flip, incorporating your arm swing was a lot more important, since you needed that extra momentum for the quick flip off the wall. With the two step wall flip, your first step is going to give you the vertical height to perform your flip a bit slower, where you don’t need as much added height momentum from your arms. Jump off of your ground foot, and plant your other foot on the wall at about hip height.As you push up and off of your planted foot, fully extend your leg and keep your chest straight and vertical.Extending your leg is going to give you maximum height for your flip. Be sure to keep your upper body straight and as close to the wall as possible, until you can plant your other foot.
 Once your first planted foot is fully extended, reach up and plant your other foot onto the wall.Your second planted foot will be higher up on the wall because of your first step jump up and onto the wall.


At this point, no longer try to keep your upper body vertical, allow the extension and push of your second foot to push you away from the wall., As you push off the wall with your second planted foot, begin to lean backward, and push off and away from the wall with your foot.Then, drive and swing your first step knee up, toward your chest to initiate the rotation to your flip.


Bring your other leg’s knee up, to follow your swung first step knee and throw yourself further into the flip.
 Because you have the added height, you don’t need to completely tuck your knees and keep your body in a tight ball. If fact, if you rotate too quickly (by tucking your knees in tightly), you may over rotate and end up landing on your back.If you already have your basic back flips down, you can rely on those landing techniques to land this wall flip.Experiment with the speed that you open up and lay out in order to get a clean landing.

