 Don't try to write a blurb promoting your friend's book or film without having read or watched it a couple of times first. Not only will your blurb sound off-base, it won't actually help your friend get more readers or viewers.


Pay close attention to what you experience. Make your mind engage with you're reading or seeing.
Write down you how you felt about the book or film. Simple words or descriptions are a fine start. Note how the piece made you feel, what its unique qualities are, and other details that made it stand out to you.
It's a good idea to get familiar with the person's past work as well. That way you'll be able to compare the most recent work to the person's other books or films.
Read reviews and blurbs of the author or filmmaker's past work as well, for research purposes.
 You were probably asked to blurb a book or film because you have some standing in the field. Make good on your reputation by doing some selective background research into other work in the same genre as your friend's book or film. You should sound like you know what you're talking about.Look for trends in the author or filmmaker's work. Do they use the same actors? The same themes? Take note of patterns that you could mention in your blurb.
Consider whether you can make intelligent comparisons to other works in the genre.
 The blurb may briefly detail what the film or book is about, and be clear and subtle. Focus on the most entertaining or fascinating aspects of the work; remember, as the blurber, your job is to help sell it.


Consider mentioning the main characters. Don't get overly descriptive and include every characteristic and backstory, and likewise, don't write about every single character. Stick to the main ones that the action in the film or book is focused around.
Assume that the reader is ignorant about the facts. If the film or book involves a historical figure or a geographical location or another piece of art, include descriptor words to clarify. This will make your blurb seem more clear and informed.
Point out the themes. Use a sentence or two to address the ideas that the film or book presents, whether it's the power of friendship, the complications of family, or the damages of war.
 Since the purpose of a blurb is to promote this particular film or book, write passionately about it. The question your reader will have is "Why should I see it or read it?" Give them a convincing reason to do so.


Don't be too wordy. Your reader is looking for a quick few sentences that stick to the point, so don't let your writing get bogged down by complicated plot twists or lengthy descriptions. Additionally, don't get carried away with adjectives; you don't want your blurb to sound flowery and overenthusiastic.
Stay away from cliches. Statements like "the greatest story ever told" or "the best movie you'll ever see" are too tired and overused to be effective. Write a thoughtful description of your own experience of the text without resorting to other people's wording., Writing in the first person makes a blurb seem too informal. Writing in the third person maintains a professional, learned distance, which is what you want when you're writing a blurb for someone else's work.
 Recognize that writing a blurb about a children's picture book involves a different kind of communication than writing one about a steamy romance novel. Adjust your language accordingly.

