 When the seedling has 4 developed leaves, let the surface of the soil become dry before you water again. Don't let the soil dry out completely, however; it should be moist if you stick your finger into it., Lemon trees require at least eight hours of sunlight. Seedlings will require 10 to 14 hours.You may have to place a grow light next to your tree to ensure that it gets enough sunlight. You can purchase grow lights from gardening shops and nurseries.
 Eventually, your seedling will outgrow its pot. When the seedling reaches 1 year old, transfer it to a 6 inch (15.24 centimeter) wide pot. Eventually, you will need to move your plant to a pot that is 12 to 18 inches (30.48 to 45.72 centimeters) wide and 10 to 16 inches (25.4 to 40.64 centimeters) deep.A good rule of thumb to determine when it's time to transplant is to look under the pot. If you can see roots through the drainage holes, it is time for a new, bigger pot.
 Lemon trees like soil that is slightly acidic. The pH should be between 5.7 and 6.5. You can measure this with a pH testing kit, which you can purchase from a gardening shop or a nursery. A good way to lower the acidity of the soil is by watering the plant once a month with some cold black coffee or tea (with no milk or sugar added).However, make sure that you continue to monitor the pH until it has reached the ideal range.
 You can either dig a trench around the tree and fill it with dry compost, or you can water it with a water soluble fertilizer. Here are some ways in which you can provide your tree with the nutrition it needs:


Fertilize your lemon tree twice a year with an organic fertilizer, such as compost or vermicompost.Water your plant every 2 to 4 weeks with a water soluble fertilizer. It should be high in potassium and magnesium.If your tree is going to stay indoors, purchase a general indoor plant fertilizer. It should contain micronutrients.Water your tree once a month with a solution made from 1 tablespoon of Epsom salts and ½ gallon (1.89 liters) of water.If your tree is still very small, you might not need so much water. Instead, water the plant as much as you need to, then save the leftover water for the next month.
 Some lemon trees will produce fruit in as little as five years. Others will requires as many as 15 years.

