 Ask yourself why are you self-reflecting. Did you do something wrong or things are always going wrong for you? What is it?;
, What is about? Is it about your life in general or you being hurt by someone.
 Possibly, have a pen and paper to map out your thoughts.
 No one is judging you. It's just that you are thinking aloud. This is very important as you are engaging your senses.
 Inhale and exhale as many times as as you want. For every breathing, say something out, i.e, I've done well I need to do this.. Thank yourself for even realizing that you need to self-reflect.
 Cry if you need to. The point is to reach the goal of solving a problem and understanding your self better. Write them down.
 We all need to read at one point of time to see and feel how much luckier you may be than the millions whose lives are in danger every single day, without a choice. Read widely to find out how people live elsewhere and what they do to survive against the odds.


Some more suggestions are provided in Tips, below.
 Try to remember a time in your past. It could be a year ago, ten years, five minutes, however far back you'd like to reflect.

Focus on events that happened around that time in your past. How did you feel about them? How did you react and why?
Learn to understand all perspectives of the situation. Maybe you were irrational at first; maybe you were completely right in your actions.
Let go of any negative feelings or grudges you still hold. Wallowing in your misery or anger won't help you grow as a person.
Many people believe that everything happens for a reason. If your past had been altered, you wouldn't be who you are today. Everything in life is a lesson if you look at it the right way.
Return to the present. With everything you've learned from your past, you'll hopefully have a wiser perspective of your present and future life.
 Are you having a first world problem? Do you know there's also something known as a third world problem?

, I need to change my ways to be a better person etc.
 Donate, help others out and ask yourself, why are you donating.

