 Put your focus into your relationship and make it as fulfilling as you can for both you and your partner. One way to do this is to maintain trust in your relationship. You and your partner should not try to hide information from each other or keep secrets. Try to be trusting of your partner and hope that they will do the same for you.You may entrust your partner with confidential information, such as your passwords, usernames, and IDs. You may also share your financial information with your partner, especially if you live together and share the financial responsibilities of having a home.
 You should also consider if you and your partner have a sex life that is fulfilling for you both. A fulfilling sex life will mean different things to different couples. You may need to discuss your sex life with your partner and work together to ensure you are both getting your needs met.Maybe you and your partner have fallen into a routine in the bedroom and you are starting to feel bored or under stimulated. Communicate with your significant other and mention different sexual positions you can try.
You may also consider using sex toys in the bedroom or roleplaying. Propose different sexual activities to your partner and discuss ways you can keep your sex life interesting.
 You and your significant other should also try to maintain a healthy relationship by spending quality time together on a regular basis. You should make an effort to go out on dates, just the two of you, once a week. You may also try to prepare meals together and do fun activities on the weekends. Spending quality time together can make your relationship feel more fulfilling and important for you both.You may try to plan a surprise date for your partner to show them how committed you are to the relationship. Or you may suggest that you both plan a trip, just the two of you, so you can create lasting memories together.
 You should check in with your partner and discuss your relationship goals, or what you both hope to get out of your relationship. You and your partner may both agree to be monogamous and plan for the future together, such as buying a house or having children. Or you and your partner may both not want children in the future and want to focus on travelling together instead. Having the same goals and expectations will ensure that you both understand each other and help to avoid conflicts in the future.If you and your partner do not appear to be on the same page in terms of your relationship goals, you should have a discussion about this. You may talk about ways that you can compromise so you both share the same goals and promise to work on fulfilling your partner’s expectations of the relationship.

