 These are the most common brochure formats, and there is a value in keeping people from guessing about what they’re reading. Trifold gives you an opportunity to include more bullet points and photos. However, bifold brochures enable you to provide bigger, eye-catching text and photos.
 Don't be afraid to use headlines and subheads in order to structure your information.Present your information in a more digestible way by structuring it inside headlines and subheaders. Structure your headers and sub-headers so that readers will understand your bottom line even if they don't read the rest of the text.
 Brochures from 10 years ago are not the best way to convince potential customers to hire or buy from your company. If you have changed your contact information, printing new brochures looks much better than correcting old ones with a pen. Up to date information makes you look much more professional.
 Your images should be at least 300 DPI (dots per inch) to print clearly and sharply. Images are a marker of quality. It may seem unlikely, but people will judge your establishment or service by the quality of your photos.


Don’t inundate your brochure in images. Images can help you sell your product, but too many can be jarring and counterproductive.
 This is the panel that will draw people in to read your brochure. Don’t put your logo or a picture of your building on the front — that’s boring. Put a sharp photo that shows a benefit of your product or someone using your service (with a smile on his or her face!)., Printer technology has made it easy for you to make and print nice brochures from home. If you are unsure whether your printer can do a good enough job, test it out and see how you like the results. You can always take it to a printer if the brochure doesn’t turn out quite sharp enough., The quality of your brochure speaks volumes about your company or organization. Spending a few extra bucks on a pack of nice paper will convey the quality of your product or service. Pick thicker paper with a glossy finish to show you mean business.