 For Yato-inspired hair, go for long bangs of multiple lengths to partly cover your face. Make sure they don't give a messy look and also make sure they aren't a nuisance while you perform your day-to-day tasks. The bangs will need to suit the shape of your face. Blow-dry them regularly to keep them in shape.

If you have straight hair, then managing your Yato-inspired hair shouldn't be a problem but if you have wavier, curlier hair then make sure to straighten your hair using hair products or straighteners or consult your hairdresser for advice.;
, Ensure your eyes are clean, bright and look energetic. Apply casual eyeliner. If you desperately want to go for the Yato-look, then make your eyes appear more definite by using various makeup techniques. You can make your eyes bigger if wished, to make your eyes the defining feature of your face.

Yato is known for his beautiful, striking blue eyes. You could use a pair of light blue lenses to go with your look, essential if you're cosplaying.
 Facial expressions are important to consider if you're imitating Yato. Being a fan you know that Yato has two sides. Most of the time he appears charming, relaxed, goofy, easy-going and excitable but his darker side can take over at any instant. Express both sides at appropriate times. When times do not require you to be serious, then go with the flow and express your lively side but when it comes down to it, be serious, be mature and act dedicated just like Yato.

Watch the anime and read the manga with dedication to understand when and where you need to express both sides.
 In the initial chapters of the manga and throughout the anime, Yato is seen wearing a jersey, a scarf and a pair of knee-length boots. Later in the manga, he goes for a different look. He switches to a front-open jersey (which he sometimes wraps around his waist), a plain white t-shirt and knee-length boots. His hair is tied in the form of a short ponytail. It is up to you to decide which look you want to go for. If you don't have the the same clothes to dress up as Yato, then you can follow the general nature of his style. Dress in casual jerseys, keep your hair in good shape, wear knee-length boots and cover your neck with a scarf, for example. In a nutshell, the two styles are:

Straight, long uneven bangs followed by a jersey, a scarf and a pair of knee-length boots.
A short ponytail followed by a white t-shirt inside a front-open jersey and a pair of knee-length boots.
 The smile is one of Yato's best features. Yato is often seen smiling and goofing around when he is around his loved-ones. So, do the same. Make sure the ones who surround you are happy when it's time to enjoy. Be happy so long as your companions are!, Yato is always seen fantasizing about his desires which include having millions of worshippers, a shrine dedicated to his name, beautiful female Shinki (or Regalias, Sacred Treasures) and the affection of Hiyori Iki. He openly expresses his wants and needs so that the people that surround him get a good idea of his goals. So, proudly announce what your aim in life is and don't forget to give it your all in order to achieve it. Although Yato slacks off in the pursuit of his desires but with a little help from Yukine, he comes back on track., In the anime and in the manga, Yato is fully aware of his duty to gain enough money to build a shrine for himself (his biggest wish). For this purpose, he never leaves a call unattended or a request unanswered. He is always searching for ways to attain more money and grips any opportunity that might make him famous. So, whatever your aim in life is, go at it with all you've got. Avail all opportunities that might take you a step further on your path to success. Never give up hope!, Yato is cheery and optimistic. Even in the most hopeless of situations, he manages to find a source of hope and inspiration. This allows him to overcome all difficulties and gain success. All you need to do is have a source of inspiration. It is up to you what you pick. In case of Yato, it is the sense of affection, bonding and belonging, which he strongly feels towards Hiyori and Yukine., If circumstances shake your faith, change your path or make you rethink your goal, be strong. "Where there is a will, there is a way." is what you need to keep in mind while you adopt this trait. It was Yato's sheer will and determination which drove him to defeat Rabo and save Hiyori. So, don't let the regret of the past, the difficulties of the present nor the fear of the future deter your faith., Treat others as you'd want to be treated by them. If you show yourself as a reliable person, then others will automatically lend you a helping hand when you need it. Yato truly cares about the emotions of his loved ones. If they're sad, he tries to make them feel better. He tries to solve their expressed as well as unexpressed problems. In order to truly inculcate this trait in your personality, know everything about the people that surround you. Get a good idea about their interests, their strengths, their weaknesses, their dislikes etc. That way you will know how to make them feel better when they are feeling down., Whether it's your family, your friends or your colleagues, take care of them. If it's someone you admire, go to great lengths in order to protect them. Protection can be done both physically and mentally. Make sure they aren't harmed by anyone or anything and that their mental health doesn't deteriorate. Let them know that you will always be there to protect them and that they can rely on you in any situation., Most of the time Yato is seen goofing and joking around with his friends but when he's alone, he's calm and composed. Take a little time out everyday to rethink your strategies, mend your ways if necessary, let go of worries etc. This will help you remain calm and collected. Otherwise, you might appear stressed, tired or tense. Easy-going people like Yato live in the moment. Do ponder about events that happened in the past or things you want to happen in the future but keep them limited to yourself and make sure they don't appear overwhelming., If you have open access to the internet then make sure you have a means of communicating to your followers. They don't have to be a lot. Just make sure people who care about you hear from you often. Let them know about your current interests, your aims and aspirations etc. Yato has an account on the social networking site "Tweeter" as shown in the anime and manga. He often uses it to contact Hiyori and upload photos of himself.