 Other than center backs, perhaps, central midfielders are the most intelligent players on the field. They are always in the action, trying to win the ball back in the midfield and starting the offensive maneuvers. If a team can't control the center of the field they rarely win -- and this is your primary responsibility.


You should be able to trap and accurately pass the ball in 1-2 touches every time.
Center-mid is likely the most tiring position on the field. Endurance is key.
Tight, controlled foot-skills are a must.
 Defensive midfielders sit back a bit on offense, not because they don't attack, but because they can see the entire field. Furthermore, they come back and plug up any holes or unmarked attackers on defense, making them all-over players with a lot of responsibility.


On offense you'll often be tasked with getting backward passes and changing the field, hitting a ball over the top, or slowing down the attack to reorganize.
On defense you need to clog up the center of the field to make attacks difficult. You want to win the ball back from their midfielders and get counter-attacks started quickly., Sitting between the strikers and the center midfield (or, often, a single defensive midfielder), offensive midfielders play lots of 1-2 touch passes with other offenders to break down defenses and get shots off. They also shoot and cross a lot from outside the box, which generally pulls the defense forward to make more room for your strikers.


Offensive midfield is a hybrid position that is highly dependent on your coach's system. Some coaches like them to hold in the center of the field, making the "last pass" to a striker, while others want you to play as another forward who also gets back on defense.
 Outside midfielders need speed and the stamina to keep it up. As a winger your job is to get to the end line and hit a cross into the strikers, or cut in near the box and fire off shots from the outside. However, it is also your job to mark the opposing outside mid, meaning you'll be running end to end all match.


Hitting the ball across your body, from the sideline into the center of the field, is an essential skill.
Wingers tend to have decent tricks and one-on-one moves as well, helping beat their one defender and get a cross or shot off.
You must have good, tight foot skills to keep the ball near the lines. You'll run straight at the defenders, challenging them quickly for long balls or passes with very little room for error.

