 Inexpensive team sports are the best options if you are on a tight budget. Soccer, ball hockey, basketball and beach volleyball all commonly have leagues in each city.;
, Unless you are extremely experienced, join a recreational league that has multiple divisions or levels, such as beginner, intermediate, and competitive/premier, 1, 2, 3, etc.. It is very important to play at your level. Additionally, it is better to start a little lower because if you do well, you can win the title then move up divisions.
 This will be the sum of the league fees, plus equipment, uniforms, permits, etc. This will determine your team fees.
 Basing your team name around your region, habitat, culture or a professional team is common. For example, let's say you are from Cambridge and your team is participating in soccer; you can name your team the Cambridge Kickers.
 Based on your team name, have a friend who is good with graphic design make a logo for your team. You can also have your logo designed by an online company for less then $50.00 if you search around. Many logo sites have templates which don't cost much. Your logo should incorporate an image related to your sport and/or name. Make sure to add your logo to letterheads, web sites, blogs, posts and ads. When players looking for teams go through classifieds, they tend to think teams with a logo are a better fit than ones without one.
 Hold try outs. Ask everyone you know who is interested in sports if they want to join your team. Additional sources of players could be friends, co-workers, and players you've played with in the past. To find new players, place ads in online classifieds, especially Craigslist and filed under (your city > community > activity partners > your sport). You can also put ads up in local community centers, the town hall, and local businesses.
 Normally amateur teams are non-profit, so if your team fees are $2000.00 and you have 10 players, each player should pay $200.00 per season.


Try to get sponsors for your team. Often sports bars have sponsorship programs where they rebate money back to you team that you spend there. Local businesses might consider sponsoring your team if you help advertise for them during their games.
Look for other ways to raise funds for your team. Have a team fundraisers, BBQ, raffles, etc.
 A commonly-used structure is as follows: manager (you), coach (maybe you also), captain, co-captain, players.
 The person selected as captain should not always be the "best" player. It could be an above average player that is dedicated to the team, shows up on time and has a firm understanding of the game.
 Start a blog or a web site and make sure everyone is on the same page in terms of set-up, practicing, schedules, etc. You can also use the blog or web site to advertise your team, give advertising space to your sponsors, and recruit new players.


Keep a mailing list and phone number list. Contact players one day prior to game day to confirm they will show up. Much of winning and losing in amateur sports has a lot to do with who shows up.

