 Just as Maslow discussed in his hierarchy of needs, humans have a variety of psychological needs that determine their behaviors and how they may react or respond in various situations. These are needs such as: power and control, belongingness, affection or love, esteem, achievement, and self-actualization.


Becoming aware and attentive to your needs and how they affect your behaviors will help you with understanding how this affects your interpersonal relationships.
Your needs drive your motivation. If your needs are not being met, you may experience a decrease in motivation, become more frustrated, and have more conflict and stress in your life.
 Positivity is an essential trait for a well-groomed personality. To become more positive, get into the habit of looking for the good in people and situations, instead of finding reasons to criticize them. When things go wrong, focus on the things you can change, instead of the things you can’t.A positive mindset will attract people to you, while a negative one will repel them.
Having a positive mindset doesn’t mean you have to be happy all the time or enjoy bad situations. Rather, it means looking for the silver lining and doing what you can to improve things.
 Maintain a balanced personality by exploring a variety of interests and activities. If you already have hobbies, set aside some time daily or weekly to work on them. If you think your personality could use some rounding out, teach yourself a hobby or two you’ve always wanted to learn, or look for a class or a club you can join.For instance, if you’ve been spending most of your time and energy on work, try taking a cooking class or a dance class to improve your work-life balance.
Classes, clubs, and groups are a great way to meet new people while you expand your horizons.
 Most people with strong, appealing personalities have some kind of mission in life. Think about what you want to achieve, and then set goals that will help you get there. Avoid squandering your time on things that don’t really matter to you.Your life goals don’t have to be big and grand, as long as they’re meaningful to you.
 Staying well-informed is an important aspect of grooming your personality. Keep yourself up-to-date on important events in the world by reading newspapers and magazines. If you’re particularly interested in a field like history or technology, read books and watch documentaries on the subject.Learning about the world will give you more things to talk about with other people.
 The way you dress, style your hair, and carry yourself sends a message to other people about who you are. Make sure that your posture is good, your clothes are well-kept and appropriate, and you’re proud of your general appearance.If you’re not happy with the way you present yourself, invest in something that will make you feel more confident, such as some flattering clothes or a good haircut. This doesn’t have to be expensive.

