 A child diagnosed with conduct disorder may bully, threaten, or intimidate others. This person may engage in or initiate physical fights.For the child with CD, he or she may “get a rise” out of causing harm to other people.


Think about how this child treats peers and/or siblings. Does he or she often pick fights or use threats? Is violence used as a means to get what he or she wants?;
, Those with CD may escalate violent or aggressive behaviors. They may use a weapon in an act of aggression that can cause serious harm to another person. Examples of weapons include a brick, bat, broken bottle, knife, gun, or any other item that could be dangerous.When situations have been violent, has the child or adolescent used a weapon? What kind of weapon? Does he or she often use a weapon to threaten another person?

, This child may be especially cruel toward people and animals. This can include doing very mean things to other children or to family members. The child may trap insects and animals and perform sick “experiments” on them or find ways to kill them (such as removing a spider’s legs, cutting centipedes in half, burning the fur off of an animal, hitting small animals with BB guns, etc).Do you notice the child or adolescent being fascinated with cruelty? Does he or she enjoy hurting people or animals?
Keep in mind that one instance of cruelty towards insects should not be a cause for concern. For example, pouring salt on a slug or using a magnifying glass on ants to see what will happen is not something to worry about. You need only be concerned if the cruel behavior is ongoing.
 Keep in mind that people with CD may steal. This can include mugging, purse snatching, extortion, and armed robbery.Do you notice the child or adolescent coming home with belongings that are not his or her own? When asked about them, does he or she avoid the subject or come across as suspicious? Does he or she seem to enjoy watching people respond in fear?

, A child or adolescent with CD may force others into sexual activity.This can include forcing someone to perform a sexual act or do something of a sexual nature of which the person does not want to do. A person with CD may threaten or coerce someone physically and/or with words into doing something of a sexual nature.


Have there been any reports made about the child or adolescent’s sexual activity? Is the legal system involved?

, There may be a fascination with fire and/or destruction. If the child sets fires, the intention is to cause serious harm or damage. He or she may set fire to homes, sheds, school, or other buildings., Outside of fire starting, the child or adolescent may deliberately destroy property. This can include stealing things out of people’s lawns or yards, breaking windows or doors, or altering a building or property in a destructive way.The child or adolescent may break into a house, car, or property. The individual may target someone or perform the act randomly. The motivation of the break-in may not be clear., Some children or adolescents with CD run away from home overnight or for multiple days.The child may run to a friend’s house, or board a bus and travel. He or she may meet up with someone from the internet and travel with that person.


Does the child talk about leaving the home or meeting someone that lives far away? Monitor the child’s internet activity and note any indication that he or she plans to meet up with someone.
 Starting before the age of 13, the child may be truant from school. He or she may skip school altogether or leave midday. The child or adolescent may say he or she attended school, but school authorities may say that the child skipped or was seen leaving the school property., The child or adolescent may stay out late beyond parental or city curfew. This type of behavior occurs before the age of 13. The child may leave the house and not tell parents, be at another friend’s house or wander in the streets.Does the child leave without telling parents his or her whereabouts? Is it unclear where the child is going?

, A mental health professional will ask about when symptoms are present. Symptoms will cause significant impairment in social, academic, occupational, and home environments.The symptoms may differ in the environments, however, the effects of these impairments may greatly influence the child’s ability to function and succeed with peers, at home, or academically.


Think about how the child acts and home and at school. What have teachers said about his or her behavior? Communicate these problems to the professional.
 It’s important to know when problems started and to communicate this with the professional. With conduct disorder, typical onset occurs during childhood or adolescence. To specify childhood onset, the child must show one or more symptom prior to the age of 10. In adolescent onset, adolescents show no symptoms prior to the age of 10.When did you first notice signs of conduct disorder? What were the first signs of problems and when did they start?

, If the child displays a consistent negative pattern of emotional and social functioning, this may be discussed with the professional for diagnosis. Some common social problems associated with conduct disorder include:Lack of guilt or remorse: The individual shows a lack of concern for his or her behaviors and negative consequences of them. The person may show no remorse unless caught in the act, and the remorse may be forced or appear fake.

Callousness, lack of empathy: The person may disregard or lack concern for the feelings of other people. He or she may be seen as cold or uncaring toward others. If the child causes harm to another being, he or she may be more concerned with consequences than the harm caused toward another, even if the actions have caused substantial harm to another.

No concern for performance: This person may not care about his or her performance at work, school, or other environments. Even when expectations are clear, the individual may not put forth effort to perform well, or blame others for the lack of performance.

Shallow affect: The child or adolescent may show little to no emotion. If emotion is displayed, it may come across as shallow, insincere, or superficial. The person may use emotions as manipulation and be able to turn emotions on and off to fit situations.
 When a professional determines conduct disorder, the severity of symptoms is specified. Symptoms may be mild, moderate, or severe. A mild diagnosis means that the child exhibits few problems that cause relatively minor harm to others. A moderate diagnosis means that symptoms are present, yet not extreme enough as a severe diagnosis and above a mild diagnosis. This can include stealing without confronting the victim or vandalism. A severe diagnosis means that many problems exist in excess of those required to make a diagnosis. The symptoms cause considerable harm to others, such as forced sex, physical cruelty, use of a weapon.Think about the impact the child has on other people and on the self. How much to these behaviors influence the self and others?

, It’s not uncommon for children or adolescents with CD to have some degree of co-occurring drug use. If this is the case, it’s important to bring up the drug use to the treating professional (such as a therapist or psychiatrist). Especially if the child or teen is receiving psychological treatment, it’s important to treat the substance use first prior to treating behavior symptoms.For some children, using drugs may be an escape from experiencing the pain inside that he or she may be fearful to face.
For more information, check out How to Find Substance Abuse Treatment.
 If the individual is over 18 years old, the professional will rule out the presence of antisocial personality disorder. Likewise, if the individual is approaching the age of 18, see if symptoms more clearly fit into symptoms of antisocial personality disorder. Children with conduct disorder may go on to fit a diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder as adults.For more information, check out How to Recognize Someone With Antisocial Personality Disorder.
 When discussing the diagnosis with a mental health professional, make sure to ask questions so that you can understand the diagnosis as best as you can. You may ask about how to follow up with treatment, what steps you can take to ensure the child’s safety, and how that you can help the child have a better prognosis.


The next step following diagnosis includes obtaining treatment. Conduct disorder will not go away on its own and requires therapy.
Treatment often includes a combination of cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) and parent education and training.A therapist specializing in conduct disorder will often approach the problem holistically, meaning that he or she may gather information from schools, peers, the community, and the legal system to best understand the child’s problems and how to improve them.For more information, check out How to Treat Conduct Disorder.
 After receiving a diagnosis of conduct disorder, parents may feel like they have let their child down or have not been “good enough”. Likewise, parents may feel at the end of their ropes in handling the child’s behavior, ultimately feeling hopeless or helpless in dealing with the child. Parents may blame the child for the bad behavior or resent the child. While having a child with CD is difficult, it’s important to eliminate blame and find better ways to cope with difficult situations.Parents can play a role in treatment by learning through modeling or role playing with a therapist. Skills such as how to more effectively monitor their child’s behavior and supervise their child can be learned.
 Often, a child with CD may have other mental health problems as well, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD can develop as a result of witnessing or experiencing violence in the home, which can have a lasting and damaging impact on the child. Some children with CD may experience serious depression and/or anxiety, which can make the child feel agitated or irritable.Effective treatment for conduct disorder includes treating any other existing psychological condition in therapy.Recognize that the child’s emotional experience is not pleasant, and that having CD and other disorders may be painful. While the child’s behavior may be frustrating, remember that the child is having a hard time, even when it may seem like the child doesn't care.
For more information, check out How to Treat PTSD and How to Treat ADHD.

