 Once you have lowered your flag and properly folded it, you will want to find a private place to dispose of the flag. The preferred method of disposal is to burn your flag in a large fire. Make sure that it is big enough to properly destroy the flag, but not so large that it is a safety hazard.Once the flag is destroyed, bury the ashes.


Be sure to check with local burn bans before you dispose of your flag.
Because many modern flags are treated with chemicals that can burn explosively and give off toxic fumes, burning your flag may cause an accident.
 If you are unable or do not wish to burn your flag, you can also cut it into pieces. Once a flag has been cut up, it is no longer an official U.S. flag and can be disposed of in various methods. When cutting up the flag, you will want to ensure that you do not cut into the blue star field. This section should remain whole, but you can cut the rest of the flag as you see fit. Once the flag is properly cut up, you can dispose of it however you want.Use scissors or a knife to cut the flag.
Avoid tearing the flag. This can be considered disrespectful.
The blue star field represents the unity of the U.S. states, and cutting into that section is considered a symbolic attempt to disrupt that unity.
Some may consider this method less ceremonial or disrespectful. Use your discretion, or talk to someone with experience disposing of flags, before you cut up a flag.
 Once a flag is worn, you can fold it up, place it in a box and bury it. As long as you are respectful about how you bury the flag, this is a good alternative to burning. Be sure to place the flag in a box. Letting the soil touch the flag is considered disrespectful, even if you disposing of a flag.This method could also be considered disrespectful or improper.
Considering that flags are coated in various chemicals to preserve them, this might be a less environmentally friendly option. Unlike flags made from natural fibers like cotton that decompose quickly, modern flags are typically made from synthetic materials that breakdown over a much longer period of time.
 Groups like the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Girls Scouts, and the Boy Scouts will take your old flags and properly dispose of them. The old flags are typically burned during disposal ceremonies, which are held at different times throughout the year. If you are unsure about the best method of disposing of your U.S. flag, this may be a good option.The American Legion holds a flag disposal ceremony on Flag Day each year., If you are concerned about limiting your flag’s environmental impact, you might want to consider sending it to a company that specializes in recycling old flags. They will ensure that the flag is disposed of in an environmentally conscious way. The company may also use materials from the old flag to make a new one.Depending on the company, you may be asked to give a donation for the service. However, there are some who recycle the flags for free.

