 Stay within your usual style but ensure that it's neat, clean and fresh-smelling. Even go so far as to iron your clothes, it's a novelty not much attended to anymore but screams stylish and attentive to the small details. It'll be a great way to impress your crush-turned-date.


Ensure that your hair is neat or casually styled messy.
Don't overdo the clothing. This person has said yes to dating you because he or she already likes the way you're presenting yourself.;
, Now that he or she is a date, start using this term instead. This helps you to accept the transition from dreaming about the person to actually spending time with him or her. Watch out if you don't make this transition, as you could be setting the poor person up for a fall when he or she doesn't live up to your expectations born of dreaming.
 Tell yourself the date is going to go well and act in this fashion. You've been crushing over this person for ages, now it's time to actually get to know him or her, so see this as a great opportunity, not a scare-fest.
 Always speak positively about people you know that he or she can relate to. This reveals that you're no gossip and that you're a supportive kind of person. And aim to keep the conversation as positive as possible. You and your date can carry on together with positive comments, while negative things are usually a conversation stopper.


Crack some jokes if you're comfortable doing so. Ensure that they're genuinely funny and avoid any jokes that require the debasing of others.
Be self-deprecating. You could even mention some funny facts about how things were for you when you were crushing on your date and how great it is now that you're actually dating.
 This gives them power to speak comfortably and freely about themselves which they will enjoy. Ask plenty of questions to encourage your date to talk and tell more about themselves. This is both polite and an important part of replacing your mysterious fantasies with the actual facts.
 Offer a drink or bite to eat. This will show that you care about him or her. Be certain to ask in a sincere way.
 Lead up to asking for a second date, or for hanging around together a whole lot more. If things have gone well, your date will likely say yes.

