 Medicine balls are great for partner workouts. There are multiple exercises you can do using a medicine ball. Choose a weight that is challenging yet not impossible for both of you.Throw the ball back and forth, catching it with arms that are extended but not locked at the elbow.You can also train your balance by standing on one leg during this exercise.
Stand back to back and lower into a squat. Staying in the squat, have one partner hold the medicine ball as they rotate at the waist to hand the ball to the partner. The partner takes it and twists to hand it back to the partner on the opposite side. Do 10 reps in one direction and then switch.
Lie on the floor with your knees bent and your feet between each others. One partner will hold the medicine ball as both people do a sit up. When both partners are up, pass the ball to the other person, then return your back to the floor.
 These are a great opportunity to make use of a partner. A bit of competition helps motivate you, but there's also a high level of support as you aim to keep each other going through the reps, sets or intervals.Get on the floor facing one another. Do either a regular pushup or a modified one on the knees, spaced so your heads are almost touching. Once you push back up, reach out your right hand and tap the other person on the left shoulder. After the next pushup, tap on the opposite shoulder. Try 10 reps.
Stand facing each other or side by side in opposite directions. Lower down into a squat and then instead of coming up slowly, jump through your heels in an explosive movement. When you are in the air, high five your partner. If you are facing each other, slap both hands. If you are side by side, just clap the inside hands together.
 Alternating bodyweight and cardio moves can be a great way to do a high intensity partner workout. These exercises generally have two movements. Each partner does a different movement for around 20 to 30 seconds and then switch. Try 10 reps of each movement.One partner lowers into a squat and hold it for thirty seconds. The other partner does high knees, a move where you quickly bring your knees up as high as you can as if you are running in place. You may also do butt-kickers, which is where you quickly try to bring your heel to your glutes as fast as you can. After 30 seconds, switch.
One partner holds a forearm plank, supporting themself on elbows and toes and holding their body as straight as possible, keeping the core tight. The second person does crunches while the person in forearm plank position holds their feet.
 Partner intervals are a good way to make exercise at solitary gym machines more interactive. One person uses the equipment for a certain number of reps or a certain length of time, while the second person spots. Switch places and repeat until you hit your goal of a certain number of rounds or length of time.


For example, spot your partner at the squat rack while they do five squats. Switch places and repeat until each person has done four sets.
Partners are especially useful in weight training. Many weight training exercises require a spotter, including bench presses, pec flies, and any exercises on the squat rack.

