 Look for physical signs of improvement in your skin condition. If you see no change in your infection or it appears to be worsening, get in touch with your doctor right away. This could be a sign that you have an infection that is resistant to Mupirocin, in which case Bactroban will not help you.Your infection probably won't be completely cleared up within three to five days of beginning Bactroban use, but there should be some visible improvement by then.
Continue to use Bactroban until you can see your doctor unless it is making your infection worse.
 The following are potential side effects of Bactroban use and should be monitored carefully: skin dryness, irritation, itching, burning, redness, and blistering. If you experience any of these while using Bactroban, stop using the ointment and visit your doctor so he or she can evaluate your reaction to the medication.It is possible that you could be allergic to some of the ingredients of Bactroban, in which case you should not use it. It is best to have your doctor make this determination.
Additional side-effects are possible in young children, pregnant women, and the elderly. Ask a doctor about potential issues associated with these special cases.
Serious side-effects that warrant immediate emergency medical attention include difficulty breathing, hives, wheezing, a severe rash, and itching or swelling of the mouth or throat.
 Although Bactroban (Mupirocin) are not known to react poorly to other medicines or ointments, it is recommended that you do not use any other cream, lotion, or ointment on the same area to which you are applying Bactroban, as this could dilute Bactroban's effectiveness.If you must use Bactroban and another topical cream on the same area, try to apply them at least 30 minutes apart from one another.
Using a lotion or cream on your skin could cause irritation, especially if it contains perfumes; this could make it difficult to tell whether Bactroban is helping your skin infection.
 Once your prescribed period of Bactroban use has ended, keep an eye on your skin infection and make sure there are no signs of a lingering (or recurring) issue. If your infection does not appear to be fully eradicated (and you have completed your original Bactroban regimen), talk to your doctor.


Do not resume using Bactroban without first clearing it with your doctor, as this could make your infection worse in certain situations (such as promoting antibiotic resistance).Wait a couple of days after finishing your prescribed run of Bactroban use before deciding that your infection hasn't cleared up.

