 All guitar and bass amps use the same power cable. Most power cables can be detached from the amp itself. If your cable is detached, plug the female end into the amp. The female side has holes instead of prongs extending outward. Then connect the male end of the cable into a power outlet.To protect your amplifier, use a surge protector. Surge protectors also become useful once you begin to build your tone and experiment with effects pedals.
Be sure the power socket is grounded. A grounded socket means it has three prongs. If you don’t, you risk electrocuting yourself.;
, Many amps you purchase are actually a combination of an amplified and a speaker in one "box". These are called "combo amps" and are very common. If on the other hand you are working with a separate amplifier component, your setup will require a set of speakers, typically in the form of a cabinet. Run a quarter inch cable from the back of the head into the cab.


A cabinet of speakers (or cab) is a container that holds one or more speakers. The guitar amplified typically powers those speakers.
Most combo amps also allow you the option to use the built-in speaker or to run to a larger speaker cabinet.
 To plug your guitar in, run a quarter-inch (6 mm) audio cable from your guitar's output jack to the input jack on the amp. Always plug into the amp with the amp turned off, and avoid turning the amp on when nothing is plugged in. This can damage the amp’s components.


Some amps may have more than 1 input jack representing different "channel" options for you to play out of, for example, channel 1 is clean and channel 2 is more distorted or has reverb., There are two types of amps: solid state amps and tube amps. Solid state amps will have a simple button or flip-switch to power them on. Amps using tube circuitry, however, will often have 2 switches: 1 labeled "Power" and another labeled "Standby." Turn on both switches for the tube amp to make sound.


Tube amps will take longer to produce sound because it takes a few moments for the tubes to warm up. The standby switch is useful keeping the amplifier warmed up and ready to go during short breaks in playing.
The power is sometimes on the front of the amp and clearly labeled. Sometimes the power switch is located on top of the amp or even behind the amp.
If you’re having trouble locating the power switches on your amp, inspect the front and back of the amp in a well lit area.
If you are playing a gig and load in your equipment on stage before the show, turn on the power switch only. This will make the tubes on your amp warm before showtime. When you’re ready to play, flip on the standby switch.

