 Lightly grease a muffin pan, or insert of muffin liners., Sift the flour into a large mixing bowl, then add the baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt. Stir everything together with a whisk until evenly combined.

If you are vegan, you will need to use flaxseed eggs. Add another ½ teaspoon of baking powder for extra raising power., Grate enough apples to fill 1 cup (120 grams), and add it to the flour mixture. Next, peel, core, and chop enough apples to fill 1 cup (120 grams). Add the apple chunks to the mixture, then stir everything together with a spatula. Having a mixture of grated apple and apple chunks will give you a more consistent texture.

Make the apple chunks no bigger than ¼-inch (0.64-centimeters).
 If you are using coconut oil, be aware that it may start to turn solid. If this happens, heat the mixture in the microwave for 30 seconds. Make sure that you are using a microwave-safe bowl, however!, Add the eggs into the oil mixture first, then stir well with a whisk. Add in the yogurt, and beat again. Add in the applesauce, and vanilla, and stir until everything is well-combined and no streaks remain.

If you are vegan, use 2 flaxseed eggs instead of chicken eggs. Prepare the flax eggs by: Mixing 2 tablespoons (14 grams) of flaxseed meal with 6 tablespoons (90 milliliters) of water. Let it sit for 5 minutes, then stir it into your oil mixture.If you are vegan, use "vegan buttermilk" instead of yogurt. Mix together ½ cup (120 milliliters) of non-dairy milk and 1½ teaspoons of vinegar. Let the mixture sit for 5 minutes, then add it to your oil mixture., Keep stirring until everything is just combined. It's okay if there are a few lumps and the batter is thick. If you over-mix the batter, your muffins may turn out tough!, You have enough to make 12 muffins. To ensure that each muffin well gets the same amount, consider using an ice cream scoop to measure out the batter.

For extra texture, sprinkle the top of each muffin with some raw sugar.
 They are done when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean., Let them cool in the pan for about 10 minutes. Take them out, and let them finish cooling—about 10 to 15 minutes more.