 If you're using a retractable tape measure (the kind that comes in a small metal or plastic box that automatically sucks the tape back up when you're done with it) note that the end of the tape will almost always have a small metal notch at the zero mark. This is useful for holding the tape in the right place as you measure, so you may want to start by catching it on the edge of the object you're measuring.


On the other hand, if you're measuring something that can't be latched on to (like, for instance, the distance across a door frame), just press this metal notch into one side of the object.
 With the zero mark in place, pull back on the box to let more tape out. You can use one hand (or a friend) to hold the end of the tape in place as you pull it back. Let tape out until it stretches all the way across the distance you're measuring.


Try to keep the tape straight as you do this — if you let it sag (which is easy to do if you're measuring long distances), the results you get will be skewed.
 Now, look at the point where the tape meets the end of the thing you're measuring. The nearest number below the end of the tape is your number of units you're measuring and the markings between this number and the one above it correspond to fractions of the unit.


For example, if you are measuring across the front of your dresser and the edge of the dresser lines up right after the 24 inch marking, this means that your dresser is between 24 and 25 inches wide. If, for instance, it's three 1/8 inch marks past 24 inches, it is 24 3/8 inches wide.
You can also try putting a kink in the tape, then lining up this kink with the edge of what you're measuring. This is handy in certain situations, like for instance, when you're measuring into a tight corner.
 Most retractable tape measures will have a button or sliding switch that, when pressed, keeps the tape measure from being sucked back in. Some even lock automatically.You can use this to easily compare the sizes of different lengths and objects. For instance, the lock feature is useful for:


Quickly seeing which of two objects is bigger
Seeing whether something will fit through a certain space
Keeping the tape available for multiple quick measurements
Keeping a certain distance "handy" to avoid having to re-measure

, A manual tape measure (which looks a little like a long, skinny ribbon or a ruler made out of flexible material) lacks some of the convenient features of a modern retractable tape measure, but with the proper technique, it works just as well. To start taking a measurement, grab the "zero" end and line it up with the start of the object or length you want to measure.


Part of the problem with manual tape measures is that they're most useful for measuring only short differences because you have to be able to hold the zero end in place while you move the other end into position. Thus, most manual tapes won't be much longer than the human arm span. If you need to measure beyond your reach, you can try keeping the zero end of your tape measure in place with a weight or getting a friend to help.
 Now, take the slack of the object and lay it in a straight line across the object or distance you want to measure. Be sure to keep the tape tight to ensure an accurate measurement, but don't stretch it — most modern measuring tapes are made out of semi-flexible plastic.
 Just as you would with a retractable tape measure, look for the spot where the end of the object or distance you're measuring lines up with the tape measure. The distance indicated on the tape measure at this point is the distance you've measured.


For instance, let's say you hold one end of a tape measure in the tips of your fingers and stretch the other end all the way to the crook of your armpit to determine how long your arm is. If the tape measure stretches exactly halfway between the 27 and 28 inch markings, this means that your arm is 27.5 inches long.
 One advantage of ribbon-style tape measures over retractable tape measures is that their flexibility allows them to measure around objects. To do this, place the zero end of the tape on the object, wrap the tape all the way around it in as straight of line as possible, and note the point where the tape measure first passes the zero marking once again. This point is the distance around your object.


For example, if you want to find the distance around your wrist, place the zero end of the tape measure on top of your wrist, wrap the slack around and underneath, then line it up with the zero end on top. If it is, for instance, six inches at this point, then your wrist has a circumference of about six inches.

