 To make a suitable house, you will need the following.


Background walls
One piece of furniture (you can add any sort of chair or table)
A light source (Chandeliers, torches, and mostly everything else work)
At least one solid block to stand on
A door;
, This is a basic house. A Guide will most likely move in. Once you add different rooms, incorporating all of the features mentioned above, more NPCs will move in. Some require special tasks fulfilled, which are described below.
 Once you get 50 Silver coins, a Merchant will move in. Silver coins can also be obtained by opening chests and defeating bosses.
 Once he moves into your house, find the Underground Jungle (or any underground biome). Find a Crystal Heart. These are glowing red hearts. Smash it with a hammer to make it drop. Equip it and use it to make the Nurse NPC want to settle down., He sells paintings and items used to paint., The easiest one to find is a Yellow Marigold. Keep it in your Inventory to spur a Dye Trader into checking out your house. Other slightly harder dye crafting ingredients include a Red Husk (dropped by Beetles in the Mushroom/Cavern layer) and Blueberries (found dotting the surface).
 Grenades are typical Forest chest loot, Bombs can be found in pots in caves, the jungle, or underground, and Dynamite is frequently found in Dungeon/Underground Jungle Golden Chests. Hold on to the explosive and a Demolitionist is sure to notice you., Once you defeat any boss besides King Slime, Lepus, or the Wall of Flesh, a Dryad will move in. You have a wide variety of bosses you can defeat.



Eye of Cthulhu; summoned by using the Suspicious Looking Eye (5 Lenses at a Demon/Crimson Altar

Skeletron; summoned by speaking to the Old Man at the Dungeon at night and selecting his Curse option
Brain of Cthulhu; summoned by breaking three Crimson Hearts
Eater of Worlds; summoned by breaking three Shadow Orbs
Queen Bee; summoned by using Abeemination or killing its larvae in the Hive
Turkor the Ungrateful; summoned by using Cursed Stuffing while a pet Turkey is active

, For more information, click here.
 After that, the Party Girl has a 2% chance of moving in. Don't pout if you miss her; she's not a necessary step towards beating the game., These can be found deep in the Cavern layer. Once you're there, a bound Stylist will appear. Free her and she'll move in eventually., The Ocean can be found  on either side of the world. Speak to the Angler and he'll move in to your house (note: He's only available on the PC version of Terraria. This means he will never appear in the Xbox/PlayStation or Mobile version)., After you succeed in fending it off, the Goblin Tinkerer will spawn tied up in the Underground Jungle/Cavern layer. Unbind him to make him move into your house., These can be found in the Underground Jungle. Enter the Hive. You'll see the Queen Bee's larvae squirming around. Kill it to spawn Queen Bee. Kill her and a Witch Doctor will be ready to spawn in your house.
 For a detailed guide of how to beat him, visit this article. After the battle (if you win), the Clothier will be ready to move in.
 Explore the Dungeon until the Mechanic spawns, bound. Unbind her and she'll move in to your house.

