 An important part of being heard, especially at work, is to make sure you're speaking in the most effective way for your audience. Always consider who it is that you're going to be speaking to when you're trying to get heard.Consider how they speak: do they speak quickly, rapid-firing their ideas? Do they speak more slowly and with more consideration?
If you speak rapidly to a slower-paced person they're more likely to shut down no matter how good your ideas are. You want to set your speaking pace to your audience's listening pace.
 This is part of matching your communication style to your audience, but you need to know how to speak effectively to your colleagues. If you want them to hear you, then you need to speak on their level, which requires figuring out what that level is.Find out what makes them tick and shape your idea to their perspective. If they maintain a blog, read it, if they write articles for a magazine relating to your field, check it out. You want insight into their ideas.
Figure out what topics they’re interested in and what they value. To be heard effectively you have to gear your ideas towards what will interest your colleagues most. For example: if you find that your colleague is really interested saving the environment, then you might try to show how your idea will help with saving the environment.
Take note of how one "takes the floor". Know how to get your opinion, thought, or comment heard. Observe how communications flows, and how a person gets his or her voice heard. This may vary greatly from culture to culture, workplace to workplace, and person to person.

Note behavior in meetings, office interactions, and such in workplaces. You might notice, for instance, that the boss will not respond well to subtle hints, but a direct approach works better.
Take a look at individuals. Why does Cousin Sam get across to Grandmother? Or the intern from accounting gets attention, while you do not?
Understand cultural differences. Sometimes it is subtle, sometimes not. The workplace culture in China may be quite different than Canada.
 This may be an unconscious part of your communication, but using too much apologetic or self-deprecating language can work against you. Consider: if someone passes you in the hall and says something like, “I’m sorry to bother you, but do you have just two minutes to listen to this idea I have?” -- would you feel confident about what that person had to share?Confidence is important to convince others, especially in the workplace, that your ideas are worth hearing.


Use the assertive communication techniques elsewhere in this article to help you communicate your ideas with confidence.
Being confident doesn’t mean you have to be pushy or arrogant. You can acknowledge others’ contributions and communicate that you appreciate others’ time is valuable without diminishing your own role. For example, try “Hey, I have what I think is a good idea for that project. Do you have two minutes?” This still acknowledges that the other person’s time is valuable without seeming to apologize for having an idea., You really don't want to be that person in a meeting that just blurts out ideas without having the faintest idea what's going on. Make sure that you know what is going to be covered in the meeting, or at work.A good way to be able to talk knowledgeably and be heard during a meeting or discussion is if you're prepared some topics and opinions on the subject beforehand. This will give you a jumping off point for expressing your ideas, especially if you're naturally more reticent.
 You want to play to your strengths when you're discussing an idea you have, or describing a work situation, while still keeping in mind your audience. If you're best at making a PowerPoint, then use that as the medium through which you express your ideas.People learn and absorb information in different ways. You may test out whether your colleagues or the people in a meeting are visual learners, kinetic learners, or auditory learners.
Mixing up your styles of presenting information is also a good way to make sure that people are still following. For example: you might have a PowerPoint, a handout, and a small discussion on your idea.
 Generally, the first person who contributes to a discussion will be heard more than others who come after. If you have ideas, jump in early. Hanging back may mean you get lost in the discussion. Obviously, don't jump in if no one has posed a question or asked for ideas. It will look a bit presumptuous.
This can take a little while to perfect. Some people may interpret a brief pause as uncomfortable silence, while others need a moment to collect their thoughts. Experiment with how long a pause seems to work well, and then jump in., Often, people are so focused on getting their ideas out there that they forget that asking questions can be just as important, and sometimes even better than simply presenting ideas. Questions can help clarify issues or get people thinking about a problem differently.For example, if people are discussing how best to maximize the work day, ask what it is that the boss is looking for, ask where the problem areas are, and so on.
Prepare questions ahead of time, even if you don’t use them. This can help prepare you and help clarify your own thinking.
 Make sure that your methods of showing your ideas are clear and concise, or else your ideas may go in one ear, and out the other.


You can also use techniques to keep people’s attention, such as using compelling imagery, telling an illustrative anecdote, and calling back to other things that have happened.Even if you’re speaking to a huge crowd, make eye contact while you’re speaking. Move your eyes naturally around the room, making eye contact with different people. at the end of sentences, keep your eyes up and focused on your audience., While this can be true in all different parts of life, it holds especially true in work instances. Sometimes, people are so busy presenting their own ideas they're not going to ask you what yours are. They're going to assume that if you had an idea you'd speak up.


You have to make the conscious effort to be heard, to speak up. If you don't, then you're simply not going to be heard. It might take a little while to get comfortable speaking up, but the more you do it, the better you will get.
This is something that can be especially difficult for women, who are taught not to be “polite” and consider others’ needs, even at the expense of their own.