 Don’t set sharp-edged objects directly on marble. If you have marble floors, use padding under chair and table legs. Use coasters and mats on marble countertops to protect them from glasses and appliances.;
, Marble stains very quickly, especially if a liquid is allowed to sit untouched for a period of time. Clean up orange juice, wine, and coffee as soon as they are spilled.


Other materials with strong pigments, such as cumin, curry powder, coffee grounds, and leafy greens should be swept up right away if they are spilled.
 Use a soft cloth and a little warm water to clean dust and small spills from your marble countertop and floors. Don’t scrub, as this could scratch the marble. Run the cloth over the surface, making a circular motion in the spots that need a little extra pressure.
 Don’t leave pools of water to try on marble countertops or floors, as this could end up leaving a stain. Use a second dry, soft cloth to dry the surfaces after they’re clean.
 If dust or other debris has accumulated a bit on your countertop or floor, dilute a gentle dish soap in a little warm water and use a soft cloth to clean your marble surfaces.


Never use vinegar on marble. Vinegar is a good natural cleaning agent for many surfaces, but because it is acidic, it can cause marble to corrode.
For light colored marble, hydrogen peroxide is a good natural cleaning choice.
 A chamois cloth is made from a soft fabric that can be used to dry and shine your marble at the same time. This is the gentlest way to shine your marble.


Commercial marble polishes also work well. If you choose to use a commercial polish, be sure it is actually intended for use on marble, not granite or another type of stone. Marble has special properties that can be harmed by certain chemicals.
, Mix baking soda and water to the consistency of a thick paste. Apply it liberally to the stained patch on your marble. Cover the area with plastic wrap and let it rest for twenty-four hours.


You may also make a poultice from flour and a nonabrasive dish soap, using the same method.
 Lift the plastic wrap and use a damp cloth to wipe away the poultice. If the area is still stained, repeat the process.
 Pour a little hydrogen peroxide over the stained area. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rest for twenty-four hours. Lift the plastic wrap and wipe away the hydrogen peroxide with a damp cloth. Repeat if necessary.


Be careful with this method if your marble is dark in color, as hydrogen peroxide can lighten marble.
 Sprinkle a bit of corn starch over the grease spot and allow it to sit and absorb the grease for about twenty minutes. Wipe away the corn starch with a damp cloth.
 Using warm water and a soft cloth, gently rub the scratch. Lighter scratches should rub away with this method, and it’s the gentlest way to treat a scratch.


Add mild dish soap to the warm water to create more friction if you wish. Be sure to wipe away the soapy water and dry the surface of the marble when you are finished.
 For deeper scratches, try rubbing the area lightly with very fine-grain sandpaper. Do not use coarse-grain sandpaper, as this can create divots in your marble.
 They’ll have industrial equipment designed to remove scratches from marble without harming it.

