 Use your energy wisely.;
, These forms are as important then your DD 214 Honorable Discharge paper because these forms will help The Army help you "in the event". Nobody wants to confront this possibility but you can never know when your death can happen. Your Unit Administrator (UA), the S-1 Personnel Clerk, your Soldier Readiness Team, and your Mobilization Readiness Team will assist you in formulating your forms.
 By regulations, if you decide to place anything less than 100% of your $500,000 Life Insurance, your spouse must be informed of this in writing. Make sure you discuss this with your spouse of the less amount of insurance before they receive the letter from the Army. Do not blindside them.
 You are still responsible for their well being even if you are physically separated by your former spouse. The Army is paying you Basic Allotment of Housing or BAH for the well being of your family that you are supposed to take care of. If you withhold that money from your former spouse and you have not legally divorce them, you will be subjected to a slew of Uniformed Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)infractions and tons of bad karma throughout your career by being labeled a "Deadbeat Soldier". Bottom line-divorce her and pay child support or run the risk of losing your career.
 This document will legally prove that you are the father of the child. Generally, all soldiers with children must be entered in to Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) for their children to obtain TRICARE Health Benefits. Without these things, the Soldier will not gain BAH nor Health Benefits for their children. Finally, be sure to provide a special Power of Attorney for the mother of the child so she can continue to process the child's benefits by providing the Social Security Number when it is made. Contact your nearest DEER/I.D. Card facility nearest you for more information.
 Ensure you have an original/certified notarized copy of your Marriage Certificate, a certified copy of your spouses Social Security Card, and a certified copy of their Photo Identification (ie. State I.D or State Driver's License). Yet the shortest and best way to place your spouse in to DEERS/ID Card is to have both of you in person to not only to processes them but, also have them get their ID Military Card. Again, contact your local DEERS/I.D. Card station for their hours. At certain places, you might have to make an appointment.
 Military regulations does states that any beneficiary of entitlements must be 18 years or older to receive full benefits unless the beneficiary has an Agent on behalf of the Soldier's estate. For more information, contact your Unit Administrator or ask the Mobilization Site for advice.

