 Tell them you can handle all the fights, and keep everyone calm. Also promise that you won't be too noisy.;
, Invite all of your close friends. Remember, you might not see anyone (not even your enemies) that you know next year, so invite everyone that you will miss.
 Think about your whole house. There may be a perfect room for a sleepover, but it's near your parents or sibling's room. Make sure its not around their rooms. The room should be fairly big, with lots of space.
 Think about your friends favorite foods. Also make sure your friends don't have any allergies to food or anything.
 If you are making them, you could make it with your elementary school's colors and symbols. Maybe put textbooks, or notebook paper pictures on the invitations. Be creative! If you're buying them, buy something that you think is cool, pretty, and your friends would think was cool. Remember to put when it is (date and time), where it is (your address), what your friends should bring (i.e. toothbrush, pajamas, sleeping bag, etc), what it's for, and your phone number.
 Think of things you and your friends like doing together. You might not get the chance to do those things again. Good ideas are:


Video Games
Pillow fight
Makeovers
Truth or dare
Manicures
Spotlight
Telephone
Board games

, Buy everything you will need a week or so before the sleepover. Things like food, games, etc. Also remember that your friends may forget some things. So buy some cheap toothbrushes and toothpaste. Maybe some hairbrushes. Also stock up on small flashlights just in case your friend have to go to the bathroom in the middle of the night. Make sure you have enough blankets at your house. If not, buy more. A blow up mattress is also a good idea.
 Send it in the mail, take it to their house, or give it to them at school. Either way, invitations are important!

, The phone number and email is for reminders. The address is just in case you need to take one of your friends home if they get home sick. Also, get their parent's phone numbers.
 Get your parents to call your friend's parents reminding them also and telling them your address, phone number, and everything they will need to bring.
 Take out anything that could be easily broken, or you don't want to be touched or seen. Vacuum, dust, and maybe spray some air freshener.
 Like CDs, CD player, iPod and iHome, blankets, sleeping bags, flashlights, makeup, nail polish, magazines, games, etc.
, When the guests arrive, show them where to put there stuff, and tell them to unpack.
 Tell them the off-limits rooms, like sibling's or parent's bedrooms. Also show them where the bathrooms are.
 Ask your friends what they would like to do first, since you might not see them again in a while.
, Either eat in your dining room or in the room of the sleepover.
 Be happy that you get to be with your friends who you may not be seeing for a whole year and cherish the moment.
 This is the fun part. Grab as much yearbooks you can find, and haul them upstairs. Looking through all your old year books together is a great thing to do before middle school.
 Take lots of pics, and make funny videos. Maybe even post it on YouTube or Facebook! You don't want to forget that special sleepover!

, If some people don't want to, they don't have to. But the people that want to stay up with you will have to be quiet.
 Probably the best sleepover breakfasts are muffins, pancakes, or doughnuts.
 Still do some things in the morning.
, Also wish them good luck for their first year at middle school.

