 Bullies, whether at school, work, or the playground, can make you feel like crying.Fortunately, there are people you can turn to for help if you're being bullied. These are all signs of bullying:Someone uses his or her power over you to control or hurt you. For example, a much larger kid at school pushes you around, or someone uses personal information about you to get you to do things you don't want to do.
A bully might also isolate you from friends or keep you from getting to do things at school.
Bullying can be physical, verbal, or social. Physical bullying includes things like hitting, pushing, and tripping. Verbal bullying includes things like teasing and name-calling. Social bullying includes things like leaving you out of things, telling other kids not to be friends with you, and intentionally embarrassing you.If these things happen to you on a regular basis, you may be being bullied.
Talk to a trusted parent, teacher, or counselor for help. Don't try to confront the bully yourself; you could put yourself in danger.
Even your "friends" can bully you. Good friends will be kind and supportive. Teasing will be playful, not malicious, and real friends will stop teasing if you ask them to. If you generally feel bad when hanging out with your friends, it may be a sign that they aren't really your friends.
 Sometimes, your surface emotions are covering up something much deeper. Push to see if some other emotion is below, and what is causing that emotion. Maybe you're crying at school when someone criticizes you, but what's really bothering you is something to do with your boyfriend or girlfriend. If you can figure out what's really bothering you, you can take steps to improve the situation, such as having a serious discussion with the person., Being stressed can cause you to feel more emotions and act out on them more. For instance, you may find yourself feeling more anxious or irritable, and you may find yourself crying more often.You might also be more anxious in general and find yourself getting angry at people more easily.You could also have physical symptoms, such as not being able to sleep well, having headaches, feeling extra tired, and being more susceptible to sickness., If you're a woman, your tears could be related to your menstrual cycle. Some women experience premenstrual syndrome, which can start a week or two before your period. It's most likely related to hormones.This syndrome can cause you to feel emotionally unbalanced while it is going on, including inducing more tears., Uncontrollable emotions, especially if they are constant, could be a sign of something a little more serious. For instance, it's possible you could be clinically depressed or have an anxiety disorder.If you feel like you cry too much and you have other symptoms for long periods of time, talk to a doctor about it. Symptoms that could be more serious include pervasive anxiety, constantly feeling afraid or like something bad is going to happen, feeling detached from life, feeling continually sad, or always feeling bad about yourself.