 If you’re at all flexible, you can sometimes save hundreds by adjusting your travel dates, often by just a day or two.


Travelocity has one of the most useful flexible date search options in the industry because it searches 330 days ahead; although it no longer includes international flights (of course, it’s limited, as all many online agencies are, by its exclusion of Southwest and several small domestic carriers such as USA3000 and Allegiant Air). To use this feature, simply click on the “Flexible dates” button just below the “to” and “from” boxes on the flight search engine (check these step by step instructions if you’re unsure how this works).
Try Travelocity's Asian affiliate Zuji.com . This contains international flexible searches listed in US dollars (they also show business and first class flexible date results).
Cheapair.com has a flexible search that also goes out 330 days but it charges $10 per booking vs. Travelocity's $5.
Orbitz has a limited flexible date function that searches a span of only 30 days (click on “Flexible dates”).
Expedia does flexible search only between a few dozen major US cities (click on “My travel dates are flexible”).
Sidestep.com and the other major sites have no flexible search capability. Increasingly, individual airline sites are improving their flexible date search functions.
American, AerLingus, Air New Zealand, Spirit, and USA3000 all have decent ones and Southwest and US Airways have good ones.
 Last minute weekend fares are often great deals, but most people don’t realize that they can construct itineraries by combining two of these fares. Let’s say you want to fly from Boston to San Antonio next weekend, and you’ve signed up for all the weekly newsletters alerting you of these deals but there’s no Boston/San Antonio deals listed. However, if there’s a Boston to Atlanta fare for $128 round-trip, and an Atlanta to San Antonio fare for $108 round-trip, then there is indeed a Boston/San Antonio fare as well. Just buy two separate fares (Travelocity and some other sites do a good job of combining weekend fares in this manner). You can even combine such fares on two different airlines, but make sure you leave enough time in between connecting flights in case there’s a delay.

