 That is the basic ingredient that provides most of the liquid in massage oil. These are usually vegetable based, and have different properties that may impact your choice. You can usually find these at the grocery store.


Grape seed oil:

a light, gentle, emollient oil with a low odour and good penetration. Readily absorbed by the skin and carries a low risk of allergy. Especially popular with professional massage therapists.


Jojoba oil:

not an oil , but a liquid wax, with natural moisturizing and healing properties and suitable for all skin types. Like grapeseed oil, it is not a nut oil so very suitable for those with sensitive skin.


Avocado oil:

An excellent carrier oil for those with mature skin, or conditions that require special care. Re-hydrates and nourishes sun dried skin, and is easily absorbed


Almond oil:

very moisturizing, rich in essential fatty acids and vitamins A & E. Light both in odour and colour and while it is suitable for all skin types, is particularly useful for dry or sensitive skin.


Apricot Kernel:

similar to sweet almond oil chemically, but with a wonderfully light consistency and aroma making it particularly suitable for facial massage and treatments.


Wheat germ oil:

renowned for its high content of Vitamin E, an antioxidant, as well as fatty acids and is particularly useful for dry or mature skin.


Hazelnut oil:

Has no taste or smell to overpower other fragrances. It penetrates deeply, and has great moisturizing capacity

;
, Essential oils are highly concentrated, and are used at a blend of two or three drops to a batch of oil. They are also prone to breaking down under temperature or light extremes, and should be stored in colored glass bottles, in a cool, dry location. Some good essential oils are:


rosewood oil
geranium oil
sandalwood oil
cinnamon oil
peppermint oil
black pepper oil
rose oil
ylang ylang oil
jasmine oil

, Here some recipes:


Flowery Escape

4 ounces of your preferred carrier oil
15 drops of rosewood oil
10 drops of geranium oil
8 drops of jasmine oil


Spicy Massage Oil

4 ounces of your preferred carrier oil
15 drops of sandalwood oil
9 drops of cinnamon oil
6 drops of peppermint oil
5 drops of black pepper oil


Stimulating Oil

4 ounces of your preferred carrier oil
15 drops of rose oil
15 drops of ylang ylang oil
10 drops of jasmine oil



