 You will receive an unusual signal coming from the northwest, just off your main island. Investigate it with one of your ships. You will find Professor Devi and his Ark from the SAAT (Scientific Academy for Advanced Technologies).;
, Prof. Devi will ask you to get him a 3D Locator and a Salvage Arm. You must send resources to Yana and Rufus in order to receive these two parts.


First you need to click on Yana Rodriguez’s Ark, and she will tell you to send her 5 tons of building modules and 5 tons of wood. During this part of the chapter, you most likely haven’t started making wood. Set up a Tree Nursery and two sawmills nearby. Make sure these are connected to a depot or warehouse. Once you give Yana these resources, she will give you the 3D Locator.
Next you need to visit Rufus Thorne by clicking on his Ark. He will require 10 tons of building modules and 5 tons of tools. Make sure to deliver these at the same time on the same ship. Once you give Rufus the desired resources, he will hand you the Salvage Arm.
Take the two parts to Prof. Devi for further instructions.
 You will lose your two ships and receive a submarine. Don’t worry that you are losing two of your ships as this is the final mission for Chapter 1, and you will be moving to a new location in Chapter 2.
 Prof. Devi will give you three locations to scout underwater. Take your new submarine to each of these locations, select the dive button, and then click on the scout drone button to scan the area. You will need to do this for all three locations even though only one is the location of the Virago.


You cannot dive near shorelines and must be in the deep sea.
 Return to Prof. Devi to deliver the three documents you uncovered. Remember to surface your submarine before attempting to deliver the documents. Prof. Devi’s findings will lead to the need of using explosives!

, Prof. Devi will ask you to blow up the debris that is blocking you from scanning the Virago. Retrieve explosives from Thorne’s Ark and communicators from Yana’s Ark. Once you have these, you will need to bring them to Prof. Devi’s Ark. He will hand you the detonators to use the explosives. Bring the supplies underwater to the Virago and initiate the bomb by clicking the aqua detonator

, After the detonation, Prof. Devi will ask you to scan the Virago for a data log. Scan the area by clicking on the scout drone button. Unfortunately, the data log will be damaged after the explosion. This completes the mission and Chapter 1.

