 Go onto all of the days of the week Monday-Friday using this format. Start a paper that says: "Arrival." Write down all of the ideas that you may have for the arrival time. Could children play in the different centers? Will you plan on a ABC tracing cards and puzzles activity?


Continue onto "Circle time." How should teachers have calendar and weather? What songs will you sing? What story will you read? What activity should they conduct? What will you review?

, What will the children eat? Remember all five food groups is important, all lunches should be healthy. See your school board or board of health. It is also a good idea to have snacks reinforce other parts of the curriculum. Have apples when learning about the fall. Eat circle crackers or orange oranges.
 These are some great and centers that you should include: Reading/Language Arts, Math, The World (simple science and social studies), Myself (all about the child's personal information, name, family, etc.), Art, Music, Sensory Table, and Technology.


Think about what you want to start with for language arts or reading. Will you teach the alphabet or sight words? Provide two activities to teach the day's object. Pick out an idea from your brainstorming list.
 For art, come up with a project that reinforces one of the day's objects. Be careful not to provide samples and to not choose a craft that needs a lot of step-by-step directions. You want to encourage creativity, not stifle it.
 Will you play a game that asks children to see if the music is loud or soft or slow or fast? Try to write down at least four options.
 Read How To Make A Sensory Table to find some great sensory table ideas. Pick one sensory table idea to use each week or every 5 days.
 Make sure that you have read How To Test An Online Learning Site For Preschoolers before choosing to write down the site. You can also repeat websites for each day because young children love repetition and teaching them to navigate a different site each day could be chaos and they may not actually get a lot out of the website. Use a learning website that reinforces the objects you are using in your curriculum.
 Maybe you could suggest that you teach a new rhyme or blow bubbles. Write down an activity idea for each day. This activity should be no longer than 5 minutes and use no more than 2 supplies to do. It is also a good idea to not have to clean-up very much-less than a minute.

