 Overnight oats are a quick and easy way to have a solid, nutritional breakfast that will keep you full for hours. The oats have a lot of fiber, and if you add in more protein and maybe some fruit, it will definitely fill you up. You prepare the ingredients in a jar and place it in the refrigerator overnight. In the morning, pull it out, and eat it cold.


Try peanut butter and jelly flavored overnight oats. In a bowl, add a cup of old-fashioned oats, 1 1/2 cups (360 milliliters) of almond, soy, or regular milk (low-fat), 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of of peanut butter, a scoop of vanilla protein powder, and a dash of cinnamon.
Combine the ingredients, and let them sit overnight. It makes two servings that you can top with your favorite jam or jelly or even some fresh strawberries., Egg casseroles are a great way to feed a crowd while doing the work ahead of time. You can make many egg casseroles the night before and bake them in the morning for breakfast, keeping things simple in the morning. Plus, they're heavy on protein, and you can add vegetables for extra fiber.For instance, try combining 4 eggs, several dashes of salt, and a dash or two of pepper in a bowl. Whisk the eggs until they are well beaten.
Next, add in a 16-ounce (473 milliliters) container of cottage cheese (low-fat), a frozen 10-ounce (296 milliliters) package of chopped spinach (make sure to thaw it out and squeeze out any liquid), chopped green onions (1 bunch), 1 cup (240 milliliters) of shredded low-fat cheese (cheddar is a good option), 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of whole-wheat flour, and a 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of cooked, crumbled bacon (you can use real bacon bits). For flavor, add 3 tablespoons (44 milliliters) of fresh dill or basil. You can also use 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of dried herbs instead.
Pour the mixture in an 8-inch greased pan, and cover it. Put it in the refrigerator overnight. Let it bake for about 45 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) in the morning.
Try serving this casserole with a side of whole wheat toast or even some whole-grain pancakes for extra protein and some added whole grains. You could also serve it with some fresh fruit and a whole-grain muffin.
 You may be tempted to pick up those frozen breakfast burritos at the grocery store. However, you can make your own at home that at are much more filling and healthier overall. Plus, you'll save some money.Start with large tortillas (in the 10-inch to 12-inch range). Dice and cook two potatoes any way you'd like, as well as a sliced onion, a bell pepper, or any vegetable you'd like. You can roast them by spreading them in a pan, drizzling some olive oil on top along with some salt and pepper, and roasting them for 20 minutes at 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204 degrees Celsius). Scramble and cook a dozen eggs in a pan. Let both fillings cool. You can also cook some turkey breakfast sausage if you'd like.
Lay out the tortillas. Place a scoop of vegetables and a scoop of eggs in each tortilla. Add any other toppings you'd like, including the sausage, a sprinkle of cheese, or a handful of beans. An ounce of cheese, for example, will add up to seven grams of protein.
Roll up the tortillas into burritos. Wrap each one tightly in foil. Freeze them in a single layer, then put them in a gallon-size zip-top bag.
To eat them, take them out of the aluminum foil, then microwave for a minute or two. Try adding a bowl of fruit on the side to make it extra filling.
A glass of low fat milk or soy milk can add up to eight grams of extra protein to this meal.

