 The number one most important tip for owning your height is to wear clothes that fit you properly. This can be hard for tall kids, especially if you are tall and skinny. When shopping for clothes, make sure the sleeves and legs are long enough, but the clothing fits close to your body.If you just can't find clothes that are long enough without looking oversized, bring some pieces to a tailor for custom alterations.;
, One easy way to de-emphasize your height is to create a visual barrier between the upper and lower halves of your body. You can do this with a contrasting belt or by wearing a different color on top and bottom., If you feel like you have lanky arms, add a little extra bulk by wearing layers and pushing up the sleeves on the top layer., There are certain items of clothing that look best on tall people, so take advantage of what you have. Tall people tend to look very good wearing these items:Maxi dresses
Tall boots
Skinny jeans
Skirts that fall just above the knee
Waistcoats and vestsDouble-breasted jackets., While there is absolutely no reason that you should not wear something just because of your height, it's important to be aware of the kinds of clothing that may make you appear even taller than you are. If you don't want to look tall, avoid wearing these items:Tops and bottoms that are the same color
Vertical stripes
Heels
Miniskirts
Calf-length pants or shorts
Bold prints, People who feel uncomfortable about their height may be prone to slouching. This not only looks bad, but it can cause back pain. For the best posture, keep your shoulders comfortably back. They should never be raised towards your ears or rounded forward.Be careful not to hyper-correct. Your shoulders should not be so far back that you would not be able to stand with your entire upper back against a wall.
 Just like slouched shoulders, walking with your head down makes you look like you are not confident, and it can cause you pain. Try to hold your head up straight so that your neck is not bending forward or to either side. You should be looking directly in front on you, not at your feet!A good way to tell if your head is straight is to take notice of your chin. It should be parallel to the floor for ideal posture.
 You should have a slight arch in your lower spine. To find out if your posture is proper, stand against a wall so that your head, shoulders, and bottom touch the wall and your feet are a few inches away. If you can just barely slip your flat hand behind your lower back, your posture is ideal.If you have too much or too little of an arch, make a conscious effort to correct it. Pulling your abdominal muscles in can help straighten your back.
 While arm and leg posture is not directly related to your height, they are essential to overall good posture. Having your arms and legs in the correct position while walking will make you look much more confident.Your arms should hang freely by your sides as you walk.
Your legs should be about the same distance apart as your hips, and you should distribute your weight evenly on both feet. Be careful not to lock your knees.
 Most kids grow up to be around the same height as their parents, although it is possible to be shorter or taller than your parents. There is absolutely nothing you can do about your height, so it's best to just accept it as something that makes you unique and wonderful.Keep in mind that just because you are the tall kid now does not mean you will always be tall. If you started growing sooner than your peers, they may very well catch up to you soon.
Although it is extremely rare, some children do have disorders that cause them to grow more than normal. If you are concerned about your height, talk to your doctor about it.
 Although it may make you feel uncomfortable, it's important to keep in mind that a lot of people would probably love to be as tall as you are. It has certain advantages, too. The next time you're feeling down about being tall, remind yourself about all of the things you can do because of your height:


You can reach things on high shelves.
You can see over people's heads at the movies and at concerts.
You can go on all the rides at the amusement park.
You may have an advantage in basketball.
You may have a better chance of becoming a model.
 A lot of kids get bullied or teased at some point in their lives. Sometimes it's for being too tall, sometimes it's for being too short, and sometimes it's for not discernible reason at all. The important thing is to try to not let it bother you and to maintain your confidence.If you do encounter a bully who teases you about your height, try your best to act unaffected. Bullies tend to pick on people who lack confidence. If they think you're not phased by their comments, they'll probably leave you alone.
It's a lot easier to stand up to a bully when you have a buddy with you, so try to stick with friends whenever you think you might encounter a bully.
If you are being bullied, you don't have to handle it alone. Let a parent or teacher know right away.
You can respond to a bully by simply walking away and not acknowledging the negative comment at all. If you feel like you must say something, keep it short and simple. You can say something like, "Leave me alone" or "That's not very nice," and then remove yourself from the situation. Getting argumentative or emotional will probably only make the situation worse.
 Having a good attitude can really help you feel better about yourself! If you have negative thoughts about yourself because of your height (or anything else for that matter) make a conscious effort to replace those negative thoughts with positive ones.Pay more attention to your thoughts throughout the day. Whenever you have a negative thought about your height, remind yourself about all of the positive aspects of being tall.
Try not to say (out loud or otherwise) anything to yourself that you wouldn't say to another person. You should always be kind to yourself, even when you feel like criticizing yourself.
Spending time with positive people can help a lot too. Try to surround yourself with friends who will not make fun of you for your height and who have good self esteem themselves.

