 If you’re hiking in the woods and need to find your way back, rip off squares of duct tape and stick them at regular intervals and appropriate turns along the way. If you need to point someone in the direction you’ve gone, rip off one long strip and two shorts to form arrows. In either case, make sure you stick to tape to sturdy objects, like a tree trunk, rather than a leaf that might get torn off., Need to leave a note where someone’s sure to see it? Don’t waste materials by using both tape and paper. Use a marker to jot down your note directly onto the duct tape’s non-sticky side. Then simply affix it wherever it will stand out., Need to leave a message but don’t have a marker? Don’t worry! Just tear off lengths of duct tape and use each one as a line in a letter. For example, for the letter A, tear off two long strips for the diagonal lines and a short one for the horizontal line. Then stick them wherever someone will see it.This is particularly helpful if you need to spell out huge letters to be seen from a distance, like "HELP!"

, If you need to restrain someone, cross their wrists behind their back. Affix your roll’s open end directly to their skin. Then unroll the tape over and under where their wrists cross to secure them in place., If you only need one that’s a foot or two long, unroll that much and tear it from the roll. Lay it down sticky-side up and then roll it up tightly, with the sticky side on the inside, from one long side to the other. If you need a longer cord, unroll a little bit at a time and start twisting it up as you go. Add more layers if needed to make a stronger, thicker cord., Tear off several long strips, line them up next to each other with the sticky sides facing up, and pull each one about halfway over the preceding one for a tight seal. Fold the whole thing in half and seal the sticky sides together. Then:Place a stone or similar object in its center.
Bunch up the free ends around the stone to form sides for your cup or bowl.
Unroll more tape horizontally around the sides to keep them in place, then remove the stone.

