 You can also use a large piece of regular paper. You will want to unfold the paper completely.
Lay the paper out flat.
Make the hat on a hard table or floor. This will help you get good folds.;
, If you are making the hat for a toddler, you might need to trim the paper to make it smaller.To get the right proportions for your hat, measure the around the top of the head of the child (or adult) the hat is being made for.
If your paper is significantly larger than your measurement, then you can trim it to just a few inches larger than your measurement.
For most small children, you will need to trim approximately 1/4 of a standard newspaper sheet off to make sure the hat isn't too wide and narrow, or too big of a fit.
If you are making a hat for an adult, you might want to use a wider and longer piece of plain paper rather than a standard sheet of newspaper.
Be careful if you are using scissors, as they could be very sharp. Younger kids should always be supervised when using scissors.
The smaller hat made from newspaper will fit most 3-6 year olds, but the larger hat made from the larger paper should fit most older kids and adults.
 Do this fold horizontally. In kids craft classes, this is often called the "hot dog bun" fold, because the folded edge is longer than the unfolded part. To start the fold, bend the paper so the top edge touches the bottom edge.
Press down where the paper bends, making a smooth and crisp crease.
 They will meet in the middle.Start with the upper left corner. Fold it down so the side of the paper makes a triangle.
Do the same with the upper right corner. Fold it down so that side of the paper makes a triangle.
The top part of the hat is now folded. It should be triangle shaped with two flaps.
 You will do this by folding the bottom of the hat upwards. Fold the bottom part of the hat below the triangle flaps upwards. Make your crease at the base of the triangular flaps.
Flip the hat over.
Fold the bottom flap of this side of the paper up, matching your fold from the other side.
You have now folded the brim of the hat.
 This will prevent the hat from coming apart.One piece at the bottom of each flap and one on each side in the middle is probably enough to keep the hat together.
You don't want to use too much tape, as this can interfere with decorating the hat.
 Be careful when putting it on so you don't tear the paper or rip off any of your decorations. If you measured your head as suggested in Part I, then you should have a hat that fits well.
Find where your hat sits comfortably on your head.
If the hat is too big, you can use staples to take in the sides. Alternatively, you can undo the folds on the hat, trim the paper to a smaller size, and repeat the folds.
 You can add whatever decorations you want to the hat, but one of the most common themes on pirate hats is the skull and crossbones design, or "Jolly Roger".#*Have fun! Your pirate hat can be decorated with whatever you want!


You can draw the "Jolly Roger" on the hat with markers or paint.
Alternatively, you could make a stencil of the Jolly Roger with construction paper.
Color or paint the hat in your favorite color, add glitter or other craft supplies to the hat for creativity.
Let any glue or paint dry before playing with your hat. While you are doing that you could try cutting out an eye patch to match your hat!
Have fun wearing your hat for play or for a costume!

