 Some preparation may demand a capital investment for software or equipment, and if you or your representative is to travel to perform a site visit, sales call, or if you and others need to take part in additional training, but not all preparation is costly.;
, If there is one, get a copy of the "Request for Quotation" (RFQ) that gives you, the bidder, the exact special information and instructions, called specifications. You must prepare a specific written proposal of all the work and services you or your company will perform and the amount that you will charge.


Your bid has to be accurate, exact, on their requested points and provide your answers so that the customer can decide upon whether to award the work to you. They have to decide, whether you are capable, qualified, can do the level of quality and of the size needed; do you have the equipment and personnel, etc.
 All must be documented as needed, following specifications or instructions precisely. If you win the bid you may need to satisfy things such as for:


Large companies and the government, do complex bids including formal sales agreements (samples, multiple inspections, surveys, testing, debugging, photo or printed proofs, schedules, etc.), insurance clauses required for you the contractor, procedures manual, health and safety disclaimers, environmental protection policy, etc.

Ask for any examples of such a job quote as you want to bid, including how they want your proposal letter, bid and a sample sales agreement. It may be several pages of information to put in a formal bid.
 Turn it in at the time it is needed. It must be formal looking, neat and official. Print it out on your letterhead or your company bid/proposal form.


Include the name of the individual or company for whom you are making the bid proposal.
Follow a logical job order, ie: follow order of the RFQ from the customer (the requesting company).
Break out and extend cost subtotals. Customers expect to receive clearly how much you charge per unit or hour, if that is how it could be charged, or per item provided.
Along with such subtotals, give the grand total of everything clearly. If you bid without per unit (not broken down), or without totals, your customer can not trust your bid.
 If they will, then they will let others bid on your method, too. But if they will not, they may say it is not fair to other bidders to allow different specs for you. So unless you have an exclusive method, then it may be no advantage (but it is worth a try, if you have a less expensive, good, similar material or a good way to do it -- but not to their same spec).
, Show your interests to them for bidding on future jobs, and ask to demonstrate your products, services, and tote your product availability.
 After the award is made to the winner, it is a better policy for the customer not to reveal to you and other bidders the amount by which they beat or overbid to the other losing bidders. This is considered a good standard.
 If you get the job, avoid a costly penalty on your company for being late. Avoid having to do it over, or not get paid, or make them a big discount, if you do not follow their specs precisely in production or such!

, The Vendor (you) may have quoted a payment term of "Net 30 days" (no discount to pay early). A customer/buyer may ask and stipulate their proposed payment term of "1%/10 Net 30" (1% discount if your invoice is paid within 10 days by the buyer, otherwise the total amount is due in 30 days), for example if you give:



1% discount for early payment monthly discount, if you are a vendor/supplier, on a $50,000 per month business supply invoice = $500 break per month x 12 is $6,000 / year savings for the buyer. That means that the buyer can save by paying early and your receivables are to be discounted monthly. Cash flow might be an issue with your company and some buyers prefer or end-up paying late rather than early, but if you can make a case to identify potential savings, you may find prudent account payers, on payables, are all over paying early to get their discount. In any event, discuss this before putting it on the table.
 Yet, the buyer may ask you to agree to a "2%/10 net 30 days" payment term; so in the example if you give:



2% discount on $50,000 sales per month implies the buyer would receive a discount of $1000 per month x 12 is $12,000 / year savings for the buyer, on the invoice amount if full payment is made each month within 10 days of delivery, otherwise the total amount is due within 30 days. If they succeed, they have created an opportunity to save thousands of dollars off of paying you in the course of the year. Not bad for a few minutes work for them!

