 As you jack up a portion of the car to remove the wheel, the weight of that portion will be centered on the relatively small space beneath the jack. As a result, it is essential that you jack your car up in an area that can support the pressure. Concrete and blacktop are the best options for jacking up the car. It is extremely unsafe to jack a vehicle up on an angle, so it is also very important that you choose a level surface.Never jack up a vehicle on slanted or uneven surfaces.
Jacking a car up on a surface that isn’t strong enough can cause the jack to topple over or sink.
 Whether you’re using an emergency jack or a trolley jack, it’s important to ensure you have enough room to work without putting yourself or others at risk. Make sure you have at least enough room to stand with an outstretched arm toward the jack without coming into contact with a wall or being in the street if you are replacing a flat tire.Make sure there’s enough room to sit behind your jack without being in the lane of the road.
 If your car is equipped with an automatic transmission, it should be in park before you jack it up. Putting your car in park prevents the wheels from turning and will keep the vehicle from rolling off of the jack. Remember, however, your car may still shift when in park, so it’s important to utilize wheel chocks in conjunction with placing the vehicle in park.Remember that putting the car in park will lock its drive wheels in place, so a front wheel drive car’s front wheels won’t turn in park, and vice versa for a rear wheel drive vehicle.
If your car is equipped with a manual transmission, try putting the car in first gear to prevent it from rolling.
You can place rocks or plastic wheel chocks purchased from an auto parts store behind the wheels to ensure they can’t turn while you lift the vehicle.
 Depending on the make and model of the vehicle, the parking brake may be a handle in the center console or a pedal on your left side when sitting in the driver’s seat. Pull up on the handle or press down on the pedal to engage the parking brake and prevent your vehicle from rolling while it’s being jacked up.Your owner’s manual can help you locate your parking brake if you are unsure.
The parking brake locks the rear wheels in place, so it will not help if the entire back end of the car is in the air.

