 Before you transfer your mascara to the tube, make sure that the tube and brush are clean. If the tube and brush are new, ten you don’t have to do anything. However, if you are reusing an old mascara tube and brush, you will need to wash the brush and tube thoroughly with warm water and some castile soap or baby shampoo.Remove the plug from the top of the tube and place it in a small bowl of warm, soapy water.
Apply soap to the bristles and use your fingers to work the soap into the brush bristles. Then, put some soap into the tube as well. Use the brush to move the soap around in the tube.
Continue to add soap and rinse the tube and brush until the water runs clear and all of the suds have been rinsed away. Then, take the plug out of the bowl of water and rinse it as well.
 One option for transferring mascara to a tube is to use an oral syringe. Oral syringes can be found in most pharmacies and drug stores, and they make excellent injectors for filling mascara tubes.


When your mascara is ready, simply insert the nose of the syringe into the mixture, pull up the plunger to suck up the mascara, and then inject the mascara into the tube. Repeat until your tube is full, or until all the mascara is gone.
Wash the syringe with soap and water immediately after you finish using it to prevent the mascara from caking on.
 You can also use a plastic bag similar to create an icing bag and use it to transfer the mascara to the tube.Scoop your mascara mixture into a plastic bag, such as a resealable sandwich bag or a clean plastic bulk bag.
Work the mixture to one of the bottom corners of the bag.
Then, cut a small hole in the corner of the bag.
Insert the corner into the top of the mascara tube and gently squeeze the bag to push the mascara into the tube.
 Use tape to secure your mascara tube to a flat surface. With the end of a knife, scoop up a small amount of mascara. Dangle the knife vertically over the mascara tube hole and allow the dollop of mascara to drop into it.


If necessary, use a toothpick to make an air bubble in the dollop of mascara so that it drains into the tube.
Repeat until you have filled the tube.
 When you have filled your mascara tube, replace the makeup plug before returning the wand to the tube. The plug disperses the makeup evenly and removes excess mascara from the wand as you pull it out of the tube.
 Instead of trying to fill a mascara tube, consider storing the mixture in a sealable, airtight container that you can still dip the mascara wand into.To prevent mascara from drying onto the wand between uses, wash the wand with soap and water after every use.

