 Sign up for a free trial to test the service, if the option is available. It is a good idea to compare the different prices and services, based on the following criteria:


Are they able to give you a fax-to-email phone number in your area code. Many people place their fax number on their letterhead, website and business cards. If so, you will probably want a fax number with an area code that matches your work telephone number.
Estimate the number of fax pages you will receive per month and the number of fax pages you will send. These should be separate estimates so that you can choose a plan that works with your needs without overcharging you.
Check whether you need a special fax viewer to see the fax. If so, you may choose to consider another service that sends their files in PDF or Tiff formats, which Apple's Preview or Adobe Acrobat Reader can open.
Ask if the service can provide a toll-free fax number. If this is important to your business, then Docuharbor.com is a good place to start looking.
You can also use a toll-free, 1-time use fax service. Efax Free and UReach.com provide these services. They give you a random number to give to the person who will send the fax. It is then sent to your email. If you need to receive another fax, you will need to request another random fax-to-mail number from the site.;
, This site lists the number of unresolved complaints that are listed with the company. It also rates the companies according to their business practices.


Most free trials require that you sign up with your credit card information to receive the trial. Then, you will be billed for the next month's service at the end of your trail.
 Register the email that you would like to use to receive faxes. You may want to create a folder to store your faxes so that you can find them easily in the future.
 If you have Adobe Acrobat Reader, you should choose the PDF. If you do not, you can choose a Tiff image file. These files can be read by many programs, but they are often larger.
 The number will look like a regular fax number. It will cost them standard faxing fees, unless you have signed up for a toll-free fax number.
 Open it to view your fax.

