 If you're fighting hunger throughout the day and are looking for ways to stay satisfied longer, you need to be able to differentiate between true physical hunger and hunger due to psychological or emotional reasons.


Sometimes we feel "hungry" or have the desire to eat when in all reality, we aren't truly physically hungry. We might be bored, sad, upset, stressed or angry. These forms of head hunger may lead us to feel less satisfied over the day.
Physical hunger includes sensations like: a growling stomach, a pit in your stomach, hunger pangs, feelings of nausea or light-headedness or even moodiness. Physical hunger also stops and goes away when you're satisfied.Emotional or head hunger may feel like: a strong desire or craving for a certain food, an overwhelming desire to eat, "hunger" that persists even after physical fullness and often comes with guilt or shame.If you're not physically hungry, try to figure out why you're having head hunger and address those issues as needed.
 Breakfast is the start of your day and an important meal to eat on a regular basis. If you skip breakfast, you may feel less satisfied during the day.Breakfast should be the first meal you eat after you wake up — regardless of what time it's eaten. Try to eat within an hour of waking.
Like other meals, it's a great idea to start your day with a breakfast meal that contains a high amount of protein and fiber. Together, this combination will get your day off to a satisfying start.
Examples of higher protein, higher fiber breakfasts include: greek yogurt or cottage cheese with fruit, two scrambled eggs with cheese and sautéed vegetables, high fiber cereal with milk and fruit or a whole grain waffle with peanut butter and sliced bananas.
 Like skipping breakfast, if you skip other meals throughout the day or wait several hours between meals, you'll definitely feel more hungry and less satisfied throughout the day.You need to eat regular meals every four to five hours.This helps maintain blood sugar levels, appetite and your desire to eat.
Make a meal plan or list of meals and snacks to have daily to help keep you to this schedule.
If you skip meals you might feeling hungrier throughout the day which may lead to overeating at your next meal or snack time.
 Another way to manage your overall hunger throughout the day is by planning on having a scheduled snack or two during the day.


A snack is a great idea to help tie your appetite over until your next planned meal. If you go too long between meals, you may get overly hungry and over eat later on.
Plan to have a snack if two meals are more than four to five hours apart. For example, if you finish lunch at 12:30 and dinner isn't until 7:30 pm, there's a good chance you'll be very hungry or starving at dinner without a snack.
Snacks, like meals, should contain protein and fiber to help give you a boost of energy and satiating calories. Try: carrots and hummus, two hard boiled eggs, whole wheat pita crackers and cheese, yogurt and fruit or celery and peanut butter.

