 Music is made up of a multitude of genres. Rock, blues, hip hop, pop, and country are just touching the surface of what those genres are. Figure out which sound best defines the band you hope to be in.Ask yourself what genres you enjoy playing the most and who you hope your target audience will be. Will your audience rock out while doing mosh pits? Will your audience be mellow and sway to your songs as you play in tiny coffee shops?
Decide on the instruments you will have to use. A good start: lead guitar, rhythm guitar, bass, and drums. You may want a keyboardist, sax, or brass, depending on what sort of music you'll be wanting to play.
How many people will it take for your vision of your band to come to life? Allow the sound you’re hoping to create act as your guide.;
, There are ways to get into contact with the right people even if you are unfamiliar with your local music scene. You can begin auditions as soon as you find people you think could fit the bill.Go to school talent shows or open mic nights to get into contact with local artists in their environment. This will help you get a taste of what they have to offer musically by listening to some of their original stuff.
A quicker, more technologically-savvy alternative is posting an ad on Facebook, Twitter, or even Instagram. Say something simple like: “Musician looking for an all female band to play with professionally. DM me for more details.”

, It's not important to do your own material at first. Start playing together and find out if you have good chemistry as a band. Plan on a time when all members can attend rehearsals.


Plan to have rehearsals at least one time per week. If you can squeeze out one or two more times, that would be perfect.
It might sound counterproductive to start with covers, or playing other people’s material, but it’s a great way to see what you gravitate towards collectively and as a group. This will help give you a direction of the kind of music you hope to be doing moving forward as a band.
 Encourage everyone who wants to write to write songs instead of delegating that task to one person. Over time, you will begin to agree who should do the biggest part of your band’s songwriting.


Keep your ego in check always. Nobody wants to be your backup band - if it's an ensemble, let it remain a collaborative effort.
When you first start creating, think of your message and the things you’re trying to say when you put your music out there to the world.Use guitar tab websites and other tutorials to help you push yourself musically with instruments and get better ideas of how to put music together as you arrange and develop your lyrics. Constantly push yourself.

