 For a lateral bear crawl, you'll get into the same position as you did for a traditional bear crawl, only instead of moving forward you'll move to the side. This move gets your lateral abdominal muscles engaged.Make sure you're maintaining correct form when doing lateral bear crawls, and that your back remains flat and your spine neutral.
Pay attention to rotation in particular. Your body naturally wants to turn in the direction it's going, so when you're moving sideways you have more of a risk that your hips and pelvis will rotate in that direction rather than remaining oriented parallel to the ground.
 If you've mastered the forward bear crawl, add a backwards bear crawl to your routine. When you get to your distance marker going forwards, simply bear crawl backwards instead of standing and jogging back to your starting mark.The backwards bear crawl is a particularly good workout for your triceps, which will be doing a lot of the work as you crawl.
 To do this bear crawl variation, you'll have to move your workout outdoors. Climbing bear mountain involves doing a traditional forward bear crawl, only up an incline. The steeper the incline, the harder the exercise will be.Form and body position are particularly important when you're on an incline. It can be tempting to lean forward more than you would on level ground, putting more stress on your shoulders.
Make sure you're using your legs as much as you're using your arms. Trying to pull yourself up the incline with only your arms will put too much pressure on your shoulders. Instead, focus on pushing yourself up with your legs.
 Once you can bear crawl forwards, backwards, and sideways while maintaining correct form and technique, put them all together. Mark off the points of your square before you begin, then bear crawl from point to point to form a square.Moving in all directions is a good all-around strength-training exercise that will condition multiple muscle groups at once.
A bear square also is a good full-body warm-up move, particularly for advanced exercisers. With correct form, you can warm up all the muscles in several muscle groups relatively quickly.
 A bear crawl with a hover makes the bear crawl exercise particularly grueling. With each step you take, you're going to pause your front hand and back foot a few inches above the ground and hold them while exhaling fully. Then inhale and complete the motion.You can improve your stability by holding your breath during the hover. Exhale when you're ready to move forward.
Moving side to side can be a risk when performing a bear crawl with hover. To avoid this, imagine you are crawling through a tunnel and there are walls on either side of you that prevent you from moving in any direction other than forward.
If you've been taking larger steps in traditional bear crawls, you may want to take smaller steps when you add the hover. As you become more stable, you can gradually increase the length of your steps.
 If the bear crawl has gotten too easy for you and you're craving some resistance, strap a weight sled over your shoulder and pull it along as you complete your forward bear crawls.Make sure you start far enough away from the sled that the chain is already taut.
As you move your feet forward while towing the sled, it can help to imagine that you are using your feet to drive the floor away from you.
If your hips are above your hands as you move forward, you'll get better leverage from your lower body.

