 If possible, you'll want to choose a place that already has some connection to the outdoors, such as a large patio door. A sun room or enclosed porch would be another great spot for your indoor beach.
 Do you want a traditional living room with beach decorations and colors or do you want the whole thing to evoke a beach?

Keep your budget in mind. Bringing in a few patio chairs you already own and setting up a tabletop fountain is a far different matter than knocking down part of an exterior wall to install a sun room!




  Bring in some beach-inspired colors.

Think about what colors the beach means to you. Is a beach about the muted, natural tones of sand and surf, or would you like some bright, tropical colors in the mix, too?

, What elements would you like to try to recreate?, Do all you can with skylights and windows. Light and spaciousness is a big part of why many people like beaches.

Light the room gently at night. Candles or other low mood lighting will fit well in this theme. Of course, if you use the room for reading or other activities at night, light those areas accordingly.
 You'll find all sorts of furniture for outdoor, poolside, and beach use, so there is no need to go with the molded plastic sort. It may still be less costly and more durable than conventional living room furniture. Instead, go for comfortable, casual pieces that fit your theme.

Don't forget that this is still a living room. Plan for your seats to have cushions of some sort, even if they are not weatherproof to stand up to the elements.
This would be a great place for a couple of wooden deck chairs or Adirondack chairs, since the wood need not stand up to moisture and weather.
 Many tropical and tropical-looking plants thrive indoors and in indirect light. Try a dieffenbachia or other large plant as an anchor and build out from there., Try a bamboo lattice or mat, coarsely woven textiles in an island pattern, and an interesting piece of driftwood as a natural sculpture. Or use natural looking materials, such as tufa planters., Water brings with it sound, texture, and moisture. The exact nature is up to you and your space, but consider an aquarium, a fountain, a water feature, or even a small indoor pond., Make the view through the windows or patio door as tropical and beach-like as your climate allows. Also choose colors and styles for the hard surfaces outdoors. For instance, cover a patio or wall with tile in warm colors or a tropical motif. You may also prefer to put your pond, water feature, or sandbox outdoors., Unless you have a truly separate room with a concrete floor, real sand is probably not a good idea in your house. It will only get tracked around and abrade your other floors. If you like, you can have suggestions of sand, instead. You can buy a tabletop Zen garden or make your own in any size you please. You could obtain or make a sand pendulum, a tray of sand with a long, heavy pendulum hanging just into the surface so that it draws patterns as it swings. You could have a jar or terrarium with colored sand and perhaps seashells in it., A worn-out pail could contain some of those plants. Weathered wood would go just fine. This would be a great place to try distressing paint or fabric, if you can't find something that's already suitably worn., Often, living rooms already have fireplaces. They provide warmth and low light on cool nights that is well suited to a beach theme., Are you trying for an open, airy feel or a cozy beach hut? How will traffic move through the room? Whatever you do to make the room more beach-like, do it consistently, or at least coherently, throughout the room.