 When shredding sensitive documents it is important to use a crosscut shredder (as opposed to a more basic strip-cut shredder), because it produces thinner strips of paper. This protects you from would-be thieves of this information from reconstructing the complete pages from the strips. Chose a machine that creates strips less than or equal to 1/32nd of an inch with a ½ inch crosscut.


Paper shredders can be purchased at office supply stores and are classified into six security levels based on the thinness of cut. One is the widest cut; six is the thinnest and approved for Top Secret government documents. Anything less than a 4 (1/16 * 5/8”) is not recommended for sensitive documents.Most offices have paper shredders or record destruction services. Check with your office manager and see if you can bring in your own documents for destruction.
 Once you have a satisfactory shredder, begin sending all of your documents through the device’s mouth. Continue until all of your documents are done. If you have more documents than the machine can hold at one time, be sure to take the ribbons of paper out before continuing.


Do not put your hand or fingers in direct contact with the shredder’s mouth. Hold the documents by the end so that there is distance between you and the mouth. Once the shredder has the paper within its grip, release the documents. Above all, protect the safety of your hands.
Traditional shredders (that cut paper into strips) won't keep someone from putting it back together. Hand ripping isn't a good idea either, especially on small documents (it takes 2 centimeters to find out a person's Social Security Number).
 Beyond reducing them to unrecognizable small pieces, this is one further security measure. Take a portion of each document and place them in separate bags. This way, any would be thieves cannot find matches within the same bag; they will have to sort through everything.
 If garbage is picked up from your house/business on a Tuesday, don’t put this out on a Wednesday. You want to leave as little time as possible between when the garbage goes out and when it is collected. Ideally you will keep it inside until the day of collection, and bring it down just before the city employees arrive.

