 Your parents will be much more likely to let you get a piercing if you show respect for the way they’re raising you. You can do this by speaking politely to them, showing appreciation for the time they spend with you, and following their basic rules such as curfew and chores. The more you respect your parents, the more they’ll respect your wishes.;
, If you’re meeting or exceeding your parents' expectations for you in school, they may be more open to allowing you the freedom to get the piercing. Some parents may be concerned that body art is a way to rebel against them. If you’re doing well in school, you’re fulfilling their wish that you succeed academically, which is hardly rebellious.
 If you don’t take good care of your belongings, your parents may not trust you handle having a lip ring. Be sure to keep your room clean (put your clothes away, make the bed). This is a good way to demonstrate that you’re responsible and well organized, which should count towards your parents' agreeing to the lip ring.
 Brushing your teeth, showering, and combing your hair regularly are good ways to show your parents that you can take care of yourself. This way they will be less concerned about your keeping the lip piercing clean to prevent infection.
 If you know someone who has a lip piercing, and is happy with it, ask them if they’d be willing to talk to your parents about the experience. A simple phone conversation to answer some questions could do the job. And if you’re close friends with the person, invite them over, and make it clear to your parents that they’re coming over especially to talk about the piercing.
 Many people may be unaware that body piercings are an ancient form of self-expression. Tell your parents that the ancient Egyptians, Israelites, Greeks, and Romans were all known to practice piercing in one form or another and for different reasons, one of which was to show their status within a group.Knowing this may help keep them from having the misconception that piercing is just another meaningless fad.
 Try to have a talk with your parents about how important it is for a teenager to be able show who they are by their style. To try to get them to relate to you, ask them about how they expressed themselves when they were your age, and if they remembered having a desire show their individuality.


Try bringing up your reasons by saying something like: “I don’t want to do it to seem rebellious--piercings like this are so common these days that they don’t intimidate anyone,” or “You wouldn’t think twice about letting me get an earring. This isn’t much different, and it just feels like a better way to express my style.”

