 Before you begin making your bracelets, think about what you want to make. Knowing what you want to do will make you better prepared, ensuring that you don’t waste time and supplies on something that you don’t really want as well as allowing you to make a better-looking final product.


Look at your own collection. Look at your own bracelets, purchased or made by others. You can recreate or take ideas from aspects of pieces you already own and like. Maybe you like a particular type of bead or clasp or color. You will also want to look at your own collection to decide if there is a type of bracelet that you might need. Look for holes in your collection, such as a lack of casual bracelets for everyday use, and think about what you can make to fill that need.
Look at what others have. You can similarly get ideas from bracelets that you see on other people. Does your best friend have a bracelet that you absolutely love? Try to recreate the qualities that you like about the bracelet so that you too can have the look. You can also look to fashion magazines and celebrities for inspiration.
Browse local jewelry stores. Go to stores that specialize in jewelry, like Claire’s, or larger stores with jewelry departments, like Macy’s, to get ideas about what you might want to make. The wide selection in stores like these will allow you to get more ideas, as well as helping you stay at the front of fashion trends.
Browse the internet. The internet is a great place to look for crafting ideas. Websites like Pinterest allow you to not only collect ideas but also find brand new ones through the lists that others have created. You can search by looking for just bracelets or you can also try to search by style, color, or materials. The internet can be useful because you can often find ideas as well as instructions.;
, In order to make your bracelet you will need supplies. These can be simple and inexpensive or they can be elaborate and more costly. It depends on your personal preference, as well as your needs. Supplies are easily acquired from a variety of locations.


Craft stores. You can find a wealth of supplies from local craft stores. Bead stores specifically, if you have one nearby, will have supplies just for making bracelets. A wide variety of options should be available, as well as a staff to advise you on needed supplies and techniques. Craft stores will also often offer classes and other resources, so be sure to ask about what is available to you or join their mailing list for announcements.
Thrift stores and vintage shops. You can purchase older items to upcycle into a brand new bracelet with a vintage feel. Try stores like Goodwill or local vintage or resale shops. You can use old earrings to make charms or reuse beads from necklaces and bracelets. Upcycling like this is environmentally friendly, by helping to reduce waste, as well as being very cost-effective.
Farmer’s Markets and local artists. Try farmer’s markets to see what local artists in your area are creating. You may find bead-makers with beautiful work, perfect for your next project. You can also find local artisans though nearby art shops or on the internet. Buying from artists such as these will help support your local economy, as well as supporting local arts and crafting culture.
 No matter what type or style of bracelet you are making, the clasps will largely be the same as they are based more on preference. Go to a craft or bead store and buy whichever type of clasp you prefer. Keep in mind how you will be able to attach it to the string to ensure that the clasp will work with your project.Simple clasps, such as a toggle or hook and eye, might be better if you want to be able to get the bracelet on and off quickly or if you prefer a more artistic look.
Lobster claw clasps tend to be the most popular clasps on jewelry in recent years. They are simpler to use and very secure, which will help ensure that you do not lose your bracelet.
Barrel clasps, which screw together, tend to be more common on children’s jewelry. This is because they are strong and secure but require less coordination and dexterity to put on than some other clasps. They are, however, better suited to necklaces than bracelets.
Bows and ties. Another option is to use the thread itself as a clasp, by leaving it long and tying a bow to keep the bracelet closed. This can be done by using a ribbon to build your bracelet or with other materials like raffia or coarse string. It is important to note that thicker or wider string is necessary for this type of closure, as thinner strings will easily break or come undone.

