 To improve your physical fitness, you will also need to pay careful attention to your diet. If you are trying to lose weight, then you will need to eat fewer calories than you burn. If you are trying to gain weight, then you will need to eat more.


Keep track of everything you eat. Whether you need to lose weight or gain weight, you will need to keep careful track of how much food you take in every day. Try starting a food diary to keep track of your caloric intake.
Measure your food. Measuring your food is important to ensure that you are not overestimating or underestimating how much food you are taking in on a daily basis. Read the labels on everything you eat and measure out appropriate portions to ensure that you are getting the right amount of calories every day.
 What you put into your body can make a big difference in your results and how you feel. That is why it is important to follow a balanced diet as you work towards your fitness goals. Some things that you should include in your diet are:


Fruits and vegetables, such as bananas, apples, oranges, broccoli, spinach, carrots, and peppers.
Lean protein, such as skinless chicken, wild sockeye salmon, and lean cuts of grass fed beef.
Complex carbohydrates, such a brown rice, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, and quinoa., As you work to include healthier foods in your diet, you should also do what you can to eliminate unhealthy choices. Try to reduce your intake of foods that:Contain high levels of saturated fats, such as butter, cheese, and red meat
Are high in sugar, such as sugary cereals, candy, and baked goods.
Are greasy or fried, such as onion rings, French fries, and deep fried fish
Are highly processed, such as canned soups, crackers, and frozen dinners

, Drinking water will help you stay hydrated and it can also help you to eat less by filling up your stomach temporarily.Try to drink eight 8-ounce (250-ml) glasses of water every day to stay hydrated.


If you have been exercising, then you will need to drink more water to replace the water that your body has lost.
Try swapping water for the beverages that you normally drink, such as juice, soda, and coffee.

