 The purpose of plowing is to get the field ready for crops to be planted. For this reason, the best time to plow is generally right before you plan to plant your crops. Generally, this means the beginning of the growing season, which can vary based on your location.


Technically, you can plow any time after the previous year's harvest and before the spring planting period. However, leaving too much time between plowing and planting can lead to soil erosion.A good guide showing the approximate start of various growing seasons in the continental U.S. is available here.;
, This is important if using a tractor or other mechanized plowing machine. Make sure all parts are in good working order following winter storage. Top off any fluids or lubricants and make sure the tires have adequate pressure.


If plowing by hand or using animal plowing, make sure the blades are straight and that whoever/whatever is pulling the plow is healthy and strong.
 Take a walk through the field, looking for any obstacles (like rocks, pieces of wood, and loose foliage) that can be removed. Try to get the field as level as possible by filling in small holes or smoothing out raised patches. Take note of any obstacles that you cannot remove (like trees, boulders, etc.).


Before plowing, the field should be mowed so that any vegetation is short and low to the ground. Too much vegetation can clog mechanical plows and make the work harder for manual plowing methods.
 To make the best use of your time and effort, plan a route that's as efficient as possible. Know where you will need to stop and turn the plow. You'll also want to make sure you know where the edges of your field are so you don't plow into another person's field or into a field already plowed and planted. Finally, plan to plow around any obstacles that can't be removed.


For rectangular fields, the most efficient path is generally to plow in the direction of the long sides of the field, turning around when you reach either end. This minimizes the number of times you will need to turn around.
Note, however, that if you are using animals, you should use the opposite approach for fields more than 150 meters long.In other words, plow in the direction of the short sides of the field. This prevents fatigue by giving the animals many chances to rest.
For non-rectangular fields, you can plow efficiently by following the contours of the field and working your way towards the center.

