 If you want to teach your kids about 9-1-1, you need to explain its uses first. Sit down with your kids and talk to them about what 9-1-1 is and when it's appropriate to call.


Make sure to say "nine-one-one" when explaining instead of something like "nine-eleven." The latter could confuse kids as there's no eleven number on a phone's keyboard.Tell kids what constitutes an emergency. An emergency is when someone is hurt or in danger or when there is a fire or accident that requires medical assistance. Make sure kids know not to call 9-1-1 when bored, if a pet or toy is lost, or as a joke. Make it very clear that calling 9-1-1 as a joke could land them in trouble.;
, Once you've explained the circumstances where dialing 9-1-1 is important, talk about what information to include when speaking to a dispatcher. Make sure your kids know what information to include when calling.


Make sure kids know their addresses. Young children especially might not have their address memorized. Take some time to practice memorizing addresses before explaining everything else to include.Explain to kids they need to discuss the nature of the emergency. Tell them to briefly include what's happening, whether anyone is injured, and how severe the injuries are., You may sometimes need to call and report problems that are not emergencies but required professional assistance. For example, a heat outage or power outage might need reporting. You might also need to report suspicious but non emergency activity, like strange noises coming from an apartment. Usually, such situations can be reported to local branches of your fire department or police department. Make sure you have these numbers on hand.
 In order to practice dialing 9-1-1, have a fake phone. Children will respond best to realistic scenarios, so get a toy cell phone or landline telephone that is not plugged in. Set it up in an area with few distractions so you can practice calling 9-1-1.
 Have your kids pretend to dial 9-1-1 while you act as dispatcher. Go through a variety of scenarios where it might be necessary to dial 9-1-1.


You can start off by having your kids read off printed scripts. You can find 9-1-1 tutorials for kids online that have scripts where someone has to act as the caller and someone acts as the dispatcher.You can also print out pictures of emergencies and have kids call based on what they see in the pictures. This can help kids know how to speak to a 9-11 dispatcher on their own.As the dispatcher, always start of by saying "This is 9-1-1. What's your emergency?" Make sure to press yours kids for details. If they say "My friend is hurt" ask things like "Is he conscious? Is there any blood? How did he get hurt?", Adults can get nervous about dialing 9-1-1 as well. During emergencies, people sometimes fumble over details. If this is the case with you, it's a good idea to prepare. Practice stating your name and address a few times a day. In the event of an emergency, you'll be able to more calmly convey that information.

