 Look in the laundry section of your grocery or big-box store for a home dry cleaning kit. It should include the specially designed dry cleaning cloths, as well as a bag to put the items in. Some kits include stain pre-treating spray. Dryel, Bounce, and Woolite sell home dry cleaning kits.This type of dry cleaning is used for freshening fabric and will not clean heavily soiled fabrics. If your comforter is in need of a thorough washing, you’ll need to do more than home dry cleaning.;
, Most dry cleaning kits are not made to wash away bad stains. Treat bad stains with a basic enzyme cleaner, like Shout or Spray-N-Wash, or use another stain treatment option, like vinegar or meat tenderizer. If the dry cleaning kit provides a stain treater, use it.
 Open up the dry cleaning bag that came with the kit. Stuff the comforter into the bag, making sure it is not folded up. If the comforter seems to fit too tightly in the bag, put the comforter directly into the dryer and clean it without the bag.
 Take one of the cleaning cloths out of the box and put it into the bag with the comforter. Use two sheets if you put the comforter directly into the dryer. Since the cloths are designed to be used with the bag, you’ll need the strength of two without the bag., When the comforter and the cloth are in the bag, zip it shut and place it into the dryer. If your home dryer is not big enough to fit the comforter, take the bag to the laundromat to use the larger dryers available there.
 Set the dryer to medium heat. If your dryer has a timed setting, set it for 30 minutes. If your dryer does not have a timed setting, be sure to watch the clock or set a timer to ensure the comforter doesn’t dry for too long., When the the dryer cycle has finished, remove the bag from the dryer and take the comforter out of the bag. If you put the comforter directly into the dryer, remove the comforter from it.
 After the cycle in the dryer, your comforter will most likely be damp from the cleaning. Hang the comforter on a clothesline, a railing, a shower curtain, or lay it on a couple of chairs so that it can air dry completely., Home dry cleaning cloths can only be used once, so throw them away in your trash. The bag is reusable, so store it with your other laundry supplies, and the box of unused cleaning cloths, for further use.

