 Usually heteroatoms that participate in the formation of the heterocyclic compound is one of the nitrogen atom group or one of the carbon atom group or one of the oxygen atom group.;
, There is in the chemical literature today whole subject about the chemistry of heterocyclic compounds and its uses in the organic synthetic laboratory. The impetus for generation these compounds is many folds. One of them is an academic goal which forms a challenge to the synthetic chemist on how to prepare these challenging chemical structures. Also another goal of synthesizing such interesting molecules is their possible uses as potential pharmacological compounds and as intermediates in the synthetic pathway of natural products such as alkaloids and steroids.
 Nowadays many organic heterocyclic compounds are available commercially from chemical companies that specialize in the synthesis of organic compounds for laboratory uses. Heterocyclic organic compounds are especially important for the production of pharmacologically similar molecules to DNA bases and to cyclic sugars that have potential as pharmacological drugs. Cyclic organic sugars are a whole group of interesting compounds that are potential for application as pharmacological drugs. Polymers of the sugar glucose are abundant in the cells of the liver in humans.
 Interesting compounds include the insertion of silicon and germanium in the cyclic skeleton of organic compounds. Also these compounds can be used in the laboratory as organic bases and as potential solvents for the organic lab such as THF or Tetrahydrofuran. This is a well known solvent that is used extensively in the organic lab as solvent. However this solvent is difficult to handle due to its potential to form peroxides which can be potential explosives that can harm the chemist that is using them. Therefore handling THF usually requires the presence of a reducing agent in its solution in order to prevent its oxidation and form the peroxides.
 These compounds are similar to the benzene molecule in its chemical structure. Thus they are considered very stable compounds thermodynamically. Examples of such heterocyclic compounds include pyrrole and furan and thiophene in addition to the phosphor analogue that is called phosphole. All these compounds are considered aromatic compounds to a certain degree. There aromatic character will depend on the type of heteroatom that is attached to the ring.
 There is a whole branch of organic chemistry that deals with aromatic compounds and its chemistry. Chemistry of aromatic compounds is basically addition and substitution chemistry. In an analogous fashion heterocyclic organic compounds can undergo similar chemistry to that observed molecules that are benzene derivatives.
 The cyclization process of linear molecules that contain a heteroatom will depend on the size of the formed ring. There are in the organic chemical literature rules that are ascribed to a chemist that is called Baldwin and are called Baldwin's rules of cyclization of organic compounds. These are a collection of data that were collected based on kinetic measurements of the rate of cycles formation in compounds that have potential to cyclize. These rules are still valid nowadays and can be used as a reference for other cyclization reactions.
 Nitrogen containing heterocyclic organic compounds is of particular interest to the chemist due to its potential use precursors to natural products that can have application as drugs.
 For example, incorporating silicon atom in one of these rings can make this compound useful industrially in the electronics industry. Incorporating arsenium into the ring can make this compound a toxic compound. While incorporating phosphorus can lead to a completely different use of this compound such as the application in photodiodes of the molecule of phosphole.

