 You want to promote the health and vitality of your hair follicles. Use a soft, multi-tipped scalp massager daily. Scalp massagers are usually found in stores that sell hair products.


You can also just use your hands to massage your scalp. Just make sure that your hands are clean and that you massage all over your scalp.;
, There are several shampoos specifically formulated for thinning hair. None of them are going to work miracles but some do promote follicular heath and therefore hair growth. Others contain protein and fibers to coat the hair shaft and thicken it.


Also avoid using hair styling products such as hair spray or gel. This will help to minimize the follicle damage and keep the scalp environment clean.
There are a number of botanical or naturally derived hair treatments that help with thinning hair. As with any treatment, do your research and be weary of "review sites" or other sales scams.
 Go to your doctor if you are experiencing severe hair loss. This may be caused by a medical condition that is easily treatable.Your doctor can tell you what kind of hair loss you are experiencing and what the best course of action is for stopping it from advancing further.


If your doctor cannot give you enough insight into your condition, ask he or she to refer you to a specialist. A dermatologist should have the specialized knowledge to help you with your condition.There are over-the-counter drugs for hair loss but before using any kind of drug, you should see a specialist.
 The main medication for female-pattern hair loss is Minoxidil.A 2% Minoxidil should be applied directly to the scalp twice a day to dry hair has been shown to improve hair growth. However, always follow package directions.


Minoxidil for men and women is different. Male Minoxidil has 5% active ingredient, but it is not any more effective for women than the 2%, and it has more side effects.
Before buying the product, check the packaging. If the packaging says that it will not be effective on certain hair loss patterns, and you have one of those hair loss patterns, save your money and don't buy it.
If you do try the products, do not expect results for at least 6-8 weeks, and continued use of the product is required to maintain any new growth. Note: check the store brand for the percentage of active ingredients. If they are comparable to the name brand, go with the less-expensive brand as this is an expensive and long-term commitment.

