 If you’re good with animals, starting a petsitting service can be a good way to get into business. The costs to you are mostly limited to promoting the service by printing out fliers and business cards, and the pay can be decent--$10-$20 for a dog walk, double that for an overnight stay.When you’re advertising your business, start local, especially if you don’t have a car. Post your fliers in community clubhouses, and leave leaflets on people’s doors. Find out more about starting a petsitting business at Start a Pet Sitting Business.
 If you’re a little older and you like children, babysitting can be a good way to make money. A teenage babysitter won’t get paid as much as an adult would, but they can still make $10 or more an hour, and even more if there are multiple children involved.If you plan on babysitting for more than six months, you should invest in taking a CPR/First Aid class. Not only will it help you respond to an emergency, you’ll get paid more if you do. You can find a CPR class near you at http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/CPRAndECC/CPR_UCM_001118_SubHomePage.jsp.
Again, it’s a good idea to start in your neighborhood. However, a lot of babysitters are older teenagers who have cars, and many parents are willing to provide transportation to the right sitter, so you can advertise more widely within your local area.
Find out about starting a babysitting business in detail at Start Your Own Babysitting Business


, Another way to make money is by providing lawn care in your neighborhood. People are often willing to let a neighborhood kid cut their grass, and it will give you a way to get a little extra spending money.The downside to this is that lawn care is hard work. It takes a lot of hours and requires a lot of equipment. On top of everything, people won’t pay a minor the same rate as an adult. Add on the fact that you’re most likely confined to your neighborhood (unless you have transportation), and you'll see it’s hard to make a steady income from it.
 Another good neighborhood business to start is washing and detailing cars. You can usually charge at least as much to wash a car as you can to cut grass, it will take about the same amount of time, and you won’t need to buy as much equipment.The downside is, like lawn care, it can be physically demanding and take up a lot of your time.
 If you have good grades, you may be able to get a job tutoring other students who need help with school. You can help kids learn how to read, teach algebra to middle school students, or help high school students practice for their SATs.

Tutoring does not mean that you do the homework for clients or give test answers to other students. Instead, your job is to help them understand the concepts so that they can do the work themselves. Make sure you understand the line between teaching others and cheating.
You can advertise your services to both students and parents.
 While all business owners need to be reliable, those offering services need to be extra reliable. After all, few will notice if the kid selling candy on the subway misses a day of work, but everyone will notice if their babysitter doesn’t show up.


Keeping a calendar of your jobs and assignments is a good way of keeping on top of things so you can stay reliable. It also helps to tell your friends and family about upcoming jobs. That way, if it slips your mind, they might remember.

