 Start with easy distance runs (3-5 mi or 4.8-8 km) on alternating days. Over the next two months progress to running six days a week (train twice a day on some days) and logging anywhere from 40–70 miles (64–113 km) in each week depending on your ability.;
, This should include one day on the track running intervals. These are usually short distances that you run at a fast pace multiple times with short rest. A good place to start would be 3 x 1600 m (1 mi) at 5k (3.1 mi) pace with 3 minutes rest in between. As the season progress increase the number of repetitions, shorten the distance, shorten the rest, and increase the pace until you reaching a peaking point right before your final race.
 Find a moderately steep hill and do 6 - 10 100 m (1/16 mi) sprints at around 80% sprint capacity. These will help tremendously with upper body strength and with the final kick in any race.
 Membership in a gym is not necessary. Simple exercises such as push-ups and crunches are all that a distance runner needs. It is important to work these areas as their strength will promote a more efficient running form.
 Carbs are good but stay away from sugars and fatty foods. For some people this is very important but for others it may make little difference.
 You should be drinking water at least once an hour especially on warm days.
 Stress doesn't help anyone. A few minutes of meditation before you warm up is a good practice.
 That means get out in front, don't let yourself get boxed in, but do not full out sprint.
 Know your goal pace ahead of time and shoot for it. The first lap will feel easy and that's okay but if you do go too fast do not slow down as you will most likely over correct. Instead just keep your pace as your body will naturally adjust.
 Remember that this is your own race and you should never feel obligated to stay with anyone.
 By this time you will be in pain but you need to dig in and push it hard here. If you can begin working your way to lead only passing on the straight-aways. Note that this is the hardest and the most important lap. You will hurt just as much no matter how fast you run so make it count here.
 If there's anyone left to pass try to do it on the far side straight-away. A good runner wins a race long before the last 100 m (1/16 mi). As you hit the 200 m (1/8 mi) mark slowly begin your final kick and pull hard all the way to finish.
 Instead of slowly accelerating to a full sprint do so instantly when your opponent least expects and carry through all the way to finish. Even if they're a faster sprinter than you, more often than you will prevail as the head start is difficult to overcome.
 Make sure you do a cool down jog for about ten minutes and stretch afterwards.

