 Vitamin C also lowers the risk of various chronic diseases including angina pain and coronary heart disease. Although vitamin C deficiency is rare, it can greatly affect the immune system. Vitamin C can be taken as a dietary supplement with a recommended dose of 500 mg split into two or three times daily. You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are:

Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices
Spinach, broccoli and Brussel sprouts
Strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes
Mango, papaya and cantaloupe


Since smoking depletes vitamin C, smokers may need an additional 35 mg per day.
 Niacin is a form of vitamin B3 used to improve blood flow and lower bad cholesterol levels. High cholesterol causes plaque to build up in your arteries. Lowering your cholesterol reduces the risk for angina and heart disease. Niacin may also help regulate blood sugar levels for type 1 and type 2 diabetes., The recommended dosage for niacin are 14 to 18 mg per day, whether taken as a supplement or through a food source. Do not take a higher dosage unless recommended by your doctor.
People with coronary artery disease, severe or unstable angina should not take niacin without their doctor’s supervision. Large doses can raise the risk of heart rhythm problems.
The best food sources of vitamin B3 are found in beets, brewer's yeast, beef liver, beef kidney, fish, salmon, swordfish, tuna, sunflower seeds, and peanuts. Bread and cereals are usually fortified with niacin. In addition, foods that contain tryptophan, an amino acid the body converts into niacin, include poultry, red meat, eggs, and dairy products.
Niacin is available as a tablet or capsule in both regular and timed-release forms. The timed-release tablets and capsules may have fewer side effects than regular niacin. However, the timed-release versions are more likely to cause liver damage. Doctors recommend periodic liver function tests when using high doses (above 100 mg per day) of niacin.
 Magnesium is a necessary nutrient for many body functions, contributes to energy production. It regulates anxiety, stress, chronic fatigue, and helps maintain healthy blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar levels to reduce the risk of angina and other heart diseases. Magnesium deficiency can also weaken the immune system and cause a number of health problems.Natural food sources of magnesium are salmon, mackerel, halibut, tuna, dark chocolate, dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, brown rice, lentils, soybeans, black beans, chickpeas, avocado, and bananas.
Calcium can inhibit the absorption of magnesium supplements, so it is better to use more readily absorbed forms such as magnesium bicarbonate and magnesium oxide. 100 mg of magnesium supplements is recommended to be taken two to three times daily. Adults should get at least 280–350 mg of magnesium daily.
Symptoms of magnesium deficiency may include agitation and anxiety, restless leg syndrome (RLS), sleep disorders, irritability, nausea and vomiting, abnormal heart rhythms, low blood pressure, confusion, muscle spasm and weakness, hyperventilation, insomnia, and even seizures.
Excessive intake of magnesium can have adverse effects and reduce calcium absorption, so it is important not to overdose. Ask your doctor what dosage will be right for your individual needs.
 Resveratrol is an active compound found in grapes, grape seed and berries. It is shown to have beneficial effects on cardiovascular health by reducing high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes and plaque formation in arteries, thereby managing and preventing angina pain. Resveratrol is available as a liquid extract, capsules or tablets at most pharmacies and nutrition stores.
The recommended dosage for resveratrol is 30 to 45 mg after meals, up to three times per day.

