 Remove the coffee capsule and pour water out of the drip tray.
 Fill the water tank and place a container under the nozzle. Turn on the machine. Press the coffee button, let water run through for about a minute, then press the coffee button again to stop. If you have the Essenza Automatic model, instead let the water run until it stops, and repeat until you've pressed the coffee button six times.If no water comes through at all, stop the machine and lift the lever. Start the machine again, then lower the lever once you see water reach the nozzle.
If this still doesn't work, Essenza models (but not Essenza Automatic) have another option you can try. While the machine is off, press and hold the power button while you press the coffee button three times. Flip the lever open, hold it there for three seconds, and close it again. The machine should shut down and attempt to repair itself. It will not be usable for thirty minutes.
 Measure out 0.5 liters (17 oz) of water and pour it into the tank. Add one packet of Nespresso descaling liquid. The descaling liquid is a strong irritant, so keep it away from skin and the casing of your machine.


Alternatively, buy citric acid from the supermarket and dilute 5g of it in 95mL water to make your own descaling liquid.
 The official Nespresso descaling kit comes with a filter. Lift the lever and look for a slot to fit the filter in. Close the lever afterward. If there is no slot, just skip this step.
 Make sure it can hold all the liquid you added.
 Hold down the power and coffee buttons until they start to flash. The machine is now in descale mode.
 Leave the machine alone until all the descaling liquid has gone through the machine.
 Pour the collected liquid back into the water tank. Press the coffee button and let it run through a second time.
 Take out the filter if you used it. Rinse the water tank and collection container thoroughly to remove traces of descaling liquid. Fill the water tank with drinking water. Press the coffee button one more time and let it run through.
 On an Essenza Automatic or a Le Cube machine, hold the power and coffee buttons down for three seconds. On an ordinary Essenza model, just turn the machine off and on again.

