 Anxiety and fear can make people think in very irrational ways. One of the best ways to approach a pushy or overly-involved parent is by listening to his concerns and trying to assuage them.Let your parent feel validated. Listen to his concerns, and let him fully explain himself before you respond.Once a person has had the opportunity to vent, he is more likely to be willing to listen and compromise., Once you've listened to your parent's fears or anxieties you will need to address the things he is worried about. Acknowledge each concern or fear that your parent has, and offer ways to address those concerns.Offer alternatives to being pushy or overly involved. Some parents behave this way because they feel insecure about their role as parents.Suggest other ways to get involved, like taking an interest in your hobbies, or spending more time together on weekends.
 Some people call them "helicopter parents," while others simply call them pushy and demanding. It can be difficult to deal with pushy parents, but it's important to remember that your parents are pushy because they care about you, and what you interpret as pushiness is their effort at expressing it.Let your parents know that you understand they have your best interests at heart.
Gently point out bad behavior. Even the best, most responsible parents may have moments of frustration. Many parents become pushy in the heat of the moment.In these cases, the parent may not even realize that he is becoming pushy or demanding, and is probably overcome with emotion.
Try saying something like, "I know you're upset, and I completely understand. But let's find a way to deal with this together, in a respectful manner."

, Many children who have pushy parents feel like they can't make their own choices, or can't work on issues in a way that will be most helpful to them.If you're having problems with your parents, try setting up healthy boundaries so that everyone is happy.


Encourage a pushy parent to let you make independent choices. This boils down to a matter of trust, and you may want to remind your parents that they will need to trust you to make your own decisions at some point in life.Remind the parent that judgment and decision-making skills need to be developed throughout life.You may want to say something like, "If you want me to be able to make my own successful decisions later in life, shouldn't you start teaching me how to actually make my own decisions now? I need that freedom in order to learn."

