 Once you have attached the hair to the wig cap, you can then sew or glue the wig cap to your doll. Use the same type of yarn as you will for your doll's hair.
 Make a loop with the yarn, overlapping the working and tail ends. Pull the working end of the yarn through the middle of the ring. Pull it up towards the top edge of the ring and make a chain stitch., Make six single crochets in the magic ring. Finish with a slip stitch in the first single crochet. Gently tug on the tail to tighten the stitches., Chain stitch two. Do two half-double-crochets in each stitch. When you reach the end of the round, close it with a slip stitch in your first half-double-crochet., Start your third round with two chain stitches. Next, do a half-double-crochet in the next stitch, followed by two half-double-crochets in the second stitch. Do this six times, then close the round with a slip stitch in the first half-double-crochet., Start with two chain stitches. Next, do a half-double-crochet in each stitch over the next two stitches. (This is your increase). Follow it up with two half-double-crochets in the third stitch. Do this six times, then close the round with a slip stitch in the first half-double-crochet., Start with two chain stitches. Next, do a half-double-crochet in each stitch over the next three stitches. (This is your increase). Follow it with two half-double-crochets in the fourth stitch. Do this six times. Close the round with a slip stitch in the first half double crochet., The wig cap needs to be big enough to fit over your doll's head and extend from hairline to hairline., Start with two chain stitches, then 2 half-double-crochets in the first stitch. Continue where you left off with your increases: a half-double-crochet in each stitch. Instead of going for the entire round, stop when you are half-way across., You will be left with something that looks like a cap, but that is longer on one end. This longer end goes on the front of the doll's head. The shorter end goes on the back.

