 Most camps can keep your medicine and give you the correct dosage at the right time. If you require more than this, you might want to find a camp that is specific to your need.


Some camps even specialise for people physically or mentally disabled, or who require injections or infusions. Some camps like this are:

Hole in the Wall Gang Camp
Double H Ranch
Camp Boggy Creek

;
, There are a lot of camps that are specific to sports, theatre, arts etc. Be warned that you will doing these events all day long almost or every day of the week. Make sure you really can endure these activities for a long time or else you might not be happy. If you feel confident that you would enjoy doing these activities everyday try to find a camp that is specific to the activity.
 There are camps that are specific to certain religions. At these camps you may be required to attend special services and there may be special activities specific to the religion. If you do not feel comfortable integrated with other kids of another religion or if you simply enjoy carrying out the traditions of your religion a religious camp might be the right choice.
 There are certain camps that only allow girls or boys to attend. If the opposite gender puts a truly negative spin on your general lifestyle you might want to choose a gender specific camp. If you are neutral about the opposite gender you should probably choose a co-ed camp.
 Some overnight camps require you to pre-arrange phone calls with parents. Some even do not allow you to call your parents within a certain time if arrival. If you feel you would like to contact your parents on a regular basis you should call the camp and ask about their policy. You should probably also bring a calling card because most camps won't supply you with one. Some camps do sell calling cards though.
 Most camps offer a minimum of 2 week sessions but minimums can range 1-4 weeks (and possibly higher). Decide how long you want to stay and make sure the camp you choose accommodates that.
 You might want to go theirs if your friends already like it.
 Would you prefer to sleep in an old rickety (yet airtight) wooden cabin? Pick a camp that will suit your preferences.

