 For a vendor, the products and services offered need to be good enough to fit the hospital's mandatory standards for purchase. Read up on medical regulations in your state or area and make sure that your wares comply.


Standards for hospitals are usually determined regionally or by state. Different states may have different regulations, so it’s important to know the standards for the state you’re selling in.
Your goods or services also need to be of high quality and recognized by medical organizations, especially if you are selling medical equipment. For the most part, these medical organizations will be affiliated with the federal government or licensed by it.;
, For example, in the United States, the Joint Committee for Accreditation of Hospital Organizations (JCAHO) plays a big part in how hospitals run their business and, potentially, from whom they will buy. They often give accreditation to hospitals and verify hospital purchasing choices meet their standards.You can find manuals on the standards for different units, wards, and types of hospitals on their website. These manuals may help you when determining the correct standards for medical equipment or other goods and services.Additionally, JCAHO offers best practices for hospitals on their website. While these may not illustrate standards for goods and services, it can tell you a lot about the potential needs of different hospitals.
 It is recommended to be able to prove compliance with regulations or other quality control for goods and services. This can take the form of certification for applicable items as well as less formal qualifications.


You will likely have to fill out a qualification form available at each individual hospital or on their website. These forms take a variety of shapes, but will likely detail the regulations your goods and services meet as well as any potential conflicts of interest.Additionally vendor qualification forms may include a statement of hospital-specific standards vendors are expected to meet. This may include product regulations as well as product standards required from vendors.

