 The angle at which you look at your screen can affect the amount of strain on your eyes. Start by adjusting your screen position to slightly lower than eye level.Specifically, the top of the screen/monitor should be aligned with your eyes, when looking straight ahead. Try tilting the screen/monitor at different angles and heights while you're sitting there and it may help reduce eye fatigue.
This angle keeps your neck in a more natural position and results in less work for your eyes.
 Try to position your face as far as you can from the monitor: 20-40 inches or 50-100 cm is about the right distance.This may seem like it will make your eyes work harder, but eyes are relaxed at this distance.
You may a need larger screen or bigger font sizes to read your screen at this distance.
 Turn down the brightness, turn up the contrast. This will make your screen easier on the eyes.Screens that are too bright are hard on the eyes.
When there's not enough contrast between blacks and whites on your computer screen this is also hard on your eyes. This is because they have a harder time distinguishing between different items. This can add to eye strain., Cleaning your screen removes electrostatic particles that may be emitted from the computer screen. These particles can push dust toward your eyes, causing irritation and strain. Cleaning your screen can also reduce glare.Wipe down your screen daily with an anti-static solution sprayed onto a cloth.
 You should try to create an environment that has lighting similar to that of your monitor. The ideal workspace will have soft lights, limited natural light, no fluorescent lighting, and surfaces that don't reflect too much light.It is important to get the right amount of lux or light that passes through a surface. Lux is the standard unit of illumination. For ordinary office work you should illuminate the room at about 500 lux.The packaging on your light bulbs should help you select the right amount of light regarding lux.
Switching your bulbs and adjusting window blinds in your office may cut down on your eyestrain.
If you can't control the lighting, adjust the colors on your monitor. This is also known as adjusting your color temperature. Often, turning down the blue a little can reduce eye strain.On Windows computers, you can adjust the color using the control panel.
There is software available that automatically adjusts your monitor colors based on the time of day to compensate for changes in the natural lighting.One such software is called f.lux.This can make it easier to view a monitor screen in dim light or at night., Harsh glare off your computer screen can also strain the eyes.If you can't control the lighting in your work environment, consider buying an anti-glare screen for your monitor or anti-glare glasses for you to wear.


Anti-glare screens have the added benefit of increasing privacy. They make it harder for anyone not directly in front of your screen to see what's there.
These are easier to get to for desktop computers than laptops.
 Consider purchasing a high-resolution monitor. These are often easier on the eyes.


Older monitors tend to flicker more, whereas the new high-resolution models provide a more consistent illumination. Flickering can increase eye strain.Older monitors also have a slower refresh rate, causing your eyes to constantly readjust every time image refreshes on your screen., Eye shifting can increase eye strain and frustration unless performed as an exercise. To avoid this, buy a stand for your books and papers so your resources can be easily located. Put the stand directly next to the screen, so your eyes aren't shifting as much.Constantly shifting eyes means making your eyes focus and refocus on different reading materials.
When objects are only a few inches away from each other, your eyes don't need to refocus.If you can master "touch-typing" so that you don't need to look at your keys or screen, this is even better. You can keep your eyes on your other materials while typing, which cuts down on screen time.

