 Sometimes, a heat rash just won't go away on its own. In these cases, there are some creams and lotions that can help accelerate the healing process. However, these are the exception, not the rule. Most creams and lotions will not help a case of heat rash, even if they're advertised as "soothing" or "moisturizing." In fact, many can even make heat rash worse, especially if they contain one of the following ingredients:


Petroleum or mineral oil. These greasy ingredients can clog the pores, which is the main cause for heat rash in the first place.Perfumes or scents. These can often irritate raw skin, making heat rash worse.
 Calamine is an ingredient that soothes and protects the skin, reducing irritation. In addition, it's known reduce the itching that can sometimes come with a case of heat rash.This and related lotions are sometimes marketed as "prickly rash lotions."


Calamine is generally safe, but it can negatively interact with some common medications and medical conditions. Talk to your doctor before using calamine if you are pregnant, have any known medical allergies, or are taking prescription medication.Calamine lotion is an over-the-counter (OTC) drug.
 This is a similarly soothing ingredient that is sometimes prescribed for heat rash. Anhydrous lanolin reduces irritation and helps reduce blockage of the sweat glands, fighting the root cause of the heat rash.Some people whose skin is sensitive to wool may experience irritation after using this ingredient.Avoid it if this is true for you.
Anhydrous lanolin is an OTC drug.
 Steroids are a class of drugs that work by reducing inflammation, irritation, and swelling in the area they are applied to.A thin layer of steroid ointment applied over the heat rash can seriously reduce the redness and "rawness" of the rash, speeding healing. Use steroid creams sparingly.


Milder steroid creams are usually OTC drugs. These are not the same as dangerous anabolic steroids used to encourage muscle growth.
 If allowed to worsen, mild heat rashes can gradually develop to the point that they become more than a mild problem. Be on the lookout for signs of danger and infection. If you notice any of the symptoms below, contact a doctor as soon as possible to start a more aggressive treatment plan. This is especially urgent if the person with the rash is a baby, an elderly person, or someone with a weakened immune system.Increased pain
Increased swelling and irritation that does not go away
Fever
Pus or discharge oozing from the rash
Swollen lymph nodes in the throat, groin, or armpits

