 Permanent hearing loss and tinnitus are serious side effects of listening to loud music, but you can help prevent these conditions by wearing earplugs at concerts. If you are concerned about the effect that earplugs may have on sound quality, you can purchase high fidelity earplugs that dial down the volume of the music rather than muffle it like foam earplugs tend to do. , What you wear will depend on the concert and venue type, but there are some basic strategies for concert dress that will help you as you decide what to wear.


Dress comfortably. Even if you have a seat, you’ll be on your feet a lot and you may even want to dance or mosh during the concert, so don't wear something that is extremely tight or difficult to move around in. Don’t over accessorize. A tried and true strategy to avoid over accessorizing is to take one accessory off before you leave your house.Account for the weather if you’ll be outside. If it’s going to be sunny and hot, wear a hat, sunglasses, and shorts. If it’s going to rain, bring a rain poncho. If it’s going to be cold, dress in layers. Think about what you’re going to be doing after the show. If you have plans to go out for drinks after the show, wear something that can take you from day to night. Wearing black, navy, or other dark tones is one way to accomplish a day to night look., (Posterboard, markers, glitter, etc.) Making your own sign is an easy, fun way to get psyched for the concert and it might even catch the attention of one of the band members., If you plan to buy a t-shirt, hoodie, or CD at the show, you will want to have plenty of cash on hand. Merchandise is usually expensive at concerts, but the revenue from merchandise goes straight to the performers unlike ticket sales and other aspects of the concert that are divided among multiple parties. , If you are planning to go to the concert with friends, decide who is going to drive in advance. If you need a ride, check out a rideshare service such as Uber or Lyft to see if they are available in your area. , Even if the concert will be inside, you will want to check on the weather to make sure that you will be comfortable while you are waiting in line to get into the concert.
 If you are driving or riding with a friend, find out what kind of parking is available. If you are going to an outdoor concert, see if you are permitted to bring any food/beverages into the venue with you.
 Plan out your sign design before you begin. Outline your design in pencil first and then go over it with marker. Decide whether you want to make a heartfelt sign or a funny one. , Put necessary items (TICKETS, lip gloss, ID, cash, earplugs, comb or pocket brush, etc.) in your wallet or purse the night before the concert. If you plan to bring a purse and you don’t have a small purse or wrist clutch, you may want to invest in one because you will not want to be lugging around a large purse all night.
 (Maybe even go out and buy a portable charger) Make sure to begin charging your phone at least a few hours before you leave. If you will be waiting in line for a while or waiting around between bands, you are going to want your phone to stave off boredom. Plug your phone in a few hours before you have to leave to make sure that it is fully charged. You may even want to invest in a portable phone charger if you anticipate a really long wait in line. Some portable phone chargers cost as little as $20 and most of them are slim enough to fit in your pocket., Since food and drink are often pricey at concerts, you can save money and make sure that you are well hydrated by drinking plenty of water on the day of the concert. You will probably sweat more than usual at the concert from dancing and moving around, so drinking plenty of water during the day will help protect you from getting dehydrated. , Make sure you leave yourselves plenty of time to get to the concert, park the car, and walk to the venue. Remember to account for traffic and road conditions as well. Plan to leave in time to arrive at least an hour before the concert begins, much earlier if you want to be the first ones in the door.
 Give yourself plenty of time to shower, get dressed, do your makeup, and style your hair. Give yourself even more time if you plan to paint your nails as well.
 Eat something healthy and hearty so that you don’t get hungry during the show. Whole grains, veggies, and lean proteins are all good choices. , Double check your purse or clutch before you leave the house to make sure you have remembered everything. Before you hit the road, triple check that you and all of your friends have remembered to bring your tickets!!

, Most concerts provide an option to purchase a VIP package, which often includes an opportunity to meet the band and get autographs. These packages are much more expensive than the basic ticket price and they usually sell out early, but they will give you an opportunity to go backstage and meet the band. This option is good if you don’t really like the idea of sneaking backstage and you can afford to buy the VIP package.
 The earlier that you show up to the concert venue, the better your chances of getting backstage will be. Lots of people try to get backstage at concerts and as the evening progresses, security guards become more cautious and selective of who they allow backstage. If you show up early, you will have a better chance., Since they are the ones blocking your entrance to the backstage, you will have a better chance of reaching your goal if you are nice to them. Don’t overdo it. Just be pleasant and polite. Make casual conversation with the security guards and try not to act like you are dying to get backstage, even if you really are! , If you notice a roadie lugging some equipment onto the stage and ask if you can help. If you are allowed to help, work really hard and thank the roadies for letting you help. This strategy may get you backstage and it can also land you an awesome on-stage vantage point during the concert.
 You are less likely to get backstage with a group of three or more friends, but if its just you or just you and a pal then security will be less likely to bother with you. , Trying to sneak backstage at a concert is risky because you can get kicked out of you are caught. If you do get caught sneaking backstage, don’t get angry or try to run away. Just be pleasant and apologetic if you get caught and you will have a better chance of not getting kicked out. , Although you may be freaking out inside, you will need to act casual if you manage to get backstage. If you seem way too excited, security will notice and they might kick you out. Instead, take a deep breath and enjoy your time backstage. , Stay calm if you bump into your idol while you are cruising around backstage. It's okay to act a little excited as long as you avoid gushing too much. If you have something that you were hoping to get signed, ask politely if he or she would mind signing it for you. If you want to pay your idol a compliment, go for it! Just remember to keep it simple and things are less likely to get awkward. Try something like: "I've been a fan for years. Thank you for creating such awesome music!"Talking with your idol in the laid back manner is also less likely to catch the attention of security, which will increase your odds of getting to stay backstage.
 Depending on the size of the concert venue, there might be one large pit or multiple smaller ones. Look around and see where the closest one is and head towards it. You may have to wriggle your way through the crowd to get there.
 When you get to the edge of the pit, hand back for a minute and survey the action. There are several different ways to mosh. You can jump around, skank, run, push, or simply walk in a circle in the pit.If this is your first time in the pit, you may want to mimic what others are doing to start and develop your own moves as you get more comfortable. If the pit looks rougher than you expected and you change your mind about joining, there’s no shame in manning the sidelines!

, Once you feel ready to join the action, step into the pit and mosh around! Keep your arms out and moving around to protect yourself. Run, skip, or walk around the pit, bump into other moshers and push them around.
 Even though the mosh pit may seem like an anything goes sort of situation, it’s not.If you are too aggressive in the mosh pit, you may even get kicked out of the concert. To avoid having an unpleasant mosh pit experience, stick to these simple rules.


Help people who have fallen to get back up. If you notice someone on the ground, help them up and then keep moving. Don’t pull people into the pit from the sidelines. The people standing on the sidelines are there for a reason and they may get angry if you try to push or pull them into the pit. Don’t punch or kick people. The pit is not about seriously injuring people, it’s just a rough form of dancing. It’s okay to flail your arms around and kick your feet, but don’t direct your kicks and punches at people intentionally. Also, be careful not to whack anyone in the face while you are flailing your arms around. Don’t bring drinks into the pit. Take a break if you want to have a drink. If you bring your drink into the pit you will most likely end up dropping it or sloshing it all over yourself and other people. , Moshing is hard work. If you start to feel out of breath or overheated, retreat to the sidelines and take a break. When you feel ready to go again, jump right back in!

