 It takes a long time and a lot of patience to get all the chemicals you've put in out, but that is the best way as it will ensure that your natural hair is strong, healthy, and manageable. It doesn't happen overnight; make sure you won't change your mind on the second or third day and decide it's not for you.;
, There is nothing wrong with most of the generic shampoos and conditioners on the market, but you want to use a shampoo and conditioner that are made for thin, brittle hair; products that are made with natural ingredients such as coconut oil, shea butter, olive, jojoba, avocado, and castor oils, aloe vera, and many others. Just make sure that you read up on anything that you use in your hair; treat it the same as you treat what you put in your body. Do not use products containing mainly petroleum or mineral oil, these are made only to coat the hair and will attract dirt and dust.
 Make sure your hair is clean before using the hot oil; you want to get all the dirt and grime out before using the oil, otherwise the oil will trap it in. Either that, or when you wash it, it will all come out.
 DO NOT let the hot air blow directly on your head, this will dry out your hair and scalp and cause even more damage to your hair.
 You can:


Let it grow out two or three inches and cut the relaxer out. You will have very short hair until it grows again; you can wear it 'natural', which means it will look like a short 'bush' (which a lot of people find VERY sexy, especially with some hoop earrings!) or if you've let it grow long enough before cutting it, you can wear it in an Anita Baker look.
You can allow the relaxer to grow completely out. This method is usually best if you're planning to wear braids, extensions, or dreadlocks while the relaxer is growing out. It's very difficult to find a hairstyle that works once your natural hair has grown out several inches. This method takes a long time; the amount of time depends on how quickly your hair grows.
 and do not do a lot of hard pulling and tugging. This makes your hair weak and will cause it to break off, and it will seem like as fast as it grows it breaks off. Instead, use your fingers or wide toothed combs and picks to gently style your hair the way you want it. If you take good care of it, you will have beautiful, soft, manageable hair, without harsh chemicals.

