 Many sites provide background searches either cheaply or for free. Keep in mind, though, that internet searches might return inaccurate or outright false information. Make sure to verify all the information you find.


When using a search engine, put quotation marks around the name of the person you’re researching.This ensures that the engine looks for the entire name instead of breaking it up. You want "John Smith," not "John Brown" and "Jim Smith."
Include extra identifying information to make sure you find the right person: "Bill Gates" Microsoft.;
, Information about arrests, convictions, and incarcerations is part of the public record. You can often access relevant documents through governmental websites for courts and police departments. Note that while many counties provide online databases, some still store public records in hard copy. If you can't find records online, contact the county courthouse to find out how to get access the public archives. You may have to pay a small fee to make photocopies of the documents you want to take with you.


Remember to search documents in all states where your subject has lived, and to search county and city websites as well.
 If you rely on public records for your research, you'll have to invest a great deal of time to get a complete background picture. Even checking the courts in every county where the subject has ever lived isn't enough! You also have to look at every county where he's potentially had a run-in with the law — even if he's never lived there! This can be time consuming and difficult.
 Many records (credit reports, school records, military records, etc. ) are off limits without the subject's permission. To get such information, you might try asking the person you're researching to provide it. While nobody has to give you access to their records, you can take a refusal into consideration when making decisions.


For example, if you're considering a potential new roommate, you want to make sure they pay bills on time. Ask for a copy of his or her credit report before making your decision.
If the person doesn't provide the information you need, you can choose not to move forward with the arrangement.
 Private citizens can hire any legal service to run a background check. Search the internet for “background check service” to find local companies in your area. Research the company well before contracting its services to make sure it's a reliable, reputable firm — not a scam. Read online reviews to see whether customers are generally satisfied with their results.


Private companies and citizens can't access all the records law enforcement agencies can. As such, the information gathered by private agencies may not be as reliable.
Beware of scam artists! Don't do business with companies that charge too much below or above the industry standard. Compare prices with other companies in the area who provide similar services.

