 Each state has different legal requirements regarding foster care. Generally, states do not prohibit single people from becoming a foster parent based solely on the person’s single status. It is important for a prospective foster parent to review the laws from his or her state to determine whether the prospective foster parent meets the basic legal requirements. The organization Adopt Us Kids provides state-specific foster care information on its website.Generally, states require that prospective foster parents meet the following qualifications:

Be over the age of 21.
Have a regular income that can meet the needs of the foster family.
Have no felony or misdemeanor convictions for child or elder abuse or sexual abuse.
Have a home with enough bedrooms to accommodate a foster child.
Undergo and pass a home assessment of all family members living in the potential foster home.
Go to all required foster parent training sessions.;
, Some states offer prospective foster parents the option to attend a free orientation about providing foster care. This orientation informs prospective foster parents of the obligations and benefits of becoming a foster parent and raises questions so that individuals can make a more informed choice about becoming a foster parent. The orientation provides information about the foster application process and may present an opportunity for a single person to raise any questions or concerns that he or she has about becoming a single foster parent.Generally, foster care orientation is available through a state or city’s Department of Social Services or other agency responsible for children’s welfare, or health and human services.You can contact your state or local agency that handles foster care and ask whether they offer orientation programs.
 While all prospective foster parents should evaluate their finances, this is especially true for a single person who wants to become a foster parent. While most states do not have minimum income requirements for becoming a foster parent, a person does need to show that his or her income would meet the needs of a foster family. This financial burden may be more difficult to meet as a single person.


The U.S. Department of Agriculture has estimated that single-parent households spend between $10,000 and $12,000 per year on childcare costs.
While a foster parent receives funds from the state to support the child, the foster parent may be responsible for costs beyond those covered such as extended day care costs or costs not covered by the public school system, such as summer camps., As a single parent, prospective foster parents must look closely at his or her job and benefits to make sure that it will support the prospective parent’s child-rearing responsibilities. When evaluating your employer and employment situation as it relates to becoming a foster parent, consider the following:


The length of your commute to work.
Whether your employer is family friendly.
The amount of sick time and vacation time that you are allotted.
The amount of travel that your job requires and whether you can bring your child with you.
Does your position allow flexibility in your schedule?, Some states may have legal requirements about the size of your home and specifically about the number of bedrooms. Generally, foster children can share a room with another child if the child is the same sex as the foster child and the children are below a certain age requirement. If you are single person, you may need to rent or buy a larger home in order to accommodate your foster child and meet the legal requirements of your state.


As an example, in California children of the same sex can share a room if they are under the age of five and a child under the age of two can stay in the same room as his or her foster parent if the child sleeps in a crib., One of the first steps in beginning the foster parent application process is to locate your local foster care agency. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides contact information for local and state foster care agencies on its website. It also provides links to resources to assist those who are planning to become foster parents., Once you have made the decision to foster a child, you should contact your state foster care agency. The agency will be able to explain the requirements for applying to become a foster parent, as well as any resources available to help assist single people who want to become foster parents. Some states or counties subcontract with private agencies to assist in the foster care process. Your local agency can explain who will handle the foster care process and the role of private agencies in the process., Each agency will have its own foster parent application. The application is often very time consuming. It will require that you provide your personal and medical history, as well as private and professional references. You may also be required to indicate specifics about the child that you are willing to foster, including age, race, ethnicity, language, gender, and special needs.Generally, a foster care application may require you to provide the following information:


Those applying to become foster parents will have to provide personal identifying information, which may include: name, address, alias, race, ethnicity, gender, place of birth and date of birth, social security number, education history and employment status, religious affiliation and primary language, and marital status.
Applicants may also have to provide contact information for their employers.
A list of all household members, including name, relationship, age, birth date, and a driver’s license number with the name of the issuing state.
A request to identify the number of children for whom the applicant is willing to foster, as well as the age, and sex of prospective foster children.
A request to provide information about any other applications that the applicant made to the state regarding adoptions, familial care, guardianship or other childcare.
Information regarding the applicant’s experience providing care to children.
Personal references.
Sources of income.
Information regarding the applicant’s home, including the number of bedrooms and whether the home is rented or owned.
The applicant’s certification that he or she will submit to a background check, fingerprinting or other child abuse clearance., All U.S. States, Washington D.C., Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Puerto Rico have laws requiring a criminal background check for prospective foster parents and any adults residing in their households. Depending on where you are applying to become a foster parent, your background check may include: fingerprinting; state, local and/or federal criminal records search; child abuse and neglect records check; and/or sex offender registries. You may be precluded from becoming a foster parent if the background check shows that:


You or another adult living in the home has ever been convicted of felony child abuse or neglect, spousal abuse, a crime against children (including child pornography), or a crime involving violence, including rape, sexual assault, or homicide but not including other types of physical assault or battery.
In the previous five years, you or another adult living in the home has been convicted of a felony for physical assault, battery, or a drug-related offense.
You or another person in your home has been convicted of a crime that would raise a question as to your ability to provide a safe home for the foster child., Generally, you will be required to have a home study and assessment by a social worker. There may be as many as three visits during the application process, during which the social worker is evaluating whether your home is safe and suitable for a foster child, investigating whether you are psychologically and mentally healthy, and to complete any additional paperwork required for your application. It is important to demonstrate for the social worker that you have thought through how you will care for a child as a single parent, and give examples of backup care and support that you have. During a home visit, a social worker may ask about or be evaluating the following:


A social worker may ask you questions about your marital status, work life and other questions to determine whether you are able to provide a safe and stable home for a foster child.
Whether you and all of the members of your household are healthy, both physically and mentally.
Whether you are employed and whether you have plans for the child’s care and supervision while you are at work.
Your character (the social worker may ask to speak to personal and professional references).
The reasons that you want to become a foster parent and your understanding of the responsibilities and role of a foster parent.
Your commitment to working with the child, the child’s family, and the agency to find a permanent home for the child.
Your self-assessment of your ability to form a meaningful relationship with the foster child.
Your understanding that the placement is temporary and your ability to provide a stable, loving, and supportive home for the child., Depending on your state, you may be required to complete 15 to 30 hours of foster-parent training. The training is designed to prepare you to better meet the needs of your foster child. In order to become certified as a foster parent, you may need to complete the following types of training:


Training to help you address the social, family, and personal problems that lead to the need for foster care.
Problems you may face in dealing with a child who has been separated from his or her family.
The policies and procedures that you must follow as a foster care parent.
The authority of the local, state, and federal agencies that oversee child welfare.
Foster care payment procedures.
Some counties require a specific training program called Model the Approach to Partnerships in Parenting/Group Preparation and Selection (MAPP/GPS) Pre-Certification Training Program, which stresses open communication and trust among foster families, adoptive families, birth families and casework staff.
You may also be required to undergo special training to address the specific needs of children who have special medical and mental health needs., Once you have been deemed eligible to be a foster parent, you will be placed on a list of potential foster parents. This means that if a child needs a home, you may be contacted for a short-term or long-term placement. A placement can last anywhere from one night to several months., You should communicate openly with the social worker who calls you to ask whether you can accept a child into your home. It is very important that you ask a lot of questions about the child, his or her background, and the child’s special needs. You need to understand the extent of your obligations, such as transporting the child to meetings with his or her birth parents or medical appointments, and make sure that you are able and willing to care for the child., Once you are acting as a foster parent, you will typically receive reimbursement for the child’s food and a clothing voucher. While the amount you receive depends on the number of children you are fostering and a child’s specific needs, it may not cover all of the child’s activities and needs. You must use the funds as designated by the foster care agency and inform the agency of any changes. For example, if you are receiving money for diapers and the child becomes potty trained, you must inform the agency that you no longer require a diaper allotment., All parents need support and this is especially true of a single parent. It is imperative that you determine who of your family and friends can help you provide care for the child if you become sick, have work obligations, or just need a break. Before fostering a child, you should speak to your family and friends and ask them whether they would be willing to assist you and in what ways they can provide help.
 While the majority of the children in foster care return to their biological families, when the families are not able to care for the child, the foster care agency looks to make a permanent placement for the child through adoption. More than half of the children adopted through foster care are adopted by their foster parents. It is important that you think deeply about whether you would ever be willing to adopt a foster child and communicate these feelings to the social worker. There is nothing wrong with not wanting to become a permanent parent and its important that you communicate your feelings, whatever they may be, to the social worker so they can find the best placement for the foster child., When you tell people that you want to become a foster parent, some of those people may tell you that you should not become a foster parent as a single person. If you have evaluated your reasons for wanting to become a foster parent, accept that no parent is perfect, and set up support systems for you and the foster child, naysayers should not dissuade you. It is a tremendous amount of work to be a parent and more so to be a single parent but that does not mean you can’t do it.There a number of ways that you can deal with family and friends who are critical of your decision to become a single parent, such as:


If you have a family member who suggests that the child would be better off with two parents, you can reply: Regardless of whether would be better off with two parents, has one foster parent. Are you saying that it would be better for to remain in the system than to live in a loving home with me?
This reply may be a little more assertive than you feel comfortable with, however, it is sure to quickly quiet down detractors.
If someone suggests that you won’t be able to handle raising a child on your own, you could reply: I have family and friends who love me and have offered to support me in any way that I need. I intend to take them up on their offer.
If you have a family member that constantly critiques your decision and you know there is no getting them to change their mind, you can say: , I love you but if you are going to continually critique me for my decision to provide a loving home for a child in need then I am not going to be able to spend time with you.