 They should be hip-distance apart. If they are crossed, uncross them and try to keep them aligned with your hips.Keeping one foot slightly forward of the other can help relieve pressure from your lower back muscles.Keep your feet pointed forward, not out to the sides.;
, If your weight was on the outside of your feet, you are pronated. If your weight was previously on the inside of your feet, you are supinated.Pronation and supination are common problems. However, they can result in ankle, leg, hip and back problems in the future.
If it is very hard to move the weight to the balls of your feet, you can consult a podiatrist to get custom orthotics. They can help correct your posture.
 There should be a very slight, almost imperceptible, bend in them. Locking your knees increases stress on your joints., Your lower back should have a slight curve to it. Some people may have too much of a curve in their lower back, called “hyperlordosis,” which is often caused by weak core muscles or excessive abdominal weight.Other people may stand with their pelvis tucked too far in, causing the lower back to be straight instead of maintaining its natural curve. This is called a “flat back” and is also unhealthy. It can be caused by sitting for too long in one position or by tightness in your core muscles.
If you are prone to low back pain, try contracting your abdominal muscles a little. Imagine you have a corset that is pulling your stomach muscles in and upward. Your back will be supported. Don’t tilt your pelvis; use your abs to support your body.It may take time to develop postural muscles in your legs, belly, back and shoulders. Keep with it for several months to get pain-relieving results.
 Your arms should hang at your sides without too much tension. If your shoulders rise toward your ears, make an effort to drop them., Let your arms drop to your sides and hang naturally. If your knuckles face the front, your shoulders may be more rounded than is healthy.


Focus on pulling your shoulders back just a bit to counteract this roundedness. You can improve your muscle balance and reduce rounded shoulders by strengthening your upper back and core muscles.
 People who work at computers can become hunched. Practice pinching your shoulder blades together to counteract the effects of computer work.Don’t overcorrect by pulling your shoulder blades too far back. This can create a hinge effect at your lower back that can cause pain.
 Try to avoid slumping forward. If your head slumps forward or down, bring it back so that your chin is parallel to the floor.Make sure that your head does not list to one side or the other. Keep your earlobes parallel to your shoulders.Be sure not to overcorrect by hinging your head up, either. Your eyes should look straight ahead, not up to the ceiling or down to the floor.
Imagine a string attached to the top of your head that is pulling you toward the ceiling. Your neck and head should be straight and upright.
 Your spine has three natural curves that create places where your back should touch the wall first if you’re standing properly.Stand against a vertical wall with your heels 2-4” from the wall. Make sure the back of your head, shoulder blades, and buttocks touch the wall.The back of your head should touch the wall due to the cervical curve.
The back of your upper shoulders should touch the wall due to the thoracic curve.
Your buttocks should touch the wall due to the lumbar curve.
You should be able to slide your hand in between the wall and your lower back curve. If you can’t, your back may be too flat. If the gap is much thicker than your hand, tighten your abs to flatten your back slightly until it touches your hand.
If you touch at other places, adjust your standing posture so that these three points hit the wall at once.

