 Extreme anxiety can affect you physically because of excessive adrenaline and thyroxin in your body.


These substances keep you in a "fight or flight" mode where you are instinctively on alert to either fight or run for your life.;
,


You need to avoid excessive stress which can actually damage your heart and brain. When you exercise, your body releases natural endorphins; thus, exercise will help you recover a sense of well-being and relieve stress.



Carbohydrates like pasta, rice, peas and beans help give you energy. Tryptophan, a substance found in foods such as oats, and nuts, helps reduce anxiety.
Avoid becoming dehydrated. Drink plenty of water and avoid caffeine. Dehydration will make you feel tired and fatigue can in turn trigger anxiety.
 Talk to a psychologist or another mental health specialist.


If you don't feel comfortable with the first one you try, try another. People with anxiety are often reluctant to talk about their anxiety with someone else because of the nature of the condition itself. Exposing your lack of control creates anxiety. But the right professional can give you both insight and solutions to your problem with anxiety.
Find a professional who specializes in cognitive behavioral therapy. This method of treating anxiety uses exposure to anxiety-causing situations to gradually help condition the patient to deal with them effectively. It in effect reteaches the anxious person and trains him to change his thought patterns and behavior so that he can cope with everyday stress.
 See a physician or psychiatrist for a diagnosis and get the right medicine for you. Sometimes it takes two or three tries to find the medication that gives you the best results.


This is often the first step people with anxiety use to help control their condition. Lessening acute anxiety through medication will allow you to move onto using other methods once your nerves are somewhat calmed by low doses of medication.
Often depression and anxiety coexist. Both anti-depressant and anti-anxiety medications may be prescribed depending on the patient.
Many mental health experts feel that medication should be used only for the short term as the patient can become addicted to it either physically or psychologically. All medication has side effects and those effects should be taken into consideration when deciding which one(s) to try, the dosage and the amount of time it'll be taken.



Try relaxation techniques such as bio-feedback where you "talk" to your body by using deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation.
Practice yoga. This ancient method of exercise and relaxation may help you to gain control of your anxiety and strengthen your body as well. You can purchase beginner videos that teach you the basics of yoga or you may want to join a yoga class in your area.
Meditate to help reduce anxiety. Find a quiet corner of your home or set aside a room to use exclusively for meditation. Adjust the lighting and add candles, plants, and soft music. Research to find one of the many methods of meditation that you feel would suit you.
Kava, B vitamins, valerian and other substances may help you fight anxiety naturally. Some experts recommend adding vitamin B-6 to your diet as it regulates the serotonin in your body which in turn lessons anxiety.
Check with your local health food store to find these products and others they may recommend to help control your anxiety. Always check with your doctor before using them.
 Lack of restful sleep harms you in many ways and will form a vicious cycle that involves anxiety and the inability to rest.
 This is a difficult step for someone who suffers from chronic anxiety. Even talking to others and seeking help are risks you must take in order to go forward and keep living.



Maintain your friendships and try to establish social contacts that are supportive. If you can find others who suffer from anxiety, such as a support group, think about joining it.
Distance yourself from those who ridicule or attempt to shame you, or those who add to your feelings of hopelessness because of their perpetually sad attitudes.

