 Not all dogs disobey in the same way, so it is important to figure out exactly how, and in what situations, your dog acts in an unruly manner. Do they cause damage to the home? Do they jump on or attack your guests? Do they bark constantly? Pull out a notebook and write down every time your dog acts disruptive. Then, look over the log after a few days to determine any patterns.Using these notes, you may be able to address some of these problems on your own by removing your dog from certain environments. For example, if your dog acts rowdy at the dog park, perhaps visit the park when it is less crowded in the morning.;
, There is a possibility that you’ve prompted, or contributed to, some of your dog’s negative reactions. Try to think of those moments where you encouraged disobedient behaviors or perhaps failed to reward positive ones.For instance, if you give your dog a treat immediately after it has just jumped on your friend, then you are rewarding your dog for a poor interaction. You can expect that your dog will then continue this type of behavior in the hopes of receiving another treat.
 If you’ve tried to make a few minor lifestyle changes and they seem to have no effect, then it is time to talk with your vet. Make an appointment and bring your behavior log for them to view. Depending on the discussion, your vet may order some tests to rule out any medical reasons for your dog’s actions.Some dogs act badly when they are in pain. Intestinal disorders and allergies are some of the health concerns that can cause a normally well-behaved dog to ‘go bad.’
Make sure to talk with your vet about how any medications may impact your dog’s behavior over the long term. Some have side effects that can be worse than the current situation.
 Your vet may be able to suggest some boundaries that you can establish in the home to make for a more comfortable living situation for both you and your dog. Perhaps you can keep the furniture off-limits and instead buy a nice dog bed or lounger. Maybe you stop feeding your dog table scraps and instead invest in a good dog food. The backyard could be off-limits for play until the day’s training is done.Whatever rules you set, you must be consistent in their boundaries and application. Otherwise, you will confuse your dog and lead to more frustration and disobedience.

