 Studies have shown that foods like smoked salmon and pickles contain trace levels of carcinogens., Opt for poultry or fish over beef and pork, and switch to low-fat yogurts and cheeses.When cooking, using olive oil or vegetable oil rather than butter.
, Cancer cells feed off of glucose, which helps tumors grow faster and spread more rapidly throughout the body.Beware of hidden sugars in bread, salad dressings, and cooking sauces.


Opt for honey over white sugar when possible.
Stay away from artificial sweeteners. Ironically, both natural and synthetic sweeteners may be cancerous. Artificial sweeteners were linked with the onset of bladder cancer in animal subjects., This carcinogenic substance appears naturally in certain foods when cooked at a high temperature.Foods that are high in amino acids and/or carbohydrates are prone to developing acrylamide when fried, baked, or roasted.The following are examples of such foods:French fries.
Roasted coffee.
Toast.
Baked goods.
Popcorn.
Pretzels.
Pizza.
Peanut butter.
 These nuts are rich in selenium, a mineral that helps your body's cells repair their DNA and kill off cancer cells., Many Americans stay away from garlic out of fear of developing "bad breath," but it turns out that the odor may be well worth it. The sulfer in garlic has been shown to boost the immune system's response to cancer and even reduce tumor growth.Studies have shown that garlic is especially effective in preventing stomach cancer, reducing its incidence by a factor of 12., The fruit is a great source of cartotenoids, which have been shown to reduce the likelihood of lung cancer.Cantaloupe also contains Vitamin C, which will boost your immune system.
 Among its many health benefits, broccoli has been shown to help the body fight off cancer.Broccoli should be eaten steamed or eaten raw, as microwaving it kills off most of its beneficial nutrients., Blueberries are the number one most powerful source of antioxidants, a molecule which prevents the cell damage in the body that could eventually lead to cancer., Green tea protects the body against various types of cancer as well as heart disease.Green tea also provides a more stable sources of caffeine than coffee, so you won't "crash" in the middle of the day.
 Studies have shown that people who eat fish like salmon four or more times per week are one-third less likely to develop blood cancers like leukemia, myeloma, and lymphoma., Organic produce contains less pesticides and hormones, both of which have been shown to cause cell damage and eventually lead to cancer.Shop the organic section of your grocery store or visit your local farmer's market.
Remember that not all products that say "all natural" on them are organic. Read labels carefully.
 Research has shown that neem has potential as a cancer prevention agent.


Grind some neem in a paste.
Roll into a marble-sized ball and consume every day., Having a sedentary lifestyle greatly increases your risk of developing any kind of cancer. Regular exercise not only improves your overall health, it reduces your likelihood for cancer, heart disease, and diabetes.


For women, moderate physical activity reduces estrogen levels, which have been linked to breast cancer.Even a 30-minute daily walk can reduce your likelihood for developing this type of cancer.
If you work a desk job, be sure to incorporate exercise into your daily routine by either waking up early to work out, or using your break/lunchtime to take a brisk walk outside.
Consider requesting a standing desk at work, if possible.
 Women who contract the sexually transmitted infection human papillomavirus (HPV) have an increased likelihood of developing cervical cancer.There are two vaccines available to protect women from the most dangerous kinds of HPV.Starting at age 21, women should have routine check-ups with their gynecologists at least once a year.
 In the US, cigarette smoking causes about 90% of lung cancers.Other risk factors for lung cancer include having a family history of the disease, and prolonged exposure to asbestos.