 When you are engaged in a conversation, ask questions that require an expanded response, instead of a one-word response. Make the question applicable to the ongoing conversation. For example, ask someone about a movie, when she found time to travel or what did actually happen in the situation.


Open ended questions force people to extensively speak, which carries the conversation further.
Ask questions about the person you are talking to. Everyone likes to talk about themselves, and the easiest way to become charismatic, is to be the person to which others can boast about themselves with. If you are meeting someone for the first time, ask them about their goals, their journey to their career choice or their significant other. If you know a person well enough to avoid those “ice-breaker” questions, ask about the trip they recently took or how their significant other is feeling.
 Others might wish to congratulate you on a recent achievement. Accept their praises modestly by thanking them but also by giving credit to others. For example, you could thank someone for noticing your hard work and add that this work project couldn't have been done without the help of your colleagues. This kind of response shows that you are proud of your work, but not boastful.


You should find the line between too much humility and too little. If you are too humble with statements which undermine yourself, one may think that you didn't do anything at all. But, if you are overly confidence, people may perceive you as conceited or arrogant, such as if you respond by saying that you worked on this project day and night and that it turned out awesome. By having appropriately humble responses and giving credit where credit is due, you begin to show and your character as a gracious and appreciate person.
 People like to know they are being listened to. During your conversation, restate in your own words, what you have been talking about. For example, after someone told you about their family troubles, answer by admitting that this person felt misunderstood by her family. In response, the person will likely expand by admitting that it is true or by expressing other feelings. By reflectively paraphrasing, you are showing that you are listening and furthering the conversation.
 Some people are more outgoing then others. Be aware of this and include everyone in the conversation. If you see a person not participating, try asking a question and going around in a circle to give everyone the opportunity to speak.


Cue into nonverbal communication such as looking down or crossing of arms to gauge how much attention a person is comfortable with.
Stay away from controversial or uncomfortable topics, such as political views or dating life, which can embarrass some people.
 Sharing a story about your childhood struggles or how you overcame an obstacle in your career will help people connect with you. It will let your audience better understand where you are coming from, and portray you as a leader worth following. 