 Purchase a hard plastic or glass enclosure at a local pet store. At a minimum, use an enclosure that is two cubic feet in size (.06 cubic meters). You should be able to house two to three scorpions in an enclosure this size.Make sure your enclosure has a top that snaps on securely.;
, Substrate is a layer of organic and/or inorganic material that covers the bottom of your enclosure. You need to provide 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of appropriate substrate for most scorpions. Substrate is important, as it will give your scorpion something to burrow into.


For desert scorpions, use sand. For species that live in temperate or tropical environments, use soil or pieces of bark or mulch.
If you have a burrowing species of scorpion (like desert hairy scorpions), you might want to and 6 inches (15 centimeters) of substrate.
You can gather substrate on your property (if it is appropriate for the species of scorpion you have), or you can purchase it at a pet store., Find 2 to 3 large rocks and place them in the aquarium. You can spread them out or put them together. These are important as they will provide the scorpion a place to hide., One of the most enjoyable parts of having a scorpion is decorating its enclosure. In addition to rocks, you can provide your scorpion with a variety of features to make the habitat interesting and diverse. Some features include:


Pieces of wood
Small plants
Pieces of ceramic pots, Purchase a heat mat from a local pet store or online. Then, tape the mat to the back side of the enclosure. The heat mat will provide the scorpion with enough heat to thrive. In addition, by securing it to the enclosure, you’ll allow your scorpion to move toward or away from it depending on the heat in the habitat.Make sure the heat mat only covers half to two thirds of the side of the enclosure.
 While your heat mat will do a lot to heat the terrarium, you’ll still have to monitor the temperature inside. To do this, keep a thermometer inside the habitat. Make sure the temperature is always around 77 degrees Fahrenheit (25 degrees Celsius). This, though, could vary depending on the time of day and the type of scorpion you have.


Desert species prefer a range of 72 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit (22 to 29 degrees Celsius).
Tropical species prefer a range of 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 26 degrees Celsius).
Temperatures should never go above 86 degrees Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius).
Temperatures should be kept constant., A wet sponge will help keep the habitat humid. Dampen the sponge every couple of days. Humidity is important, as your scorpions could dry out without it.Try to keep the humidity of the habitat above 30% to 40%

, Depending on the size and type of scorpion, you’ll have to feed it once or twice a week. Feedings should consist of small crickets or pinheads.


Large scorpions may eat between 3 and 5 crickets a week.
Take uneaten crickets or pieces of dead crickets out of the enclosure if they haven’t been eaten in 3 to 4 hours.
You can also feed your scorpion a variety of insects, spiders, and lizards., Since scorpions are active at night, you should feed them at night. Not only will your scorpion likely eat what you feed it, but you’ll be super entertained watching it eat.If you find your scorpion doesn’t eat when you feed it, change your feeding time by a couple of hours.
Feed your scorpion regularly once you’ve identified a time that your scorpion likes to eat.
 While scorpions don’t drink much water, they still need to have it around. As a result, you should keep a very shallow dish (1 inch/2.5 centimeters or less) full of clean water in the enclosure.Make sure the water does not flood the substrate.
 In addition to keeping a shallow dish full of water, you might also consider misting the enclosure every so often. By spraying a mist, you’ll give your scorpion another way to get water, and you’ll provide water to any plants you may have placed in the enclosure.Don’t mist the scorpion directly.
 The majority of scorpions sting. While the severity of their stings varies depending on the species, most of them can inflect extreme pain on people. Some scorpion stings could result in death. Instead of handling them, have fun watching them from outside the enclosure.


Use tongs to feed your scorpion instead of dropping crickets by your hand, Before you do any work on the terrarium, you should trap or confine your scorpion. You can do this by taking a transparent cup and placing it over the scorpion. Then, slide a piece of cardboard underneath the bottom of the cup.After trapping the scorpion, you can choose to move it to another container to clean around it.
If you have two or more scorpions, you may need help trapping both simultaneously – ask a friend.
You may be able to purchase a ready-made non-lethal scorpion trap online or at a pet store near you.
 If you have a terrarium or aquarium with a snap on top, make sure the it snaps shut when you close it. If you have another sort of habitat, make sure it is appropriately sealed. This is important, as your scorpion could escape and wind up hurting you, a family member, or a pet.Consider placing rocks or something heavy on top of the closure for added protection.
Instruct small children and visitors not to take off the top of the enclosure when you are not around.
 Scorpions are very clean. As a result, you don’t need to use chemicals to clean their habitat. In addition, chemicals (like detergents or household sprays) could poison your scorpion.If you do need to clean any surface in the habitat, wipe it down with a clean cloth and warm water.

