 Contrary to popular belief, hypnosis does not put you to sleep, render you unconscious, put you under someone’s spell, or cause you to do anything you do not want to do. In fact, hypnosis is a state of mind where you are very focused on suggestions being made to you and you are more receptive to these suggestions. In order for hypnosis to be effective, you will need to have an open and uncritical attitude towards hypnosis. Avoid being resistant to the process, as the more skeptical you are, the less effective hypnosis will be on you.To use hypnosis to improve your memory, you will need to store information in your brain and be able to retrieve it while under hypnosis. This is similar to the memory palace method, which is a type of mnemonic, a learning device that can help you recall difficult information. You can picture your memory palace when you’re in hypnosis and use it to store information you may need to retain later.;
, This will help you to relax and focus. You can also take off your shoes, put on loose clothing, and put a blanket on your legs.
 Use an object that you have a strain a bit to focus on, about five to seven feet away from you. This could be the corner of a picture frame on the wall, a smudge on the wall, a tree out the window, etc.As you look at the spot, repeat these words silently to yourself: “My eyelids are becoming heavier and heavier. My eyelids feel as if they are being pulled down by a heavy weight. Soon they will so heavy they will close.”
Repeat these words every 30 seconds and focus on your eyelids. You should feel them start to get heavy and close. Allow them to feel heavy and let the sensation of heaviness happen. Let your eyes close when they are ready to close on their own. As your eyes start to close, say: “Relax, and let go.”

, Once your eyes have closed, take a deep inhale through your nose and hold the breath for 10 seconds. Then, exhale through slightly parted lips, making an ocean like sound or a “whooshing” sound.As you inhale and exhale, let your head fall towards your chest and allow a wave of warmth and heaviness spread from the top of your head to the tips of your toes. Breathe slowly and consistently. Say the word “calm” every time you exhale.
After several breaths, say the word “deeper” as you exhale. This will allow you to go deeper into hypnosis. Imagine you are on a descending escalator that will take you into a deeper state of relaxation. Think to yourself, “I am slowly sinking into a deeper state of relaxation.”
As you descend on the escalator, count backwards from 10 to 1. Once you reach the bottom of the escalator, picture yourself stepping off the escalator and stepping onto a second descending escalator. Continue to breathe deeply in and out, counting backwards again from 10 to 1.
 As you fall into a deeper trance, you can start to store information in your memory. If you are familiar with a memory palace, you can imagine yourself going into your memory palace. You can then picture an icon or symbol that represents the subject or content you are studying or trying to remember in a main room of your memory palace. For example, if you are studying for a high school chemistry exam, you may want to picture a key chemistry equation when you are in a deep trance. If you are studying for a law exam, you may picture a legal symbol that is essential to the content you are trying to remember.Continue to picture your visual cue as you are in this trance so your brain can retain the visual cue. You can then call on this visual cue as you are studying for the exam or test to help you remember the information.
You should practice going into a trance like state before you begin studying for a test and after you have finished a study session. This will give your brain an opportunity to retain more information at the end of every study session.
 Once you feel you have reached a deep hypnotic state, you feel totally relaxed, and you have noted your visual cues, you can bring yourself out of the trance by counting backwards from five.Before you do the count, you can say to yourself, “When I get to one, my eyes will open and I will be awake.” As you do the count, your eyes should start to flutter open and then be fully open and alert once you reach one.

