 According to a study, nearly 40 percent of Americans age 55 and older are working. In fact, workers aged 55 and older accounted for virtually all of the workforce growth in the United States between 2007 and 2014.If you are physically still able to work, consider extending your current employment as long as you can, even if you qualify for retirement. Doing so will help you save even more for your eventual retirement. 
,  According to a study done by Merrill Lynch in 2014, nearly 40 percent of Americans age 55 and older are working.  In fact, workers aged 55 and older accounted for virtually all of the workforce growth in the United States between 2007 and 2014.  Nearly 60 percent of retirees venture into a new line of work after the age of 55.  Also, working retirees are three times more likely to be entrepreneurs than their younger counterparts.Delay tapping into your nest-egg.  Some people choose to continue working for financial reasons.  For example, many companies have eliminated pensions.  Also, recent economic uncertainty has eaten away at many people’s retirement savings.  

In addition, if your full retirement age for Social Security is 67, you may choose to continue working until you can collect your full benefits.Stay mentally active. Choosing to work in retirement isn’t all about the money.  It is a way for people to stay mentally active as they age. Others are motivated by increasing life expectancy, which means their retirement may last 20 years or more.  They are therefore motivated to find greater purpose, social connections and fulfillment.,  If you sign up for Social Security benefits before your full retirement age, you will likely have your benefits withheld while you are still collecting a salary.  As of 2009, if you earn more than $14,160, you must give $1 back to Social Security for every $2 you earn.  If you are of full retirement age, the limit is higher.  As of 2009, those at full retirement age could earn up to $37,680 and still collect Social Security benefits without a penalty.,  Most defined-benefit pension plans are calculated based on a pre-determined number of years.  If your tenure with the company exceeds that number of years, you won’t get any additional pension benefits.  Also, remember that your pension benefit is going to be based on your income for the last few years you worked.  If you work reduced hours in your later years, your lower earnings could reduce your pension benefit.,  Also, if you are enrolled in Medicare, your company’s health insurance plan is going to try to make Medicare your primary insurance.  This means you’ll be responsible for the co-pays and deductibles stated in your Medicare plan, which may be higher than those stated by your company’s healthcare plan.,  If you have already started to receive Social Security benefits or are collecting retirement income from a pension or an IRA, continuing to earn a paycheck on top of these income streams may bump you up into the next tax bracket.  This could cost you thousands of dollars in taxes.  If you are going to be receiving distributions from a 401(k), you can delay the payments until after you stop working.  But, if you have a traditional IRA, you must start receiving payments once you turn 70 ½, even if you are still working.