 Use a hairband or hairpins to secure your hair away from your face, so your forehead is completely exposed. This way your entire face will benefit from your facial.;
, Use your favorite facial cleanser to get your facial off to a great start. Wash your face with warm water (not hot or cold, since these temperatures are harsh on facial skin) and pat it dry with a soft towel.









Make sure all of your makeup has been removed before you continue with the facial.
For a luxurious twist, try using the oil cleansing method to wash your face. Rub coconut, almond, olive or jojoba oil into your skin, then wipe it away using a towel moistened with warm water. Rinse your face and pat it dry.
 You can use a store-bought facial scrub or mix one up using ingredients you have at home. A good exfoliating scrub contains sugar that will “scrub” away the dead skin without damaging the healthy skin underneath. Try one of these great combinations for your scrub:


1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon honey, and 1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely ground almonds, 1 tablespoon honey, and 1 tablespoon aloe
1 tablespoon finely ground oatmeal, 1 tablespoon honey, and 1 tablespoon milk

, Apply the scrub in a gentle circular motion all over your face, from your T-zone down your nose, across your cheeks, and under your chin. Instead of pressing into your skin, let the scrub do the work for you and lightly lift away the top layer of dead skin cells.
 Use warm water to rinse away the scrub, leaving your face fresh and gleaming. Pat your face with a soft towel to get it ready for the next step in your facial.
 If you don’t want to use a scrub, there are other ways to exfoliate your face. You can use a dry brush, an exfoliating cloth, or an application of an acid exfoliant such as glycolic acid. Any method is fine, but don’t use two methods in combination. Over-exfoliating the skin on your face can damage it.


If you use a dry brush, purchase one made with very fine fibers and designed for the face, not the body. Start with a completely dry face and brush your face using a circular motion.
If you use glycolic acid, allow it to sit on your skin for five minutes before rinsing.
 While your pores are still moist and open from the steam treatment, apply a mask to draw out impurities. The type of mask you use should be based on your skin type. Either by a mask or peel from the store, or try one of the following mixtures:









For oily or acne-prone skin, mix 1 tablespoon of honey, and 1 tablespoon white bentonite clay.
For dry skin, mix 1 tablespoon of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of honey, and 1 mashed avocado or banana.
For regular skin, mix 1 tablespoon of honey, 1 tablespoon of yogurt, and 1 mashed avocado or banana.
 During this time, the ingredients will nourish your skin, and when you remove your mask it will look brighter and more vibrant. If you want to relax while your mask goes to work, slice up a cucumber, lie down in a comfortable place, and put one slice over each eye. This will keep the mask from dripping into your eyes and moisturize your eyelids at the same time.
 When the 15 minutes is up, use warm water to rinse it away. Honey can be quite sticky, so make sure you rinse off all traces of the mask. Use a soft towel to pat your skin dry.
 The last step in your facial is to apply a moisturizer to keep your skin glowing long after your facial is complete. Smooth on your favorite moisturizing cream and let it fully absorb into your skin before putting on makeup.








