 If you think you can just generate a batch of keywords for your online advertising campaign, and create something successful and financial lucrative for your business, you are very, very wrong. Keyword research, selection and optimization is an incredibly important part of ANY kind of online advertising campaign. Keywords are the route via which potential clients/customers find you and your website. If the keywords are wrong in any way, your online advertising campaign is going to suffer severely. Indeed, it may never take off


You need to think like your target audience when selecting keywords. You also need to use online advertising tools to help you find the keywords that your competitors are using (or not using)
You can then use this information to your advantage;
, If your advertisement states that you are offering a product for 20% off, then that product must be found on your website at a discounted price of 20%. If not, that is false advertising.The advertising networks will not look favorably upon any advertisement which doesn’t lead to what has been advertised and neither will the internet users. Your online advertising campaign will fail and it will fail fast.Make sure that the 20% discounted product promoted in the advertisement is clearly visible on the landing page as soon as the internet user arrives to your site. If the customer/client has to scroll down to find the product, you will probably lose them to one of your competitors. Remember...


Internet users are lazy. They want things to be easy and fast. If you make them work to find your product/service, they’ll just go somewhere else, where the whole experience is easier. Your online advertising campaign will fail if your links to landing pages do not deliver what they promise

, Do you know what you CTR rate is?


Do you know how many conversions you achieved last month?
Do you know which keywords are generating lots of custom for your business. Do you know which ones are just sapping you of your online advertising budget in record time? If you don’t know these things, it is because you are not using an online advertising analytics program, such as Google Analytics for Google AdWords. You are risking failure at online advertising without using an analytics program because you are not investing the right amount of time needed in analysis and research. You cannot just “do” online advertising, you must “revise” and “find ways of improving.”This is how online advertising campaigns grow. This is the way to avoid online advertising failure.

