 Eye contact and smiling are two universal acts of flirting. Looking at someone from across a room lets them know that you notice them.When you smile, you're showing them that you are open to talking to them and that you may be interested in them, or that you like how they look.


You can meet a potential date at school, work, a grocery store, a bar, or in other social situations.
Smiling also releases endorphins that make you happier and can make other people react in a positive way.Don't force a smile or stare at them.
Maintain eye contact for two to three seconds before looking away. If you look back and the person is still looking in your direction, this is a good sign that they meant to lock eyes with you.;
, If the person smiles back, it's a good indicator that they wouldn't mind your company. If they hold your gaze for more than two seconds, it's a good sign that they would talk to you. If they avoid your gaze, look uncomfortable, or avoid you altogether, this is a sign that they aren't interested.Look for other signs, like if their arms and legs are crossed or if their knees are pointed away from you. This indicates a lack of interest and a closed-off demeanor.Signs that they may be interested include pointing their body or feet toward you and leaning in your direction.
 Once you've evaluated that they like your attention, you can introduce yourself. Walk up to them with confidence by standing upright and keeping your shoulders back.Start by offering a handshake and saying hello. Begin the conversation by talking about something relatable. As you approach them, make sure to pay close attention to their body language and facial expressions. If they look disgusted, disinterested, or frightened, you may not want to introduce yourself.


You can say something like, "Hey, my name's Alex. This band rocks. What do you think of them?"
Ask them for their name.
 Once you've introduced yourself to them and they appear receptive to you, you can start a conversation. Start by asking small questions, like how their day is so far or if they live in the area. If the conversation seems like it's stalling, ask them questions about themselves.Practice active listening by paying close attention to what the person has to say and where they are coming from. Improve your communication and listening skills by providing feedback, deferring judgemental thoughts, and responding appropriately. Instead of waiting for your turn to say something, internalize and listen to what the person is saying and show them that you're invested in the conversation.You can enhance your listening skills by summarizing or repeating something that the person said.
For example, if they explain how they liked a band before they went mainstream, you can say something like, "So what you're saying is that you liked their underground sound more than their poppy new music, right?"
Some good starter questions include: What do you like to do in your spare time? What kind of music do you prefer? Are you a student? Do you like art? or What's your favorite movie?
Don't plainly ask the question by itself. Integrate it into the conversation. For example say, "I just saw the new Guillermo Del Toro film and thought it was amazing. What movies do you like?"

, If you listen to what they have to say, you'll determine whether the person would be interested in seeing you again. If they mention a significant other, then they will most likely not go on a date with you. If they seem happy and enthusiastic to talk to you, then it's likely they want to see you again.


If they avoid eye contact altogether and have short responses, you should take this as a sign to leave.
 If they seem comfortable and happy while talking to you, it's a good hint that they will say yes if you ask them out. Ask them for their contact information first, then see how they feel about meeting up with you later. It may be stressful to ask the question, but don't wait too long to ask, or you may never get the opportunity.


You can say something like, "I had a fun time talking to you. Do you want to do this again?"

