 Before you can begin working on the batter, you must get all of your ingredients ready. Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Make sure your counter space is clear so you have room to work.


Grease your pan with butter or spray. If you don't want to use butter or spray, line the pan with parchment paper.
Sponge cakes can be time sensitive, so you don't want to waste any time sifting or preheating the oven., Prepare two bowls: one for the whites, and one for the yolks. Break the egg open over your hand. Separate your fingers just enough so the whites drip through, while the yolk remains in your hand. If the yolk starts to break, close your fingers to keep the yolk and whites separate.Place the yolk in the other bowl.


Try other egg separating methods here: 6 Ways To Separate An Egg.
This should be done half an hour before you begin mixing. The eggs are easier to separate when they are cold because both parts seem to hold their shape better.Leave the eggs out for half an hour so they can warm to room temperature before starting the recipe.
Make sure your hands are clean and all soap and oil have been removed. The smallest amount of grease, oil, or egg yolks can cause the whites not to stiffen., When measuring the flour, sift it into the measuring cup. This aerates the flour, making it fluffier - a must for a sponge cake.Next, sift the salt and the baking powder with the flour. You may also whisk the salt and baking powder into the flour instead. Set aside for now.
 Place the egg yolks into a bowl and beat on high with an electric mixer. Gradually, add 2/3 cup of sugar into the bowl as you mix. Beat until they are thick, fluffy, and lemon-colored - approximately 5 minutes. When they are ready, the batter will fall into the bowl in a ribbon.Next, beat in the vanilla extract, water, and lemon zest.
Zest is the flavorful outer part of the rind of citrus fruit, such as lemons, oranges, and limes. On a lemon, this is the yellow part; on an orange, this is the orange part of the rind. To zest, use a lemon zester, lemon (or cheese) grater, a vegetable peeler, or a small knife. Make sure to only remove the top layer. If you have removed the white skin, you have gone too deep.Make sure to beat the yolks in a bowl large enough to add the flour later.
 In a clean bowl, whip the egg whites on medium to high speed until the egg whites are foamy, then add the cream of tartar and continue whipping the whites until soft peaks form. Slowly, add 1/3 cup of sugar as you continue whipping the egg whites. Whip until they are shiny and form stiff peaks.The peaks will stand up straight when the mixer is lifted.


Do not overbeat the eggs. If the egg whites start to divide and separate, or look dull instead of shiny and glossy, they are over beaten., Sift about 1/3 of the flour into the yolk mixture, and then gently and quickly fold the flour into the yolk. Add 1/3 more flour, fold, and then sift the final 1/3 of the flour into the batter, and then fold.


To fold, start at the back of the bowl and cut into the batter with a spatula until it hits the bottom of the bowl. Lift the batter over the top of the top ingredient. Then, turn the bowl a quarter of a turn and repeat. Make sure to slide the spatula along the sides. This method will gently mix the ingredients together., After the flour has been folded into the batter, fold a little of the whites into the batter. This will lighten the batter. Then, add the remaining whites, folding until everything is mixed together.


Do not over mix. This can deflate the cake and make it tough.
 Place batter into a pan. Use a spatula to level the top of the cake. Bake for approximately 30 minutes at 350 °F (177 °C) in the center rack. Watch the cake carefully when it is approaching the 30 minute mark since every oven is different. Test to see if the cake is done by placing a toothpick or fork into the center. If it comes out clean, it is done.
 After removing the cake from the oven, let it cool for almost an hour. Then use a spatula or a knife to separate the cake from the sides of the pan, and then remove onto a serving platter.