 Sleep deprivation has many negative health effects, and could be the deciding factor in whether or not you pass your test. Sleep deprivation can hurt your ability to concentrate, reason, solve problems, and can even make you more forgetful than usual., Having a routine can make the day of your test feel like any other, which can help reduce test anxiety and stress. Be consistent with your routine and eventually your routine will become a comforting series of events.


Your routine shouldn't be shorter than 10 minutes, but shouldn't be too much longer than 30 minutes.
You can make a mental checklist of things you need part of your routine, which will help you remember important items on the day of your test., Hunger can make you distracted, which can hurt your performance on the test.Protein rich foods, like eggs, nuts, yogurt, and cheese, can improve your mental sharpness. Where carbs are concerned, stick to complex carbs, like whole grain products, brown rice, and whole rye to name a few. These will keep your glucose levels stable throughout the day and help you do your best on the test., Eating too much can leave you feeling drowsy or lethargic, both physically and mentally.This can lead to lower test scores than you would expect. To prevent yourself from overeating, you might want to plan out several healthy snack leading up to your test, like some fruit, whole grain toast, and eggs for breakfast, followed by a granola bar snack an hour before your noontime test.
 An itchy tag or constricting waist band might also distract you while test taking. Remember, this test is about your mental ability, not your fashion ability. Choose clothing that breathes well and fits comfortably.


You may want to dress in layers in case your testing location has poor temperature control. Even in the summer, sub-arctic AC temps can lead to discomfort and lower scores.
 Be careful not to overdo it! Fatigue can hurt your test taking abilities, but light exercise before your test can work out jitters and improve the flow of oxygen to your brain. If you don't exercise regularly, some simple exercise you can do before your Mensa test might include:


Going for a walk
Doing jumping jacks

