 For best results, exercise for at least 30 minutes at a time, three to five days a week.These cardio activities are particularly effective for getting rid of back fat. They will burn calories and strengthen your back muscles: Rowing, boxing and swimming.
Other cardio exercises to include are: running/jogging, walking, biking, using the elliptical or dancing.
The benefits of cardio don't just stop at toning your back. Cardio has also been shown to reduce the risk of heart disease, improve cholesterol and triglyceride levels, improve heart function, and reduce the risk of osteoporosis.You cannot "spot treat" or lose weight in only one particular area. You need to lower your overall body weight and decrease body fat to see a reduction in one particular area. Cardio exercises will help support this.;
, This is a way to burn fat more quickly. It will not only tone your back, but tone and trim fat from all over your body. Doing higher intensity interval training can help burn more fat and increase your fat burn after you've completed the exercise.One way to do interval training is by running: Run at a vigorous pace for several minutes, return to a more comfortable pace for five minutes, then speed up your routine for another two minutes. Continue your entire routine in this manner for 15–20 minutes.
Consider High Intensity Interval Training. The NIH defines HIIT as exercising at a high intensity for 30 seconds to several minutes with bouts of either no or low intensity exercise for a minute or two in between. Doing this actually amplifies the benefits seen in doing normal cardio exercises. It can improve your cardiovascular health and raise your metabolism.When exercising at high intensity, you should be perspiring and breathless enough that you cannot speak phrases or have a conversation.
Do HIIT training for 20 minutes, with an additional five minute warm-up and cool-down.
 There are some specific exercises you can do to strengthen your back that don’t require special machines. Many of these exercises can even be done at home.


Tie a resistance band to a doorknob. Shut the door and stand about 2 feet away from the door. Hold the ends of the resistance band in each hand and bend your elbows 90 degrees. Pull your arms back so that your shoulders are pushing together. Hold this position for 10 seconds and then release. Repeat the motion seven to 10 times. If you don’t feel enough resistance, move a little further away from the door or use a thicker resistance band.
Lower back extensions target the lower back and tone the muscles where that annoying fat hangs over the top of your jeans. To get started, lie flat on the floor, on your stomach. Place your hands behind your head and lift your chest and legs as far off the ground as you can. Three sets of 10 is a good place to start.
With bridge exercises, lie on the floor on your back. Bend your knees at a 90-degree angle, but keep your feet flat on the floor. Lift your buttocks up until your back makes a straight line-like a bridge. Hold it there for 10 to 15 seconds and then slowly lower your body back to the floor. Do this 10 to 20 times. .
Use the plank exercise to help tone your entire back and core. Place your forearms on the floor. Hold your body in a straight line. Hold this plank position for as long you can. Rest and repeat one to two more times.
 Using free weights or weight machines can also help tone your back. Combined with cardio and other strength training exercises, you can tone your back muscles easily.


Start with weights you are comfortable with. You should be able to lift them without too much strain. If you can lift the dumbbells with no strain whatsoever, you will not work your muscles.
Bent-over flys will help tone your upper back. Hold a dumbbell in each hand and bend over at your hips. Lift your arms out to the sides, like airplane wings, until they are at shoulder height and then lower them to your sides. Do three sets of eight repetitions each. As you improve the strength of your muscles and connective tissues and perfect the movement, increase the weight and the number of sets to build muscle. If you just want to tone, increase the number of repetitions.
For a Lat pull down, grab the cable bar, gripping it wide and in an overhand position. Position your thighs beneath the support and place your knuckles facing upwards. When you stretch up, the bar should be just within your reach. If it's not, adjust the height. Pull the bar down to your chin (all the while keeping your back straight) in one fluid movement, feeling your shoulder blades coming together. Slowly release the bar to its original height and repeat.
Do shoulder presses. Take two dumbbells, one in each hand. Hold dumbbells by your ears, palms facing forward. Press your hands straight above your head until your arms are fully extended. Lower back down slowly until your hands are again by your ears. Repeat one to three sets or as many as you’re able. These will develop your shoulders; deltoids that are well-developed can help the back look broader and the waist appear smaller.
Do bent-over rows. Place a dumbbell in each hand. Bend slightly at the waist – about 45 degrees. Extend arms straight in front of your, palms facing inwards towards each other. Pull arms back until your upper arms are next to your back. Release your arms slowly back to their fully extended position. Repeat one to three sets or as many as you’re able.
 If you’re just starting out with exercise or want more specific help, working with a personal trainer may be beneficial. They may be able to guide you towards reducing back fat and toning your back muscles.


Personal trainers are fitness professionals that have a wide variety of experience with exercises. Meet with someone and ask about what exercises you can do to help tone your back and reduce your overall body fat.
Many gyms offer a free trial of a personal training session when you sign up. They will most likely offer personal training sessions for a cost at a variety of times.
You may also be able to find personal trainers who have blogs or videos online that can give you more detailed information as well.

