 Open the Start menu. Type “Computer Management” in the search bar of the Start menu and press enter.;
, Click on Disk Management on the left side of the window and you should see all of the disks and their partitions on your computer.


In the example in the picture, there is 1 disk with two partitions.
 Right-click on the partition you wish to re-size and select the Shrink Volume option.


In the example in the picture the (C:) drive is used.

Note: There may be a partition named System Reserved. It is not recommended that you alter this partition at all.
 Enter the size you wish to shrink your drive to in megabytes (1000 MB = 1GB). Then click on the Shrink button.


In this example the drive is shrunk by 10000 MB or 10 GB.

Note: You cannot shrink your volume greater than the amount indicated in the Size of available shrink space in MB section.
 You should now see a new unlocated partition in your Disk Management window. Right-click on the unallocated partition and select the New Simple Volume option.
 The New Simple Volume Wizard should popup. Click on the Next button to continue.
 Enter the amount of memory you wish to allocate for your new partition and click on the Next button.


In the example in the picture, the maximum memory available is allocated to the new volume.

Note: You cannot make your new volume larger than the maximum amount of memory available.
 Select from the menu, a letter name for your new partition and click on the “Next” button.


The letter name chosen for the example in the picture is (E:)

The letter name or path is used by Windows to identify and navigate to your new volume.



Click on the Format this volume with the following settings:

For File System, select NTFS

For Allocation unit size, select Default

For Volume Label, type the name you wish to give your new drive.
Click on the Perform a quick format

Then click on the Next button

, Look over your settings and click on the Finish button.



You will get a popup asking you to partition your new drive. Click on the Format disk button.
A new window will popup. Keep the settings and click on the Start button.
A warning will popup. Click on the OK button.
 If everything was done correctly, you should now see your new drive in the Disk Management window.

