 There is honestly no better place to have regular face-time with your man than close to his job. A man who's excuse to the wife will be "I'm working late" or the like, will undoubtedly be able to pull off the rouse if he's close by in case she calls or decides to stop by. If you don't already live close, consider finding a clean but inexpensive and discreet hotel room. This will cut down on the commute and mean more time together.;
, The first big mistake married men make is that they use their own accounts to woo, wine, and wife the mistress. WRONG! Getting a refillable visa card will secure your personal information and allow you to purchase anything without detection. According to the law of 1/3's, he's obligated to pay for home, personal needs, like car, momma's bills, etc, then you. Having a man with no money to begin with will prove challenging, but for love, we work with the lower 1/3.
 This is critical. No happy husband NEEDS a mistress. To have a lasting relationship, you have to know your purpose. Realistically speaking, most cheating spouses are seeking sex, good sex, great sex. If you know your job, you can command and demand whatever. Does your man expect home cooked meals? Find out what he likes to eat by paying attention to what he orders when you're out. Ask him what he ate or more importantly what is his favorite dish his momma makes. Be ye warned, knowing your place means respecting #1. Don't mention his wife, don't compare yourself to her, don't press the issue about meeting his family and friends. The reason your relationship works, is because it's NOT his marriage! Needing to intermingle your friends and his friends and your family with his family shows your insecurity...NOT SEXY! Being happy with your 1/3 means knowing that regardless of where he is at any moment of any given day, your 1/3 is superior and you are where he'd rather be, who he'd rather be with, and what or who he'd rather be doing. *insert sinister smirk here...Lastly, know your man. WELL! Does he hate a talkative woman? shut up sometimes. Is he slightly insecure about his manhood, play it up! (LOL) A beer drinker? Have his faves in the fridge. A surprise visit after an argument with the wife or a hard day at work is forgotten when a man can come home to a well oiled back porch, a cold beer, and his favorite song. Your 1/3 will be so memorable, his visits will increase and the perks will be many, if you're truly in this for the man. If he'd rather have back rubs keep warmed oil on hand. If he likes to talk about his day, be a good listener. A mistress must also be a tigress... (ROARR) Research, observe, absorb, remember and regurgitate!

, Generally, no cheating man wants a woman just like his wife. If he sought you out, it's because you're different and that's what he likes. Don't try on another woman's panties. Even if they're your size, they never FIT. If his wife is older, continue being youthful and spirited. Don't starts wearing flowered hats and white usher-gloves. If he wanted Miss Jane Pittman, he'd be at home! If his wife is not the looker you are, then GET PRETTY WITH IT! Bring your A-game sexy, especially when you go out together. A man married to Mrs. Frumpenstein will definitely appreciate having the woman on his arm ogled by other men (Sexy-classy, not sexy-trashy). If you're the business, let him see the work. Embrace your role as the opposite, be confident, be you.
 According to the law of 1/3 a man is never more interested than when he isn't chased. A wife who demands his attention at home, his single mom who needs yard work or car stuff done, these are obligations that supersede your needs or wants, however manipulation is a tool best used in place of the "gimme". If every time he calls, you rush to answer, well then why should he rush to call. A little mystery never hurt any relationship. Answering on the 3rd ring, or not answering at all, then calling right back, always tweaks the man's curiosity. Is there someone or something more important than his call, are there friends around? The last thing any cheating man can handle is reciprocation. You will be surprised how many follow-up calls or texts you receive after not answering the phone. You'll also see the 1/3 work it's way out in your favor too.
 What is more sexy to a man that a girl who's got her own? A woman who's got her own. Wait, don't think I mean arrogant and cocky with the i-don't-need-no-man attitude. That will get you cut from the team. Just know that most men want to spoil their women; buy you pretty things, take you on trips, see you excited about what they do for you. Appreciation is your greatest weapon, but throw in a little sass. Every now and then, not often... Pay for dinner before you order. Excuse yourself to the restroom, catch the waiter and give him your card and a $20 tip, then ask him to start the tab. When you're about to leave and your man asks for the check, watch his face when the waiter says, "it's been taken care of". Don't gloat or make eye contact, just kiss him once the waiter walks away and say "thank you for being so good to me". Don't treat too often, this will impact the EGO we are stroking and cultivating.
 The fact is, most extra-marital relationships end, if the marriage doesn't first. Just be ready for anything. A man who wakes up and is overtaken by guilt may decide you're not worth-it. A man who finally gets out of the marriage he hated may not feel you're wife material when he's ready to jump that broom again. Being the transitional tramp is a difficult tag to wear, but that is why 1/3 is all he gets, too. Giving in to the temptation here, sometimes the relationship is solid and in time this man's goals may have changed. Where you were only a side-dish before, maybe you've moved up to main course and you get to keep the man you worked so hard for. If that is the case, stay the course, maintain your 1/3 for at least a year. Be ready to change your number at the drop of a hat,or purchase a PO Box for your mail. A jealous woman will often try to find you and a weak man will give you up, smooth. So, protect your assets, park your car at a friends house for a while, don't become predictable in your comings and goings, and deny, deny, deny. As much as women hate to admit it. We don't want our mommas' to know their daughters are home wrecking' hoe bags. So your man should never know 1/3 about you, of what you know about him. What he don't know, he can't tell (bad grammar works here).

