 Use your fingers to grab hold of the putter handle, with your strong hand lower on the club. That is, if you play right-handed, your left hand should be at the top of the club. Having your fingers grip the handle will give you greater feel for the club and your actions, which creates better control., This is the way you approach (or “address”) the ball and stand over it. Stand up straight with your arms extended forward, holding your putter. Draw your elbows into your rib cage, then bend over until your putter head rests right behind the ball.Make sure you bend your knees slightly. Stiff legs will give you less freedom of movement.
Another way to help your posture while practicing is to find the ideal distance to stand from the ball. Professional golfers stand with their toes, on average, 2.5 putter head lengths from the ball. Try anywhere from 2 to 2.75 lengths when practicing to find the most comfortable distance for you.
 Your posture and stance width can change depending on the green slope, your aim, or various other factors. The important part of your positioning should be that you head is directly over the ball.


If you aren’t sure about your posture, imagine dropping a ball from between your eyes straight down. It should land directly on top of the ball you want to putt. Of course, don’t actually do this during a round., Your swing should be smooth and unhurried. Focus less on striking the ball, and instead push it toward the hole to get a good role. Putting isn’t about power in the same way that shot from other parts of the course are.Keep your shoulders level and wrists firm. When you swing, make sure that all the motion is in your arms. Keeping your shoulders and wrists from moving will give you greater control and accuracy.The speed and distance of your backswing and follow-through should be equal. Pulling your follow through short or long will cause you to lose control of the putt.A wider stance will give you a longer backswing. The farther away you are from the hole, the wider your swing should be.