 "Debt forgiveness" is a term that is generally reserved for the write-off of long-term debts, and does not include accounts payable, commercial paper, or other short-term debts. Short-term debts should be handled using the bad debt allowance method, which predicts in advance that a portion of the debts will need to be forgiven., Debts should only be forgiven (written off) if the possibility of collection is impossibly low. Before proceeding with a write-off (which harms both the lender, who loses money, and the borrower, whose credit rating is damaged), reasonable efforts should be made to restructure the debt.


For example, consider a company that has issued a long-term note to a customer with a face value of $10,000, an annual interest rate of 12 percent, and a length of 5 years. If the customer cannot pay the note, the company might consider allowing the customer to swap the note for one with a smaller interest rate or longer term. This would ease the burden on the customer.
All actions taken to restructure debt should be recorded in the notes section of the financial statements., If the debt must be written off, an adjusting entry is required in the general journal. This entry shows a debit to Bad Debt expense and a credit to the associated receivable account.


Continuing with the example above, assume the customer owes $10,120 upon the note's maturation (the face value plus the last year's interest). If the entire debt is forgiven, the lender should debit Bad Debt Expense for $10,120, credit Notes Receivable for $10,000, and credit Interest Receivable for $120.For notes issued to customers for the purchase of the lender's products, it is also appropriate to transfer the Notes Receivable balance to Accounts Receivable, where it can be handled using the allowance method. In this case, the lender would debit Accounts Receivable for $10,120, credit Notes Receivable for $10,000, and credit Interest Receivable for $120.
 Bad debts are represented on three of the four financial statements (they are not present on the Statement of Shareholder's Equity). On the balance sheet, they are added to the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, which is then subtracted from Accounts Receivable. On the income statement, they are recorded as an expense on the line item Bad Debt Expense. Finally, on the statement of cash flows, they are listed as Bad Debt Expense, which is a non-cash expense.