 You'll need regular white glue, skin tone makeup, toilet paper, and a couple small makeup brushes. Make sure that the glue you use is skin friendly. You will be applying it directly to your skin.






Use foundation that matches your own skin tone. If you have regular everyday makeup you can use this as it’s probably already matched to your skin tone.






You can also use a liquid foundation that’s a little off from your skin tone to enhance the effect of wounded flesh.






Lay some newspaper down and make sure you aren’t wearing any clothes you don’t want to get ruined should you accidentally spill.





;
, Grab some toilet paper and tear it so it’s a little larger than the area where you want to create the wound.


If you’re making the wound on your hand you may only need half of one square of toilet paper.






For large wounds you may need two or three squares.






Tissue paper such as Kleenex also works. It;s best to use tissue paper with no etching or markings.






Once you have the toilet or tissue paper you need, tear another section to match this one. You want to have at least two identical strips of paper. You will be applying at least two layers of paper and glue to the area where you are making the wound.
 Pour a bit of glue onto some wax paper or into a cup and then using your brush, paint your skin.


If you are making a zombie bite or cut on your hand you won’t need as much glue. But if you are making a gash on your arm you’ll need more.
You need to use enough glue so that your toilet paper can stick firmly to the area.
 Press down firmly to ensure that your toilet paper is attached to the area.


Let the glue dry for a minute or so. When your paper is firmly attached, repeat the process.






Use your brush to add another layer of glue on top of your toilet paper. Cover the entire surface and then lay down another layer of paper.






Two layers will work but adding more layers will give your wound more depth. If you want to create a deeper cut or gash, add three to five layers.
 Once both layers are on and dry you want to go over and paint down the edges so that your wound will look realistic.


The texture from the glue will add a nice effect to the edges of your wound once you apply makeup.






If the paper has a defined edge and isn’t painted down then your wound won’t look as realistic.






Use a hairdryer, if you have one, to help the glue dry faster.
 To make the wound look real, blend the paper into your skin by painting it with your foundation.


Smooth out the areas where the wound joins the skin by applying some foundation to your actual skin. This will make it harder to tell where the tissue paper stops and your skin begins.






You want to use a foundation that closely matches your skin tone. It doesn’t have to be exact as an off-color foundation can add a nice discoloration.






A flat foundation brush works very well and will blend the area nicely.
 With your foundation applied, you now want to take a pair of scissors or tweezers and cut or tear the paper to create the opening.


You can cut a straight line if you want more of a gash or a circle for something like a zombie bite.






Be very careful while cutting as you are using scissors very close to your skin. It’s best to cut just a little slit to create an opening in the paper. Once you have an opening, tear and peel the rest of it.






Don’t remove the torn tissue paper from the area. You want to give your wound a peeling look. This will add depth to your fake wound.
 Get some red, purple, and gray or black eyeshadow and brush it onto your skin.


Brush the eyeshadow directly onto your skin which you exposed by tearing away the tissue paper.






You should also brush the areas of paper around your skin.






The dark eyeshadow creates a nice bruising look.
 Once you are satisfied with your wound and the color, add fake blood.


To make the wound look more realistic, apply the fake blood to your skin and the paper. Then take a brush and brush the blood to blend it in.






After you have blended some fake blood, you can then pour more onto your wound to give it a bleeding effect.






To make the blood drips look real, apply a few drops to an area and then let it run downward. For example, if you made a gash on your arm, apply the blood to the top of the wound and then let your arm hang naturally to allow the blood to trickle down. When you want to remove the fake wound, simply wash the area.







