 The subject of any photo is the main object or the focus of interest.When the subject is clearly defined in a shot or isolated, black and white coloring can make it stand out. Images with simple backgrounds are ideal candidates for black and white shots.


Subjects that are in the foreground can also benefit from black and white coloring, especially when the subject has sharp contrast.
Backgrounds that appear miniature in scale due to distance will be minimized by black and white coloring, which naturally draws the eye to more dominant aspects of the composition.
An empty sky surrounding a subject usually results in sharp contrast between the two. This can be ideal for black and white photography.;
, Color creates more gradient in photos, allowing you to distinguish subjects and points of interest in a shot more clearly. With landscape photos, photos with multiple points of interest, and photos with a weak or unclearly defined subject, color photography will add nuance and depth.Landscape shots often use a natural feature, like a tree or forest, a rock, a mountain, and so on, as the subject. These can lose clarity in black and white.
 Contrast is the difference between light and dark colors in a photo. Pictures that have colors that are thick and bold, with bright highlighted areas and dark shadows, are a good example of high contrast. High contrast photos usually work great in black and white.Pictures that include bright sunlight oftentimes also have high contrast. Consider pictures with strong, clear lighting for black and white development.
Portraits with a face that is distinct from clothing also tend to have high contrast. Try these in black and white as well.
Low contrast images can become flat when developed in black and white. These photos generally work best in color., Leading lines naturally direct your eyes to a point in a photograph. This might be a person, object, or the vanishing point in the distance.When distinct and crisp, leading lines can take on a geometric appearance in black and white.


Black and white images sometimes turn out flat. Leading lines add a sense of motion to the viewing of a shot, effectively combating flatness.
Some common leading lines include: sidewalk crossing lines, lines formed by architecture (like the those formed by an archway), roads/paths, rows in crops, and more., Differences in the shades of blue of an open sky shot will be lost in black and white. The rich interplay of light on clouds or the portrayal of similar shades of the same color, common in sky shots, is most suited to color photography.


Clouds that are poorly defined are also good candidates for color shots. The hazy quality of these can be too indistinct for black and white coloring., The pure white of clouds, especially those with a clearly defined shape, can look stunning in black and white. The contrast between the white of the clouds and surrounding features can add an element of drama.


Shots that include different kinds of clouds, like tall, fluffy ones alongside flat, feathery ones, can add texture to black and white sky shots, creating a sense of depth., Although not always the case, shadows can sometimes be an obstacle for color photography. These same shadows, however, are an asset in black and white. Photos taken early or late in the day will yield long shadows, which can be used to frame a subject, adding interest to the shot.


Too many shadows can overload color photography, distracting attention from the subject. In these kinds of shots, try black and white.
The interplay of light on dust in a shadowed scene can have a dramatic or whimsical effect on your shots.