 Lay out a roll of dark paper or fabric large enough to cover your space, and spray paint them to add dimension and give them the color you want.;
, This is like wallpapering, only not as precise or sturdy. Measure the height of your walls and cut sheets three or four inches longer off your prepared paper or cloth. Attach them to the wall with duct tape (rolled to be two-sided), black thumbtacks, carpentry staples, cord and hooks, or any way they stay up. Use the remaining paper to cover your ceiling and any bare patches.
 Light this with large black lights for an eerie glowing effect.
 Fill the room with thick fog to add atmosphere.
, Unpack and stretch a rope of spiderweb, following the instructions on the bag. Hang most of the length where it can stay clean, and get a hook or helper to hold it still, a few feet from the free end. Fan out the free web until it's one or two feet wide. Inflate about 5 balloons taped together, or stuff and tie shut a large garbage bag, and wrap it evenly in the fanned cobweb. Cut the cobweb away with the scissors and twist it around the top of the bag or balloon to gently secure it, so it has a twisted tail of web on the same side as the bag's handles or the knot of the balloon. Repeat with the remaining balloons or bags, until you have a large cluster of web-covered globules to hang from the walls and ceilings. The more you make, the better it will look. Reserve 5 or 6 bags of web for the mother alien egg.
 Layer on gray, black, and any other colors you want on them to hide the print on the grocery bags or the surface of the balloons, tone down the white webbing, etc.
 Hang them by their tails using tape, carpentry staples, or whatever works best on your ceiling, keeping the large ones toward the back and concealing any Albertsons logos that might show through. Let them bunch up and rest against one-another.
 Deepen the shadows, hide flaws, spray the tails to blend into the backdrop, etc.
 Uncoil and stretch your last bag of web, tear off a large chunk, and spread it evenly all across a cluster, reinforcing the cocoons and further screening them in mystery. Repeat for the other clusters, spread remaining web decoratively around the front of the entryway, or wherever you can think of. Spray paint the webbing that covers the clusters so it blends into the walls and doesn't appear so stark white.
, Add food coloring to the gel to give it a tinted look.
 This method will create a very realistic blood pattern, and if you have covered all surfaces, will not make a mess.
, (non toxic for the children)

,, Remove the chain from a chainsaw, and when the children enter the room, jump from the closet, chainsaw roaring, and chase them around the room. The slippery surfaces of the hanging alien egg sacks will frighten and gross-out all involved. This is a variation of the 'peeled grapes as eyeballs" kiddie haunted house of our youth.
 Use the sounds of hogs squealing in reverse, chains rattling, and strange outer space synthesizer effects to finish this frightening haunted basement!

,