 The most effective method for ensuring that your kids value your quiet time is by implementing it into your daily life. Rather than making quiet time something that’s just for parents, stress the importance of it being a family practice.


Some parents make the mistake of only implementing quiet time when they are already burnt out. Then, for the kids, it becomes a punishment. Instead, schedule quiet time into the day—even on weekends—so that it becomes an appreciated staple in your household.;
, Children are more likely to like and appreciate quiet time when the experience includes a treasured place of their own. When they can go somewhere special to be creative, relax, or play, they may start to enjoy periods of quiet.Make a small, age-appropriate niche for each child to go to. It can be a work/play area in their bedroom or a designated zone in the household.
To ensure that each child takes advantage of actually being quiet, avoid overlapping spaces. It’s hard for kids to be quiet when they are in a shared space.
 Younger children may have a hard time complying with quiet time rules. You can make it easier for them by getting sound machines that produce white noise or relaxing sounds such as flowing water or chirping birds. Placing these devices in the quiet time zone makes it hard for children to be distracted by outside noises and promotes individual play or rest.If you are not interested in investing in sound devices, there are various apps you can download on smart phones that play white noise or ambient sounds. Browse your app store to check out options.
 To establish a quiet time routine, it may help to start with positive reinforcement. Provide some sort of incentive for each child remaining in their zone and respecting others' quiet time.


For example, you might schedule each day’s quiet time before snack time. That way, you can say, “Let’s have 30 minutes of quiet in our zones. Then, we’ll go in the kitchen for a yummy snack.” You may like to use age appropriate language.
Creating an incentive around quiet time increases the likelihood of your kids complying and feeling positive about this activity., If you are just now implementing a quiet time into your family’s routine, give it some time. Early on, your children may be confused about what quiet time means or think it’s a one-time thing. Avoid dropping the habit because they are not consistently compliant initially.


Exercise patience and stick with it. Over time, when they see you modeling appropriate behaviors and rewarding them for obedience, they will pick up the habit.
Your children may also pick up the habit more easily when quiet time is expected. Schedule it at the same time each day so that it becomes a regular part of their routine.

