 Sometimes this is easier said than done, but you must be realistic and understand where you can play. You must set high goals but they must be realistic.;
, Make a 5-10 minute highlight tape, depending on what kind of good clips you have. Make sure it is just the good stuff, and is diverse enough to show you doing a variety of things on the field. Put your information on that video.
 Make sure if you are in between levels like D-1 and D-1aa you send to both. Once you get that list you must send a physical DVD to those coaches, recruiting coordinators and head coach. Then you must also email the link to all 100 plus other schools you want to recruit you.
, You must have your coach's endorsement to get recruited, period.
 Make sure you go to the National Underclassmen Combine, Under Armour, 7 on 7 showcases, and get invited to true invite only camps like the Ultimate 100 Camp, Top Prospect Camp, Elite 11, and Nike Camps. All the major recruiting services and college coaches take their information and evaluate performers from those events.
 You must speak well when you follow up, talk to the position or recruiting coordinator each time and see where you stand with the coaches. Do not have your parent call, you must call, it is your future.
 You must be selective, if you can choose the five schools most interested in you. Do not live a pipe dream, choose schools that express heavy interest in you.
 You must send them a video, highlight video of yourself, your information, a high school coach's endorsement.
 Follow and add college coaches to your pages. They cannot necessarily contact you but you can contact them. Learn about their schools on their college pages, but most importantly represent yourself properly. Do not have girls you are kicking it to, or profanity on there. Do have your highlight tape, links and more.
 You have seen it for pro athletes, now you must get it built. Get your own domain and get someone to build it or build it yourself. This is your resume. This is your blog, this is your future.

