 There are actually many obstacles one may experience, but they are often extremes such as trying to make the meditation be something, or trying to prevent it from being something, as well as other variations of this theme.


For example, culture is an attractive idea that you belong to, or are a member of a society or tradition connected to an ancient lineage of great teachers. The problem with lineage is while such a community is a fantastic source of knowledge and meditation skills (which is good), but misunderstandings and different views and dogmas are passed on the same way. There is also the possibility that if you are too attached to the society then it will become a hindrance. It's best to remember that such traditions are good things, they follow the same rule as everything else that if misused, they can cause harm.
Consider this useful parable from Buddhist traditions. The Buddha gave a neat parable that directly proportionate to the emotional attachment, identity or investment placed in anything, is equal to the stress it will give when it changes. For this reason, test everything and let go of the things that are unskillful.
 Everyone gets insights of various qualities regardless of religion, age and outlook, it's all down to looking into what's happening at the time to gain an "inward-sight", then using that to develop understanding and build skills to deal with problems.


There is another good parable from the Buddhist tradition. The Buddha described himself as an explorer who rediscovered an old path through the jungle. For people following the same path, regardless who they are or what society they belong to, they will find that it still leads to the way out. This is essentially to show that anyone, anywhere who follows the same path to the end (even by chance) will still find their way out even in the future when the path has become overgrown and lost again.
 Respectfully ask why often and do your homework. Often an instructor may say do something, but if you don't know that there is a good reason, you miss an opportunity to develop skills and to understand how the advice can improve your practice. Sincerity plays an important role in meditation. Doing your homework helps you avoid unscrupulous instructors.
 Sometimes the old metaphors are the best ones. Ancient philosophy tells us to rise above our troubles like the lotus rises above the mud that it grows in. That way it can grow free and beautiful.

