 Especially if the coach has been there for a while, the school baseball program probably has an ingrained culture — that is to say, “the way things are done here.” Talk to current and former players, and others with knowledge of the program. Learn the “do’s” and “don’t’s” before tryouts begin.Go right to the source and talk to the coach as well. They will likely be more than happy to discuss their expectations and preferences for their team and players.
 A school baseball coach looks for more than just skills. Show good sportsmanship, get good grades, and present yourself as a good kid. This can give you the edge over another player. Don't play around during practice or act like a goof. Be serious and try to improve every day., There are sure to be some exceptional ballplayers at tryouts, so when you get out there don't be too cocky or overconfident. If it's an open tryout, stretch and run on your own. Find someone else to throw with. Take it seriously and follow the coach's instructions fully.Follow the rules, take instruction willingly, and don’t grumble, complain, or bad-mouth other players.
 Baseball is a tough sport in which failure is an integral part; even the best hitters get out more often than they get hits. When you do come up short during tryouts, it is important to show the right attitude. Be confident yet polite. Keep your head up, look your coach in the eye, and don't look down at your feet when you do make that inevitable error or mistake.If you fail to make the team this year, leave a positive impression on the coach with your effort and attitude. They’ll remember it — and you — when next year rolls around.
 There is no fool-proof way to make a school baseball team; even a player with superior skills might not make the cut due to a bad attitude or poor grades. Conditioning and training can improve your talents only so much, but you have total control over your effort level and determination. If you know you’ve given it your best shot, you can — and should — be proud of yourself regardless of the result.

