 It you get together with someone because they're "hot", it becomes a routine, then you are living together the relationship goes so fast that there is no time to think or act. Then, in a blink of an eye it's over. Lasted a good month or two, not sure what or where the relationship went wrong––it just did. The trouble is that looks don't last and are never enough to keep you together .Looks are not all that important to make a relationship work long term, because looks are superficial and eventually it's wrinkles, flab, a beer gut, saddle bags, and hair loss. So, in the end, what counts is whether this person makes you happy, is marriage a possibility, and whether you can count on them for better or worse.
 It is important to talk openly when you're together because the unknown keeps you both in the dark. Fear, failure and the unknown can plague a relationship. In other areas of life you seek to find out all you can about failures within relationships, such as when you're fired from a job or you miss out on a place at college, etc. Take your same courage to ask questions, talk about things and learn from other areas of life and apply them to your most intimate relationship as well.


Once you realize your weaknesses with respect to a relationship, you can begin working on them and make needed corrections.
 This applies to both men and women––to succeed long term, compatibility is essential. If the relationship seems shaky or you have a sense of it not feeling right, it is time to walk away. You won't get a long term commitment and fulfillment if you don't feel that you're both the right fit. If you feel guilty, unhappy or bored in a relationship, this isn't going to keep going. The real goal is to find the right compatibility and, like yin and yang, you complete each other in your own ways, while both remaining happy, no matter the challenges that life inevitably brings.


Don't stay in a relationship just because you feel sorry for a person or want to fix their mistakes. That will be an unhealthy relationship and won't last long-term.
 You may think them but don't give them life by voicing them. Don't say what you will regret later. In many relationships, there are times when we get mad with the other person or let off steam about something touching both of, you in their presence. You can't take back mean things said and intended to really wound and it's worse because you know one another's weak points. You know it hurts when it's used against you. The best response is to just look, listen, then walk away. If you feel the need to say something wounding, excuse yourself and walk away until you cool down.


Learn to accept the bad with the good and keep the peace.
Remember that the world already slams you. Why get it from or give it to the one person you're spending eternity with? The person you marry is not only your mate, they are your best friend, your confidante, your guide, and your protector. So, watch what you say in the heat of the moment.
Remember that if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say it at all.
 It's nice to have their approval but often it won't happen. Sometimes it happens that your family dislikes your spouse or his/her family dislikes you. Remind yourself who is going to sleep and live with your spouse––you or his/her family? Put yourselves before family and ignore the feuding and unkind comments.


Put your foot down and make it clear that your spouse treats you well, treats the kids well, and that that is that as far as you're concerned. Other people's opinions do not matter.
Ask family to keep unkind comments to themselves. Remind them that nobody is perfect.
Realize that your own family has your back. If your spouse were spotted cheating on you by family, they'd soon tell you. It's about the balance of staying out of each other's business unless really needed.
Just look at it this way––they are not the ones that are going to sleep with your spouse at night––you are. Just make sure that things are clear with family, so that later on down the road there are no issues or fall-outs. It's best to do it as an intimate family outing––get to know one another on just a regular day outing, so that if things go wrong, no important memories are ruined.
Life is best when we all get along, the reality (and for some the problem) is that this life is not a fairytale.
 Most people in a relationship forget this important aspect. Throwing each other's dirty laundry about and arguing in public shows a lack of respect. Keep the intimate issues for discussing at home, not airing in public.


It doesn't matter if your husband does not put the lid down, or if he leaves his socks at the door, or if your wife does not help you out around the house. This is not for public airing! Things need to be said to one another, such as if your partner does something that bugs you, tell them when you are at home.
Through talking about your likes and dislikes together, you get to know one another better and learn about backing off instead of pushing one another's buttons.
Learn the cues and obey them. You do this with friends, so do it with your spouse too––have no-go topics and a look or other signal that says back off, this isn't something we're discussing. At least not at that moment.
Be aware that there are things not to discuss in front of family or friends, just as much as in public. Use your signals to warn one another that the line is being crossed if one of you gets uncomfortable. For example, if neither of you wants to discuss your sex life details, say something like: "A lady/gentleman never reveals. They are intimate secrets and it's not fun to reveal them."
Be honest. If you don't like something, don't pretend that you do. Sooner or later the truth comes out, it's better to be honest and upfront from the start of not liking it. Not everyone likes the same things and that is what makes a relationship work––learning new things and giving each other the space to be unique.
If you haven't had sex for a long time, get help, such as therapy or marriage counseling.
 Do not nag about hobbies. Most people have more than one. For example, one partner might like to draw, create, and have get together with girlfriends, while the other likes to work on construction. Learn to work around the differences and appreciate them as learning opportunities and as the very things that keep you interesting to one another.


Realize that at times it may feel as if you're seeing your spouse for the first time because they are doing such different things from you. That can be exciting!
Have a bucket list. Keep checking off those things on it to stay engaged and interested in your life.
Your partner is an add-on to who you are, not the person that consumes you and stops you from being your own self. Complete each other and that brings you back to the yin and yang. The yang is all white with a speck of black and the yin is all black with a speck of white. They compete each other they don't overtake the other.
 For a relationship or marriage to work, there needs to be love. That unconditional love that makes your body crave and long for your partner. Or that feeling you get of wanting to cry when they hug you, that without saying it, you know they love you the same or more. Love without expectation, love without judgment and love will come back to you.

Make sure that the shoe fits because if it doesn't, it's never going to fit, no matter how much you cry, diet or flinch. Just walk away––it's not your size. It also means that you are not going to be able to handle the baggage, so why suffer.
Don't say what you will regret later. This is important because hurting each other is not love and hate can be created from this. You want a happy, safe haven, not a place you hate to come home to. We get enough hurt from others outside our home and we don't need it from the ones we love.
Family; yes they are important but you need to look out for you and what makes you happy. Family needs to accept that no one person will be perfect, that no matter what all they need is to be there, like they have always been.
Have respect and honesty; this goes for all walks of life––you need to respect so that you can be heard and be honest, so that things don't come back to bite you on the butt.
Hobbies are the thing that separate you from the world and bring you back to who you truly are and they are very therapeutic.
Like who you are, like how your partner likes who you are, and vice versa.
Love unconditionally.;
