 Issues that should be covered in a separation include:


Division of debt. When a couple separates, the marital debt needs to be divided between them. When dividing the debt, consider not only who is responsible for it, but also who benefited from it, under what circumstances it was incurred, and who is best able to pay it.
Distribution of assets. There are a few rules for dividing the assets. You should distribute assets that are securing a loan to the party who will be responsible for paying the loan. Couples should also considering each party’s debt to asset ratio and divide the personal property fairly (for example, if there are two sofas, each party gets one or if one party received the property as a gift or inheritance from his or her family, he or she keeps the property).






Spousal maintenance or support. In situations where there is a disparity in the party’s incomes, one spouse may be ordered by the Court to pay the other spousal maintenance or support, formerly called alimony. Couples who are separating should decide if one will pay the other maintenance, and if so, how much.






Child custody. If you have minor children you will need to decide who will have physical custody as well as legal custody. The parent with physical custody is who the children live with and the person with legal custody is who makes life decisions for the children, such as those regarding religion, schooling, and healthcare. Physical and legal custody may be joint or shared (with both parents having it) or sole (with only parent having it).






Parenting time. Parenting time is the time that the noncustodial parent spends with the children. Most states have Parenting time Guidelines that, while not mandatory, set the standard by which Courts evaluate and order parenting time plans, and are a great place for parents to start when coming up with their parenting plan. To find your state’s parenting time guidelines (if it has any) just run a search at your favorite search engine for “YOUR STATE parenting time guidelines”. For example, if you live in North Carolina, you should search “North Carolina parenting time guidelines”.






Child support. Most states have a mathematical formula for determining child support, and provide child support worksheets to use in order to calculate an appropriate amount of support. To locate your state’s child support worksheets or calculator, run a search at your favorite search engine for “YOUR STATE child support worksheets”. For example, if you live in Wisconsin, search “Wisconsin child support worksheets”.





;
, If you cannot find a form created by your state or local Courts, you may use another separation agreement form and simply modify it to fit your needs. The best thing to do is to download 3 or 4 forms and combine them to create a custom agreement. Some reputable places you can find a form include:


Your state or county Court’s website. Many Courts maintain websites that include forms for the most commonly filed Court documents, or pleadings. To find your state Court’s website, select the appropriate link under your state on the State Court Web Sites list provided by the National Center for State Courts (“NCSC”). To find your county Court, search your state Court’s website for a listing of local Courts.






Find Law. Find Law is one of the top free legal resources on the internet, providing information about the law, attorney directories, and fee legal forms. Download or copy and paste Find Law’s Sample Separation Agreement.






Laws.com. Laws.com provides users with a wealth of information on every legal topic imaginable. Free forms in many areas of the law are also included. Copy and paste Laws.com’s free Separation Agreement.







Rocket Lawyer. Rocket will create your free custom Separation Agreement, tailored to your state, within minutes. Just answer a few simple questions, download, and print.







Law Depot. Law Depot offers a free Settlement Agreement, customized for you and your state. Fill out a few short forms and then print your Agreement in minutes.
 There is no special language that you need to use when filling in your form, just write in plain English, and be as concise as you can. Some tips for filling out the form:


Parenting time. If you have chosen to follow your state’s parenting time guidelines you may simply say that parenting time will be according to the guidelines. If you have come up with your own detailed parenting plan, you may type it out separately, attach it to your agreement, and say that parenting time will be according to the attached Parenting Time Plan.
Personal property. You do not need to list every piece of personal property each party will take. Instead, you may simply say that the parties have divided the personal property and each is happy with the division. If you would like to list personal property, you may want to do it separately, attach it to the agreement, and say that the personal property will be divided according to the attached Personal Property Division.
Child custody. If you will exercise joint or shared physical custody, you will want to specify when each parent will have the children. For example, you might say, “The parties will share physical custody of the children, with each having alternating weeks, beginning the week of July 1, 2013 with Mother having the children that week.” You may also prepare a separate schedule and attach it to the agreement, then say in the agreement that the parties will share physical custody according to the attached Custody Schedule.
Child support. If you and your spouse have agreed to an amount of child support that is different from the amount calculated on a child support worksheet, you should include language describing why the amount differs. For example, “due to the disparity in incomes of the parties, husband shall pay to wife…”.
 You should feel free to add additional paragraphs to the agreement, as needed, in order to cover your entire agreement with your spouse. Again, no specific words are required, just write in plain English, and make it as clear and concise as possible.
 Create lines for both you and your spouse to sign, with your typewritten names underneath.
 You will want to have yours and your spouse’s signatures notarized, so you will need to create a place for a notary to sign and stamp or seal the agreement. Above the notary signature line, include language such as, “Before me, a notary public in and for Madison County, in the state of Ohio, personally appeared Jane Doe and John Doe, and signed this agreement as their free and voluntary act and deed.”