 Several essential oils can reduce symptoms of the common cold and open your sinus passages. Add a total of 3 to 7 dropsof peppermint, eucalyptus, or oregano essential oils. If you're feeling congested, oregano can treat sinus infection. Peppermint essential oils can treat headaches caused by congestion and eucalyptus can treat the congestion itself. Eucalyptus oil also relieves respiratory problems.You can also use cedarwood, thyme, frankincense, marjoram, myrrh, sage, sandalwood, or tea tree essential oils to treat the common cold.;
, If you're feeling stressed, lavender can calm you and even help you drift off to sleep. Sage oil can also relieve symptoms of anxiety, stress, and depression. Add a total of 3 to 7 drops of essential oils to your steam facial.Other essential oils with relaxing properties include: tuberose, vanilla, and wintergreen., If you're feeling depressed, or simply want to brighten your mood, try using lemon, rosemary, or rose essential oils. Rose is often used as an antidepressant and rosemary can re-energize you. Lemon, or any citrus, can improve your mood and concentration.Add 3 to 7 drops total of essential oils to your steam facial.


Ylang ylang, patchouli, jasmine, and chamomile are also good essential oils used to improve mood., If you fight acne or blemishes, consider steaming with tea tree, eucalyptus, or rosemary essential oils. All of these have antibacterial properties which can cure the infection causing your blemishes.Use 3 to 7 drops total of essential oils to your facial.


Other antibacterial essential oils include: oregano, sage, basil, and pine.
 If you have scarring, stretch marks, or marks from old acne, use rose essential oil. Rose contains antioxidants which can speed your skin's healing process. It's also an astringent which can tighten your pores, making your skin look firmer.Use a total of 3 to 7 drops of essential oils in your steam facial.


Geranium blends well with rose oil and shares many of the same properties, like healing the skin by increasing blood flow., If you're concerned taht you may have an allergic reaction to an essential oil, test the oil on a small patch of your skin before using it in a steam facial. Mix the essential oil in a small amount of carrier oil (like baby oil) and place a few drops on the pad part of a bandage. Stick the bandage onto your forearm and leave it for 48 hours. Check your skin for any redness, irritation, or blisters which can mean an allergy or sensitivity.If you're pregnant or nursing, ask your doctor before using essential oils since many of them haven't been tested extensively.
 Have all of your facial supplies ready so you're not scrambling around hot water while the steam escapes. You can easily set up your steam facial in the kitchen (nearest the hot water) or the bathroom. You'll need:


A kettle
Water
3 to 7 drops of essential oils
A thick clean towel
A large basin or bowl

, Fill the kettle with clean water and bring it to a boil. Pour the boiled water into a heat safe bowl or basin. Add your essential oils to the water. Take care when pouring the water or moving the bowl.If you boil the water in the microwave, make sure to place a wooden spoon, utensil, or chopstick into the water. This prevents the water from super-heating which can cause an explosion.
 Place the basin on a table so you can sit in a chair and lean over the steaming bowl. With your head over the basin, place the towel so that it's draped over the back of your head and completely over the bowl. This will prevent steam from escaping.Be careful not to lean too close to the hot water.
 Deeply breathe in the steam for 5 to 10 minutes, or as long as the steam lasts. If you need to, you can re-heat the water to get it steaming again.You can reuse the water until it boils dry, adding more essential oils only if you add more water.
 Since the steam opens your pores, you'll need to rinse your face with cold water when you've finished the steam facial. Cold water acts as an astringent which closes the pores.To further moisturize your skin, apply a lotion as soon as you're done with the facial.
 Splash your face with warm (not hot) water and apply a cream cleanser. Use your fingertips to gently rub the cleanser into your skin. Choose a cleanser that contains essential oils that you enjoy using. Rinse the cleanser off with warm water and pat your face dry with a soft towel. Avoid rubbing or scrubbing your face, which can damage the skin.To get the most benefit from a steam facial, you might want to wash your face before you begin. This can remove makeup and excess oil from your skin. Or, you can wash your face after the facial in order to deep clean the pores.
 Purchase a facial mask depending on your skin type. Follow the manufacturer's instructions if you need to mix it with water. Some masks are ready to apply without mixing. Use your fingertips to apply the mask evenly over your entire face. Leave the mask on for the recommended amount of time. Gently remove the mask by wiping it with a clean cloth and warm water. Types of masks include:Clay: Clay can remove oil from combination or oily skin.
Moisturizing: A moisture mask can hydrate dry or flaky skin.
Exfoliating: Exfoliating masks contain slightly scrub your skin which can brighten dull skin.
Mineral: Minerals in a mask can help inflamed sensitive skin.
 Place toner on a cotton ball and gently swipe it over your face. Toner acts as an astringent which can get rid of extra oil, remove any cleanser that's still on your face, and balance the pH of your skin.Toners usually contain essential oils like tea tree, rose, lavender, and grapefruit.


When buying a toner, look for one that doesn't contain alcohol, which can dry out your skin.
 Always try to apply a moisturizing lotion after you've washed your face to help retain moisture. Keeping your skin hydrated is an important part of skin health. Properly moisturized skin can prevent wrinkles over time. To help you moisturize, remember to apply moisturizer at the same time every day.Your moisturizer should be formulated for your skin type (oily, dry, sensitive, or combination) and should have some sunscreen in it (like SPF 15).

