 TED talks are thought-provoking lectures put on by a wide range of people who talk about ideas in science, psychology, humanity, anatomy, or anything that has sparked human curiosity. These talks are of the highest quality and will surely spark your mind to think critically and open up to new ideas.TED talks can be found on their website or app, DVDs, or on YouTube.
 Professional workshops are lead by people who have a vast amount of knowledge about a specific field, theory, or idea and want to share that information with other curious minds. You can attend professional workshops catered to helping you grow in your career, or workshops that help you in your everyday life.Professional workshops can be found by online research or by asking about opportunities at work.
 Depending on what your interests are, find out who the influential leaders were/are in that area and learn about them. Read about their accomplishments, or watch documentaries about their life. This will teach you about how people pursued great things and may inspire and teach you to do the same.
 MOOC's are universal online courses that are available for anyone to take part in for free. They are offered by top universities and organizations in order to create a learning community. It provides you the opportunity to learn from the top minds in the world. There are many free online courses and lectures you can take advantage of.Harvard and Stanford both offer free online courses. You can learn more about them by visiting their school websites., Podcasts are audio digital media that you can download off the internet. They are available on numerous subjects and topics and are often hosted by individuals that have a great amount of knowledge or expertise in a specific area.


The Nerdist is a great source for podcasts on the latest scientific discoveries and thought provoking topics designed to get you thinking.
NPR offers many podcasts that cover news from around the world.The University of Oxford has a huge collection of podcasts and online lectures available.