 If you decide veganism isn’t for you, you’re not alone. There are plenty of others out there just like you who, for whatever reason, decided the vegan way was not for them. Using your favorite internet search engine, search for a phrase like “leaving veganism” or “I quit being vegan.” Reading accounts and thinking about the experiences of others who have felt like veganism was too much for them might help you reach a positive decision for yourself. If you find you empathize with their perspectives, perhaps you’re ready to quit being vegan, too.
 Ask yourself why you began eating a vegan diet in the first place and if you still hold the same beliefs. Have your beliefs changed around factory farming or the consumption of meat and animal products? If so, veganism may no longer resonate with your values, and you might wish to resume eating the standard omnivorous diet.


Perhaps you became a vegan because you are against factory farming. You may choose to eat only animal products that are confirmed free-range and humanely slaughtered. In this case, you may be able to marry your beliefs about the humane treatment of animals with eating meat.
 The lack of satisfaction might take many forms. Perhaps you salivate at the sight or smell of bacon. Perhaps you have cravings for meat or even vegetarian foods.Or maybe you feel bad when you’re out with friends and the only thing on the menu that’s vegan is fries and a salad.


If you were raised vegan and have never tried meat, dairy, fish, or eggs, you might wonder what you’re missing. Try branching out with some non-vegan foods to see if an omnivorous diet might be for you.
Just because you aren’t happy with the food you’re eating doesn’t necessarily require that you give up veganism. Maybe you just haven’t found the kind of vegan foods you like yet.
Suggest a vegan restaurant to your friends next time you go out. Don’t feel ashamed or bad for making your friends accommodate you — they’re your friends and will be happy to do so! Plus, they’ll get the opportunity to branch out and try something new.
If you feel veganism isn’t right for you because you do not have acceptable alternatives, look around a bit more. Vegan versions of almost every food imaginable are available somewhere. Try shopping at a different grocery store than the one you usually patronize. Small grocers and health food stores are worth checking out.
 Perhaps you come from a culture or society which values killing and eating animals.These animals might be located and killed by you directly in hunting, or simply purchased from the local butcher by way of factory farms. If you feel you are unable to fully share in certain family rituals (a big annual barbecue cookout, for instance), you may be considering giving up veganism.


Before giving up veganism, think about ways that you might adapt to, and still partake in, rituals with your friends or family. Suggest that instead of hunting and killing the animals in the forest, you venture into the forest to enjoy the solitude of nature and grace of the animals you track together. You’d then get to share quality time and conversation with your father, mother, brothers, or whomever, while staying vegan.
Don’t let others pressure you to give up veganism (or become vegan) if you aren’t ready or don't want to. Doing something you don’t really want to do in order to please others is a recipe for frustration and unhappiness.
 Is there some professional reason you might be obligated or strongly encouraged to eat animal products? Food journalists, for instance, will need to try a variety of dishes when reviewing restaurants or food products, including foods which they themselves won’t eat. (Rarely is a restaurant’s signature dish vegan.) Workers in the food service industry — cooks, bakers, and waiters — may be expected to sample non-vegan foods so as to better prepare or describe them.


Consider putting a vegan spin on your profession. If you are a food journalist, maybe you can start specializing in vegan cuisine and restaurants. If you are in the restaurant industry, you may be able to find a vegan restaurant where you can work.

