 If you haven't already heard from your peers, IB is very challenging. And adding the extra responsibility of sports is like another 20 pounds on your back. But the thing that is most helpful is having a plan for everyday. Schedule things early, and stick with that decision. Know what you are going to be doing the next day and the night before get all your materials together. When you get the schedule for your games and practices,write them down in an agenda or calendar.;
, Procrastination is in the top 5 reasons why students drop out of IB. When you leave things to be done during last minute, it totally tears you apart. Doing assignments that are due the next day will bore you and WILL stress you out because you will have other things on your mind like "Am i going to get enough sleep" or "Man, I have a test i forgot to study for tomorrow". When you procrastinate it's pretty much like digging a hole and everyday it will get deeper, and then you have to try to climb out of it. So, do your homework the day that it is giving to you. Do not wait for the day before its due to start and do it.
 Us humans don't really use all the advantages life gives to us. So, next time you are alone think of all the extra time that you have and instead of just sitting and staring at the walls or clouds, DO SOMETHING USEFUL TO YOU IN THE FUTURE! Like on the way to and from school or the grocery store or practice....you are most likely sitting and that it!!! Take out your homework and do it in the car. Read a book or go through your planner. Use the extra time that you have, while you STILL have it!

, Even though you may think that on the field or court your teammates act stupid, they actually mat be very smart. If you are having trouble in a subject, go around and ask who is understanding that material and will agree to tutor you. If they do not have the extra time, have them go through the lesson during practice while you are with them. There is bound to be someone that is good at your weakness. And your stronger subject is someone else's weakness.
 This is the number one rule besides treating your coach with respect. This does also kind of fall in the respect category. You need to let your coach know about all the other activities that you are in besides of that team. The difference from telling and not is maybe being on the bench for a game or two. Everyone has a certain role on a team and when that coach has practice, they plan out what they want done, and with out certain people, their whole plan may have to be changed to something different. And if the coach doesn't know that you are not going to be there, practice may move slower and nothing will get done., EVERY SPORT HAS SOME TOPIC OF SCHOOL IN IT! When you play a sport, there are certain things you must do. And while playing that sport, you have to be smart and think about the steps that you take to do well and be the best at that sport. So for example, a goalkeeper in any sport must know geometry because they need to keep the ball or object out of the goal. Therefore, they need to cut off the angle from where the object is coming from. Leading to them saving the goal from the object going into it. So even if it is math, science, history or any other subject, try to find how it occurs in your sport.
 Being a great athlete and student is a double plus. You are more likely to get a scholarship because you are good at multiple things. And going to college with a free ride is a great way to save money and have fun. In IB, B's and C's are alright, but your main goal is trying to get straight A's. Because then you are guaranteed a scholarship. And also when you are on a team,you need to meet a criteria in order to stay on the team. And when you DO NOT meet it, you WILL get kicked off of that team and can only do your studies.

