 One of the more notorious symptoms of any cleanse diet is diarrhea.If you intend to see the cleanse all the way through, you should not take anti-diarrheal medicine, as this can affect the cleanse's effectiveness.


Epsom salt, a common ingredient in liver cleanses, acts as a laxative.If you experience diarrhea, let it run its course; however, you will need to drink plenty of water to prevent dehydration.
You may want to plan your liver cleanse around time off from work until you know how your body reacts to a liver cleanse, as prolonged diarrhea or frequent bowel movements is a common experience.;
, Depending on the liver cleanse plan that you choose, you may need to mix a specialized drink each day of the cleanse, or you may simply need to make dietary changes. Some cleanse plans may combine both dietary restrictions and a detox drink.


One common detox drink involves citrus, garlic, olive oil, and ginger.Another popular detox drink popularized by Dr. Clark involves epsom salt, olive oil, fresh grapefruit, ornithine, and a black walnut tincture.There are many different types of liver cleanses, though each generally makes the same claims about health and wellness. You may want to research a number of liver cleanses online and read user testimonials to find a cleanse plan that works for you.
Be aware that grapefruit can cause harmful interactions with many medications. Talk to your doctor about this possibility before doing a cleanse that involves grapefruit.
 The liver is your body's central point of waste purification and removal. All kinds of toxins are broken down and filtered out of your blood in the liver, then further processed by the kidneys before being excreted from the body through waste. Even with a healthy diet and lifestyle, you consume many toxins through air pollution, food additives, and many prescription medications.The purpose of a liver cleanse is to reduce the stress put on the liver, often while consuming antioxidants and herbs that are thought to protect the liver's cells.
Some liver cleanse ingredients like milk thistle can potentially interact with certain prescription medications. This could cause complications and may lead to an unintentional overdose. If you are currently taking any prescription medications, you should talk to your doctor about your intended liver cleanse before beginning any such cleanse.