 This routine is a slightly tweaked version of the 6-step. It requires a bit more skill and athleticism as the fifth step is changed so you switch the placement of your body weight quickly. The 5-step is not for beginners so make sure you have a master of the 6-step before attempting this variation.


The first few moves of the 5-step are identical to the 6-step. So you're starting in the push-up position, and extending the right leg in front of the left while keeping the left leg in place. Lean on the outside of your right foot and take your left hand off the floor.
Pull the left leg forward. This motion is the same as in the 6-step. Bend your left leg to where it is touching the back of your right leg. Your right leg should be wrapped loosely around your left leg, and you should be in a tilted cross-legged position while keeping your left hand in the air.
Bring your right leg out from around your left leg. You should be in the crab position where your legs are shoulder-width apart and your left hand is on the floor behind you.
Cross your left leg around your right leg. As in the 6-step, make sure to lean on the outside of your left foot while lifting your right hand up.
Here's where it differs. Instead of bringing your right leg behind you as you would in the 6-step, shift hands so you're leaning on your right hand again. Once your body weight is shifted on the right hand, kick your right leg out with your left hand in the air.
Bring your right leg in so you're at a crab position which will serve as your new starting point to repeat the 5-step., This version changes certain moves in the beginning while adding an extra step as well that requires more nuanced footwork. When practicing the 7-step, make sure to highlight the differences between the 6-step to make this variation stand out.


As with the 6-step, start in a push-up position on your toes, fingertips, or your palms. Avoid flat feet and hands.
Don't bring around your left leg to touch the back of the bent right leg. Instead, bring your left leg over your right so your hip is jutting outward while the right remains in place. You can put your hand on the hip if it helps to maintain balance.
Bring your right leg under and in front of your body so it is stretched out while your calf is parallel to the floor. Your left leg while stay in place.
Bend your right knee so you are in the crab position. Here both feet should be firm planted should-width apart while your left hand rests behind you.
Hook your left leg around your right so your right leg is bent and touching the back of your left.
Step your right foot behind you while keeping the left stationary.
Bring your left foot under your body so your feet are shoulder-width apart in the same push-up position you started with. , Practice the routine in both directions for added flexibility. You can also reverse alternate directions during the same routine, which will be helpful when adding freezes, where your body stays motionless, and other variations. 