 Once you have an understanding of your dam's cycle, you should be able to predict both when she will be in heat, as well as which days will be best for mating. In general, the ninth or tenth day of your dam’s heat cycle is considered the best time to breed.To maximize the possibility of conception, you may want to mate the dogs several times between seventh and fourteenth days of her cycle.
To ensure the dog’s health and safety, they should only mate once per day.
 When it is time to mate your dogs, you must essentially place them together in an enclosed space and wait patiently. This will be safest and most effective if the space is comfortable and calm. Loud noises, people coming in or out, and other distractions may scare the dogs and interfere with their mating. Place the dogs someplace quiet, where they are not likely to be disturbed.The mating process can take several hours.
Ensure that the space can remain calm and quiet for that length.
 Rather than leaving the dogs alone, you must stay present to ensure their safety. Simply sit back, be patient, and allow the dogs to do their thing, but be prepared to calm them down if they should become nervous or agitated. If you have never done this before, you may choose to have a professional breeder present.If the dogs begin to fight, you may need to intervene.
You can usually end a dog altercation by making a loud noise, or spraying them with water.
If you must physically separate them, try yanking at their tails or hind legs. Do this carefully and only if absolutely necessary.
If your dog simply needs to be calmed down, you can try petting them, brushing their fur, and praising them.
 In general, you should not interfere with the mating process. However, there is one exception. If the dam has permitted the stud to examine her and mount her, but one or both animals is struggling with positioning, you may step in to assist. Simply help to position the stud so that he is balanced on her backside and lined up for insertion.