 Cover the table the children will be sitting at. You'll need at least one colored sheet of paper per child sat in front of their spot at the table. In the middle, place a container of graphite pencils, a tub of paintbrushes, paint squeezed into containers that little hands and fingers can get into and any decorative elements you might be allowing the children to add, such as glitter, craft pompoms, googly eyes, etc.;
, This will help to keep their clothes nice and clean.
 If the child cannot do this for him/herself, have a helper do this. The turkey is the hand, with the fingers and thumb facing upward.
 Have the children draw a face on the thumb part of the hand. Draw a little face and a small beak popping out to one side. You can show the children an example first, and they can then draw freely, however they like.
 Treat each of the fingers that pop up as feathers of the turkey. For each one, ask the children to color them with colors of choice, using either the ends of fingers (spots), strokes of paint or other designs.
 This is a very creative exercise, so try not to dictate colors or styles.
, Using markers, add messages over the paint, writing things that the children are thankful for. For children unable to write, ask what they want written and write it in for them.


For example, if the child is making a card for his or her dad, write something like Thanks for ..... In the middle finger, write that he or she is thankful for something else, then something else on the pinkie, and so on.
 Glue this cut-out to another piece of colored paper, in a color different from the one used to make the hand turkey. Try to center the hand as much as possible.


The paper the hand is glued onto must be large enough to be folded in half and form a card.
 Add glitter to it, if using. If wished, children could even cut out scrap fabric pieces and glue these to the turkey as clothing.


Name the turkey if wished.
 It may just be enough to add names in the "to" and "from" spots. It's now ready to give to someone for Thanksgiving season.

