 Whether you have a business or not, you need a well put together website if you want to have a good online presence. The first step is creating a website.


You don’t have to know how to code to create a beautiful and functional website for your brand or personal promotion. Many site building platforms offer simple tools to create and protect your website with a little effort.
Sites like Wix.com, Weebly.com, and Squarespace.com offer plenty of simple tools and templates to create a functional and good looking website. Whether you need to sell goods or services from the site or just need a site to promote yourself, you can quickly and easily build one.
Wordpress is another option if you need a comprehensive site that you are frequently changing with products, services, or content such as blogs. However, Wordpress often requires more knowledge on coding backend management.
Other sites like Cargocollective.com and even Tumblr.com are great if you need a personal portfolio to showcase your work or update with blog posts.;
, A great way to know what you need to improve your profile is to see what others find when looking for you. Google yourself and take note of the results. Searching for yourself can be an eye-opening venture into how others perceive you. Take note of what comes up. If it’s links to your site and social profiles that paint you in a good light, you’re on track. If pictures pop up of you partying, you should make sure to take those pictures down.
People who may work with you or potentially hire you are likely to use a search engine to look you up after meeting you or when deciding if you’re right for the job. Go through your social profiles and make sure any harmful content is gone.
Make sure your privacy settings on each social network you belong to are up to date. Don’t share any content or photos that you don’t want to be found.
Create new quality content. If you find something you don’t like when searching yourself, the first thing you should do is remove it. If for some reason you can’t, creating new content is a good way to push older stuff further down in search results. You should create new content anyway to keep your profiles relevant.
 With so much content being created and posted every minute, you have to be active and up to date if you want to improve your profile. If you have a site that sells products or services, you should be constantly updating your site. Add new products and remove old ones. Update your photos and the copy to stay relevant.
Post customer testimonials so that new people coming to your site can see why your product or service deserves someone’s attention.
If you have a blog or personal portfolio, post regularly to stay current. You should be updating your portfolio with new work to showcase constantly. Aim to blog a few days a week so that you create quality content and people can easily find you. Update your photos with more recent ones.
Update your achievements. Your website, especially if it’s a personal site, is like an online resume. Don’t be afraid to list what you do and what you’ve achieved.
 Search engine optimization (SEO) is extremely important to your site’s authority and relevancy. Use proper tactics so that search engines like Google deem your site relevant and make it easily searchable. Write unique and quality content. Search engines will judge your site based on the content you publish. Whether you’re writing product descriptions or blog posts, you need to create unique content that isn’t copied from somewhere else. You also need to incorporate quality keywords. Keywords are words and phrases which are relevant to what someone may be searching. For example: If you were selling handmade purses and handbags, you would include such words in your titles and content. you might also include other relevant information like locations and types of material used. You might say something like “This handmade bag is made from genuine Italian leather and military grade canvas. Crafted in our small workshop in Portland, OR, this lifestyle bag has been designed to be the perfect accessory for any occasion.” If someone was searching for handmade bags, Italian leather, or in the Portland area, your product has a better chance of showing up.


Properly use links. You want to get inbound links from other sites and provide quality links to other sites. You also want internal links. If you’re blogging you may consider linking to other reputable pages and sites as a way of sourcing your information. Like you would in a research paper.
You also want other sites to link back to your site. In both cases, you want to make sure that the sites you are linking to and from are reputable. You also need to use anchor text, the text that holds the link, correctly. If you have a link to a page about genuine Italian leather handbags, your anchor text might say “genuine Italian leather handbags”. Use a keyword planner like Google AdWords to help you find keywords that are going to be helpful to your content. Commit to a publishing schedule and follow it. Creating new content is good. Creating it consistently shows you’re relevant and keeps you up to date.
 Include share buttons on your site to your social media profiles to integrate your social profile.


Many site builders allow easy to use plugins and widgets. These plugins will allow you to not only link your social pages from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn, but to also share your content on social media.
It’s a good idea to place links to your profiles and sharing options on the sides of your pages. You want to keep these links and buttons visible but out of the way so that people can still access your content without disruption.
You can also add a social feed to your website that shows your recent posts, and posts from others who have tagged you.

