 It is Crunch Gym's policy that you cannot cancel your membership if you have been a member for less than a year. To do so means you will have to pay extra administrative fees for early termination.Review your Crunch gym paperwork and contract, or contact a gym representative to verify your membership dates.;
, The automated system will ask for the number they "attempted to contact you at", but you can just enter the number you're calling from., The representative will ask for your account number, but if you don't have it your name, address, or any other details required to verify your identity are sufficient. After verification, the representative will be able to cancel your account and guide you through any fees required.


You will have to pay your next scheduled monthly dues payment.
You will have to return your membership card to your local Crunch gym.
You will have to pay any unpaid dues prior to the cancellation date.
 The gym representative will likely try to convince you to keep your membership through persuasion and promotional offers. To cancel your membership, you will have to be polite in declining these offers and firm in your commitment to cancellation.


If they make you a special offer, you could say: “Thanks for the offer, but I have already made my decision to cancel the membership.”
If they tell you about improvements at the gym, you could say: “Good luck with all of the changes, but, as I said, I have made a decision to cancel and would like to proceed with the cancellation process.”

, If you don’t want to accrue long distance charges, you can always cancel your membership by mail. Mail a letter to your Crunch fitness location with a clear statement of your request to cancel the membership. You will also need to fax the letter to ABC Financial at the the following fax number: 501-992-0802. In both the letter and the fax, you should include the following information:Your member number
Your name
Your billing address
The address of your Crunch fitness location
Your signature
Three pieces of identifying information, such as the last four digits of your driver’s license, your date of birth and the last four digits of the account being billed.
The date
Your membership number

