 In order to make something you don’t enjoy into a regular habit, you will need to figure out how to overcome obstacles that are within your control. Use the internet, talk to a friend, or converse with a family member to come up with solutions to overcome internal obstacles. These solutions will vary depending on your particular situation and the habit you are hoping to form.For example, if rush hour traffic is preventing you from making exercise a daily habit, you should consider working out at home or at a different time of the day.
If healthy eating is a habit you’re hoping to adopt, try removing obstacles like unhealthy foods from your freezer, refrigerator, and pantry.
If cleaning your house is something you despise, try purchasing new cleaning products that could make the process more enjoyable, such as a lightweight vacuum or all-purpose cleaner with an enticing fragrance.
If reading nonfiction is a complete drag, try adopting your new reading habit through magazines that address current events and issues.
 Making something you loathe into a daily habit can be extremely difficult. You might be setting your goals a bit too high when you begin to adopt a new habit. Instead of aiming for what might seem like an unattainable goal, instead try taking baby steps. Once you’re rocking the tiny habit, take steps toward increasing the frequency, quality, or duration of your new habit.If you are struggling to meditate for twenty minutes each day, try meditating for ten minutes each day instead.
If you are finding it difficult to eliminate all negative thoughts and conversations from your life, try setting aside one day per week when you will not engage in negative conversations with others.
 While you might not enjoy everything about a particular activity, thought process, or way of life, there are bound to be at least a few things about your new habit you do enjoy. Make a list and place it somewhere visible to remind yourself that running five miles isn’t all that bad.


For example, you might hate running but really enjoy the feeling you get once you’ve reached the end of the trail.
While eating lots of fruits and vegetables might not seem enjoyable, perhaps you do find researching new recipes and shopping for ingredients fun.
 Adopting new habits is challenging and it is easy to lose sight of why, exactly, you are making a change in your life. Giving yourself a healthy, daily reminder will help you stick to your new habit and remember all the great things that can come out of it.


Try making a list of why you are choosing to adopt a new habit. Post it somewhere you can see it on a daily basis.
For example, if you are trying to become a nonsmoker, make a list of all the financial and health benefits that not smoking will bring you.

