 The best flowers are those that keep their shape after picking and have a lot of definition to their petals. This project is best done with strong flowers as the act of pressing for printing can destroy more delicate petals. Pick several flowers, as it's likely you'll want to see which ones give the best prints, and you will possibly make a few prints that don't work so well.


Some good flowers for flower prints include: Daisies, chrysanthemums, zinnia, strong roses, etc.
Artificial flowers can be used if they have adequate detail and you don't mind getting paint all over them. Wash and dry them after use, so that they can be reused.;
, First up, lay down a cover sheet to protect the work surface. Then add the paper you want the print to go on; this could be done in a number of ways, such as:


Roll out a length of brown or butcher's paper along a long table. Seat children at either side for a fun printing session.
Use single sheets of quality craft or art paper to reproduce quality prints.
Use a canvas if you're going to create a scene or picture using the prints.
Use fabric. You don't have to just use paper. If you're using fabric paint, fabric can be great for making craft projects that need flower prints.
 This is the side that you want to make the print from.
 Cover the flower with a sheet of brown paper or newspaper.
 Do this as gently and lightly as you can, to preserve the flower design. Alternatively, simply press down with your hand rather than rolling over the flower; this will be a better option where you're concerned that the paint might spread too far and lose the delicate petal design.
 Peel back the paper, then carefully lift up the flower. Hopefully the printed flower design is to your liking.
 Make as many as you need or simply keep going until you get a print you like. Some flowers will be strong enough for reuse, other flowers will need to be discarded and a new flower used.
 Once you've got your flower prints, either frame the end result or go ahead and use it in your art or craft project.

