 When you're flossing with braces, it's important to remember that there are plenty of metal pieces and corners to catch your floss on. Because of this, you'll want to use a thin, wax-coated floss whenever you can. Unwaxed, thread-like floss is much more likely to get stuck to your braces.The amount of floss you should use can vary slightly based on the size of your mouth and your hands. Most dental resources recommend a piece about 12 – 18 inches (30 – 46 cm) long.;
, Grab the floss with one hand a few inches behind one end. Carefully thread it under or over the main wire of your braces, taking care not to get it stuck. When it's around the wire, pull it through so there's enough slack on either end to grab it.A mirror can be a big help here.


Be gentle. Do not pull on the brace wire with the floss — you're just trying to get the floss behind it, not to "scrub" at the wire itself.
 Grab one end of the floss in each hand. Wrap the ends around your index fingers for a tight grip. Adjust the floss so that it runs up the bottom of each index finger to the fingertip. Move one index finger inside your mouth and gently pull the floss so that it goes into the space between your teeth.


If you've flossed before, this movement should feel natural. You basically want to move the floss into the "crease" between the teeth, then push it down into the gap. For some of your teeth, this will probably be a tight fit — this is normal.
 Now that the floss is in between your teeth, use your fingers to slide it up and down from the gums to the point where it's difficult to keep moving it. Pull gently so that the floss rubs against the insides of both teeth. You want to "scrub" as much of this inner space as possible — try doing it five times against each surface.


This scrubbing motion may seem like it's not "doing" anything, but it is. Flossing isn't just for removing bits of food that get stuck — it's also important for removing plaque, an invisible film of bacteria that can cause decay, pain, and discoloration if it's not dealt with., Grab one end of the floss and gently pull until it comes free, taking care not to catch it on your braces. Congratulations — you've just flossed between one set of teeth!

, Go down each row of teeth and carefully thread the floss between every set of teeth all the way to your furthest-back molars. When you have "scrubbed" with every set of teeth on the top and bottom of your mouth, you're done.Take your time. Flossing properly when you have braces can take up to three times longer than a normal flossing session, but it's especially important to floss when you're wearing orthodontic devices because these devices can get in the way of cleaning with a brush alone.You may also experience some gum bleeding which is normal due to inflammation which occurs when braces are placed in.

