 Since mono is most commonly spread through saliva, sharing things that commonly come into contact with mouths and saliva is a risky behavior, particularly when someone has beginning symptoms.


Avoid things like inhalers, drinks, straws, food, and cigarettes in particular. Anything that touches another person's saliva or mouth and then comes into contact with yours, puts you at risk of contracting the disease.;
, Because EBV is not airborne, family members and roommates of those who have the virus are only at a slightly increased risk of contracting it themselves. However, sharing close quarters with someone infected does increase your chances of contracting the virus, especially while their coughing and sneezing symptoms are acute.This may go without saying, but if your significant other or partner has contracted mono, avoid kissing them or other actions that involve the swapping of saliva. Also, just because they are feeling better, this does not mean they are no longer contagious. They may need follow up tests until you know whether they're actually over the disease, even if they're asymptomatic.
If you have had mono before in the past, you won't have to worry as much because most people are able to build an immunity after having it.
 Although people of all ages can get mono, it is most common among people ages 15 to 19 years old. If you are in an environment like a college where mono is commonly spread, take extra precautions to stay healthy and keep your immune system strong.Eat a balanced diet, including more foods high in antioxidants. Good sources of antioxidants include green leafy vegetables, tomatoes, blueberries and cherries.
Engage in daily aerobic or weight bearing exercise.
Get eight hours of sleep each night to avoid being over tired and rundown.
 People with compromised immune systems; particularly elderly, young children, or those with immune compromising diseases like HIV are much more susceptible to contracting mono. If you fit any of these criteria, exercise extra caution to avoid contracting mono.


Wash hands frequently. Although mono is a virus, and thus cannot be killed by anti-bacterial soap, using good hygiene habits can be effective to lessen germs lingering on your hands and other shared utensils. Cleaning products with bleach can also kill bacteria and viruses on surfaces.

