 There are some goodies in the game that can either increase your agility level temporarily, or help you not use as much energy some of these are



 


Summer Pies. These increase your agility level by 5 levels, making it much less likely to fail the obstacles.
Weight-reducing items. There are multiple items like this, the most notably helpful being the boots of lightness from the "Temple of Ikov" quest and the spottier cape, requiring 66 hunter and costing 1k, can help you not use energy as quickly when running these courses.
Sure-footed Auras. These cost loyalty points that you get from having consecutive months of membership. They make you not able to fail obstacles for 20 minutes, and upgrading it can make this boost last up to 40 minutes, with an hour cooldown.;
, This is located near the entrance to the Gnome Stronghold, and gives a rate of 6,800 exp per hour. Doing this to level 18 will take approximately 31 minutes.
 Travel to Yanille and go just outside the Watchtower. There should be a trellis you can climb to get into the tower. Go back down the ladder and repeat the process. You can expect around 9,000 exp hour with this method.
 After completing the "Cold War" quest, you are granted access to make clockwork suits. Make at least 4 of them, and using the EoC combat bar, put the "wind" action and a wound and unwound suit to your action bar. Wind the suits up using a button, and click on them at the same time. It's best done in a confined area such as the ledge area of the Barbarian Outpost course. You get around 30,000 experience per hour with good efficiency.


Alternate Method. Do the Barbarian outpost agility course just East of Barbarian Assault. You will need to complete the Bar Crawl Miniquest to gain access to this area. This method gives between 13 and 14.5 thousand experience per hour.
 Use the portals to get to 51 wilderness, and run to the far western side of the wilderness. Walk up the balancing bar and do this course. You will fail a lot with this course, so bring a lot of food, preferably summer pies. This course gives about 40k experience per hour.


Alternate method Ape Atoll Course. This course requires the Monkey Madness course to be completed, as well as you to have your monkey Greegree on you. This course gives about 25,000 experience per hour.
Alternate method: Werewolf course. Complete the Brain of Frankenstein quest to get the Ring of Charos. Go west of Canfis and go down the trapdoor. Here, you go through the course, pick up a stick, and give it to the trainer. Be sure to give it to the trainer at the end of the course, or you can't pick another one up. This gives about 30,000 experience per hour.
 At 75, you can no longer fail the Atoll course, making its exp better than the wilderness course. You must've completed chapter 2 of Monkey Madness and be holding a ninja greegree to use this course.
 You gain access to this area after completing the quest Plague's End. You gain around 80k experience per hour on this course, or 100k if the voice of Seren is active.

Alternate method Advanced Gnome Course. This is just like the normal gnome course, except for a few extra obstacles. It's recomended to do at least 75 laps of this to get the agile top for the defense bonus.
Alternate method Barbarian Assault Advanced course. Similar to the advanced gnome course, this has a few extra obstacles as well. It's again recommended to do 75 laps of this to get agile legs.

