 As with hair loss in men, the most important first step is to consult a doctor. The earlier a woman seeks care, the sooner a doctor can administer the proper treatment, which is more likely to yield positive results and regrowth.Your doctor will run a panel of tests to check everything from deficiencies to levels of dihydrotestosterone (DHT).
 Deficiencies such as zinc, iron, or vitamin Dcan result in hair loss. After your doctor runs a panel of tests, he or she may recommend a stronger daily dose of deficient vitamins or minerals.


In cases where hormonal abnormalities are present—specifically the presence of excess male hormones known as androgens—medications such as spironolactone (which limits aldosterone production) or oral contraceptives may be the solution.In cases where the diagnosis is alopecia areata, early data shows that JAK inhibitors such as ruxolitinib can suppress the immune response causing the hair loss., A doctor may decide to prescribe minoxidil (Rogaine and its generics) for a woman with DHT-related hair loss. Whereas the minoxidil formulation for men is typically 5%, women are more commonly prescribed a 2% formula.For a women who really want to maximize the potential for hair regrowth, a doctor may still prescribe the stronger 5% solution; however, while very effective, this can lead to increased facial hair growth as a side effect.As with men, one of the major drawbacks of minoxidil for women is that the product requires strict adherence to its application. Regrown hair will quickly recede with discontinued use.
 Hair transplant surgeries relocate healthy hair follicles to affected areas of the scalp and are very effective methods of regrowing hair. Transplant options are best for women with traction alopecia (caused by long wear of tight braids or other things that pull the hair) or hair loss due to trauma such as scarring or burns.Unfortunately, most women with DHT-related hair loss see a general thinning across the entire scalp as opposed to male pattern baldness which typically affects very specific areas.This means that finding a donor site of unaffected follicles is more difficult; however, it isn’t impossible.As with men, transplant options for women are effective but quite expensive.
 If a doctor has diagnosed the problem as DHT-related hair loss, then you do not need to worry about altering daily hair care of styling options as nothing is structurally wrong with the hair—the issue is stemming from the hair follicles. You can continue to dye and style hair as normal.