 Determine how many people you are cooking for and their appetites. Some people want up to six slices of bacon while others will only eat one. If you are feeling unsure just cook extra. The allure of bacon is very strong, and if no one eats it, you can store it in the fridge.;
, Preheat the pan on Medium. For better flavor, use a cast-iron skillet. You could use anything you have though. Test the heat by dropping a dab of water onto the stove. If the water immediately sizzles, it's time for the bacon.Don't grease your pan! Bacon will produce plenty of grease.
 When you can feel the heat directly above the pan, you can go ahead and apply the bacon strips. Use tongs or a fork since the grease may pop off the pan. Lay out as many strips as will fit without the bacon touching each other., Once your bacon has really begun to cook, the grease will be popping a lot and the bottom of the pan will be full of it. Use tongs or a fork to flip the slices over., If you like crispier bacon, leave it on longer, but remove it if it begins to blacken. For chewier bacon, remove it when it looks good enough to eat.
 Lay out a paper towel on a plate. Place the finished bacon on the paper towel to remove extra grease. Let this cool off as you go on to cook the eggs.


Do not pour the grease down the sink! This could wreck your plumbing. Instead, allow the grease to cool, it will become cloudy and eventually solid. Scoop it out with a spoon and throw it in the trash or reuse it for cooking., You'll need eggs, milk or heavy cream, salt and pepper, and grease of your choice. You can also assemble an array of spices if you want like: cream of tartar, oregano, or cayenne powder.
 There are two ways you can prepare scrambled eggs: 1) in a bowl or 2) in the pan. In a bowl you have more control over how scrambled your eggs are and you can add in spices before cooking. Add a dollop of heavy cream into your bowl if you choose creamier eggs.


Any kind of bowl that you'd eat out of will do, it all depends on how many eggs you're making. If you're cooking for a crowd, use a mixing bowl., Next you're going to pop the yolks if you left them in and whisk them until they're blended with the whites. You can use a fork for this. If you like seeing the whites in your finished product, then whisk less. Some people like to fluff up their eggs by adding a bit of milk at this point, which is fine, but you do loose a bit of the egg flavor in lieu of creamier eggs. If you do add milk, the ratio is about 1.5 oz (~43 mL) for each egg, erring on the side of less milk is better., You'll want to heat the pan a little before you throw the eggs on, just enough to feel the heat directly above the pan. Half way between low and medium heat should be good to heat the pan. If you're using oil, pour about an ounce in then tilt the pan to coat the bottom. If you're using butter (salt or unsalted), place enough to coat the bottom of the pan. Oil is better for nonstick pans, but butter will give your eggs better flavor.


To turn up the technique and flavor, use the bacon grease. This could be the easiest method by cooking the eggs directly into the pan you cooked the bacon in., Next you'll pour the whisked eggs onto the pan. Be careful not to overfill your pan. The eggs should cover just the bottom of the pan. If you do overfill, though, it'll just take longer to scramble your eggs and will increase the chance of them sticking to the pan.


Use the spatula to push the eggs about as they cook. They should start to bunch together and begin looking more like scrambled eggs as you cook them.
If you like your eggs closer to over-easy, then remove them before they're completely solid, but after they've began to bunch together.
If you like your eggs harder (more cooked), then continue to push them around until there's no raw egg left in the pan.
You can adjust the heat as you cook if it looks like the eggs are cooking too fast or slow, but you probably won't need anything over medium heat. Be careful of burning, though! If you let any of the eggs sit around too long, they'll get stuck to the pan., Add a pinch of salt and pepper if you want your eggs to have a little extra flavor. You can also add other spices like oregano or ground pepper. Add a little bit of cream at the end if needed. This will make the eggs richer in taste and texture., After each has been cooked to your desire, place the bacon and eggs on a plate. The simple combination of the two will flatter anyone for a great breakfast.
 For an extra kick, shred a bit of your favorite cheese. You could use a sharp cheddar or even something like pepper jack. Sprinkle the cheese of your choice onto the eggs right after they've been plated.
 This is a standard for greasy spoon type restaurants. Toast two slices of white bread. Once they're done, halve both slices. Then butter each piece. Place the four slices on the plate with the eggs and bacon., Sandwich is a great way to combine all of this for a meal on the go. Simply acquire all the finished products and place in between two slices of bread. You can either toast the bread or keep it plain., Condiments go a long way for every meal. It all depends on your personal preference. You could use any of the following to your plate for extra flavor:


Ketchup
Hot sauce
Mustard
Mayonnaise