 The ideal filter choice for use with a Chemex brewer is the Chemex-bonded filter. This filter is made from a very thick paper, which increases brewing time and prevents collapse, as the Chemex brewer does not support the underside of the filter. The filters are square-shaped, and can be folded into a cone by pulling 1 of the 3 folds away from the others.;
, The thicker side, with 3 folds of paper, should rest against the pouring spout of the brewer.
 Because Chemex filters are especially thick, they tend to impart an unpleasant papery taste to the coffee. This can be prevented by pre-wetting the filter. Pour a few ounces (50 ml or so) of hot water into the filter; the water should quickly wick up into the entire filter. Once the filter is soaked, pour the water out into the sink.
 Coffee should be ground using a medium setting, similar to the grind used for automatic drip coffee makers. Use 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of ground coffee per 3 fluid ounces (90 ml) of water.
 For brewing coffee, water should be heated to between 195 and 200 degrees Fahrenheit (90 - 93 degrees Celsius). This can be achieved by letting water come to a rolling boil and then removing it from the heat source for 30 seconds.
 Begin by pouring in a circular motion just enough water over the ground coffee to soak all of the grounds, but not enough to allow any of the coffee to float up onto the surface of the water. This process, called "blooming," allows the grounds to expand and prepares them for even extraction.
 After allowing the coffee grounds to bloom, pour the rest of the water into the filter. It is best to pour a small amount at a time, as this keeps the overall volume of water low and ensures effective infusion.
 Once the water has drained through the grounds (this process should ideally take 4 minutes), remove the filter, and discard it. Coffee grounds and filters can readily be composted.
 Pour the coffee by gripping the Chemex brewer by the wooden collar and tilting it. Do not attempt to place the glass brewer onto a heat source to warm the coffee; this can cause the glass to fracture.
