 Write anything you’d like to bring up with your child’s teacher beforehand. This ensures that you cover what you want to speak about and don’t forget anything or get off track. It also shows the teacher that you’ve put some thought into the meeting.Write down any questions you have for the teacher. These might include, “Is my child paying attention? Do they complete all their work? Are they meeting expectations?”;
, Before going to the conference, gather any papers, tests, or projects you’d like to discuss. Put them all in a folder and bring them to the meeting. If you have any questions on grades or projects, find things you have specific questions on and have them ready to discuss.If you have questions about your child’s grade, it helps to bring the paper or project so that you can review it together.
 Check in your with your child on how school is going. Ask your child if there’s anything they’d like you to bring up in the conference. Ask about what subjects are easy and which ones are hard. Have them tell you about how they get along with the other children, who they sit with at lunch, and how recess is. Get an idea from your child how school is going and how they relate to their teacher.For example, say, “Tell me about school. Do you like going to school? What’s your favorite part? Are there any people you don’t get along with?”

, If you have other kids, try not to bring them to the conference. Because parent-teacher conferences are often brief, keep the focus on the meeting and not on your small child. Find a sitter.Before the conference, silence your cell phone or power it down.
 Teachers often meet with several parents in one day. Help them keep the day going smoothly by being on-time. Make sure you know how to get to the school and into your child’s classroom. If you’re unfamiliar with the area or are not sure which is your child’s room, arrive early to navigate the situation and not be late.


Make sure you bring all of the materials you have with you.
 When the conference begins, allow the teacher to speak first and tell you how things are going for your child. Teachers often offer insight to what children at their age are doing and feeling. The teacher may have a unique view into your child’s social abilities or struggles in or out of the classroom. Take some time to listen.Pay attention to the information the teacher brings up. It may not sound wonderful, but feel free to ask questions or seek clarification. Say, “Can you tell me an example of that behavior?”

, Be willing to talk and listen. Ask if your child is meeting expectations and school standards and listen to what the teacher has to say. Be ready to hear how your child can improve. If the teacher makes suggestions for what to do at home, listen and don’t be immediately defensive.If the teacher says something you’re not happy to hear, remember that they support your child’s learning and are not there to judge you or make you feel bad.
 Parents and teachers ideally should work together to support a child’s learning. Ask the teacher how you can support your child’s school learning while at home. This might mean having them read each day or spending more time on math problems.For example, if your child has problems staying on-task at school, monitor their homework and restrict activities until homework is completed.
 As your child’s parent, it might be difficult to hear if your child is acting up or not turning in assignments or lagging behind other students. If you hear news that you’re not happy about, don’t explode at the teacher or blame them. Even if you don’t like the teacher’s style, recognize that your child has the opportunity to learn from various people in various styles.


If you find yourself getting upset, pause and take a few deep breaths. Do not let your emotions hijack the conference — stay calm. Remember that you and the teacher have a common goal: the well-being and success of your child. Don't get side tracked by an argument or finding someone to blame., Be conscientious of the time during the meeting. If you have an important question or concern, address it as soon as possible. When you notice that your time is almost up, be sure to begin wrapping up the meeting. This shows the teacher that you respect their time.


If you’re wrapping up the meeting, say, “I’ve said everything I want to say, is there anything more you’d like to add?”

, Let the teacher know that you appreciate hearing from them. Your child’s teacher plays a large role in their life and feedback from them is valuable. Say, “Thank you” and let them know you appreciate what they do for your child.
 Parent-teacher conferences are all about supporting your child, so don’t forget to include them in the process. Let your child know what you learned. Talk about what might be different or change at home, such as a different homework routine. Finally, get their feedback and ask for their suggestions.