 This is a quick and easy DIY project that only requires a few materials.


A shirt
Bleach
A stencil (pre-made or homemade)
Spray adhesive
Spray bottle
A paper towel

, Make sure that it is clean and without wrinkles so that the bleach spraying comes out correctly.It is recommended to lay down a tarp, an old bed sheet, or some other protector if you are working on carpet.
 Make sure that the piece of cardboard that you choose is large enough to cover the width and height of the shirt.The cardboard should be visible in the neck of the shirt and should extend all the way to the bottom hem of the shirt. It should also cover as much of the width of the shirt as possible.
Again flatten the shirt to remove wrinkles once you have slid the cardboard inside.
 There are a couple of different ways to do this, depending on the type of stencil you are using.If it is a pre-made stencil, you can attach it by lightly spraying spray adhesive onto the back of it. Then, set it on the shirt and firmly press down around all of the edges.
If you make your own stencil, you want to be sure to cut it out of adhesive vinyl. Then, again, you can set it on the shirt and press down firmly.
Transfer your stencil to transfer paper if it has loose pieces (such as eyes, dots, et cetera) by pressing the transfer paper on top of your stencil. Then, carefully remove the stencil from the paper backing. After that, press the stencil on your shirt, firmly press down around the edges, and gently peel up the transfer paper.
 Then, set the spray bottle to a super fine mist. You do not want it on a larger mist or spray because it will make a mess and reach areas of the shirt that you do not want bleached.Diluting the bleach is not necessary.
Examine how big your mist is by testing the spray on a spare piece of cardboard. Spray the cardboard, with the spray bottle held about 6-8 inches away, and determine if the mist is appropriate.
 Remember you are only trying to mist the shirt and not soak it, so just a few sprays all around the area of the stencil will suffice.Hold the spray bottle about 6-8 inches away from the shirt.
 If you do have any large drops of bleach, quickly blot the whole sprayed area with a paper towel to clean them up to avoid large bleach spots., During this time, the sprayed areas may change to another color before lightening to a lighter shade of the shirt's color. This is just the bleach working through pulling out the color.Do not spray more bleach until you are sure that the color is done changing.
 Be sure to give the two minutes of wait time before doing this.


Generally speaking, you do not want to completely bleach the area to white. You are just aiming for a lighter shade of the shirt's color (e.g. for a red shirt, the spots will fade to pink).
, The bleach will crystallize on the shirt if you were a little too heavy with the bleach spray. You will notice it as a fine powder on the shirt.Put the shirt through a cycle in the dryer for about 30 minutes if you notice crystallized bleach. Do not wash it, as the water will cause the bleach to reactivate and further bleach your shirt.
 Then, you can hang it to dry. Finally, you will be able launder the shirt as usual without fear of ruining your design.