 Insulinomas are tumors of the pancreas. They cause the pancreas to secrete excessive amounts of insulin, which can lead to dangerously low blood glucose levels. Treatment options for insulinomas are surgery, medical therapy, chemotherapy, and dietary management.Your vet will come up with a treatment plan for your ferret.


The type of insulinoma treatment depends on a ferret’s age and severity of the disease.Whether a ferret owner wants to be aggressive or conservative with treatment can also determine insulinoma treatment.Your vet may recommend putting your ferret on medical therapy before surgery, and continuing it after surgery.
 Insulinomas form nodules on the surface of the pancreas. Surgical treatment for insulinomas involves nodule removal and a partial removal of the pancreas (‘pancreatectomy’).Although surgery is the treatment of choice for insulinomas, it is not always curative because there may be microscopic tumor nodules that would not be visible during surgery.Insulinomas can spread throughout the pancreas, making a surgical cure difficult.For the partial pancreatectomy, your vet will remove about 60% of your ferret’s pancreas. With less pancreas, less insulin would be secreted.Surgical treatment typically extends the survival time for ferrets with insulinoma. Also, ferrets who have the surgery typically need less medical therapy after surgery than before surgery., After surgical treatment, a ferret’s blood glucose levels will start to rise almost immediately. These levels can dip again about 6‒9 months after surgery, though, so checking your ferret’s blood glucose levels after surgery will be important.Your vet will make adjustments as needed with your ferret’s medication to keep blood glucose levels within the normal range.


Your vet can show you how to take small blood samples from your ferret. They can also show you how to use a blood glucose monitoring system for your ferret.
 Two medications are available for medical therapy of insulinomas in ferrets. These medications—prednisone and diazoxide—will help your ferret feel better by raising its blood glucose levels. They do not, however, stop the progression of the tumor.Diazoxide is usually given after a ferret becomes resistant to prednisone therapy.It can also be given along with prednisone to prolong prednisone’s effectiveness.Medical therapy typically lasts 6‒18 months. As the disease progresses and the clinical signs become more severe, your ferret will need increasingly higher doses of medication.Your vet will explain how to give these medications. If you have to give them by mouth, be aware that ferrets tend to spit out pills and liquid medications., Your vet will need to monitor your ferret very closely when it is receiving medical therapy. If your ferret is on prednisone therapy, your vet will want to measure your ferret’s fasting glucose levels at least 4 times a year, as well as perform blood work and a urinalysis 1‒2 times a year. If your ferret is on diazoxide, your vet will want to measure its liver enzyme levels several times a year. Diazoxide can cause liver problems.A fasting blood glucose measurement is taken when a ferret has not eaten for several hours before the blood draw.
 Chemotherapy is most effective when started early in the disease process, when a ferret’s symptoms of insulinoma are mild. It also works well when a ferret has no physical symptoms of an insulinoma but has low blood glucose levels.The chemotherapy medicine for insulinoma treatment is called doxorubicin, which kills beta cells (insulin-producing pancreatic cells). Your vet will administer it intravenously (in a vein) in 4 doses, spread 3 weeks apart., Dietary management is an essential part of insulinoma therapy in ferrets. Feed your ferret small, frequent meals that are high in protein. Examples of high-protein foods are meat-based baby foods and high-protein cat diets.Ask your vet for recommendations on specific brands of food.


Feeding small, frequent meals will keep your ferret’s blood glucose in a normal range throughout the day.If you want to give your ferret treats, they should also be high in protein. Ideal treats are raw or lightly-cooked pieces of organ meat, such as liver. Do not give your ferret treats that are high in carbohydrates (e.g., raisins, corn syrup), because they would cause a spike in blood glucose and a release of too much insulin from the pancreas.Ferrets can be picky about new foods.Your ferret must eat throughout the day, so talk to your vet if your ferret refuses to eat its new food.
If feeding frequent meals to your ferret is not practical, leave food out all day in its cage. In general, ferrets do not overeat if they have access to food all day., A ferret with an insulinoma can suffer from a hypoglycemic crisis, which occurs when blood glucose drops to extremely low levels. During a hypoglycemic crisis, your ferret would suddenly collapse. If your ferret collapses and doesn’t respond to you, immediately rub honey or corn syrup onto its gums and take it to your vet for emergency treatment.A ferret experiencing a hypoglycemic crisis can also start having seizures. If your ferret is having seizures, be very careful with putting the corn syrup or honey on its gums—your ferret may bite you.Left untreated, a hypoglycemic crisis can be fatal.Honey and corn syrup are high in sugar and would raise your ferret’s blood glucose levels quickly.

