 Credit cards may seem like a great way to help you save. After all, you can buy things today without dipping into your bank account, but remember that using a credit card costs money in the long run.Credit cards charge you interest on any purchases, so anything you buy with them will end up costing you more than you initially spend.
Racking up your credit cards will lead to high monthly bills, which will eat into your shopping spree savings.
 You may have been looking to purchase some new running shoes, or maybe you’re in the market for a new car. If you can postpone making those purchases you will be able to save more for your shopping spree sooner.Only make big purchases if you must. Avoid adding to your monthly bills or depleting your savings if at all possible.
You may need to choose between your shopping spree and a new car for a few months. Your priorities will determine the timeline.
 You may have signed up for your cable, internet and phone services when you didn’t have a shopping spree in mind. Call your providers to see if there are ways you can reduce your bill without losing services that are important to you.You may be able get a different cable package with fewer channels if you find you don’t watch some of the channels you currently pay for.
You might want to consider reducing your phone plan’s data plan or minutes.
You may not need the internet speed or bandwidth you currently have. Discuss your current usage and available plans with your internet provider.
 Car insurance is another example of an expense that you may be able to reduce by making a few phone calls. Your age, driving record, car, and region all affect your insurance rates.If you have moved recently, you may be able to get a lower rate.
Call your insurance provider and see if they can alter your existing plan to reduce the cost.
Go online and look for quotes from other companies to see if they would cost less to insure your car through.
 If you have existing credit card debt that you have to make monthly payments on, you may want to consider transferring the balance onto your card with the lowest interest rate.If you have multiple credit cards, look at each balance, interest rate and credit limit.
You may be able to transfer the balance of a card onto another one with a lower interest rate to reduce the overall cost of the credit card debt.
 Coupons can be a great way to save money on things you need every month. Coupons are now available in a number of ways, and they all add to your overall savings. Look at your grocery store’s fliers for coupons or good deals on things you need.You can find coupons in newspapers, store fliers, online and even in coupon applications for your phone.
Be careful not to start buying things simply because you can get a deal with a coupon. The intent is to reduce spending, not increase it.
 Cigarettes are extremely expensive and leaving your lights on can add to your electric bill. Improving upon your bad habits can reduce your monthly expenses and free money you can save for your shopping spree.Smoking a pack of cigarettes a day can cost hundreds of dollars per month when added up.
A single light bulb can add up to ten cents a day to your electric bill. Turning off lights when you leave the room can dramatically reduce your power bill.
Drinking and junk food are other places you may be able to cut costs by reducing or eliminating them from your life.

