 Check pollen forecasts to find out when there's a high pollen count in your area. When the pollen count is high, it's best for you to avoid outdoor activities as much as possible. Stay inside to try to avoid exposure to pollen.Typically, pollen counts are at their highest for a few hours after both sunrise and sunset. Try to avoid being out for extended periods during these times.
Plan outside activities for cloudy, rainy days. It may seem counter-intuitive, since you want to enjoy the nice weather, but pollen counts are often reduced when it's cloudy and rainy. Also, pick days without wind, as wind can spread the pollen around.;
, Keeping your windows open in the spring is tempting, especially when the weather is in that perfect temperature range. However, when pollen counts are high, it's best to keep the outdoors outside. Close your windows, and turn on the air conditioning instead.It's also a good idea to keep your windows shut when traveling by car. Turn the air on recirculate to avoid introducing more pollen into the car.
 Even staying inside, you may find that some allergens seep in. A high-energy particulate air filter (HEPA) can help reduce allergens in your home, including pollen. Most of the time, you'll find these as standalone units. The bedroom is an ideal place to have a filter.Also, when vacuuming, make sure your vacuum has a HEPA filter, as well.
 If your allergies are triggered by outdoor pollens, it's best to avoid them. That means delegating tasks like lawn-mowing and weed-pulling when you can. If you live alone, consider hiring someone for these tasks., If you must do lawn work or be outside when pollen counts are high, try using physical barriers to help reduce your pollen intake. Sunglasses and a wide-brimmed hat can protect your eyes from pollen, though goggles work better if you are having a severe attack. You can also use an allergen mask to keep pollen at bay, which you can find at your local pharmacy., Synthetic fibers tend to attract pollen more than natural fibers, keeping the allergen on your body. Therefore, try choosing natural fibers like cotton, as you'll have less of a chance of attracting pollen. It can also help keep mold at bay, if you're allergic to mold, too., If you enjoy gardening, you still need to take steps to minimize your exposure to pollen. One way to help yourself is to make sure you don't touch your mouth or face while you're gardening, as that could spread pollen to your face., Showering will help remove pollen from your hair and body. Doing so helps keep your allergies in check. Also, wash all clothes you had on while you were outside,and avoid drying clothes outside.Pollen can become trapped on furniture and pillows, extending your exposure to it. Go straight to laundry room and then the shower as you come indoors. Also, don't forget to put your coat away in a separate closet when you get home.Washing your hands often can also help.
If you don't take a shower when you come in, try taking one before you go to bed.
 Pollen and other allergens can become trapped in your sheets and bedding. Be sure you wash your bedding at least once a week. Also, use hot, soapy water to help remove the allergens. Doing so can reduce your exposure to allergens at night., If you're allergic to pollen, you may react lightly to certain fruits and vegetables that have similar proteins. You could have any number reactions, from an itchy mouth to stomach problems and hives. When you notice a fruit or vegetable bothers you, you can try eliminating that food from your diet to see if it helps alleviate any of your symptoms.If these symptoms progress rapidly, this indicates a severe allergic reaction. This is a medical emergency and you should seek medical attention immediately.
For instance, if you're allergic to grass pollen, you may react to tomatoes, peaches, celery, or melons.
If you're allergic to birch pollen, you may find you react to foods like fennel, parsley, pears, plums, carrots, apples, kiwis, and celery.
If you're allergic to ragweed pollen, you may also have allergies to cucumber, banana, melons, and zucchini.

