 You won’t get anywhere if you don’t have faith in yourself. Stand tall. Let your crush see the things that make you interesting and unique. You should prepare to approach him or her with the attitude that you’ll love and respect yourself no matter the outcome. Confidence is contagious—your crush will pick up on your self-assured manner and know that you’re someone worth being around.Sometimes you just have to fake it until you make it. If you’re having trouble mustering the gumption to walk up and say hello, tell yourself that you’ve done this kind of thing a thousand times. It may just make you a little cooler under pressure.There’s a difference between being confident and being arrogant. Stick with the former. Try not to boast or act like you’ve got an over-inflated opinion of yourself. This can be just as off-putting as being shy, if not more so.
 Don’t forget to smile, even if you’re a nervous wreck. Smiling can help put you at ease and make you more comfortable, and a friendly face will make you more approachable to others. Keep in mind that your crush may be just as apprehensive about talking to you as you are about talking to them, so greeting them with a smile will break the tension right away.Smiling can be tricky when you’re especially nervous. Try a light smirk with your eyes open slightly wider than normal to signal enthusiasm, and grin bigger to show a little bit of teeth if your crush does something cute or amusing., Aside from your demeanor, you appearance will also be one of the first things your crush notices. For this reason, it’s a good idea to make sure you’re presentable before making your move. Bad breath, unkempt hair and messy clothes can all be deal-breakers if you want to make a good impression. Give yourself a look over in the mirror before you enter your crush’s personal space.Tick off a short mental checklist to make sure that your teeth are brushed, you’re wearing deodorant and your clothes and hair are clean and well-groomed.
 The most important thing to remember about approaching your crush is that it’s the effort that counts most, not the result. Rejection is a fact of a life, something that everybody has to deal with at one time or another. The excitement and satisfaction of finally talking to that special someone should be bigger than the fear of being turned down.It’s not the end of the world if the guy or girl you’ve got your eye on doesn’t return your interest. It may sting a little at first, but don’t let yourself become discouraged.Even if you get turned away while trying to strike up a conversation with your crush, you may still reach a breakthrough in building the confidence you need to try again next time.

