 Go to local theaters, improv shows, clubs, or other venues where talent is at. Develop an eye for those who have what it takes to make it. If you see someone with potential, start a conversation with them and see if they want to work with you.You can start this practice before and during your education or training so that when you are ready to offer your services you will already know how to find people.
If you work for an agency, they will appreciate you bringing in new talent. If you work alone, you will be fully responsible for finding your talent, so you will have to get good at scouting.
You can find lots of people in big entertainment centers, but many stars are born in small towns far away from the hotspots. You can find people and gigs even in less busy places.
 Talent agents run the gamut from working with TV actors to models, and musicians to commercial actors. Working in an agency will usually mean having a variety of clients, but if you work alone you can focus in on the talent you prefer. If you can book modeling gigs easier than shows for bands, stick with that strength.You probably won’t make this choice right at the start, but you may be able to. Rather, if you do the work for a little while, determine what comes most naturally or where you are most successful and stick with that.
Remember that some talent have rules you’ll need to be familiar with. For example, child actors have restrictions on how many hours they can work in a day and week.
 You need to learn about what is necessary to legally practice your trade as a talent agent. Make sure you get the proper licensure and display it in your office and consider keeping a copy handy when you are away from the office.License requirements vary from state to state, so be aware of requirements where you practice.
As you get fully into the career, keep current on changing compliance standards and regulations.
 When you pick up new talent, you may need to groom them a little. Sign them up for acting or modeling classes to help them hone their skills. Help them learn how to nail an audition. Teach them to work well with people and sell themselves as a worthwhile investment.Your talent is a like a product you are selling, so make them as marketable as you possibly can. They may need to develop their appearance, moderate an accent they have, or find the niche of roles that are best for them.
Your job is to book jobs for your talent, but it is also to make sure your talent is qualified and prepared for those jobs. Push them to always keep improving their skills.
If you work in an agency, it may have specific protocol for grooming new talent. If you work alone, you’ll be fully responsible for figuring out the best way to help your talent improve.

