 It's located at https://www.tumblr.com/. If you're signed in on your browser, this will take you to your Tumblr home page.


If you aren't signed into Tumblr, enter your email address and password, then click Sign in.
 This person-shaped button is in the top-right corner of the page.
 It will be beneath the "TUMBLRS" heading about halfway down the profile drop-down menu.
 This option is in the upper-right side of the page, just below the Drafts and Posts sections.
 It's to the right of the "Website Theme" heading that's below your profile picture.
 This link is below your theme's name at the top of the "Edit themes" sidebar.
 It's in the top-left side of the "Edit HTML" bar.
 Doing so will open a window in which you can search for the line of code you'll need to edit.
 This tag is present in all Tumblr themes that contain a customizable background image.If your selected theme's HTML doesn't contain a "body {" tag, you can't change its background image.
 This is directly below the "body {" tag; you'll add in your image's URL here between the ":" and the ";" at the end of the line.
 The URL tag should be written as follows: url().


In practice, this whole line will say background: url(www.website.com/image.jpg);. Keep in mind that there is a space between the "background:" part and the "url" part.
 Your selected URL must end in a picture file extension such as .jpg or .png. The easiest way to get a photo's URL to display in this format is to right-click (or two-finger click) the photo, click Open image in new tab, and copy the URL from there.


If you want to use an original photo, you can upload it to a service like Photobucket or Imgur.
 It's the green button in the top-right side of the "Edit HTML sidebar. You should see your selected image displayed

, If your image is skewed or it abruptly cuts off, enter the following three lines of code below the "background" tag:



background-attachment: fixed; - This will keep your image in one place.

background-repeat: no-repeat; - You can also change no-repeat to say repeat if you want your image to repeat as users scroll down.

background-position:center; - You can also use right or left instead of center.
You can also add a line that says background-size: cover to make your image fill the entire background.
 It's the blue button left of Update Preview at the top of the "Edit HTML" sidebar.
 It's in the top-left side of the page.
 You'll see this option in the top-left corner of the "Edit theme" sidebar. Your Tumblr theme now has a background image.

